01.25.2019	ARE YOU ELIGIBLE FOR EITC? GET IT, AND GET IT RIGHT WITH FREE TAX HELP Today, January 25, 2019, marks the 13th anniversary of Awareness Day, a nationwide effort to increase awareness about EITC and free tax preparation sites. This year, the IRS is promoting EITC and providing information on other refundable tax credits that you may be eligible for. This includes the American Opportunity Tax Credit, the Child Tax Credit and the Additional Child Tax Credit. In 2018, 25 million workers received more than $63 billion in EITC refunds. In 2018, 1 million Georgians filed ETIC claims for a total of $2.9 billion in EITC refunds at an average of $2807 per return. If you worked last year and had income of less than $54,884, check your eligibility for EITC. EITC can mean up to a $6,431 refund when you file a return if you have qualifying children. Workers without a qualifying child could be eligible for a smaller credit up to $519. On average, EITC adds $2400 to refunds. Why is it important to have an EITC Awareness Day each year? One-third of the EITC population changes each year. The IRS estimates that four out of five workers claim the EITC they earned. This leaves billions of dollars on the table each year. The IRS wants to get the word out to those who are eligible to file a tax return, even if they don’t owe any tax, to claim the EITC. It’s money workers can use for groceries, rent, utilities and other bills. EITC varies by income, family size and a person’s filing status. To be eligible, an individual must have earned income, either working for someone or oneself, or certain disability income. Volunteers – trained by the Internal Revenue Service – ask the filer questions to find out if he or she qualifies for the EITC and other refundable tax credits. Volunteers at VITA, Volunteer Income Tax Assistance sites, also prepare and e-file (electronically file) the person’s tax return at no cost. Let the IRS help you get it and get it right. Visit their free tax preparation site at: Find a volunteer free tax return preparation site at IRS.gov Locator Tools Call 211 or 311 to find a volunteer free tax return preparation site Bring the following to make sure our volunteers get you the right amount of credit you deserve: A valid driver's license or other photo id card Social security cards, a social security number verification letter for all persons listed on the return Birth dates for all persons listed on return All income statements: Forms W-2 and 1099, Social Security, unemployment, and other statements, such as pensions, stocks, interest and any documents showing taxes withheld All records of expenses, such as tuition, mortgage interest, or real estate taxes Copies of last year's state and federal tax returns, if you have Bank routing numbers and account numbers to direct deposit any refund Dependent child care information: name and address of who you paid and either the caretaker's SSN or other tax identification number If you purchased coverage through the Health Insurance Marketplace, Form 1095-A, Health Insurance Marketplace Statement Both spouses to sign forms to e-file a joint tax return ###
01.24.2019	Had Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. still been alive today, he may still be a resident of the 5th Congressional District of Georgia, the place where he was born and where he and his family lived for many years. Despite his death over 51 years ago, his contributions form a powerful historic legacy that will enrich Atlanta history and culture for centuries to come. In honor of the 90th year of Dr. King’s birth, Rep. John Lewis introduced the following resolution (House Resolution 71) to encourage a national observance of the King anniversary. Some of the language of the resolution reads: “Whereas Dr. King awakened the conscience and consciousness of the United States and used his message of hope to bring people together to build the ‘‘Beloved Community’’, a community of justice, at peace with itself;…. “Whereas the work to realize Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s vision of the Beloved Community continues to this day: “Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) observes the 90th birthday of Martin Luther King Jr.; (2) pledges to advance the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.; and (3) encourages the people of the United States to— (A) observe the 90th birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr., and the life of Dr. King; (B) commemorate the legacy of Dr. King, so that, as Dr. King hoped, ‘‘one day this Nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: ‘We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created equal’ ’’; and (C) remember the message of Dr. King and rededicate themselves to Dr. King’s goal of a free and just United States.”
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, three key members of the U.S. House of Representatives joined community organizations in opposing the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services action granting a waiver to the State of South Carolina allowing religious organizations to use federal funds to discriminate against foster families on the basis of religion and sexual orientation. This waiver violates Congress’ clear intent outlined in the recently enacted Family First Prevention Services Act, which required states to update their licensing requirements to expand access to appropriate foster parents. Today’s action by HHS reduces the number of homes available children in need of care and stability. The waiver was sought by the State on behalf of Miracle Hill Ministries, a Christian social service agency that places children in homes that meet two requirements: the parents are practicing Protestants and not in a same-sex relationship. Here are few reactions from Members of Congress and concerned South Carolina advocacy organizations: Rep. James E. Clyburn (SC-6), U.S. House Majority Whip “I have stood against discrimination my entire career, and this waiver is unlawful discrimination based on religion and sexual orientation. The real tragedy of this situation is that federal funding is being used to keep children out of loving homes.” Rep. Joe Cunningham (SC-1) “I believe that the Trump Administration’s decision to grant a waiver allowing a taxpayer-funded organization to discriminate on the basis of religion is morally wrong, unconstitutional, and sets a very dangerous precedent. More importantly, we should not be in the position of denying families that want to help vulnerable children based on criteria that in no way impacts their ability to be a loving parent or mentor.” Rep. John Lewis (GA-5), lead House Democratic sponsor of the Every Child Deserves a Family Act and member of the Ways & Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over federal policy with respect to tax-exempt organizations and child welfare. “It is remarkable to me that making it easy for agencies in South Carolina to discriminate against adoptive or foster parents comes so easily to this administration, yet the emergency facing millions of vulnerable orphan or foster children falls on deaf ears. This decision by HHS suggests that it is not the children, but the social welfare agencies themselves, who require protection. “The federal government should not license and sanction hate and discrimination. Why is even-handed treatment and non-discrimination regardless of race, religion, or sexual orientation seen as such a burden today? Why do we need to make room in this society to single people out and deny them the same rights as others? Not only does this decision run exactly opposite to the opinions of a majority of Americans, it is a major step back to the dark past where the politics of fear were the order of the day.” Sue Berkowitz, Director of SC Appleseed Legal Justice Center “Our state foster care system is facing many challenges recruiting loving and competent families. This should be our state’s first priority in efforts to repair what is a broken system. Allowing caring families to be discriminated against and denied the opportunity to become a foster home hurts the very children our state is charged to protect and should not be allowed.” Eileen Chepenik, President and Judi Corsaro, CEO of the Charleston Jewish Federation “Our state foster care system is facing many challenges recruiting loving and competent families. This should be our state’s first priority to repair what is a broken system. Allowing caring families to be discriminated against and denied the opportunity to become a foster home hurts the very children our state is charged to protect and should not be allowed. “The Charleston Jewish Federation is dismayed to learn of the exemption granting Federal funding to Miracle Hill Ministries despite their practice of religious discrimination in the foster care of children. The children in our state need loving and caring homes. As one of the state’s largest agencies responsible for the placement of these children, it is disgraceful and incomprehensible that the federal government is financially endorsing discrimination based on religion or sexual orientation. This flies in the face of the first amendment to our nation’s constitution. As Jews, we believe in Tikkun Olam, repair of the world, and support children’s welfare, whatever an adopting family’s religion, race, or sexual orientation.” Jeff Ayers, Executive Director of SC Equality “Miracle Hill continues to discriminate against LGBT families wanting to adopt children in the state of South Carolina. And despite the organization’s claim that this is because they are a Christian organization, Miracle Hill receives millions in state and federal dollars. As Americans we must work to fight against any form of discrimination that marginalizes individuals at the hands of government-funded dollars. Right now there are children in South Carolina who could be living in stable, loving homes, with parents who just happen to be LGBT. It’s disgraceful that an agency working to provide suitable homes for children would deny then access to a bright future.” Colleen Condon, the president of AFFA (Alliance for Full Acceptance) and a family law attorney in Charleston “We are so disappointed that the Federal Government has granted an exemption allowing religious discrimination in adoptions. What could be a higher priority than finding homes for children? How could religious affiliation and sexual orientation have anything to do with being a good parent? Miracle Hill discriminates against Catholics, faithful Jewish people, and gay married parents, and all unmarried parents. How can HHS find this acceptable? "AFFA advocates for social justice for gay parents. And I work with wonderful parents seeking to care for a child who otherwise will be left in the tentative world of foster care and group homes. We will not let this stand.” # # #
01.23.2019	“This year, this January, Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. would have been 90 years old, had he lived. If he were here today, he would marvel at the great distance we have come and the progress we have made to lay down the burden of our nation’s dark past. The election of President Barack Obama would have been a high point for him, and the idea that such a wholesome, loving example of family unity represented the American family ideal for almost a decade would have meant a great deal to him. The building of the National Museum of African American History and Culture in the front yard of America--the National Mall--would be another marker of success. “In the last years of his life, Dr. King said the struggle had shifted from an extension of rights black Americans and others were long overdue to a struggle for true equality. Today’s accomplishments, like the growing number of women and people of color who are now elected to Congress, are important down payments on the kind of equitable democracy Dr. King worked to help create for every American. “But he would also remark on the great distance we still must travel before we finally lay down the burden of race and class in America. Violence has escalated, not abated, since he died. It is everywhere in our homes, our communities, our nation and our international relationships. Security and fear have eclipsed democratic mandates and overcome efforts to work toward peace. “The wealth gap today is wider than it was in the 1960s. The dramatic effects of climate change threaten the survival of entire cultures, yet they are denied and left unaddressed. Our infrastructure is crumbling, wages have been stagnant for decades, our voting system is so filled with holes that it has been tampered with by outside forces, and the quests for money and individual ambition have replaced the social motivations that drove Dr. King. There is an urgent need to do more than simply review the messages of Dr. King and then tuck them away. “King’s life and his message must become our mandate. Each and every one of us must commit to do all we can to recapture what our democracy has lost and innovate new ways of creating equity, love, and peace. If you see something that is not right, say something. Do something. We are the change we have been seeking.” ##
01.11.2019	Fact Sheet for Government Shutdown (pdf) The city of Atlanta is the regional home of many federal offices affected by the government shutdown. In response to inquiries and concerns Rep. Lewis heard from his constituents, he has developed a guide to the shutdown which can help groups, organizations, families, and individuals answer some critical questions they may have in this crisis. “Federal employees do not deserve to be used as hostages in a political debate,” said Rep. Lewis. “People of good will have different approaches to the same issue. But using federal workers like they are not human, but are pawns in a game of chess, is playing with people’s lives. Thousands of hard-working Americans who have dedicated their careers to preserve and defend our democracy will face delayed mortgage and rent payments, school tuitions, weddings, funerals, credit card payments, medical treatments, car repairs, and many other responsibilities to weather this unnecessary storm. It is wrong that their lives should be thrown up in the air simply because the White House refuses to put the goodwill of the people and its responsibility to governing before politics.” “This shutdown demonstrates that the federal government is not a bunch of buildings in some distant corner of Washington, DC. The government is you and me. It is our friends, neighbors, and relatives. It is a dedicated work-force who commit to serve our nation despite the slings and arrows of misguided leadership and the worst kind of political gamesmanship. These committed public servants work day and night to keep this nation running smoothly and efficiently in spite of all the ways they are criticized and misrepresented. Many today are working critical and even dangerous jobs on our behalf—in prisons, on police forces, in secure locations—without being paid just to ensure that we as a nation survive this cruel, thoughtless stunt. They should be honored and respected for their dedication by their boss, the leader of the executive branch, instead of placed in jeopardy.” The federal government is the largest employer in the United States, employing approximately 2.7 million people. This guide helps answer many questions constituents and government workers may have about the shutdown. Currently, House Democrats are passing legislation to reopen the government and hope the president will return to the business of governing and sign these bills into law. Bipartisan discussions about border security can continue once federal workers are no longer unfairly placed in harm’s way. Last updated January 11, 2019 ###
12.22.2018	Early this morning, the Democratic leaders of the House and Senate issued the forwarded statement regarding the shutdown of the federal government. Republicans run the House, Senate and the White House. That means without one Democratic vote, they have the power to pass federal funding legislation. Their conference is split, unable to keep the government open, and the American people are paying for it. Thousands of American families will come up short during this holiday season—plans will be cancelled, bills will be left unpaid, and some families teetering on the brink will slip into poverty. In Atlanta, in particular where many hundreds of federal employees work, and throughout Georgia, all regional federal agriculture services will cease, regional Department of Justice employees, IRS and Treasury workers, National Park Service workers, public-private partnership program workers like those in the Georgia Council of International Visitors, federal housing employees and thousands more cannot return to work until the government is funded. This is the bitter result of an unwillingness to compromise. Instead of building a coalition of consent, the president has decided to hold Americans hostage to force funding of an albatross — a $5 billion border wall he said Mexico would pay for. When will Republican leaders face what history has already taught us that peaceful diplomacy, fair trade agreements, and humane foreign policy is the strongest form of border security. It is my hope that our government will come to its senses and that Republican leaders will act swiftly and responsibly to reopen the federal government.
12.20.2018	“For too long, our nation’s criminal justice system has broken lives and ravaged communities across America. People of color and people without means are too often unfairly caught in a tangled web of over-policing and severe, unyielding punishment. Our laws are meant to protect all American citizens and give those who do offend an opportunity to rehabilitate themselves and redeem their lives. Far too often, we have fallen short of these goals. “We have created a system that is, at times, insensitive to the truth and is so difficult to navigate that many who are innocent plead guilty just to be released from its snares. We have a moral obligation to end this cycle of injustice and the inhumanity of mass incarceration that has destroyed millions of American families. “The First Step Act demonstrates some recognition of these failures and begins correcting them. It reforms the discrepancy between the penalties in crack and powder cocaine offenses. It gives those behind bars more credit for good behavior to hasten their release. It relaxes some mandatory sentences and allows judges greater latitude in the sentencing of non-violent offenders. “This good progress is the reason why I supported the amended bill on the House Floor today, but Congress needs to do much, much more to deal with the core issues of criminal justice reform. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the 116th Congress to continue to make more progress on behalf of the millions of Americans struggling with the burdens of the criminal justice system.” ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON—Rep. John Lewis made the following statement on the House floor today to bolster support for the legislation he authored as Ranking Member on the Ways & Means Subcommittee on Oversight. The Taxpayer First Act (H.R. 7227) creates an independent means for taxpayers to appeal actions of the IRS and limits the capacity of private debt collectors to target low-income citizens, among other provisions. Lewis has spearheaded efforts to reign in abuses by private debt collectors and this bi-partisan bill, in part, grew out of his work on that issue. The bill is scheduled for a vote in the House today on suspension and is expected to pass. It has yet to pass the Senate. (Video and bill text are linked to this release) Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 7227. I am proud of the product and the process. Let me begin by thanking the Chairman (Mr. Brady) for his tireless work and commitment on this bill. From start to finish, he worked with us to advance good, responsible policy. This morning, I again thank him, the Gentlelady from Kansas, Ms. Jenkins, and the Gentleman from Florida, Mr. Buchanan, for serving as partners in leading this effort. I would also like to thank our staff again for their good and great work. You refused to give up; you refused to give in. You worked together on the behalf of American taxpayers, and you did a great job. The IRS is a complex organization that is responsible for a core function of government. Every person in this body agrees on the importance of quality taxpayer service – whether it is online, over the phone, or in person. For over a year, the Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee hosted hearings and roundtables. We listened and asked questions. We asked Democratic and Republican Members to share their concerns and ideas. We reached out to taxpayers and advocates. We negotiated. We took our time, and Mr. Speaker, I believe that we did it right. Together, we developed a bill that improves the independent appeals process and taxpayer services. We worked together to ensure that taxpayers – especially those who are low-income, disabled, and senior citizens – receive fair, quality, and timely help and support. For these reasons, I am especially proud of our work to prevent private debt collectors from excessively targeting low-income taxpayers. As a result, our bill will ease the burden on those who are already struggling to keep a roof over their head and food on the table. From the beginning, we committed to bipartisanship, and we refused to abandon our course. I believe that this experience took our Subcommittee and our institution back to our roots. Mr. Speaker, at every crossroad, we remembered the lessons from the past and chose to put the taxpayer first. Through it all, we set aside our differences about the tax code and came together on the behalf of the taxpayer. As a result, our final bill includes solutions from Members on both sides of the aisle and the dome. For these reasons, I hope that the Senate will find a way to pass this important, common-sense bill – before the end of the 115th Congress. Time is of the essence. Every minute, every day, every week of delay is a disservice to American taxpayers. This is good work – necessary work – and it puts the people before politics. The process was transparent and inclusive, and the product is strong and timely. For these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I urge all of our colleagues to vote Yes on H.R. 7227, and I yield back the balance of my time. ###
12.17.2018	“Be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives congratulates Atlanta United FC and its dedicated fans on winning the 2018 Major League Soccer Cup championship; recognizes the contributions of the Atlanta United FC players, coaches, and leadership of the organization; and joins with the people of Atlanta and soccer fans everywhere in celebrating Atlanta United FC’s first championship victory.” That is the text of a resolution authored by Rep. John Lewis and signed by the entire Georgia House delegation, except one, to offer Congressional recognition to the Atlanta United for delivering the first national championship title Atlanta has received in 23 years and the first of this century. The resolution was introduced last week. The House was out of session the week before the parade due to commemorations for the late President George H.W. Bush. “Winning a national championship at any time is wonderful,” said Rep. Lewis, “but winning it during this period of bitter partisanship is a blessing. Sports helps bridge all kinds of barriers that people set against each other. It brings the city and even the state together to rally around something that we all agree is good. It’s a great way to head into the holiday season with a spirit of joy, happiness, and goodwill to all humankind. And it reminds my colleagues here what is possible when people of different persuasions work together toward one meaningful goal. I hope the United win will serve as an inspiration to us all.”
12.17.2018	“The court’s decision in Texas v. United States was purely political, and it has been rejected by legislators and commentators on both sides of the health care debate. It changes nothing for now and many believe it will certainly be will appealed. I cannot imagine the rollercoaster many families and patients are on who had finally gained health care for their children and those with chronic illnesses through the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, only to have partisan attack dogs try to dismantle it. “Party politics should not come into play when people’s lives hang in the balance. I hope for the sake of 27 million people who are living in doubt about their access to healthcare that Congress will take action on this matter and secure health coverage for all Americans, but especially the most vulnerable. I’ve said it before, healthcare is a right that should not depend on the size of a wallet or the digits in a zip code. Everyone should have access to affordable healthcare. Democrats will stay in the struggle until that mandate becomes a reality.” ####
12.04.2018	Rep. John Lewis will attend the services for the 41st President of the United States, George H.W. Bush, tomorrow at the Washington National Cathedral. Though they differed at times on issues, Rep. Lewis seeks to pay homage to this late president, to acknowledge the devotion showed to him by many Georgians and millions of Americans, and to pay his respects to a president he engaged on several occasions in service to the people of this nation.
11.28.2018	I join my colleagues in adamantly opposing the nomination of Thomas Farr to the U.S. District Court. The right to vote is precious, almost sacred. It is the most powerful tool of non-violent reform available to every citizen in our democracy. Thomas Farr has dedicated his entire career to attacking the ability for every American citizen to have a say in our democracy. He is the agent of forces in our society who believe that the rich, powerful, and corporate interests should have not only market dominance, but should have an overriding influence on all the decisions of our society. This approach to governing has silenced debate, disenfranchised millions of people, rigged our electoral system, and has rendered the federal government nearly incapable of managing the most pressing issues the people face in our time. The problems this nominee represents are beyond partisan difference. They threaten the very foundation of our democracy. By allowing partisanship to infect the courts of this land, we jeopardize everything this nation holds dear, the rule of law, the progress of our own history, and the very ideas that made this country great. Democrats, Republicans, and any American who believes in the ideals of justice, freedom, and equality enshrined in the Bill of Rights and the Constitution must oppose the nomination of Thomas Farr.
11.15.2018	“I was so sorry to learn about the passing of my friend Jo Carter, the Goodwill Ambassador at Mary Mac’s Tea Room. She was always so gracious, so warm, so giving. She was always up, lighting up the tea room with her hospitality. “Whenever I would visit Mary Mac’s she was always eager to see me and say hello. She would ask, ‘Where have you been?’ She would call me her boyfriend, playfully tease me, and say, ‘Don’t be talking to other women.’ “She made all the customers feel at home and relaxed, and then she would just give you a back rub and move on to the next person. She was the embodiment of Southern comfort and hospitality. I looked forward to seeing her before she retired. She will be deeply missed.” ###
11.08.2018	“It is unimaginable that this nation must again suffer the sorrow of another senseless mass shooting. Members of Congress swear to protect the Constitution from all enemies foreign and domestic. These numerous mass shootings threaten the security of our nation and jeopardize our commitment to freedom and justice, basic tenets of our society we have sworn to defend. “Some make the case that gun owners should not be penalized for the irresponsibility of a few, but American citizens should not have to live in fear, unable to go to church, to school, to shopping centers, to nightclubs and bars without wondering whether the unthinkable might happen. We whip up fear to protect ourselves from a caravan of immigrants who have made no threats, but we are strangely unwilling to protect ourselves from the violent among us. “Members of Congress have taken an oath, and we must live up to it. We must take action to protect American citizens from a great threat to our security. We must introduce common sense gun reform and have it signed into law by the president.”
10.29.2018	“It is unimaginable that we find ourselves in the same place again as a nation—mourning the senseless loss of innocent life to violence and hate. My heart goes out to the families of the victims in Kentucky and Pittsburgh, to the members of the Tree of Life Synagogue and employees of the Kroger grocery store, to their friends and family who live here in the Atlanta region, to the entire Jewish and African American communities, and to all Americans feeling despair in this time. “Violence is never a viable way to resolve human differences because we can never hurt others without destroying ourselves. We must rid our minds and our national dialogue of speech and actions that openly or covertly contribute to tribalism, separatism, and supremacy. And we must reject any leader like a cancer who spreads the poisons of hatred and fear. There is not any room in a democracy for violent political speech. “If our leaders will not act to protect us, we can protect ourselves by overcoming hate with the power of unity and love. We must combat these evils, not by hiding in our homes, but by drawing closer together as a people. We must begin to discover the same human qualities we see in those we love are all around us in the hearts of many we have never met. “We must not only say, but we must demonstrate that it is better to build than to tear down. It is better to heal than to divide. It is better to love than to hate. We must do more than say it. It is time for us to do it. We are the ones we have been waiting for.” ###
10.12.2018	The entire Democratic delegation of Georgia sent a letter today to Attorney General Jefferson Sessions demanding an investigation of blatant inequities in the electoral processes of the state. The inconsistencies are many: the cancellation of 1.4 million voter registrations since 2012, the stalling of 53,000 voter registrations of predominantly black citizens, and the alleged discriminatory nature of the “exact match” system requiring registrations to perfectly match other state records, such as a state driver’s license, ID card or Social Security records. These inequities have been flagged by numerous news reports, and civil rights organizations filed a federal lawsuit yesterday challenging the exact match law. Aside from these flagrant abuses, it is notable that the manager of the state elections process is also a candidate for governor who has refused to recuse himself. “This collection of facts is not accidental. It paints a picture of a systematic, deliberate attempt to influence the outcome of this election,” said Rep. John Lewis. “How can we claim that we live in a democracy, how can we attempt to lead other democratic nations around the world when we allow this kind of outright abuse to go unchecked in our nation? It is a shame and a disgrace. No American can afford to be silent. Today this is happening in Georgia. If we do not stand up and speak out, it can happen elsewhere in our nation. Every citizen who is eligible to vote in this election needs to make their voices heard. The foundation of our democracy is at stake. “The Democratic delegation of Georgia is calling on the Attorney General to do his job. We are asking him not to be partisan, but to be a patriot, to be a true American, and to use the power the people of this nation have entrusted to defend our democracy from abuse. I look forward to his answer.” Added to this debacle are the vulnerabilities of Georgia’s electoral system which may have been hacked by Russians in the 2016 election. A lawsuit was filed advocating the use of paper ballots in Georgia’s election due to these vulnerabilities, but the request was denied by a federal district court judge. The delegation letter also asks the Attorney General to investigate the seriousness of these issues on the integrity of elections in Georgia. Georgia Election Administration Letter Oct 2018.pdf ####
10.03.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate passed H.R. 302, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, which includes an amendment written by Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) in response to last December’s power outage at the Atlanta airport. The bill passed the House of Representatives last Wednesday. The Lewis Amendment allows Federal funds to be used to prevent power outages in passenger areas of the airport, something not allowed under current law. Airports would be able to use funds from taxes and fees to improve the reliability of their power supplies, including by purchasing and installing generators and separating the main power supply and redundant power supply. “I am very glad that my amendment was included in the FAA Reauthorization Act that has now passed both the House and the Senate,” said Rep. Lewis. “After the power outage last year, I learned that Federal funds could not be used to purchase generators for passenger areas of the airport. “I am very grateful no one was hurt last year, and I appreciate the dedicated work of emergency responders and airport and airline employees to assist travelers. However, we must do all we can to ensure that similar events do not happen in the future. I am glad that the City of Atlanta has taken steps to install backup generators at the airport. “Keeping the lights on is a matter of public safety. My amendment will help give airports like Hartsfield-Jackson the flexibility they need to keep passengers safe. I am grateful to my colleagues for working with me on this issue.” On December 17, 2017, an underground fire at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport disabled both the airport’s primary and backup power supplies. This caused a power outage at the world’s busiest airport that lasted for 11 hours, cancelling hundreds of flights and stranding passengers and employees on planes and in dark terminals. ###
09.11.2018	“When planes hit the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and crashed in Pennsylvania, this nation was changed forever. Since that time other major cities around the world have been attacked, and we realized that the nature of international conflict was forever transformed. Since that day, this nation has been engaged in extensive, nearly on-going military operations trying to abate the threat of terrorism. “Our hearts go out to all the families whose loved ones have died in battle and to the 3,000 men and women who lost their lives on this day 17 years ago. With every tragedy of war, we recognize more urgently the continuing need for peace. We recognize that it is better to build and not tear down, to reconcile not divide, that it is better to love and not hate. My prayers are with the families today hoping they will find their way to peace, and that we, as a nation and as a world community, will reconcile our differences, learn to share our resources, and discover how we can live together on this planet as one human family. “
09.06.2018	I applaud Mayor Bottoms’ decision to end the City of Atlanta’s contract with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency (ICE). Our nation is facing a period that may require leaders to be strengthened by the courage of their convictions to stand up and reassert the values of our democracy. The action Mayor Bottoms took today is in keeping with Atlanta’s historic commitment to civil and human rights. It was the right thing to do. Metro Atlanta is among the worst places in America for an undocumented immigrant, and people across Georgia suffer from a federal policy that is cruel and inhumane. Since October 2017, half of all the deaths occurring to those in ICE custody have taken place while people were detained in Georgia. Beyond this closure, there are concerns that authorities may now send detainees even farther away from their families and support systems to detention centers in South Georgia. These businesses have no incentive to serve the public good, defend democratic principles, or respond to the cries of inhumane treatment, since profit is their central goal. And the government has much less authority to intervene because they are private interests and not public agencies. Advocacy groups as well as government investigators have discovered numerous civil rights violations, inhumane living conditions, and inadequate health care behind their walls. I am also concerned that forced labor practices at these for-profit centers might violate the 13th Amendment. It is my hope that communities in South Georgia where these violations occur will follow the example the City of Atlanta has set today by removing the stain of injustice from our state. Leaders must lead. They must be headlights and not taillights. I am glad the Mayor of Atlanta decided to show the way to other major cities who shelter these abuses. Our immigration system can enforce the law while it also reflects this nation’s commitment to justice and human rights. Today’s decision by Mayor Bottoms is one step towards reclaiming the dignity of our democracy. Democracy is not a state. It is an act, and each of us—every citizen and every leader—must do what we can to ensure that this nation respects the dignity and the worth of every human being.
09.05.2018	The Atlanta Passport Agency is hosting a special Passport Day on Saturday, September 22, 2018. In fiscal year 2017, the U.S. Department of State processed a record breaking 19.6 million passport applications and 20 million applications are projected for 2018. The event on Saturday is a convenient way to apply for children, apply for the first time, or renew your passport. U.S. passport holders who will have less than six months validity on their passports should consider renewing their passports now. Some foreign countries require up to 6 months of validity on your passport to enter. Day: Saturday, September 22, 2018 Time: 8:00a.m. – 12:00p.m. Location: Atlanta Passport Agency 230 Peachtree Street N.W., 10th Floor Atlanta, GA 30303 Cost for First Time Applicants: $145 for adults $115 for minors under age 16 Cost for Renewal: $110 adults Expedite Processing Fee: $60 Payment: Credit card, personal check, exact cash (no change is given). Applicants may choose routine service (4-6 weeks) or expedited service (2-3 weeks). The expedited service costs an additional $60. Applicants will be seen on a first come, first serve basis and no appointment is necessary. For information on applying for a U.S. passport, forms, and fees, please visit Travel.State.Gov or call the National Passport Information Center toll-free at 1-877-487-2778/1-888-874-7793 (TTY/TTD).
08.28.2018	This day in our nation’s history tells a powerful story in and of itself that charts the contemporary course of the struggle for social justice in America. “The legacy of this one day in American history proves,” said Rep. John Lewis, “we have come a great distance in this country, but we still have a great distance to go before we lay down the burdens of race and class. We should be inspired by these events which reveal the continuing urgency and the infinite possibility that confronting these challenges offers us as a nation. In the end, we are one people, one family, the American family. We all live in one house, the American house, the world house. We must stay in the struggle for voting rights, civil rights, and human rights until we build a nation that respects the dignity and the worth of every human being.” The History Made on August 28th On August 28, 1955, a young 14-year-old boy named Emmett Till was murdered in Money, Mississippi. The brutality of his death, as witnessed by a horrified world in photos of an open-casket funeral mandated by his mother, Mamie Till-Mobley, was said to represent the beginning of the modern-day civil rights struggle in the U.S. Just four months after the Till murder, the successful 381-day Montgomery Bus Boycott began that brought forth the leadership of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Rosa Parks. August 28, 1963, was the date of the legendary March on Washington, when Dr. King made his seminal “I Have a Dream Speech” at the Lincoln Memorial. In that speech he defined the struggle for social justice in America as a “dream deeply rooted in the American dream…that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: ‘We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal.’” Rep. John Lewis, then chairman of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee and only 23 years old, also made a speech that day and said, “We do not want our freedom gradually. We want our freedom and we want it now…Where is our party? Where is the political party that will make it unnecessary to march on Washington?” On August 28, 2005, New Orleans was evacuated in preparation for Hurricane Katrina to touch land the next day. The differential federal response to emergencies in Mississippi and Louisiana due to the hurricane, the long-term neglect of the Ninth Ward and other districts in New Orleans, some of which have never been restored, and the widespread displacement of homeowners in those districts highlighted the continuing need for social justice activism in the United States. On August 28, 2008, Sen. Barack Obama became the first African American to be nominated as a candidate for president by a major political party in the United States at the Democratic National Convention at Invesco Field in Denver, Colorado. ####
08.25.2018	“We have lost a great warrior who defended this nation’s honor in times of war and peace. He risked his life for America as a soldier, guarded our integrity as a prisoner of war, and dedicated his entire life to public service. Only a few will ever be remembered for standing on the courage of their convictions. “Sen. John McCain was one of those rare people who was never afraid to do what he believed was right. Our nation is forever indebted to men and women of conscience who struggle—in their own way, according to the dictates of their own hearts—to act on the ideals of democracy and work to build a more perfect union. I send my deepest condolences to his family. They are in my thoughts and prayers.” ###
08.08.2018	U.S. Congressman John Lewis Georgia's 5th Congressional District Invites you to attend Military Service Academy Forum Saturday, August 18, 2018 11:00am-1:30pm Georgia Power Auditorium 241 Ralph McGill Blvd NE Atlanta, GA 30308 Meet and speak to representatives from the: U.S. Military Academy (West Point) U.S. Naval Academy U.S. Coast Guard Academy U.S. Merchant Marine Academy U.S. Air Force Academy For more information, contact Tuere Butler at Tuere.Butler@mail.house.gov or (404) 659-0116. Registration is not required.
08.06.2018	“Today, on the 53rd anniversary of the signing of the Voting Rights Act (VRA) by President Lyndon Johnson, we celebrate a milestone in American history. With the stroke of a pen, millions of Americans were ushered into the democratic process. In 1964 in Holmes County, Mississippi, there were only twelve black registered voters. By 1965, there were 28,500, and by 1984 there were 406,000. There were only a handful of minority elected officials anywhere in the country before the VRA was signed. Today there are thousands. Millions of Latino, Asian, Native American, and language minorities can now vote in America, and many now serve as elected officials because of this one law. “Though an increase in voter registration is frequently used to demonstrate the VRA’s impact, increasing the voter rolls was not the central purpose of the legislation. It was intended to stop state-sponsored terrorism, intimidation, and unjust, humiliating practices—literacy tests, poll taxes, and even lynching—which led people of color to fear registering and voting on Election Day. Even Chief Justice Roberts admitted in his fateful opinion in the Shelby v. Holder decision that voting discrimination still runs rampant in America. Yet the Supreme Court put politics before the facts and gutted the VRA anyway. “Since the Shelby decision, voter discrimination is on the rise. Thousands of people of color are being systematically denied access to the ballot box, many of whom have voted all their lives. In a recent Brennan Center for Justice Report, it focused on the purging of voter rolls, just one of several voter suppression tactics now in use. Brennan called purging “a growing threat” to voting rights and discovered that in 2016 more than 200,000 names had been improperly deleted from voter rolls in Brooklyn, and 7,700 in Arkansas. Thousands of citizens were wrongfully denied the right to vote in the last election. Between 2014 and 2016, Brennan found almost 4 million names were “purged” from the voting rolls. “As the election of 2016 proves, just a few thousand votes can change the future of our nation. There are forces that want to drain public resources and put them in the pockets of private interests, want to serve only the rich, and disregard the will of the people. Your vote has the power to stop those strategies, and that is why it is at risk. “There are two immediate answers to this problem. Americans must vote in this election like never before. And Congress must also act to restore the VRA to its original strength. Several bipartisan proposals have already been drafted. Congress should make our democracy a priority and take action on these proposals before the election of 2018, but especially before the election of 2020. The vote is the most powerful non-violent tool we have for change in a democratic society. The power of people to have a voice in their own future must be protected at all costs.” RESOURCES: Other threats to Voting Rights 1, 2, 3 ###
08.02.2018	Today, the U.S. Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) released the results of its July 30th report on private collection agency security. The report underscores the continuing challenges taxpayers face due to the inefficiencies and flaws of private debt collection of outstanding tax debt. In nearly every instance, the in-house debt collection of IRS agents proves far more cost-effective, humane, and efficient than outside private debt collection. In this case, TIGTA explored what kind of security risk taxpayers face by using private agencies for debt collection. It found that, even though the IRS requires private collector technology – work stations, servers, networks and mobile units – to be scanned monthly to ensure the integrity of taxpayer data stored within the devices, private collectors were not submitting to these monthly scans. It found that many did not repair these vulnerabilities in a timely way when they were detected by scanners. Investigators discovered that one organization did not even block the ability of mobile devices to connect to systems that had the capability to store or process IRS data. The report warned that some taxpayer data may have already been breached. Rep. John Lewis, the ranking member on the Oversight Subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee and a serious critic of the mounting problems associated with private debt collection, made this comment regarding the findings of the new report: “Time and time again, we found problems with the administration of the IRS’ private debt collection program. In recent months, the National Taxpayer Advocate repeatedly reported problems in the targeting of low-income taxpayers. Today, the Inspector General’s report once again underscores why the private debt collection program must end. “It is clear that the private collection companies are not protecting taxpayer information and not reporting their security weaknesses to the IRS. It is alarming that one company had over 300 instances of security weaknesses on its computer system in one month; a company also left an envelope containing taxpayer checks in an open tray next to an exit door with no security camera. These are only two of the examples in the report that demonstrate why this program must end. “Securing taxpayer information and protecting taxpayers from theft are nonnegotiable standards in tax administration. This most recent report’s findings are alarming and require prompt and strong Congressional oversight. I strongly urge my Republican colleagues to hold a hearing immediately so we can publicly discuss this important report.” ###
07.30.2018	“I was deeply saddened to learn about the death of Rep. Ron Dellums, a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus and a peaceful warrior in the struggle to realize true democracy in America. He used his leadership on the House Armed Services Committee to highlight the futility of war and to press for greater investment in the public good. As a member of Congress, he was an architect of the legislation and the movement for corporate divestment in apartheid South Africa. As mayor of Oakland, he was an inspiration to his constituents, an eloquent and persuasive advocate who fought to defend the rights of the disenfranchised and oppressed. “In his passing, we have lost a strong, powerful crusader for justice, equality, and peace, whose cool demeanor and magnetic appeal made him a hero in his day. Activists of the 21st century and all the new members of Congress who seek progressive change in America would do well to take several pages from Ron Dellums’ book. His dynamic voice and his strategic capability made him a force to be reckoned with as a committee chairman, as a legislator, and as a leader. His insistent call for equal justice will be forever 'relevant.' He will be deeply missed.”
07.26.2018	The results of the ACLU’s test of Amazon’s “Rekognition” software are deeply troubling. As a society, we need technology to help resolve human problems, not to add to the mountain of injustices presently facing of people of color in this country. Black and brown people are already unjustly targeted through a discriminatory sentencing system that has led to mass incarceration and devastated millions of families. The poor are already ensnared by the complications of a judiciary that leads the innocent to plead guilty because they can find no other way out. The current leadership at the Department of Justice is already openly hostile to the rights and civil liberties of minority communities. Last year, the Federal Bureau of Investigation designated Black activists as extremists and terrorists, a move reminiscent of the damage of COINTELPRO. The current Department of Homeland Security is already targeting and deporting brown immigrants in droves, some of whom are actually American citizens. Communities of color are already protesting the unjust consequences of racial profiling as too many are killed or end up dead while in the custody of police. I myself have suffered misidentification and erroneous targeting while traveling through airports and on airplanes as I commute between DC and Georgia. What would happen, under these already threatening conditions, if people from these same communities were misidentified by facial recognition software? How would they prove to police that a computerized result is false? It is not enough for Amazon to advise users of a 20 percent failure rate in their software. Law enforcement should not use this technology until the onerous civil rights and civil liberties issues are confronted and accuracy is guaranteed. If industry wants to engage in the public sphere, it needs to make the public good, not profit, a top priority. American families should not be collateral damage on the road to technological innovation. ### The Congressional Black Caucus wrote a letter in May to Mr. Jeffrey Bezos on this matter. Rep. Lewis is a signatory.
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) made the following statement today upon introduction of the Higher Education Dream Act (H.R.6525), his bill to prohibit discrimination against Dreamer students in higher education. “Young people are our nation’s future, and we must allow them every chance to succeed. The Higher Education Dream Act will ensure our colleges and universities reflect the United States’ commitment to justice and equality. “DREAMers were brought here as little children,” said Lewis. “For most, this is the only country they have ever known. Among them are future business owners, scientists, teachers, doctors, and lawyers, yet they cannot build lives for themselves or plan their future education because this nation does not have a clear, fair immigration policy that acknowledges their humanity. While members of Congress are caught up in political webs of their own making, the lives of tens of thousands of young people are hanging in the balance. They want to become productive citizens of this nation, but Congress has not had the courage to take action. “These young people cannot wait until politicians see fit to face the truth and develop an immigration reform policy that helps us live up to the principles of true democracy,” Lewis said. "In the meantime, I hope this bill will help continue a conversation in Georgia and across America about how we can best help these young people reach their full potential for themselves, their families, our communities and for the betterment of this nation.” Discriminatory policies in many states keep DREAMers from accessing higher education. In Georgia, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients are barred from attending the University of Georgia, the Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech), and Georgia College. DREAMers from Georgia attending other Georgia schools must pay out-of-state tuition. Georgia’s policy has been unsuccessfully challenged in Federal and State courts. The Higher Education Dream Act prohibits institutions of higher education receiving federal funds from refusing to admit, enroll, or grant in-state tuition to qualified students on the basis of immigration status. You can find the text of the Higher Education Dream Act here and a fact sheet about the legislation here. Congressman Lewis is an outspoken advocate for the rights and dignity of immigrants. He is a proud cosponsor of H.R. 3440, the DREAM Act, which would provide legal status and a path to citizenship for those brought to the United States as children. He is also a co-sponsor of H.R. 3591, the American Hope Act, making DREAMers eligible for Federal student aid. The Higher Education Dream Act complements both of these initiatives. ###
07.18.2018	I want to thank my friend, the Gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern) for yielding. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose this rule and to support the previous question. In a democracy, the right to vote is the most powerful nonviolent tool we have. Many people marched and protested for the right to vote. Some gave a little blood, and others lost their lives. Some of you have heard me say that the right to vote is precious – almost sacred. In my heart of hearts, I believe that we should make it simple and convenient for all of our citizens to be part of the democratic process. It should not matter whether you are Black or white, Latino, Asian American, or Native American. We should be able to participate in the democratic process. On March 7, 1965, I gave a little blood on the Edmund Pettus Bridge for the right to vote. Before the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was passed, some people had to count the number of bubbles on a bar of soap, the number of jelly beans in a jar, and all across America today, when people go out and attempt to vote, they stand in long, immovable lines. That is not right. That’s not fair, and it’s not just. We can do better and we must do better. We have a moral obligation, a mission, a mandate to empower all the American people – not just select few. We must do what is right, what is fair, and what is just. Today our democracy is under attack – by forces within and forces abroad. We need to fix it and fix it now. For these reasons, I am proud to sponsor H.R. 12, the Voter Empowerment Act, with my friends and my colleagues. It is a good bill, a necessary bill, and a patriotic bill to protect and to preserve our voting system. I urge each and every one of you to support the previous question, and I yield back. Thank you, Mr. McGovern. ### Link to Video Clip: https://youtu.be/h5i_qelqm5U
07.18.2018	Rep. Lewis made this statement on the House floor today: Mr. Speaker, I come to the House Floor because today is the birthday of my friend, our partner in the fight for justice and equality – Nelson Mandela. During the height of the Civil Rights Movement and the early days of the labor movement, you had to make a decision: Which side are you on? So, Mr. Speaker, on this day of all days, I cannot – I will not – stay silent when our nation, our democracy, and the American people are under attack. We fought too hard and too long to stand on the sidelines when so much is at stake. When you see something that is not right, that is not just, you have to find a way to get in the way. You have to get in good trouble, necessary trouble. Now, is the time to wake up! It is time to be brave, bold, and courageous. During the American Revolution, people suffered and died for the dream of democracy, for the sacred right to vote, and for the ability to choose their representatives. Hundreds and thousands of men and women lost their lives to preserve our union and to defend our values. What I saw on Monday – and what I saw – was a shame, an embarrassment, and a disgrace to their legacy, their memory, and what they sacrificed. During times like these, I encourage every person to take some time and have what I call an executive session with themselves and their very souls. Because today, Mr. Speaker, each of us faces the question of what it means to be patriotic. Ask yourself – do you stand with the American people, or do you stand with a dictator? Do you stand with democracy, or do you stand with a czar? Do you stand with friends and allies? Or do you stand with someone who approves violent attacks on the media, human rights advocates, and struggling democracies? Mr. Speaker, the American house is on fire. It is burning! And if we are not mindful – if we are not watchful – this fire will consume us all. The United States Constitution begins with the words, “We the People.” You see the Founding Fathers’ very first priority – the very first Article – was to outline the role and responsibilities of the United States Congress in our system of checks and balances. The people who elected us are sounding the alarms. Never before has our constitutional mandate been more important. Never before have the pillars of our democracy been under attack. Mr. Speaker, each and every one of us swore an oath of office. Whether Democrat or Republican, we all have an equal mission, an obligation, and mandate to uphold this promise. Mr. Speaker, the time has come, and the question is simple: Will you show up for duty? Congress must speak up, we must speak out, and, Mr. Speaker, we must act. If you fail to do so, history – and American voters – will not be kind. This threat is occurring in real time – on your watch – and the ball is in your court. The clock is ticking, and there is no time to waste. Mr. Speaker, I yield back. ### Link to video clip: https://youtu.be/3YM3vetRTpQ
07.16.2018	“I am deeply disturbed by the outcome of the Helsinki summit. The leader of this nation takes an oath before God to defend this country from all enemies both foreign and domestic, but this president is not defending the American way of life. He seems afraid to hold Russia accountable for its infringement on the election of 2016. “The FBI, the CIA, and the NSA, including the appointees of this president, have all verified, as have the investigations of several House committees, that Russia’s interference in our last national election was aimed at swinging the results in favor of one party by destroying the candidacy and the credibility of another. “The vote is the most powerful, non-violent tool the people have in a democratic society. Its integrity is central to our way of life and must be protected at all costs. That is why efforts to poison and pervert the will of the people through misinformation, deceit, and trickery must be met with the strongest possible rebuke. “Despite the deepest concerns of the intelligence community at the highest levels of government and the consternation of the Congress of the United States, this president displayed no sense of outrage, no evidence of a rebuke, and no intention to hold Russia accountable for its damage to our electoral process. “Our weakness in the face of this threat leads to grave concerns about this president’s judgment. Why would he try to rip our relationships with NATO, our proven allies, to shreds and yet cower before an enemy of democracy? This is a betrayal of American interests and a danger to our national security.” ####
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) made the following statement in response to the administration’s executive order issued today that authorizes the indefinite detention of children in violation of decades of Federal child welfare law: “Make no mistake: Today’s executive order fails to address or end this moral crisis. It merely replaces the unacceptable evil of family separation with the unacceptable evil of child detention. “This order continues an assault not just on immigrant families but also on our country’s legacy of affirmatively protecting human rights. Children will still be in cages, will still be traumatized, and will still cry out for our help. “How can members of this administration persecute those fleeing violence? How can they ignore their anguish, pain, and suffering? How can they look themselves in the mirror? “Parents and their children have a legal right to seek asylum in this country, no matter how they get here. Federal authorities should not lock refugees up or charge them with made-up crimes. Thoughtful and compassionate nations that are committed to international human rights law should lead by example – by offering kind words, open ears, and helping hands. “This so-called ‘zero tolerance’ policy is not keeping with the values and the principles of our country. The administration could and should end it today – not double down and torment families and children fleeing violence and persecution. “Today’s actions prolong the shame and the disgrace that this administration has brought on our country and our people. History will not be kind in its judgment of those who are party to these inhumane and hateful policies.” On Wednesday morning, Congressman Lewis joined other Democratic Members on the House Floor to denounce this administration’s cruel policy of family separation. Last week, he joined many of these same Members in protest at the headquarters of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and on 15th Street Northwest near the White House. The United States is a party to key, core international human rights conventions – the International Bill of Human Rights and the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict. In addition, current U.S. law allows any refugee to apply for asylum at a port of entry, along the border elsewhere, or even in the United States. The 1997 Flores Settlement Agreement specifies existing Federal protections to prohibit the indefinite detention of children. Today’s executive order disregards those protections and lays the groundwork for the administration to detain families indefinitely. Congressman Lewis supports alternatives to family detention, like the Family Case Management Program, which this administration ended in June 2017 despite a 99.6% success rate. This program placed families in programs that helped them navigate the asylum process, costing less money and respecting their dignity as human beings. In addition, Rep. Lewis is an original co-sponsor of H.R. 6135, the Keep Families Together Act, which would dramatically limit the separation of families, and he joined colleagues in sending several letters on this issue, including: A letter earlier this month to Secretaries Azar and Nielsen and Attorney General Sessions urging the end of the so-called “zero tolerance” policy; and Letters to the House Appropriations Committee in March and June of this year opposing funds for family separation and instead supporting alternatives like the Family Case Management Program. A full list of Rep. John Lewis’ actions to protect DREAMers, immigrants, and refugees who are under persecution by this administration is available here. ###
06.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) released a letter today condemning U.S. immigration policies and laying out steps Congress must take to honor American values and respect the dignity and the worth of each new American. In the letter, Rep. Lewis describes how policies on enforcement, detention, and courts have an especially harsh effect in Metro Atlanta. Metro Atlanta is among the worst places to be undocumented in the United States and could become a model for future policies. “This administration has shown time and time again its attempts to dehumanize those who seek a better, safer life here in the United States,” said Rep. Lewis. “This assault on immigrant families and communities is a shame, a disgrace, and an outrage. “People in Metro Atlanta and across Georgia are suffering from this administration’s cruelty, and Republicans in Congress are doing nothing to help. I will keep doing all I can to change that and make our city, our state, and our country a welcoming place for all.” He also condemns the administration’s recent policy of separating children from parents seeking asylum in the United States. The letter sets benchmarks that Congress must meet to reform our immigration system: Cease the increased targeting of immigrant communities through enforcement; End an unjust detention system; Safeguard living and working conditions for detained immigrants; Review and reform immigration court protocols; and Ensure the Federal government protects the most vulnerable, especially children. Congressman Lewis wrote the Democratic Ranking Members of committees with jurisdiction over immigration policy, including Reps. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Filemon Vela (D-TX), and Zoe Lofgren (D-CA). During the 115th Congress, Rep. Lewis has co-sponsored more than 20 pieces of legislation and written or co-signed more than 30 letters about immigration-related issues. A full list is available here. A copy of the letter is available here, and the full text appears below. Dear Ranking Members: I write on behalf of my constituents to express my strongest concern over immigration enforcement, detention, and court proceedings in Metro Atlanta – among the worst places in America to be undocumented. Recent developments call for increased congressional oversight and legislation. If we fail to act, Georgia could become an unfortunate model for authorities to emulate across the country. Congress must investigate and cease the targeting of immigrant communities through traffic stops, workplace sweeps, stakeouts, and other forms of intimidation. Arrests of immigrants without criminal records have more than quadrupled in Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina [1]. Seventeen state and local police forces in this area participate in the 287(g) program [2], and Gwinnett County, Georgia, accounts for more than one-fifth of all 287(g) arrests nationwide [3]. This trend magnifies fear and distrust in immigrant communities, households, and schools and prevents local police from building trust with the communities they serve. In addition, Congress must end an unjust detention system that sends immigrants far from their families and friends, subordinates their well-being to the profit of others, and strips them of their rights. While the publicly operated Atlanta City Detention Center is located in my congressional district, two of the most notorious ICE facilities in the country, Stewart and Irwin Detention Centers, are located in South Georgia and operated by private contractors. Our nation’s detention system should comply with universal high standards, and there should be no disparity or question in respecting the human dignity and worth of any person. Furthermore, Congress must safeguard living and working conditions for detained immigrants that honor their dignity and worth. In Georgia, advocacy groups investigated both Stewart and Irwin and found extensive due process issues, inhumane treatment and living conditions, inadequate health care, civil rights violations, and involuntary labor practices [4]. The Department of Homeland Security’s Inspector General echoed these findings [5] [6]. In April, three Stewart detainees filed a Federal lawsuit alleging forced labor for wages as low as one dollar per day, which violates Federal and State labor laws [7]. These practices may also violate the 13th Amendment. I strongly believe that Congress must review and reform court protocols that compromise justice for immigrants. One of the nation’s harshest immigration courts is located in Atlanta [8]. This court grants just two percent of asylum requests – the lowest rate in the country [9] – and approves deportation relief at lower than average rates [10]. The Southern Poverty Law Center reported numerous violations in the Atlanta court of immigration court standards, which include examples of prejudice or disinterest, lack of professionalism, referrals to detainees as “prisoners”, and inadequate interpretation [11]. This makes it nearly impossible for immigrants to seek and obtain true justice. As you know, I share your commitments to ensuring that the Federal government protects, secures, and works in the best interests of the most vulnerable – especially children and young people. The administration’s inhumane policy of separating children from parents and detaining them for extended periods is a tactic unworthy of a nation dedicated to the unalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Likewise, its actions relating to Dreamers, Temporary Protected Status recipients, refugees, and others demonstrate an alarming and arbitrary cruelty in the name of security. Congress must end these abuses and work to lift people up, not push them down. The United States’ immigration system should reflect our nation’s commitment to justice, decency, and human rights. Each of you recognizes that this administration persistently dehumanizes women, men, and children at every stage of our immigration system. This relentless assault undermines our country’s legacy, promise, and moral leadership. It is unworthy of a civilized nation built by and for immigrants. Congress must investigate these wanton abuses of power and act to resolve these moral and humanitarian crises. As always, I thank you for your service and leadership on these issues during these challenging times, and I appreciate your consideration of my views and the concerns of my constituents. Sincerely, John Lewis Member of Congress ####
06.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John Lewis issued the below statement following the Supreme Court’s 7-2 decision in one of the most closely watched cases of the term, Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission: “I was disappointed when I heard of the Supreme Court’s decision on Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission. The fight for LGBT rights did not end with marriage equality, and it will not end with yesterday’s decision. “Today, I reflect on Justice Kennedy’s words in his decision: ‘Our society has come to a recognition that gay persons and gay couples cannot be treated as social outcasts or inferior in dignity or worth.’ “For those who have worked long and hard to end discrimination based on race, and for those who continue to stand up for equality for LGBTQIA Americans, do not give up. We will get there. Discrimination has no place in our society, and I will stand with you until justice prevails.”
05.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives rejected H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, by a vote of 198 to 213. Rep. John Lewis strongly opposed this flawed legislation and issued the below statement following the vote: “Earlier today, the House Republican leadership once again turned their backs on thoughtful, good policy and on the American people as they chose to cut $20 billion to fight hunger and poverty and leave the American farmer behind in order to pay for their unprecedented and irresponsible tax cuts for the rich and wealthy. “Families in our country look to Congress for support, protection, and guidance – especially when it comes to legislation that feeds and supports the health and nutrition of our nation. This bill was yet another example of how congressional Republicans forget their values, abandon the voters, and ignore the needs of Americans in every corner of our nation. Thankfully, the House Republican leadership came up short again, and the American people were spared. “This most recent failure is an opportunity for Republican leaders to return to the drafting table and reach across the aisle. There are many Democratic Members who are prepared to roll up our sleeves and do good work – the people’s work. In Congress, we have consensus on legislation addressing hunger, nutrition, immigration, voting rights, and gun violence. Every week, we wait for House votes on these and countless other bipartisan solutions that respond to the needs and concerns of each person in our nation – not just a select few. Time is of the essence, and it waits for no one.”
05.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Friday, May 11, 2018, the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) introduced the Jobs and Justice Act, a comprehensive bill to increase upward social mobility of African Americans and to help ensure equal protection under the law. Upon introduction of this bill, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) made the following statement: “I applaud Cedric Richmond, our chair, for his vision and hard work in preparing this bill. I am proud to join my Congressional Black Caucus colleagues as an original cosponsor of this landmark legislation. This is a good, necessary, and timely bill. We took our time to develop thoughtful proposals to serve those who expect us to give voice to the real issues and challenges African Americans face in very corner of our country. “On August 28, 1963, I spoke on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial during the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. The Jobs and Justice Act advances the vision outlined by A. Philip Randolph, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and the leaders and foot soldiers of the Civil Rights Movement. With this legislation, the CBC provides a clear proposal of tangible, meaningful policies to improve the lives of communities of color throughout our nation.” The Jobs and Justice Act includes six bills that Congressman Lewis authored: H.R. 271, the Stephanie Tubbs Jones Assets for Independence Act, a bill to update the eligible uses for individual development accounts (IDAs) so that low-income individuals can save for the purchase of a home, continue their education, and improve their financial literacy; H.R. 272, the Back to Basics Jobs Act, a bill to amend Title XX Block Grants to allow states to help low-income and long-term unemployed individuals develop their own businesses and self-employment opportunities; H.R. 266, the Law Enforcement Inclusion Act, a bill that allows Federal grant funding to be applied towards the recruitment, hiring, and training of law enforcement officers who are residents of the communities they serve in order to develop a more diverse and inclusive law enforcement workforce; H.R. 2612, the Community Reentry Act, a bill to require the Bureau of Prisoners to place a returning citizen in a residential reentry center that is within 50 miles of their permanent legal address; H.R. 3908, the SAFETY through Nonviolence Act, a bill to establish Federal grants for the purpose of preventing and alleviating the effects of community violence by providing education, mentoring, and counseling based on principles of nonviolence in conflict resolution; and H.R. 12, the Voter Empowerment Act, a comprehensive Democratic bill to improve the United States’ voting processes and standards by restoring access, integrity, and accountability in the administration of elections in the United States. The Jobs and Justice Act also includes the Voting Rights Advancement Act, a bill that responds to the Shelby v. Holder decision by restoring the heart and soul of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Jobs and Justice Act: One Page Overview Highlights Title-by-Title Bill Text
05.08.2018	It is a sad and dark hour for our nation and the global family. This administration’s decision to withdraw the United States from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) is a major blow to all those working to bring peace to the world community. Never before has the credibility of the United States been so undermined by a gross failure to honor our commitments. Nearly three years ago, I supported the agreement after constant study, briefings, and discussions. During the debate on the House Floor, I warned that we could not let the perfect be the enemy of the good in the quest for nonviolence, especially when the alternative is nonexistence. Iran cannot have nuclear weapons—but the United States must be a headlight and not a taillight, leading the world on the path to peace through the hard, necessary work of diplomacy. To this very day, experts and allies agree that the agreement was working to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. As we face challenges and uncertainty around the globe, it makes no sense to turn your back to progress, to ignore the pleas of our allies, and to disregard wise counsel and hard core facts. The price of peace is persistence, but the cost of war is always too high. ###
04.11.2018	Washington, D.C.— Congressman John Lewis, ranking member of the Oversight Subcommittee on the Committee on Ways and Means, made the following statement supporting the Taxpayer First Act, a bipartisan bill to modernize the IRS that he introduced with Oversight Subcommittee Chairman Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) (WATCH VIDEO): “Good Morning. Mr. Chairman, I am proud to join Chairwoman Jenkins in introducing the Taxpayer First Act. “This bill improves the independent appeals process, taxpayer services, and enforcement. It also makes common-sense updates to the IRS and Tax Court structure. This is a good and timely bill, and I hope all of our colleagues will support it. “I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Buchanan, our good friend and the former Subcommittee chair, for his dedication and commitment to taxpayers. I would also like to thank Chairwoman Jenkins for continuing this good work and sharing her expertise with all of us. “Most importantly, I would like to recognize our staff. They worked day-in and day-out to translate what we heard in our hearings and meetings into good policy that will truly improve taxpayer services. “Mr. Chairman, for the last year and a half, the Oversight Subcommittee listened, asked questions, wrote letters, and took our time. “In particular, I am very proud of our work to set an income level for the private debt collection program. This provision responds directly to the National Taxpayer Advocate’s 2017 Annual Report to Congress. As you know, the program costs three times more than it collects. “It also targets and abuses thousands of low-income taxpayers by enrolling them in installment agreements that they cannot afford. In my heart of hearts, I believe that the program is a shame and a disgrace, and that it must end. I am glad that our bill moves us in the right direction. “Through it all, the Subcommittee did good work, necessary work. We pushed aside politics, and we put the taxpayers first. “From the beginning, we committed to bipartisanship, and we refused to abandon our course. As a result, we wrote a bill that improves tax administration in time for Tax Day. “This is the first time in many years that the Committee reached this milestone. The process and the product should be an inspiration to us all. “In closing, I hope that all of our colleagues will support this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.” ####
04.11.2018	Washington, D.C.— Congressman John Lewis, ranking member of the Oversight Subcommittee on the Committee on Ways and Means, made the following statement supporting H.R. 5439, a common-sense bill to support victims of tax-related identity theft that he introduced with Congressman Jim Renacci (R-OH) (WATCH VIDEO): “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope that all of our colleagues will support the amendment in the nature of a substitute to H.R. 5439. “I am very, very proud to join my friend Mr. Renacci from Ohio, in sponsoring this common-sense bill. We share a passion and a commitment to this issue. We previously worked on ID theft and introduced the Stolen Identity Fraud Prevention Act. I am proud to join him again. “Today, our bill continues this good work by requiring the IRS to establish a single point of contact for victims of tax-related identity theft. I also included this common-sense policy in the Taxpayer Protection Act of 2017, the Oversight Subcommittee Democratic tax administration bill. “H.R. 5439 will help ease the frustration felt by victims of tax-related identity theft, and it will ensure that they receive the help and support they need and deserve. This is a good taxpayer service bill, and I hope all of our colleagues will support it. “Again, Mr. Chairman, thank you. I yield back the balance of my time.”
04.11.2018	Washington, D.C.— Congressman John Lewis, ranking member of the Oversight Subcommittee on the Committee on Ways and Means, and Congressman George Holding (R-NC) introduced H.R. 5438, a bipartisan bill to provide information about low-income taxpayer clinics. Congressman Lewis made the following statement in support (WATCH VIDEO): “Good Morning. I hope that all of our colleagues will support the amendment in the nature of a substitute to H.R. 5438. “I am proud to join my friend from North Carolina, Mr. Holding, in sponsoring this common-sense bill. Our bill would allow the IRS to provide specific information about Low Income Taxpayer Clinics to those who might be eligible. The main purpose of these clinics is to help taxpayers resolve disputes with the IRS. This bill helps taxpayers receive the support and guidance they need. “Last December, the Oversight Subcommittee held a hearing on the taxpayer experience. This bill responds to one of the many issues raised in our discussion. During the hearing, we heard testimony from Ms. Tameka Lester. Ms. Lester serves as the Associate Director of the Philip C. Cook Low-Income Taxpayer Clinic at the Georgia State University’s College of Law that is located in my congressional district. Ms. Lester and other witnesses shared great ideas to improve the taxpayers’ experience. It was one of many thoughtful panel discussions. Going forward, I hope that our Subcommittee will continue to develop bipartisan responses to their concerns and suggestions. “Again, Mr. Chairman, I hope all of our colleagues will support our bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.”
03.16.2018	Washington, D.C.—Representative John Lewis made the following statement on the passing of Rep. Louise McIntosh Slaughter (D-NY): “My heart is broken. Louise was more than a colleague; she was my classmate and my friend. We took the oath of office together in January 1987 and served side-by-side for more than 30 years. “One of my warmest memories is when she invited me to explore her congressional district. Together, we visited the historic Frederick Douglass Memorial A.M.E. Zion Church. During my travels with Louise, I also had the opportunity to thank Sister Barbara Lum and the Sisters of Saint Joseph Motherhouse in Pittsford for saving my life. Fifty-three years ago, she and other nuns from the order cared for us at Good Samaritan hospital on Bloody Sunday in Selma, Alabama, when no one else would. If it were not for them, many of us would not be here today. “I thank her family, the people of Rochester, and the State of New York for sharing this brilliant woman with us for so many years. As the former Chair and current Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee, Rep. Slaughter kept us in line. Most importantly, she taught us how to respect and contribute to the institution of Congress. For decades, Congresswoman Slaughter fought for those who were left out and left behind, and she gave voice, hope, and comfort for those who felt alone, lost, and abandoned. I vividly remember her work to break the cycle of violence against women and to stop discrimination based on race, income, religion, ability, region, gender identity, or genetic information. “Few people know that we shared a passion for the arts and the humanities. Every year, I looked forward to joining Louise and arts advocates from around the country. We believed that art communicates the heart and soul of our nation and that artists interpret our stories to inspire generations yet unborn. “Louise was a patriot and a hero, a leader and a lady. My friend was a tireless public servant, who represented her constituents with honesty and integrity. My thoughts and prayers are with her daughters, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, family, friends, staff, and constituents during this difficult time.”
02.21.2018	ATLANTA—Representative John Lewis made the following remarks upon hearing of the death of Reverend Billy Graham: “Billy Graham was a noble man — a true servant of God; he had the ability to speak truth to power. He was like a shepherd looking over the flock of humankind. He was a man of hope, a man of faith—a man of love, and he will be sorely missed. “Many years ago, I first heard Billy Graham in person when I was a college student in Nashville, Tennessee. He was so inspiring. He taught us how to live and how to serve. “A few short years ago I had the opportunity to visit him at his beautiful home in the North Carolina mountains. He was so warm and uplifting. You knew by being in his presence that he was a man of faith and patience. I will never forget the meeting I had with him. “Billy Graham must be looked upon as a saint among humankind. I wish his family my deepest condolences during this period of mourning.” ####
02.02.2018	ATLANTA — Representative John Lewis made the following statement on the Republican House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence’s unprecedented decision to release a classified memo regarding a current and ongoing investigation: “This is a dark hour and a sad day in the history of our nation. Congress has a constitutional responsibility to protect the goodwill of the United States and to serve as an inspiration to the global community for whom the dream of democracy is a beacon of hope and light. “I never thought that I would witness the dismantling of the checks and balances of our country, and I never imagined that Republicans would cast aside the national security interests of our nation. The frantic, desperate release of this memo leads us down a dangerous path of political spin and accusations instead of thoughtful, responsible congressional oversight. “It is painful to witness firsthand this attack on the remaining pillars of nonpartisan governance, rules, and procedures, but it is unfathomable and unconscionable to attack our country’s national security personnel and apparatus for political cover and gain.”
01.20.2018	During a federal government shutdown, authorities will still enforce laws, respond to emergencies, and maintain our nation’s defense; however, a shutdown will significantly affect our daily lives. A federal government shutdown distresses the entire nation, but it particularly affects regions like Metro Atlanta with significant numbers of individuals who rely upon or work in federal service. Being proactive and well informed is critical. Federal employees, retirees, and service members should consult with your management, understand guidelines, call banking institutions, and start preparing as soon as possible. Depending on the length of federal employees’ furlough, issues like automated bill payments, retirement benefits, health care services, or pre-scheduled travel plans may develop into significant issues. The Office of Personnel Management’s (OPM) website provides general guidance, but individuals should review the Office of Management and Budget’s Contingency Plan web page, which compiles agency guidance in the event of a federal government shutdown. Consequently, I compiled this information to help you plan accordingly. It is the best available during a fluid and unacceptable situation. Please continue to check my website for updates, and remember to contact federal agencies directly regarding specific issues. Frequently-Asked Questions About a Government Shutdown Shutdown of the Federal Government: Causes, Processes, and Effects (Congressional Research Service report)
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, H.R. 267, the Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historical Park Act, will become Public Law. Four years ago, Congressman Lewis first introduced legislation to create what will be Georgia’s first National Historical Park. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the bill on March 15, 2017, and the U.S. Senate adopted the legislation by voice vote on December 27, 2017. Rep. John Lewis (GA) made the following statement: “Throughout his life, Dr. King urged each and every one of us to recognize the dignity and worth of every human being. He was my friend, my mentor, and my big brother, and I never expected to have the honor and privilege of representing his place of birth and the spaces where he planned a movement -- which changed the face and trajectory of our nation -- in the U.S. Congress. “For many years, I worked with my congressional colleagues and the National Park Service to preserve these Atlanta landmarks and to enhance visitor experiences and services at Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historic Site located in Georgia’s Fifth Congressional District. “A few years ago, the Prince Hall Masonic Temple decided to donate land in historic Sweet Auburn to the National Park Service to ensure that the story of Dr. King and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, which he founded, could be better shared and preserved for future generations. “In addition, the National Park Service wanted to improve the presentation of the historic landmarks, which are integral to Dr. King’s legacy and Atlanta’s role in the American Civil Rights Movement. These changes required an Act of Congress. “I am so proud that we were able to work in a bipartisan, bicameral manner to establish Georgia’s first National Historical Park in Dr. King’s name and legacy before what would be his 89th birthday and the 50th anniversary of his tragic assassination. “I hope that this moment will serve as a reminder of the constant work to realize Dr. King’s dream of building the Beloved Community -- a community at peace with itself and our neighbors.”
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Lewis (GA) made the following statement in response to the administration’s decision to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for nationals of El Salvador living in the United States: “I strongly oppose today’s decision to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Salvadorans living in the United States. This action, along with the recent announcements ending TPS for Haitians and Nicaraguans living in the United States, does not befit a great and generous nation. “This action is yet another example of the administration continued assault on immigrant families and communities. This decision betrays the trust and protection of American children – American citizens – who were born to Salvadoran parents living peacefully in the United States for nearly 17 years. These innocent children will now face unimaginable threats to a safe, stable, and secure future. “It is a shame and a disgrace that this administration is committed to tearing families apart in its relentless desire to appeal to the worst of human nature – fear, resentment, and xenophobia. Yet again, Congress will need to act to fix this needless, preventable heartache for more than 200,000 Salvadorans in our country. “TPS holders and DREAMers contribute to our country; they are a vital part of the Beloved Community. Protecting them from deportation and violence should be a top priority for all future legislation. Time is of the essence, and I will join my colleagues in continuing to fight for a solution for all immigrant families who are endangered by these cruel, heartless, unnecessary decisions.” ####
12.23.2017	On December 19 and 20, 2017, Congressional Republicans passed H.R. 1, their bill to cut taxes for the richest Americans and for corporations on the backs of working and middle-class families, students, and seniors. This plan, first introduced in the House on November 2, affects every American, every taxpayer in current and future generations. In response to constituent concerns about this bill's impact, the below pages track every aspect of the bill's movement in the House and Senate. This tax plan has roots in H. Con. Res. 71, the Fiscal Year 2018 budget resolution passed by the Congress on October 26. This budget resolution directs Congress’ two tax committees – the House Ways and Means Committee, on which I serve as a senior Member, and the Senate Finance Committee – to develop tax legislation. Unfortunately, it also directs other committees to develop deep, harmful cuts for key domestic and safety net programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. On Thursday, November 16, two weeks after introduction, the U.S. House passed H.R. 1 by a vote of 227 to 205. On Saturday, December 2, the U.S. Senate passed H.R. 1 by a vote of 51 to 49. On December 15, a conference committee formed by members of the House and Senate to negotiate differences between the two versions of H.R. 1 released a conference report containing the final text of H.R. 1. On Tuesday, December 19, the U.S. House passed the conference report to H.R. 1 by a vote of 227 to 203. (Watch Rep. Lewis' Floor Statement Opposing Final Republican Tax Bill (H.R. 1 Conference Report) - December 19, 2017) On Tuesday, December 19, the U.S. Senate passed the conference report to H.R. 1 by a vote of 51 to 48. On Wednesday, December 20, the U.S. House passed the conference report to H.R. 1 again by a vote of 224 to 201, since the Senate made several changes to comply with budget rules. (Watch Rep. Lewis' Floor Statement Opposing Second Vote on H.R. 1 Conference Report - December 20, 2017) ​ HOUSE: House Ways and Means Committee Markup → House Rules Committee → House Floor Debate SENATE: Senate Finance Committee Markup Resources → Senate Budget Committee Resources → Senate Floor Debate CONFERENCE: Conference Committee → Committee Report Rep. John Lewis' Public Statements about H.R. 1 Rep. John Lewis' Missed Opportunities Bills Rep. John Lewis' Proposed Amendments to H.R. 1 Official Non-Partisan Analysis of H.R. 1
12.20.2017	Congressman John Lewis made the following statement on the House Floor opposing the second House consideration of the conference report to H.R. 1, the Republican tax bill (WATCH VIDEO): "Mr. Speaker, yesterday taxpayers stood up and spoke out against Republicans lining the pockets of their donors by any means necessary. "Did you hear their cries? Can you feel their pain? "You did not, Mr. Speaker! You chose to turn a deaf ear and a blind eye to their hopes and their dreams. "This bill is a shame and a disgrace! "I urge each of you to be on the side of the people, on the side of history, and vote against this bill." TAX BILL HOME HOUSE: House Ways and Means Committee Markup → House Rules Committee → House Floor Debate SENATE: Senate Finance Committee Markup Resources → Senate Budget Committee Resources → Senate Floor Debate CONFERENCE: Conference Committee → Conference Report Rep. Lewis' Public Statements about H.R. 1 Rep. Lewis' Missed Opportunities Bills Rep. Lewis' Proposed Amendments to H.R. 1 Official Non-Partisan Analysis of H.R. 1
12.19.2017	WATCH VIDEO Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my good friend, the Ranking Member, Mr. Neal, for yielding. I rise to oppose this conference report with every bone in my body. This bill is a $2.3 trillion holiday gift for Wall Street, the rich, and the wealthy. This bill was conceived in the darkness of the night and birthed with the help of your donors and funders. This bill is not for the people. It is not of the people, and, Mr. Speaker, it is not tax reform. You reward your donors so that our children and grandchildren will suffer. This is not fair, it is not just, and it is below the dignity and worth of this body. Mr. Speaker, I’ve said on many occasions that you cannot get blood from a turnip, and you cannot justify robbing poor Peter to pay billionaire Paul. Mr. Speaker, when the bill comes due, the chickens will come home to roost. I urge all of my colleagues to be on the right side of history and to vote against this bill. I yield back. TAX BILL HOME HOUSE: House Ways and Means Committee Markup → House Rules Committee → House Floor Debate SENATE: Senate Finance Committee Markup Resources → Senate Budget Committee Resources → Senate Floor Debate CONFERENCE: Conference Committee → Conference Report Rep. Lewis' Public Statements about H.R. 1 Rep. Lewis' Missed Opportunities Bills Rep. Lewis' Proposed Amendments to H.R. 1 Official Non-Partisan Analysis of H.R. 1
12.17.2017	ATLANTA — “I am grateful to all the police, firefighters, electricians, and airport, airline, and MARTA employees for their efforts to assist stranded passengers. “I would also like to thank the thousands of passengers who continue to remain calm and patient throughout this unprecedented ordeal. I know it is not easy, but I ask you to continue to follow the guidance of airport and emergency personnel. “Once electricity is restored, I look forward to learning more about the cause of the power outage and what safeguards will be implemented to prevent any reoccurrence of this situation.”
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON — “After careful consideration and conversations with church leaders, elected officials, civil rights activists, and many citizens of our congressional districts, we have decided not to attend or participate in the opening of the Mississippi Civil Rights Museum. “President Trump’s attendance and his hurtful policies are an insult to the people portrayed in this civil rights museum. The struggles represented in this museum exemplify the truth of what really happened in Mississippi. President Trump’s disparaging comments about women, the disabled, immigrants, and National Football League players disrespect the efforts of Fannie Lou Hamer, Aaron Henry, Medgar Evers, Robert Clark, James Chaney, Andrew Goodman, Michael Schwerner, and countless others who have given their all for Mississippi to be a better place. “After President Trump departs, we encourage all Mississippians and Americans to visit this historic civil rights museum.”
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON— Representative John Lewis is excited to announce Mr. Maanit Madan as the winner of the 2017 Congressional App Challenge in Georgia’s Fifth Congressional District. The Congressional App Challenge is designed to spark an interest in students’ participation in STEM and coding technologies. Participants are responsible for designing their own apps, with the goal of showcasing their creative and technical abilities. The judging committee included Ms. Natasha B. Rachell, Atlanta Public Schools; Mr. Asante Bradford, Georgia Department of Economic Development; Dr. Kamau Bobb, Georgia Institute of Technology; and by members of Rep. Lewis' District Office staff. Mr. Madan created the app Chef Cal, which he says is aimed at “receiving tasks from a user and automatically organizing a calendar for them. This calendar makes sure that the user can comfortably complete the task without missing the due date. The goal of this app is to create a solution for students to get work done without procrastinating, while maintaining a healthy lifestyle.” Rep. Lewis expresses his sincere appreciation for Mr. Madan’s participation as well as the hard work and dedication demonstrated throughout the entirety of his presentation of Chef Cal. “I would like to thank all of the participants for competing in this year’s Congressional App Challenge. I especially congratulate Mr. Madan for his outstanding demonstration and application of coding,” said Rep. Lewis. For more information regarding the 2017 Congressional App Challenge, please click the link: http://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON — In recognizing December 1st as World AIDS Day, Representative John Lewis made the following statement: “We have made tremendous progress in the treatment and prevention of HIV/AIDS, and we have come too far to turn back now. “The medicine we have today is stopping the spread of HIV/AIDS and saving lives. Each and every person must get tested. This year’s World AIDS Day is as about increasing impact through transparency, accountability, and partnerships. The United Nations says we can reach an AIDS-free generation by 2030. I believe we can do it, and I am committed to saving lives and protecting critical public health programs.” “Most importantly, I would like all of my brothers and sisters in Georgia’s 5th Congressional District who are living with HIV/AIDS to know that you are loved, respected, and cherished. I understand that traveling to see doctors and to get medicine is difficult. It can be overwhelming. Your life is valuable. You are beautiful and strong, you must stay the course, and you must continue the fight. You cannot give up, and you cannot give in. Please know that you are not alone. Every second, every minute, every hour, every day, we are here with you and fighting for you.”
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) – joined by Morehouse graduates Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) and Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-LA) – introduced a bipartisan resolution honoring the 150th anniversary of the founding of Morehouse College. The text of the resolution can be found here. Rep. Lewis made this statement: “I am proud to introduce this bipartisan resolution celebrating the 150 year anniversary of Morehouse College’s legacy and tradition of producing men who change the fabric of our nation and inspire movements in every corner of the world. “Morehouse students and graduates, including Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and those involved in the Atlanta Student Movement, became leaders and pioneers in the Civil Rights Movement. Their model encouraged generations of Americans, including me, to commit to improving ourselves and our communities. To this day, students, graduates, administrators, and professors in the Morehouse family continue to contribute to all aspects of American and global life and culture through business, arts, health, science, and public service. “In applying the principles of tolerance, morality, hard work, humility, service, leadership, and excellence, Morehouse College is integral to our nation’s history and future, and it is an honor and a privilege to have an institution with the legacy, spirit, and mission of Morehouse College located in the heart of Georgia’s Fifth Congressional District.” The resolution's original co-sponsors include Reps. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA), David Scott (D-GA), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), Rob Woodall (R-GA), Doug Collins (R-GA), Jody B. Hice (R-GA), A. Drew Ferguson, IV (R-GA), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), André Carson (D-IN), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), and Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ).
11.27.2017	ATLANTA – Congressman John Lewis made the following statement in response to the administration’s decision to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals living in the United States: “I strongly oppose recent decisions to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitians and Nicaraguans living in the United States. “These actions do not befit a great and generous nation. Along with ending DACA, they are part of a pattern of this administration’s assault on immigrant families and communities in Metro Atlanta and across America. “This decision threatens the security of families and the well-being of the nearly 200,000 American children whose parents built safe, stable lives for them as a result of the TPS program. Similar to the earlier attack on DREAMers, this action will force families to return to unresolved, unimaginable hardships – strong earthquakes and storms, deadly wars, and harsh famines. “Public service should strive to bring people together and improve the lives of all who live in our country. It should not plant seeds of uncertainty and anguish or stoke the fires of fear and division. “Once again, the duty will now fall to Congress to attempt to fix yet another preventable crisis created by this administration. “We must rise up and work together to develop responsible solutions that respect the dignity and the worth of the thousands of people trying to make a better life here in America.” TPS provides safe harbor to more than 300,000 people who have lived in the United States for years, some even for decades. In Georgia, these hard-working individuals hold jobs, pay taxes, and contribute more than $300 million to our State’s economy every year. Congressman Lewis joined letters from the Congressional Black Caucus and more than 70 House Democrats that urged the Department of Homeland Security to protect and renew TPS for Honduras, Nicaragua, Haiti, El Salvador, and Syria. Rep. Lewis is a co-sponsor of — H.R. 4384, the ASPIRE-TPS Act, which would protect TPS-eligible individuals from being sent back to life-threatening conditions at home; H.R. 4253, the American Promise Act, which would provide a path to U.S. citizenship for long-time TPS holders; and H.R. 3440, the DREAM Act, which would provide legal status and a path to citizenship for hundreds of thousands of young people brought to the United States as children.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON — On Thursday, November 16, 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1, the Republican tax cut bill, by a vote of 227-205. As the only Georgian serving on the House Ways and Means Committee, Rep. Lewis worked to ensure that the public received unprecedented access to every step in the House process. Throughout the four-day markup, the office provided real-time updates on every amendment and every vote. The site also includes video and text of the Congressman’s speeches and amendments on this bill and links to non-partisan analysis of the House and Senate bills. During the past few weeks, constituents began contacting the office in waves as they began to understand the impact of this unprecedented tax bill on their lives and communities. In order to ensure that their concerns were a part of the public record, Rep. Lewis was the only Member of the Ways and Means Committee to file additional dissenting views in opposition to the bill. He also introduced ten bills to direct the Federal government to report examples of what the missed opportunity of bipartisan, comprehensive tax reform would mean for Metro Atlanta residents. After the passage of the House Republican tax cut bill and three days of the Senate Finance Committee’s consideration of the companion legislation, Rep. Lewis made the following comment: "In November 1986, the people of Georgia’s Fifth Congressional District elected me to Congress; I remember like yesterday how honored, humbled, and inspired I was to serve and fight for the people. It was only one month after the completion of a years-long, thoughtful, bipartisan process to reform the United States tax code. When I took my oath of office 30 years ago, that historic effort was a model to me. I worked hard to earn an appointment to the House Ways and Means Committee, the oldest standing committee in this body. This is the Committee where Congress’ core constitutional authority lies and where great, historic legislative solutions were born. "As I stood on the House Floor this morning, my heart broke. This tax bill breaches the sacred pact of public service – it hurts so many people and for what end? For the past two weeks, my office received constant, frantic calls from graduate students, local public servants, seniors, immigrants, veterans, faith leaders, charities, working and middle class families, and average people trying to make ends meet. They looked at the House bill and they saw so much meanness – so much spite. They held their breath hoping for sanity in the Senate, but when Senate Finance added yet another attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act, my constituents franticly began losing all hope. "It is as if the Republican Members of the 115th Congress forgot about real people and the true impact of our actions. This bill will decide whether people can keep a roof over their heads, heat in their homes, food on the table, care for their loved ones, continue their studies, and for some – it will mean the difference between life and death. "In order to pay for these unprecedented tax cuts – the third in 16 years of war – Congress will trigger sequestration. Next year, congressional Republicans will be forced to cut practically every single program, which matters to average people. "Unfortunately, this is not my opinion; the Congressional Budget Office reported this fact earlier this week. Yet, still House Republicans are determined to secure a quick political win that will devastate every corner of our country and generations yet unborn. Today is a sad and dark day, and I pray in my heart of hearts that common-sense and the will to put people before politics will prevail.” ### TAX BILL HOME HOUSE: House Ways and Means Committee Markup → House Rules Committee → House Floor Debate SENATE: Senate Finance Committee Markup Resources → Senate Budget Committee Resources → Senate Floor Debate CONFERENCE: Conference Committee → Conference Report Rep. Lewis' Public Statements about H.R. 1 Rep. Lewis' Missed Opportunities Bills Rep. Lewis' Proposed Amendments to H.R. 1 Official Non-Partisan Analysis of H.R. 1
11.16.2017	The Atlanta Passport Agency is hosting a passport day on Saturday, December 2, as part of the U.S. Department of State’s Passport Awareness Campaign. This year, the State Department’s public awareness campaign focuses on the benefits of getting a U.S. passport and how the passport book and card are great forms of photo identification. The event on Saturday is a convenient way to apply for children, apply for the first time, or renew your passport. U.S. passport holders who will have less than six months validity on their passports should consider renewing their passports now. Some foreign countries require six months remaining on the passport expiration date to enter. Day: Saturday, December 2, 2017 Time: 8:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Location: Atlanta Passport Agency 230 Peachtree Street N.W., 10th Floor Atlanta, GA 30303 Payment: Credit card, personal check, exact cash (no change is given) Applicants may choose routine service (4-6 weeks) or expedited service (2-3 weeks). Expedited service costs an additional $60. Applicants will be seen on a first come, first serve basis and no appointment is necessary. For information on passport forms and fees, or to learn more about the Passport Awareness Campaign, please visit Travel.State.Gov.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON — This morning Rep. Lewis spoke against the dangerous Republican Tax Cut bill on the House Floor. He made the following statement (WATCH) – “I rise with a heavy heart to join in opposing this mean-spirited, reckless bill. “Mr. Speaker, thirty years ago, I was elected to fight for and to serve the people of my district. Today, they are calling and begging for us to slow down and to do this the right way. “In their heart of hearts, the public knows that the safety net will be used to pay for this reckless corporate tax cut. “Taxpayers know that this shameful bill destroys the hopes and dreams of too many as it robs poor Peter to pay wealthy Paul. “You see, Mr. Speaker, you cannot hide the truth from the sick, the elderly, and disabled for whom this bill may mean life or death. “You cannot hide the truth from middle class, working, and immigrant families who need every penny to make ends meet. “You cannot hide the truth from teachers who try to lend a helping hand and students who struggle to get an education. “And I for one refuse to hide the truth about this bill’s attack on the separation of church and State. “Mr. Speaker -- as we abandon our constitutional duty and sacrifice our moral authority -- I fear that history will not be kind to us. “In another time and another period, Members of Congress came together in a bipartisan fashion. “They met, debated, and passed a tax bill that served the best interest of all people -- not just a select few. They took their time. They did it right, and so should we. “Today the record must reflect the sad truth of this missed opportunity. H.R. 1 steals from our veterans, seniors, children, and from generations yet unborn. “All taxpayers expect, demand, and deserve better – much better -- than legislation, which puts politics before the good of the people. “This bill is a shame, a disgrace, and honestly, Mr. Speaker, it breaks my heart. I urge each and every one of my colleagues to vote no.” TAX BILL HOME HOUSE: House Ways and Means Committee Markup → House Rules Committee → House Floor Debate SENATE: Senate Finance Committee Markup Resources → Senate Budget Committee Resources → Senate Floor Debate CONFERENCE: Conference Committee → Conference Report Rep. Lewis' Public Statements about H.R. 1 Rep. Lewis' Missed Opportunities Bills Rep. Lewis' Proposed Amendments to H.R. 1 Official Non-Partisan Analysis of H.R. 1
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON — This afternoon, the House Ways and Means Committee passed unprecedented tax cut legislation. As the only Georgian serving on the House Ways and Means Committee, Rep. Lewis tracked all Committee votes and amendments to ensure that public received timely information. Following the completion of the four-day markup, Rep. Lewis made the following statement – “Thirty-one years ago, I was elected to serve in the United States Congress. I watched from afar as the Ways and Means Committee Members spent thoughtful days, months, and years studying, learning, and working together to develop historic tax reform legislation. They were a model to my entire class as we took our oath of office in January 1987. Their example inspired me to work hard for an appointment to the Ways and Means Committee – the oldest standing Committee in the House of Representatives. “This week, Ways and Means marked up a bill that is a shame and a disgrace to our predecessors and the legacy of our Committee, which is responsible for the core constitutional responsibility of the Congress – the power of the purse. It is a duty which I do not take lightly. “For 16 years, the United States has been engaged in two wars, and for the first time in our nation’s history, the Congress failed to develop a way to pay for them. The bill does nothing to support the programs and services upon which veterans and military families — who make daily sacrifices — rely. Instead, this tax cut bill pays for these wars on a credit card. The debt will be passed on to our children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. This legislation’s failure to face this truth is disgraceful. “As people in Metro Atlanta began to study the bill and calculate the costs, my office began receiving frantic phone calls and emails. The public learned that the Republican tax cut bill would penalize students, seniors, the disabled, immigrants, and home owners. Faith leaders and charitable organizations would be unwillingly pulled into politics. Workers would lose employer support for training and education benefits, and the major community development, housing, transportation, water and sewer, and health programs upon which Metro Atlanta relies would suffer irreparable damage. “Earlier today, I introduced ten Missed Opportunities bills that require Federal agencies to report the cost of this dangerous, mean-spirited, and irresponsible legislation to Metro Atlanta and our nation. It is clear that this Republican Congress has no intention to do tax reform. Instead, we are considering a tax cut bill, which picks winners and losers. We need to be honest with ourselves and the American public about what this bill will mean to people today and to generations yet unborn.” Rep. John Lewis' Missed Opportunities bills address Veterans Affairs, Low-income Housing, Science and Engineering Research, Public Health and Biomedical Research, Student Debt and Possibilities, Career and Technical Education, Education, Youth Jobs, Surface Transportation, and Aviation. TAX BILL HOME HOUSE: House Ways and Means Committee Markup → House Rules Committee → House Floor Debate SENATE: Senate Finance Committee Markup Resources → Senate Budget Committee Resources → Senate Floor Debate CONFERENCE: Conference Committee → Conference Report Rep. Lewis' Public Statements about H.R. 1 Rep. Lewis' Missed Opportunities Bills Rep. Lewis' Proposed Amendments to H.R. 1 Official Non-Partisan Analysis of H.R. 1
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON — Today during the House Ways and Means Committee markup of H.R. 1, the House Republican tax cut bill, Reps. John Lewis (GA), Ron Kind (WI), Judy Chu (CA), Suzan K. DelBene (WA), Lloyd Doggett (TX), Brian Higgins (NY), Danny K. Davis (IL), and Earl Blumenauer (OR) offered an amendment to restore the “Johnson Amendment”. This simple amendment would restore the 53-year standard that prohibits religious, nonprofit, charitable, and related organizations from engaging in political activities. The amendment would save $2.1 billion based on the JCT estimate. The cost is based on a good-faith estimate of an expected rapid growth of tax-exempt political contributions. During the markup, Congressman Lewis made the below statement (WATCH) -- “Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk. First, let me thank my friends and colleagues for joining me as cosponsors of this amendment. “Mr. Chairman, our amendment is very simple. It would save $2.1 billion dollars by striking section 5201 of the bill. “Mr. Chairman, I want to be honest with you -- it never crossed my mind that without any notice or warning, this Committee would actually consider a bill to repeal the Johnson Amendment. When faith leaders and charitable organizations began expressing concerns to me earlier this year, I thought they were overreacting. It was too crazy too unbelievable for this idea to be even possible, but when I reached the end of this bill, I was shocked and appalled. “You see, during the Civil Rights Movement, we fought to tear down pillars of hate and discrimination. We spent hours in churches, temples, and synagogues organizing, training, studying, because where faith leaders had the moral authority to stand against immoral laws and guide us against indefensible policies. Our movement was never about a party or a candidate. We came together because of our shared values, our hopes, and our dreams for our families, communities, country, and world. People of all races, all religions, and all walks of life were united by a moral purpose for a shared purpose and mission. “The bill before us would pit neighbor against neighbor, worshipper against worshipper, and volunteer against volunteer. It will literally wreak havoc on the last pillars of civility in our country. “Now, some of you may not remember -- or maybe you were not here -- when the House last tried to pass a bill to repeal the Johnson amendment. I was here, and I remember it like it was yesterday. “Fifteen years ago, I managed that bill for our side on the House Floor, and I joined my colleagues across the aisle as a Republican-led Congress voted down this terrible idea. Democrats and Republicans came together to preserve the last remaining sanctuaries from partisan politics. In our heart of hearts, we understood that we had a responsibility to put the good of our nation before campaigns. “My friends, we need that vision and unity again today. Help us save us from what we might do today. “Now I have spent my entire lifetime, not as a lay person, but as ordained and licensed minister. I know that there is a separation between church and state. This is a good amendment, and I urge all of my colleagues to support this amendment.” A daily summary of the Committee’s markup proceedings is available at https://johnlewis.house.gov/taxcutbill. TAX BILL HOME HOUSE: House Ways and Means Committee Markup → House Rules Committee → House Floor Debate SENATE: Senate Finance Committee Markup Resources → Senate Budget Committee Resources → Senate Floor Debate CONFERENCE: Conference Committee → Conference Report Rep. Lewis' Public Statements about H.R. 1 Rep. Lewis' Missed Opportunities Bills Rep. Lewis' Proposed Amendments to H.R. 1 Official Non-Partisan Analysis of H.R. 1
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, the House Ways and Means Committee reconvened to continue markup of irresponsible H.R.1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The committee considered eight amendments offered by Democrats. Republicans voted down amendments that would have helped the middle class by extending the child tax credit, encouraging employers to hire veterans, reinstating the adoption tax credit, and taxing corporations at the same rate domestically and abroad. They voted against the middle class. They voted against what is best for America. Other amendments that would have provided tax credits for apprenticeship programs and kept the state and local tax deductions were also voted down by Republicans. A daily summary of the Committee’s markup proceedings is available at https://johnlewis.house.gov/taxcutbill. TAX BILL HOME HOUSE: House Ways and Means Committee Markup → House Rules Committee → House Floor Debate SENATE: Senate Finance Committee Markup Resources → Senate Budget Committee Resources → Senate Floor Debate CONFERENCE: Conference Committee → Conference Report Rep. Lewis' Public Statements about H.R. 1 Rep. Lewis' Missed Opportunities Bills Rep. Lewis' Proposed Amendments to H.R. 1 Official Non-Partisan Analysis of H.R. 1
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON — Yesterday the House Ways and Means Committee began marking up H.R. 1, the House Republican bill to cut taxes for the richest Americans on the backs of working and middle-class families, students, and seniors. During the markup, Congressman Lewis made the below statement (WATCH)-- “It is hard to put my feelings into words today. You see, I was elected to Congress in November of 1986 – only a month after the Tax Reform Act became law. It was tax reform, not tax cuts. “The Members of this Committee inspired our entire class as we took our oath on the House Floor 30 years ago. They set the gold standard -- a bar to which we all aspired. Elected by the people, they worked with the people, and they fought for the people. Back then, the Committee took their time. They worked across the aisle and across the dome. Their model inspired many of us to fight for an appointment to the Ways and Means Committee -- the oldest standing Committee in the House of Representatives. “Each and every person in the room today knows that the bill we are considering is an insult to their legacy. This bill is a shame and a disgrace to the spirit and history of this Committee and to the constitutional duties and responsibilities of the United States Congress. “First and foremost, this tax cut legislation does not make the tax code any simpler or any fairer. If Congressional Republicans pass a tax bill of this size so late in the year, it will be a nightmare for the IRS to implement and for taxpayers to understand this bill, this code by January. “Second, this bill is a slap in the face to real people. You are giving trillions of dollars in tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires. This is not right. It is not fair. It is not just. “How can we punish teachers who are just trying to buy supplies for their classrooms? How can you target the sick, the elderly, and the disabled? How can you attack immigrant children and DREAMers in a way that is just plain mean and heartless? “Most importantly, how can you bury your head in the sand when there are grave issues facing our country like transportation financing, student debt, war funding, affordable housing, and caring for veterans and their families? “After this markup and after the winners pocketed their rewards, the spotlight will move on. Every single person in this room knows what will happen next from the shadows. Even the most creative math cannot hide this cold, hard truth: this bill robs poor Peter to pay billionaire Paul. “Away from the cameras, Congressional Republicans will quietly begin to cut safety net programs to pay for their massive, corporate tax cut. The record should be clear. This is not about tax reform. These are tax cuts for the super rich. This bill turns a blind eye to the middle class and a deaf ear to working families. “Members of this Committee must be honest to the people we represent and serve. This bill picks a few winners as our children, grandchildren, and generations yet unborn will suffer from this reckless Act. “Look around us! We are surrounded by the portraits of those who put people before politics! We sit in the chairs of those who tackled the deep, hard challenges of their day -- as they designed visionary programs like Medicare, Social Security, and the G.I. Bill. We walk in the footsteps of those who worked to create a better world for their fellow Americans and future generations. “How can we look ourselves in the eye when we know that this bill is our gift to our children and grandchildren? There are no two ways about it. In the coming years, there may be small wins, but the damage to our budget and our future is done. “Mr. Chairman -- and I say this with all due respect -- this spiteful, irresponsible tax cut is not worth the paper on which it is written. Throw this bill out, and let us come together to work for the people. We can do better. We should do better, and the American people deserve better – much better. Let us do what is right, what is just, and what we were elected to do -- to serve the best interests of all Americans, not just a select few. I yield back the balance of my time.” A daily summary of the Committee’s markup proceedings will be available at https://johnlewis.house.gov/taxcutbill. TAX BILL HOME HOUSE: House Ways and Means Committee Markup → House Rules Committee → House Floor Debate SENATE: Senate Finance Committee Markup Resources → Senate Budget Committee Resources → Senate Floor Debate CONFERENCE: Conference Committee → Conference Report Rep. Lewis' Public Statements about H.R. 1 Rep. Lewis' Missed Opportunities Bills Rep. Lewis' Proposed Amendments to H.R. 1 Official Non-Partisan Analysis of H.R. 1
10.13.2017	“This executive order will begin the process of deconstructing the individual and small group insurance markets health insurance markets. Additionally, this administration recently confirmed its intent to end support for the cost sharing reductions that help many Americans afford health insurance. “Taken together, these mean-spirited actions constitute an attack on women’s health, on those living with illness or injury, and on every American living paycheck to paycheck – month to month. Low-income people will lose their health care. Seniors who are not yet on Medicare will become more vulnerable, and those struggling to make ends meet will suffer unnecessarily. Make no mistake: This is the latest tactic of a piecemeal effort to strip away the benefits of the Affordable Care Act. “I want to be clear – there is no policy justification for this executive order. The sole purpose is to increase the suffering of countless Americans and score political points. The health and well-being of Americans should not be the subject of political games. The American people deserve better – much better. There is no place for such maliciousness in public policy; too much is at stake.”
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON— In 2016, Rep. John Lewis asked the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) to audit the state-run Hardest Hit Fund (HHF), TARP’s primary federal foreclosure mitigation program in Atlanta. Today, SIGTARP released its final audit. SIGTARP’s audit discovered statewide mismanagement by Georgia’s Department of Community Affairs (DCA), which is the state’s housing finance agency and Treasury’s HHF contractor. Known locally in Georgia as the HomeSafe program, HHF promised $7.6 billion to States with high unemployment and home value losses. In 2010, Georgia was included in the third round of funding. To date the State has received over $300 million, of which only $130 million remain available to assist Georgian homeowners. According to SIGTARP, there are currently 22,000 Georgians who are behind in their mortgage payments. Although DCA’s HomeSafe Georgia website states that the Mortgage Payment Assistance and Mortgage Reinstatement Assistance programs are closed to new applicants, HomeSafe Georgia’s Mortgage Principal Reduction program is still accepting new applicants. For five years, Rep. Lewis repeatedly urged for HomeSafe funding to serve Georgian homeowners most affected by the economic crisis. He led multiple Congressional initiatives requesting responsible amendments of the contracts between the Department of the Treasury and local housing finance agencies with the purpose of increasing program participation. Upon reviewing the SIGTARP audit results, Rep. John Lewis made the following statement: “Struggling homeowners expected, demanded, and deserved for government officials not only to hold those who created these crises accountable but also to do all they could to help homeowners recover. “In response to the Great Recession, Congress provided desperately needed resources to help families stay in their homes. The responsibility then fell to State agencies to ensure that homeowners received the assistance Congress authorized “SIGTARP’s report shows that the HomeSafe Georgia program was shamefully managed. Unfortunately, despite repeated warnings, too many Georgian communities never received the assistance they expected and deserved. Time and time again, the agency failed to reach Georgia homeowners, who only sought the help promised to them. “Sadly, we know that African-American communities shouldered the worst of the foreclosure crisis and face the slowest recovery. Too many homeowners continue to struggle through no fault of their own. They were robbed of their nest egg -- their pathway to the middle class -- and in many cases, working parents were stripped of their children’s inheritance. This is their reality, and for many it is devastating. “Today, I thank Christy Goldsmith Romero, Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, and everyone on her team for responding to repeated calls for accountability and justice. “Every second makes the difference to those who are struggling to keep a roof over their head. Now that we have the facts before us, I hope that the Georgia Department of Community Affairs and State leaders will find the will and the way to do what is right, what is just, and what is long overdue to serve and protect Georgian homeowners.” ####
09.27.2017	DAV/RecruitMilitary Veterans Job Fair on Thursday, October the 5th at The Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta, GA. What: DAV/RecruitMilitary Veterans Job Fair Where: Mercedes-Benz Stadium, 441 Martin Luther King Jr Drive NW, Atlanta, GA When: Thursday, October 05, 2017, 11 AM - 3 PM Join us at 10:00 for the seminar “Ready, Aim, Hired: How to Make Sure Your Civilian Job Search Hits the Target -- Using Technology to Get the Right Job Faster” presented by MyComputerCareer. This seminar is intended to show job seekers how to work smarter to secure interviews. Learn how to prepare a job search system that will create a list of target employers and how to connect with these employers to secure interviews. Register separately for the seminar at rmvets.com/ atlanta_mcc. Register to Attend: https://events.recruitmilitary.com/events/atlanta-veterans-job-fair-october-5-2017 100+ Job Opportunities (Managerial, Supervisory, Etc. 60+ Companies Attending (Fortune 500, Government, Etc Can’t Attend? See online opportunities: https://board.recruitmilitary.com/sign_up Over 4,000,000 active jobs posted 3,058,538 Employers Viewed Military Profiles Why RecruitMilitary? 85,000+ Jobs Offers Extended 800+ Events since 2006/ 900+ Events 17+ Years working with Vets and their Families Event flyer: https://rm-events-production.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/event/attendee_poster/903/Atlanta_Expo_Flyer_1017.pdf Event Attendee List: https://events.recruitmilitary.com/events/atlanta-veterans-job-fair-october-5-2017#event-exhibitors
09.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. John Lewis made the following statement celebrating National Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Week: “Throughout our nation’s history, HBCUs played an integral role in shaping generations of leaders and visionaries when segregation and discrimination prevented African-Americans from earning college degrees. “HBCUs have a strong standard of preparing students who are equipped for their futures and armed with a vast knowledge of the past. Today, we come together to pay tribute to generations of HBCU alumni/ae who are agents of change and impact communities across our country and in every corner of the globe. It is impossible to calculate their benefit to our society. “In particular, I am proud that Georgia’s 5th Congressional District is home to some of our nation’s finest Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Spelman College, Morehouse College, Clark Atlanta University, Morehouse School of Medicine, the Interdenominational Theological Center, and Morris Brown College are fixtures in our community. The people of these institutions not only contribute immensely to the vitality and spirit of Metro Atlanta, but also continue to impact communities wherever their paths might lead. “This is an especially historic year for the Morehouse family, and I congratulate Morehouse College on the 150th Anniversary of its historic tradition in producing men who change the fabric of our nation and inspire movements around the world. “I believe that we have a shared responsibility to support and preserve these institutions for the sake of all who rely upon the leaders, job creators, innovators, and educators produced by HBCUs. The Federal government must invest in research grants, capital financing, core programs, and historic preservation initiatives to ensure that HBCUs survive and thrive for future generations. “Most importantly, the dream of higher education -- the key pathway out of poverty -- must remain within the reach of all who aspire. Congress must develop nonpartisan solutions that keep college accessible for students and their families. It is not enough to speak on the affordability of higher education; we must ensure that every student can realize the benefit of knowledge without the burden of a crushing debt as they embark to make their mark on the world.”
09.08.2017	Like you, I am closely monitoring Hurricane Irma as it moves through the Caribbean and threatens Georgia and the Southeastern United States over the next few days. As we all know, Irma is an extremely dangerous storm, and everyone should take its threat seriously. You can find up-to-date information about preparations, traffic, and open shelters here in Georgia by visiting the Georgia Emergency Management Agency (GEMA). The State of Georgia has ordered a mandatory evacuation for areas along the coast. Please be patient and safe on the roads as we welcome thousands of people from coastal Georgia and Florida seeking refuge in Metro Atlanta. In Metro Atlanta, we are expected to feel its effects early next week. The main threats to North Georgia, as with any major storm, are heavy rain, possible flooding, and power outages. Some important tips: Charge your phone and other electronic devices in case you lose power. Try to stay off the roads during the storm. If you must drive, do not drive through floodwaters, as they can be extremely hazardous. Turn around – don’t drown. Take pictures of your property and inside your house before the storm. Scan your important documents and e-mail them to yourself or a trusted relative or friend. Visit ready.gov or listo.gov (en español) to learn how you can prepare now for severe weather emergencies. You can also download the Ready Georgia App here. This week, Congress approved a bipartisan effort to provide $15 billion for FEMA to support recovery efforts in Texas, Louisiana, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and other affected communities. I will also work with my colleagues to ensure that flood insurance remains available and affordable to all Americans. You can find out how to help victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma at USA.gov. Please keep all those in the path of the storm, the emergency responders, and the aid workers and their families in your thoughts. Resources National Weather Service – Atlanta (@NWSAtlanta) Ready.gov Emergency Preparedness (@ReadyGov) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) (@FEMA) FEMA Region IV – Atlanta (@FEMARegion4) Georgia Emergency Management & Homeland Security Agency (GEMA) (@GeorgiaEMA) Georgia Department of Public Safety (@ga_dps) Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) (@GADeptofTrans) GDOT – Atlanta (@GDOTATL) Atlanta-Fulton County Emergency Management Agency (@AFCEMA) DeKalb County Emergency Management Agency (@DeKalbCountyEMA) Clayton County Office of Emergency Management & Homeland Security (@ClaytonCoOEM)
09.06.2017	The Atlanta Passport Agency is hosting a special Passport Day on Saturday, September 23, 2017 as part of the U.S. Department of State’s Passport Awareness Month. The hours of the event are from 8:00a.m. until 12:00p.m. at the Atlanta Passport Agency. No appointments are needed to apply for a passport, and customers can request routine or expedited service (expedited service incurs an additional $60 fee). This year, the State Department’s public awareness campaign focuses on the benefits of getting a U.S. passport card and how both products (the passport book and card) are great forms of photo identification. The event on Saturday is a convenient way to apply for the first time or renew your passport. Please contact us at (404)704-3470 or AtlantaCongressional@state.gov, if you are interested in participating, or if the Passport Day Flyer is posted on your website. Day: Saturday, September 23, 2017 Time: 8:00am – 12:00pm Location: Atlanta Passport Agency 230 Peachtree Street N.W., 10th Floor Atlanta, GA 30303 Payment: Credit card, personal check, exact cash (no change is given) Applicants may choose routine service (4-6 weeks) or expedited service (2-3 weeks). Expedited service costs an additional $60. Applicants will be seen on a first come, first serve basis and no appointment is necessary. For information on passport forms and fees, or to learn more about Passport Awareness Month, visit Travel.State.Gov.
07.26.2017	“I have fought too long and hard to end discrimination based on race and color to allow discrimination based on gender identity to be considered acceptable. “This mean, misguided policy takes us back to another place, a darker time. How is it acceptable to target those who love our country so much that they put their bodies and livelihood on the lines for its defense? This is a sad and dark day. “As a nation and as a people, all Americans should expect and deserve better. There is no place in our society for hate or bigotry. To punish any person based on their sexual orientation or gender identity is a shame and a disgrace, but to penalize those who pledge to serve and protect our country is unconscionable. “I stand with our transgender service members, and I pray that they will not lose heart. They must know that we love them. We respect them. We are grateful for their service and sacrifice, and most importantly, we will stand for their rights, just as they have stood for ours.”
07.15.2017	WASHINGTON – After viewing the video of a DeKalb County police officer striking a homeless woman with his baton several times during an arrest, Rep. John Lewis made the following statement: “This week, I watched the alarming video of Ms. Katie McCrary’s arrest in Decatur, Georgia. I was shocked and appalled to see such violence towards any person -- especially a woman known to have clear mental health issues. “Considering the gravity of this situation, I appreciate DeKalb County’s prompt response and action. I requested an update from the DeKalb County leadership on this serious matter, and I look forward their response. “In the shared commitment to strive towards achieving what Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. called the Beloved Community, we all must do our part in standing for justice. Inaction is not an option. We must be proactive and engaged in encouraging all of our sisters and brothers to respect the dignity and worth of every human being. We can, and we must do better. “It is for these reasons that I will soon reintroduce the SAFETY through Nonviolence Act, a bill to help local authorities adopt innovative, integrated, community-based violence prevention programs. Earlier this year, I also authored the Law Enforcement Inclusion Act, legislation to encourage recruiting, hiring, and training career law enforcement officers from the residents of the communities they serve. These bills are specific, targeted legislative steps to support local policing and community efforts to build and improve mutual respect, trust, transparency, and accountability.”
06.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, lead sponsors Rep. John Lewis (GA-5), House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5), Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC-6), Rep. John Conyers (MI-13), Rep. Robert Brady (PA-1), and more than 178 Democrats reintroduced the Voter Empowerment Act in the House of Representatives. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York will introduce a companion version in the Senate. The Voter Empowerment Act will help ensure equal access to the ballot for every eligible voter, will modernize our voter registration system to help more Americans participate, and takes steps to eliminate deceptive practices that deter voters from casting their ballots. The struggle for voting access in America has been long and storied. It is not a right assured to every citizen. Most Americans had to struggle and some died to win voting access in this country. When the Declaration of Independence was signed in 1776, only white Protestant men with property over the age of 21 could vote. During Reconstruction and the aftermath of the Civil War, the franchise expanded dramatically. In 1856, North Carolina was the last state to remove property ownership as a restriction to voting, and the passage of 14th and 15th amendments to the U.S. Constitution granted voting access to African Americans. Women did not win the right to vote until 1920, and it was only in1947 that Native Americans won that right. When it became possible for people of Asian descent to become citizens in 1952, they gained access to the ballot box. And it was not until 1961 that citizens of Washington, DC could vote to elect a U.S. president. Most Americans do not realize that the right to vote in America is not assured, is often complicated by political maneuvering, and can be restricted. Sponsors offer the VEA today as a continuation of the on-going effort to ensure that every American has an equal and fair opportunity to make their voices heard through the electoral process. At a time when some states have implemented or are planning to implement new barriers for voters who may be seniors, students, low-income Americans, members of our Armed Services, disabled, or speak English as a second language, Democrats see the need to certify their efforts to protect voting access for all Americans. This 2017 bill also responds to the concerns regarding the security of the November 2016 election by adding provisions that allow states to upgrade their protection of their voter lists and voter registration processes. Click for a section-by-section description and full bill text of the Voter Empowerment Act. “Despite the struggle that had ensued decades earlier to assure the right to vote for African Americans,” said Rep. John Lewis, “on this day in June in 1964, we were searching for three civil rights workers who went out to investigate the burning of a black church used for voter education efforts in Philadelphia, Mississippi. Andrew Goodman, Mickey Schwerner, and James Chaney were arrested enroute by the sheriff and released to the Ku Klux Klan. They were found weeks later beaten, shot, killed, and dumped in a swamp. That their sacrifice was required even after voting rights amendments to the Constitution were passed in 1868 and 1870, should demonstrate to every American that voting access can never be taken for granted. It must be defended by every generation until we have a truly open, inclusive democracy that allows every citizen’s voice to be heard. The VEA is our attempt to help create an open fair, and free democracy for all Americans.” "From Russia's interference in our election to efforts at the state level to make it more difficult for eligible voters to access the ballot box, Congress has a responsibility to take action to make our voting systems more secure and accessible," said Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer. "That is why I'm proud to join Reps. Lewis, Clyburn, Conyers, and Brady to introduce the Voter Empowerment Act. Not only would it protect the integrity of our democracy by modernizing our voting systems, but it would also help ensure that every eligible voter is able to cast their ballot and make their voice heard. I urge Republican leaders to bring this bill to the Floor without delay." Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn said, “In recent years, we’ve seen the proliferation of various creative devices that constitute a modern version of the Jim Crow-era practice of voter disenfranchisement. The Voter Empowerment Act will ensure that those who seek to cause mischief are held accountable, improve access to the ballot box, and protect the integrity of our elections. This bill is the product of a collaborative effort involving dozens of Members of Congress, and representatives from scores of advocacy organizations. Congress must pass this legislation in a timely manner.” “The events surrounding the 2016 election,” said Rep. John Conyers, “make it clear that the federal government must invest in ensuring the fair and secure outcome of future elections. The Voter Empowerment Act will allow states to implement the modifications started under the Help America Vote Act and provide us with voting technology capable of taking on the challenges of the 21st century. “Now, more than ever,” said Rep. Robert Brady, “Congress must take action to protect our democracy. I am proud to join my colleagues to introduce the Voter Empowerment Act. This important legislation will modernize our voting system, make voting easier, and ensure that every eligible voter can exercise their right to vote.” “Our right to vote is sacred – it’s one of the most precious rights we have as American citizens – and we need to make sure we’re doing everything we can to protect it,” said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. “I’m proud to reintroduce the Voter Empowerment Act to help give Americans the opportunity to have their voices heard on Election Day without obstruction. I urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation, which would modernize our voter registration process, eliminate barriers that discourage people from casting their ballots, and ensure that voting is equal, fair, and accessible for all Americans.” ###
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON – Rep. John Lewis will use these prepared remarks today at the SPEAKOUT rally on the East Lawn of the U.S. Capitol at 10:30 AM. He joins other members of the Democratic leadership, other colleagues, and activists in an effort to persuade this Congress to repair the Voting Rights Act. Hailed as the most effective voting access tool this nation has ever employed, the heart of the act—the formula used to apply its power to state electoral systems—was gutted by an ill-conceived U.S. Supreme Court decision. Congress has the ability to repair what was damaged. Several legislative proposals have been introduced which could do so, including the Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Democracy Restoration Act. This rally is meant to spur Congress to take action on these issues before the next national election. These are the prepared remarks Rep. Lewis will use today. I want to thank the Democratic Leadership and Rep. Terri Sewell for bringing us together today to demand that this Congress do what is necessary to repair the Voting Rights Act. The vote is precious, almost sacred. It is the most powerful tool we have in a democratic society, and every citizen should be able to use it without interference. Never forget that those who marched from Selma to Montgomery, Andrew Goodman, Mickey Schwerner, and James Chaney were just ordinary people with an extraordinary vision for our country. The progress their sacrifice ushered in was not preordained. Their courage was not divine or innate. They made a choice to take action. That is the same choice you are making here today—to stand up and speak out for what is right. Make no mistake. You are the civil rights heroes of today. You are the freedom fighters of today. And your courage will determine the direction of this country. Dr. King once wrote that “progress never rolls in on the wheels of inevitability.” Progress is something you must fight for and defend. That’s as true today as it’s been. No stroke of luck will protect a free and fair democracy in our country. We have to do it. You must use your power to make those who are inclined to say no…..more inclined to say yes. Schwerner, Goodman and Chaney and others had to give their lives. Today you need only give your time and your energy to protect democracy in America. The power is in your hands. Use that power to make it plain. We will never go back. We’re moving forward. We will struggle and win a free and fair democracy in America. Thank you. June 21, 1964, was the date of the disappearance of Andrew Goodman, Mickey Schwerner and James Chaney at the start of the Mississippi Freedom Summer, an event hosted by the Student Non-violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) then chaired by Rep. Lewis. Its purpose was to demonstrate the dire need for national voting rights legislation by engaging college students from around the country to come to Mississippi during the summer and experience the challenges of voter registration. During the first days of the summer, Chaney, Goodman and Schwerner went out to investigate the burning of a black church used for voter education. They were arrested enroute and released by the sheriff into the hands of the Ku Klux Klan. They were found later beaten, shot, and killed in a swamp in Mississippi. Please be advised that Rep. Lewis will use these remarks as a guide and may well make other extemporaneous comments. ####
06.15.2017	Rep. John Lewis made this statement on the floor today in response to the tragic shooting of Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA) and four other people at a Virginia baseball park while they were practicing for the annual congressional baseball game: Mr. Speaker, I rise today with the heaviest of hearts. Mr. Speaker, I want to be crystal clear -- there is not any room in our society for hate. There is not room for violence. Whatever we do and wherever we may stand, we must act in a peaceful, orderly, nonviolent fashion. We must understand that we are one people -- the American people. We are one family -- the American family. We live in the same house – the American house. Mr. Speaker, we must teach all of our people to respect the dignity and the worth of every human being. We must be headlights and not taillights in loving and cherishing our brothers and sisters. We are brothers and sisters. We must understand that our foremothers and our forefathers came to this great nation in different ships, but we are all in the same boat now. As Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. once said – “we must all learn to live together as brothers and sisters; if not we will perish as fools.” Yesterday, was a difficult and dark day. There was so much pain, so much suffering for so many people, for our fellow Members, our families, and our staff. It shook the Congress and our nation to its core. I too was in shock. My heart and my soul ached for those who were attacked and for those who witnessed the violence. Again, Mr. Speaker, I would like to express my love, my feelings for all of our colleagues, our friends, our staff, to the officers, and their families. And each and every moment, my thoughts and prayers have been with all of the victims and their families as they begin the long road to healing and recovery. They must understand that we are with them. We are with you. You are not alone. We love you and we are praying for your safety and recovery. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. (Video link)
06.01.2017	“I was deeply concerned by this nation’s withdrawal from the Paris climate accord. I do not agree with the dark vision of America’s future the president described that pits accepting responsibility for our environmental impact against the economic stability and vitality of our country. “The president itemized damages to American industries and jobs, through our involvement with a non-binding agreement, but that same concern was critically absent from the budget he sent to Capitol Hill. In it he proposes to cut key supports for American workers, like the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP). The MEP helps create or retain more than 80,000 American manufacturing jobs every year. “This decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement lessens American strength, puts us at odds with our major allies, and leaves room for other nations, like China and the European Union, to fill the void our departure has created. If we pull back and pull out of negotiations, we cannot help shape international climate policies that affect our nation’s future. The rest of the world has seen the economic and environmental benefit of clean energy, and they will leave us behind. “We do not live on this planet alone. It is not ours to hoard, waste, or abuse. It is our responsibility to leave this world a little more clean and a little more peaceful for all who must inhabit it for generations to come.” #### REPORTER RESOURCES BELOW: Reporter Background Link to Information on Clean Jobs Environmental Entrepreneurs Analysis Energy Efficiency Jobs in America
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON – During a series of two House Ways & Means hearings today, Rep. John Lewis railed against the Trump Administration budget. During the committee’s afternoon hearing with Secretary of the Treasury, Steve Mnuchin: “I’ve often said that a budget proposal is a statement of values and priorities. This administration makes it crystal clear that the hungry, the middle class, the elderly, and the struggling will be left out and left behind. “This budget says more money for war, for guns, for weapons. This budget breaks promise after promise to the American people. It erases Medicaid and Social Security, cuts funding for food assistance and support for those who have been left out and left behind. “We have a right to know what is in the food we eat, what is in the water we drink, and what is in the air we breathe. This budget cuts the Environmental Protection Administration. This is not right, this is not fair, and It’s not just. I have a strange feeling that this budget is not respecting the American people. The people [of this country] are not a top a priority for this administration….. “. He also said, “I cannot understand how our president could schedule a meeting with Pope Francis-- a beacon of light to humble and oppressed peoples around the world--at the same time that he introduces once of the most dangerous, destructive budgets I have ever seen in all my days of public service. “I challenge every American citizen, especially those who were hoping to make America great again, to read everything they can put their hands on about this budget. It deals a death blow to programs that helped lift millions into the middle class after World War II, and if it is implemented, it will expand a level of suffering and poverty in this country we have not seen in over 50 years.” Widespread condemnation of budget from editorial boards nationwide: The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Baltimore Sun, Financial Times, The Charlotte Observer, Houston Chronicle, The Kansas City Star, The Tennessean, The Atlantic. The Congressional Budget Office score on the Republican health care bill concludes it will leave 23 million without healthcare by 2026. It is a deficit reduction that risks the well-being of millions of Americans, and some will die without the coverage they now have and will still need. ####
05.12.2017	“I am not certain what more the White House could do to signal its utter disregard for the democratic process in this country. While we as a nation are trying to evaluate why the FBI director was fired shortly after he requested more funds to continue the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election, the president moves to establish a so-called “election integrity” commission. “Study after study based on the facts indicates “ improper non-citizen votes amounts to .0001 percent” of studied districts in the 2016 election, according to the Brennan Center for Justice. The idea that voter impersonation impacts the integrity of U.S. elections is a myth fomented by those who want to make it harder and more difficult for minorities to vote. Some want an unfair advantage that allows them to disregard minorities and still win seats even in cities where minority populations are the majority. “Now the administration wants to enlarge this misrepresentation and raise it to the federal level by wasting taxpayer dollars to pursue an erroneous claim. If past is prologue, the commission will likely try to lay the groundwork for draconian changes to federal election procedures. The president should listen to the words of his colleagues from the Speaker of the House to former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee who all stated they had seen no evidence demonstrating that voter fraud had undermined the 2016 election or any American election. “There is a problem in American elections that was proven by thousands of pages of evidence and months of field hearings in communities across America. That evidence was entered into the congressional record during the Voting Rights Act reauthorization. That problem is voter discrimination, and even Chief Justice Roberts in his decision in the Shelby County v. Holder case admitted that there was no question that voter discrimination is still prevalent in our society. If the White House was really interested in integrity, it would do something about that.” ####
05.05.2017	“Just when I thought the news from the White House could not get any worse, Donald Trump signs another hypocritical executive order. From the moment he set foot in the Oval Office, he has done exactly what he falsely accused President Barack Obama of doing. He is by-passing the legislative role of Congress, negating the fundamental value of public argument and debate, and changing the foundation of American law. “These actions are not even designed to assert the will of the people, which is the real purpose of the discretionary power of the president. They are orders that strengthen the hand of a small group of Americans at the expense of our democracy. “I will never understand what is so attractive about discrimination that people really want to be free to do it. People actually advocated for the room to humiliate, degrade, and reject other human beings whom they believe God has given them the license to offend. “As an ordained minister and a student of philosophy, I can say that none of the “great religions” can rightfully serve as a license to hate. Somewhere I read that all of the law and the prophets boil down to one guiding principle for human society: Love your neighbor as yourself. “Under the thin veil of religious liberty, Trump has opened the door to discrimination against the LGBTQ community. Once discrimination against one group is lawful, that door can easily become a floodgate that mows down other minorities in its wake. “Also this order flies in the face of a principle the founders of this nation declared imperative to our republic – the separation of church and state. It allows for the mixing of the religious with the political in order to turn the pulpit into a tool of politics. Some of the worst events in human history have occurred when the edicts of the church have the power of law and when the mandates of government are given unquestioned authority. “Wake up America. Our democracy is under attack. Today the clock is being turned back on health care and civil rights; we should fear what tomorrow will bring. We cannot afford to be silent or resigned. We must see this tragedy as a call to action to stand up, speak up and speak out to build the kind of democracy we want to see in America. We, the people, must use our power to undo what we have done. We must march to the polls in every election--local, state, and national—to hold Trump and his partners accountable for this assault on equal justice in America.” ####
05.04.2017	“Today we are facing a crossroads in the history of this nation. One day our children and our children’s children may turn to us and ask, “Which side were you on?” In the aftermath of this vote, members of the House will have to look their constituents, their friends, their family and even their children in the eyes and tell them the painful truth. “The House Republican bill, H.R. 1628, does not rescue health care. It is an attack on the poor, the sick, the elderly and the disabled. It punishes hard-working women and men, and it uses their resources collected in the federal Treasury as a pipeline to line the pockets of big business and the wealthiest people in the world. “Never ever in my years in the U.S. House of Representatives have I seen such a betrayal of the public trust. Never have I seen legislative action that reveals such clear disdain for the human dignity of the most vulnerable among us. Never have I ever seen such a willingness to disregard what is right in favor of what is so wrong. “People from all around the country begged their elected representatives to vote against this despicable bill. Instead, my colleagues chose to serve themselves and their rich friends and leave the rest of us to fend for ourselves. H.R. 1628 proves this White House ushered in a government of the rich, by the rich, for big business, and people will pay with their lives for it. “If this bill becomes law, at least 24 million Americans who can see their doctors today will be turned away tomorrow. Those who are sick will suffer, and some of them will die. People with pre-existing conditions will have premiums so high most will not be able to afford care, and any state can deny healthcare to their citizens at any time. “This is a shame and a disgrace. May God have mercy on us all.” ####
04.06.2017	“I watched in horror today at the news reports of the chemical weapons attack on the Syrian people. Tiny little children, babies in their mothers’ arms were struggling for life. Their innocent beauty and the hopefulness in their little eyes was deeply distressing, knowing that their lives have been change forever. “While they were sleeping, a crime was committed against them by the leaders of their own nation, a crime that their parents could never combat or defend them against. This is the worst kind of violence and abuse by a government against its people. It is not only a crime against the defenseless people of Syria, but against every innocent human being on this planet. “As a world community, we must speak out in the face of such a heinous crime. If we allow these horrible actions to go unchecked, unmatched by criticism and dissent, we leave room for this kind of violence to happen again in Syria or anywhere else in the world. “As people of good conscience, we must take action and speak out against this violence. All of humanity, every human being on this planet, should cry out for this madness to stop.”
03.31.2017	“Journalism is such a powerful force in American society. Freedom of speech and of the press is the cornerstone of our democracy. Walter Cronkite once said that, 'A free press is not just important to democracy, it is democracy.' “Bill Minor, a Mississippi journalist who wrote for the New Orleans Times-Picayune was a brave and courageous journalist. He was a crusader on the frontlines of reporting at the height of the Civil Rights Movement of the 20th century. It was very, very dangerous for him to use his pad and pen to report objectively on the events he witnessed in Mississippi. He was threatened, but he did not stop speaking truth to power. We are forever in the debt of journalists like Bill Minor, who placed their lives in their hands to tell the stories now so familiar but then unheard of. It was journalists who got the word out. They helped to demonstrate the injustices people of color were facing, and their news helped create a crisis of conscience that changed America forever. Bill Minor was one of the great Southern journalists, and he will be deeply missed. “Steen Miles was a dear friend of my late wife Lillian. She was a determined journalist, curious and unrelenting. She reported for the Atlanta NBC affiliate WXIA for many years and won 3 Emmy awards for work. Her commitment to public service led her to work as the primary spokesperson for MARTA for many years and ultimately to run for public office. She was elected a state senator from Georgia’s 43rd District in 2005, and during her tenure, she wrote or co-sponsored more than 70 pieces of legislation. The Atlanta community will deeply miss Steen Miles--a dedicated and involved citizen, outspoken truth teller, and innovative public servant.”
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON--Rep. John Lewis made this statement today during the debate to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA) with H.R. 1628, the Health Care Repeal Act, also known as Trumpcare. The Congressional Budget Office has projected that the bill will reduce the federal budget by taking health benefits from those who need it most and by drastically altering Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid provisions that support seniors, orphaned children and some of the most vulnerable Americans. CBO estimates that, if this bill were signed into law, 24 million people would lose health benefits in the next 10 years, and 14 million will lose coverage in 2018. Hospital associations, medical associations, senior citizen associations and many others have all come out against this repeal. Citizens have flooded congressional offices with phones calls against this legislation. The current struggle within the Republican Conference revolves around how much insurance to take away from vulnerable Americans. The Freedom Caucus’s primary objection to the bill is that it does not reduce the deficit enough by sacrificing even more protections for vulnerable Americans. For example, pre-Affordable Care Act some insurance coverage cost less but actually might not cover a range of basic procedures like mammograms, hospitalizations, medications and other standard inclusions. People could pay monthly insurance premiums faithfully only to discover that when they got sick, they did not have sufficient coverage to pay their healthcare expenses. Catastrophic illness sent thousands of Americans into bankruptcy. To combat this, Obamacare implemented minimum coverage standards for all policies. The Freedom Caucus would like to repeal these minimums, for example, to lower the cost of care and reduce the budget, but revisit the likelihood that millions would pay for insufficient health benefits. Rep. Lewis made this statement in response to the repeal effort (video link): Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my friend for yielding. Mr. Speaker, I rise to oppose this bill. As elected representatives, we have a mission, an obligation, and a mandate to fight for each and every American. I ask you, Mr. Speaker, who will stand for the American people? Who will speak up for those who have been left out and left behind? Mr. Speaker, I have said it time and time again -- health care is a right. It is not a privilege reserved for a wealthy few. For what does it profit this body to pass this bill and lose our soul? This bill is a shame. It is a disgrace. Mr. Speaker, today my heart breaks for the disabled, for women, for seniors, and working families. My heart aches for those who are living paycheck-to-paycheck. My heart mourns for innocent, little children whose very life depends on if their families can pay the bills. This is the right and wrong of it. This is the heart and soul of the matter. We cannot abandon our principles. Mr. Speaker, we cannot forget our values. I have fought too hard and too long to back down now. I will fight any bill that turns the clock back to a darker time. I will fight every single attempt to turn a deaf ear, a blind eye, and a cold shoulder to the sick, to our seniors, and to working families. Mr. Speaker, I will fight every day, every hour, every minute, and every second. I will oppose this bill with every breath and every bone in my body. We must not give up. We cannot – I will not -- give in. Not today, not tomorrow, and never ever. On this bill, there is only one option – and that option is to vote NO. You can do better. Mr. Speaker, you must do better. Vote no on this bill!
03.16.2017	Rep. John Lewis made this statement today on his bill H.R. 267, The Martin Luther King Jr. Historic Park Act of 2017. The bill expands the physical area of the park to include the Prince Hall Mason Lodge, and upgrades the King historic district to a national park, the highest designation within the National Park Service, offering it the maximum support and sustenance the NPS can offer any site. Rep. Lewis made this statement in support of the act (video link): Mr. Speaker, I rise as the proud sponsor of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Historic Park Act. First, let me thank the Gentleman from Utah (Mr. Bishop), the Gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Grijalva), and all the Natural Resources Committee staff for their hard work and support of this Act. Mr. Speaker, this non-partisan bill will simply change these historic, Atlanta places from being a “Site” to a “Park”. At no additional cost to taxpayers, this bill will create the first national, historic park in the state of Georgia. This small change will significantly improve the way the National Park Service preserves, shares, and presents the history of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Dr. King was our moral compass. He represented the best of America. His mission was to create the Beloved Community -- a community at peace with itself and our neighbors. Throughout his life, Dr. King urged each and every one of us to recognize the dignity and worth of every human being. Passing this simple legislation will improve how this important history and legacy is shared with visitors from across the country and around the world. Again, Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the Chair and Ranking Member for their support of this legislation. I hope that this bill will become public law as soon as possible, and I urge all of my colleagues to support this simple, common-sense legislation. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield back. The bill was passed by the House by a voice vote and will proceed to the Senate before it can be signed by into law. Prospects in the Senate are favorable. The idea has support among Georgia’s senators and among members of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. ###
03.13.2017	WASHINGTON - Representative John Lewis applauds the appointment today of Raphael Bostic to become the 15th president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Bostic is both the first African-American and the first openly-gay president of a regional Federal Reserve Bank. Bostic, currently a professor at the University of Southern California, served as the Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development during the Obama Administration. His term will begin in June. “I congratulate Mr. Bostic on his historic appointment,” Rep. Lewis said. “Atlanta is the cradle of the Civil Rights movement, so it is only fitting that our city be home to the first African-American head of a Federal Reserve Bank. While such an appointment is long overdue, I am proud that Atlanta is leading the way. Atlanta has shown that our nation succeeds when all voices and perspectives are heard and can come together to chart a way forward. Metro Atlanta and the South were hit hard by the Great Recession, and it is my hope that the Federal Reserve works to make sure the doors of opportunity are open to everyone.” Rep. Lewis wrote to the Atlanta Fed in September, along with Reps. David Scott (D-GA), Maxine Waters (D-CA), and John Conyers (D-MI), urging the Board to conduct an inclusive search and consider candidates of diverse backgrounds for the presidency, including racial minorities, women, and academics. He also joined a letter, led by Rep. Conyers and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), last spring calling for greater diversity within the broader Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta is responsible for the Sixth Federal Reserve District, which covers Georgia, Alabama, Florida, and parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Tennessee. ####
03.13.2017	WASHINGTON—In response to tensions surrounding immigration during the election season in the Netherlands, Rep. Steve King (R-IA) tweeted this statement on Sunday in support of Dutch right-wing politician Geert Wilders, “ Wilders understands the culture and demographics are our destiny. We can’t restore our civilization with somebody else’s babies.” The statement has been widely criticized, including by the Chairman of the Iowa GOP, Jeff Kaufmann. Well-known white supremacist David Duke, however, did indicate his support for King’s tweet. According to a National Public Radio report, King refused to back down from the statement in an interview this morning adding, ‘”I meant exactly what I said,’ and that he’d ‘like to see an America that’s just so homogeneous that we’d look a lot the same, from that perspective,’” Rep. John Lewis made this statement in response to King’s comment: “My colleague has made a deeply disturbing statement because it ignores the truth about the history of this nation. Western civilization did not create itself. It was founded on traditions that emerged from Africa, Iran, China, Greece and Rome and other nations. “With the exception of Native Americans, we all came to this land from some other place in the world community, and this country is a melting pot of cultures, traditions, appearances, and languages. In order to live together as one people, we must come to respect the dignity and the worth of every human being. It is that understanding that will make us one nation, not a homogeneous appearance. “Rep. King’s statement is bigoted and racist. It suggests there is one cultural tradition and one appearance that all of humanity should conform to. These ideas have given rise to some of the worst atrocities in human history, and they must be condemned.” ###
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON—During a marathon 18-hour markup of the Ryancare proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Democrats on the House Ways & Means Committee engaged in a long struggle to amend the Ryan alternative. They were concerned that, as written, the proposal robs the most vulnerable Americans, including millions who were only recently able to afford healthcare due to the ACA, in favor of payoffs to corporate health insurers and the wealthiest Americans. Ryancare was introduced without a Congressional Budget Office score, so no one knows how much Ryancare will cost taxpayers or contribute to the deficit. Without the benefit of a CBO score, Democrats estimated that Ryancare proposes $191 billion in tax cuts for tanning companies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other corporations, and that Ryancare will cost American taxpayers $597 billion. In a process that the Republican majority structured to cut-off debate and limit the possibility that expert witnesses might reject Ryancare in their testimony, the introduction of amendments afforded the Democrats time to discuss the proposal and make their opposition clear. Democrats felt one of Rep. Lewis’s amendments was so strong that it should close the proceeding. After 18 hours, at almost 4:00 am this morning, Rep. Lewis offered an amendment to scrap Ryancare and begin again to craft the kind of proposal the American people deserve. This is the statement Rep. Lewis made when he introduced the amendment (video link): Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk. Mr. Chairman, my amendment is very simple. This amendment would strike the entire section and restart the process by establishing clear principles for any health reform legislation. Mr. Chairman, the bill we are considering today is fundamentally flawed. Tax cuts for the rich, wealthy, and corporations are the priority. The sick, the elderly, the middle class, and working Americans are left out and left behind. The American people cannot -- must not -- bear the burden. This is not right; this is not just. You can do better; you must do better. Even though there was a secret bill and a closed process, we came ready to work. We tried and tried to fix this terrible proposal. (more) But today, Committee Republicans have rejected every, single Democratic attempt to give a helping hand to the sick, the elderly, the middle class, and working families. After all of this debate and all of these hours, the very core of this bill is still broken and corrupt. For this reason, Mr. Chairman, my amendment takes us back to the basics. It is clear and concise. Gandhi once said, “All compromise is based on give and take, but there can be no give and take on fundamentals. Any compromise on mere fundamentals is a surrender. For it is all give and no take.” This amendment returns to the roots of this country founded by We, the People, not by corporations. It reminds us of our responsibility to promote the general welfare of the American people, not just a select few. My amendment is crafted in the spirit of the words on the Statue of Liberty – “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.” My amendment rejects the idea to reward the rich and punish the people.​ This amendment draws upon the words his Holiness Pope Francis shared when addressed the U.S. Congress. He reminded us of the importance of compassion in public policy. The Pope preached on the importance of building the greatest common good and to never forget the golden rule – “Do unto others as you would have them do unto you". Mr. Chairman, this legislation ignores each and every one of these principles. As a result, the only option is to start again from scratch. The American people expect and deserve more. My amendment puts us on the right track, where people take priority over the rich and corporations. I urge each of my colleagues to support this basic, common-sense amendment. It is the right thing to do. It is the just thing to do. Thank you. ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON—Today during the Ways & Means markup of Ryancare, intended to repeal President Obama’s Affordable Care Act (ACA), Rep. Lewis offered an amendment to “certify” that no American would lose their healthcare during the repeal and replace process the Republican majority is advancing. The markup is being managed by the Republican majority in an unusual, piecemeal fashion. One part of the proposal is being debated at a time, instead of debating and evaluating the entire bill, as is generally the procedure. Democrats made a series of objections to the Ryancare proposal. They criticized the fact that the Congressional Budget Office has not “scored” the bill, meaning that members of Congress voting on the proposal, as well as the American people, do not know how much the bill will cost taxpayers. Democrats see Ryancare as a payoff to the corporate health insurance companies at the expense of working Americans. They also believe that Ryancare favors the rich and penalizes the poor and will likely push many who only recently were able to afford healthcare because of the ACA, off the rolls. The lives of many sick, elderly, and vulnerable Americans would be at stake, if this ill-fate proposal is signed into law. Ryancare has been repudiated by members on both sides of the aisle. Conservative Republicans and Republican members of the Senate have also criticized Ryancare, as have hospital associations, the Club for Growth, and many other diverse groups normally on opposite sides of debate. Rep. Lewis made this statement to introduce his amendment: Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk. I offer it on behalf of myself, and my colleagues -- Mr. Kind and Mr. Larson. Mr. Chairman, this amendment is simple, but very important. It simply says that the Republican health bill would not go into effect unless we can certify that no person would lose his or her health insurance coverage. Mr. Chairman, any effort to reform our health care system must consider this basic question. We need to know how many people are going to be pushed out? How many people are going to be left behind? This Committee must know these answers before we can act responsibly. (more) We must know, in our heart of hearts, that we are truly acting on behalf of the American people. With the information we have today, we cannot honestly say this bill will do no harm to women, the sick, the elderly, and the poor. I am deeply concerned, that working people cannot shoulder the Republican plan. There is not a family in this country that has not known sickness or injury. They cannot afford to lose their insurance coverage and we must be sure that we are not taking it from them. Over the past few years, we have seen millions of Americans gain coverage that was meaningful. It saved lives and gave hope. Gone were the days when insurance companies could put caps on care. Gone were the days of discrimination because of preexisting conditions. Gone were the days when you could be charged more just for being a woman. Mr. Chairman we have come far too sweep away all the good. We cannot -- and we must not -- turn back the clock on progress. I urge all of our colleagues to join us and support this basic, common-sense amendment. Thank you. The amendment was not passed by the Ways & Means Committee. No Republicans voted for this proposal. ####
03.03.2017	To mark tenth anniversary of the tragic Bluffton University bus crash on Interstate 75 in Atlanta, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) and Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) sent a letter to the new Secretary of Transportation, Elaine Chao, to continue their efforts to encourage the federal government to implement safety improvements to buses in America. According to the most recent statistics available, nearly 300 people are killed, and 22,000 people are injured in bus crashes every year. Common-sense, proven safety measures could help prevent deaths and severe injuries in crashes across the country. "I hope that the Secretary acts quickly to finish these vital rules that will protect the millions of passengers who rely on buses every year. Simple safety measures like these could make the difference between life and death and save many people from terrible injuries. We must make sure bus passengers are safe," said Rep. Lewis. In the aftermath of the Bluffton crash, Rep. Lewis and Sen. Brown introduced the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act, which called for new regulations requiring seatbelts, increased roof strength, anti-ejection measures, and rollover avoidance. This bill was passed and signed into law in 2012 as a part of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21). However, none of these critical safety rules were issued by DOT before the due dates set in the legislation by Congress. Some are still overdue. Others, like the rule requiring motorcoaches to add seatbelts, only apply to new buses, and not existing ones. This still leaves thousands at risks. The bus involved in an October bus crash in Riverside County, California, killing 13 people was not equipped with seatbelts. The letter calls on DOT to provide a clear timeline for finalizing and implementing these important rules. DOT has issued Notices of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) on roof strength, emergency exits, window retention and release, and anti-ejection glazing, but has not provided updates, though these rules were required to be issued by 2014. DOT also has not made a decision about fire prevention and mitigation standards in accordance with a study completed in November 2015.
02.28.2017	Yesterday’s evening news reported that 75 to 100 gravesites were desecrated this past weekend at a Jewish cemetery in Philadelphia. This followed a recent incident where 170 headstones were knocked off their foundations, cracked and damaged at another Jewish cemetery in Missouri. Synagogues and Jewish centers in Alabama, Delaware, Florida, Indiana, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Georgia, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Virginia have all received threats, some for the second or third time this year, according to the Jewish Community Centers Association of America. In October of last year, the Anti-Defamation League released a detailed report on 800 Jewish journalists who had been the target of a rising number of anti-Semitic tweets on the Internet. The Southern Poverty Law Center, which monitors hate violence documents increased attacks in this country since November of last year--206 anti-immigrant, 151 anti-Black, 80 anti-LGBT incidents, 60 incidents of swastika vandalism, 51 anti-Muslim, and 36 anti-woman attacks. “Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. compared the spread of hatred to an ‘unchecked cancer’ that corrodes the very fabric of our society. If we truly believe in the equality of every human being and the inherent right to individual liberty, then there is not any room in our society for these acts of hate. To allow anti-Semitism, violence and other campaigns of hate and fear to continue unconstrained threatens the safety and security of every American. “Currently, we are engaged in banning and deporting alleged ‘bad guys,’ without regard to the constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens caught up in this haphazard policy. Yet let us not forget that the most frequent incidence of terrorist threats and attacks in this country has not come from abroad but from the unchecked rage of American citizens right here on our own shores. “If this nation is to restore its tattered image around the world, it must abide by its own commitment to liberty, justice and equality. America’s greatness is not its stockpile of bombs, missiles and guns, but its ability to encourage true peace, heal the wounds of war, and help create real democratic freedom and justice here and around the world," said Rep. Lewis. “While there has been only one bomb threat in Atlanta over the past few months, I can tell you that there is a heightened sense of fear in the Jewish community. As we see our friends and family around the country, knowing that this is affecting people of all ages, we hope that the perpetrators of this attack will be brought to justice.” Dov Wilker, Regional Director, American Jewish Committee, Atlanta “The Jewish community has been terrorized by an onslaught of bomb threats to Jewish community centers, including Atlanta and Augusta, and the desecration of Jewish cemeteries in St. Louis and Philadelphia. We urge Congress and the President to take concrete steps to initiate a comprehensive investigation and to push for hate crime legislation in Georgia and the other four states that still do not have a state hate crime law.” Shelley Rose, Interim Regional Director, Anti-Defamation League, Atlanta
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Rep. John Lewis made this statement when he heard that the Special Master appointed by the U.S. Supreme Court to adjudicate Georgia’s water dispute with Florida ruled in Georgia’s favor. “I was pleased to hear that this long-standing dispute between our state and Florida, as well as Alabama, may be moving to a sound conclusion. As the dean of the Georgia delegation, I can say that the water crisis represents one instance where members have worked in a bipartisan fashion throughout the delegation and across party lines to help resolve the conflicts in this matter. "Our members have always held that this was an issue best decided by the individual states involved. Once Congress gets involved our action would have national implications that could destabilize long-standing agreements between other states affecting their use of a vital resource, water. “Today’s decision is a major step. Once the courts have settled the matter, the issues affecting people’s lives and livehoods remain. There will be a continuing mandate for the governors of the three states to work together to respond to the needs of the region. I hope lines of communication between the three states will remain open, once this matter is finally settled, and discussion will continue for the good of the people of the Southeast and this nation.” ####
02.07.2017	Rep. John Lewis made this statement today in the Ways & Means Oversight Subcommittee Hearing on the Social Security Representative Payee Program: Good Morning. Mr. Chairmen, thank you for holding today’s hearing. I would also like to thank all the witnesses for being here today. This morning, we are studying the Representative Payee Program. Together, we will learn more about how the Social Security Administration provides a person or organization to handle the benefits of another. This program is a saving grace for seniors struggling with dementia, for the mentally and physically disabled, for children who lost a parent, and for those who lose a spouse. This hearing is an important first step in understanding how we can help the agency better serve the most vulnerable among us. Over the years, many of you have heard me say that Social Security is a sacred trust. It is a trust between the American government and the American people. It is the greatest example of the beloved community in our country. I hope this committee will not shy away from understanding how Republican budget cuts impact this program and other services. These cuts make it harder for the agency to provide the quality service that Americans deserve and expect. I believe in my heart of hearts that the biggest threat to this program is not the retirement of the baby boomers – it is reckless budget cuts. Each and every one of us has a shared duty to uphold this sacred trust for generations yet unborn. In the regional agency Office located in my congressional district, the average wait time is 619 days to wait for a hearing. Unfortunately, these delays are not limited to disability payments. Can you imagine waiting for almost two years – two years? Americans deserve better. Mr. Chairmen, we cannot strengthen this program by starving Social Security. Congress must give the hard-working staff the support and resources they need to serve the most vulnerable among us. Together, we can do better. We must do better. Again, I thank the witnesses for being here today. I look forward to the testimony. Thank you, Mr. Chairmen. ####
01.28.2017	After learning that four Georgia residents and about 40 other individuals were detained at the airport in Atlanta today, Rep. John Lewis made this statement: “I am deeply concerned to hear that permanent residents of the state of Georgia and dozens of others who have immigrated legally to this country—submitting to all the laws, rules and regulations required—were detained at the Hartsfield-Jackson Airport in Atlanta today. Apparently, they had visited relatives who remained in their native land, and one day after an executive order issued from the White House blocked access to this country, lawful permanent residents have been detained. “People immigrate to America because they are inspired by our commitment to justice and democracy. To treat as strangers these law-abiding immigrants, to whom we as a nation have seen fit to grant permanent status, is a stain on the integrity of our country and threatens the democratic principles this nation stands for. This is a dark hour for America. We must all be vigilant in this time and work persistently without ceasing to ensure that fairness, freedom, and justice prevail in the United States of America.”
01.25.2017	(Remarks as delivered) Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again, I congratulate you on your new role as Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee. I look forward to working with you in this new Congress. I hope we can continue our tradition of strong oversight of the Administration as we have in past Congresses. I would also like to thank each witness for being here this afternoon. Let me begin by saying what I have said at countless other hearings -- the Affordable Care Act works. It works. Now, I want to be crystal clear for the record. The topic of today’s hearing is a Republican idea. In fact, Governor Romney called it the “ultimate conservative idea” because it was based in personal responsibility. The individual mandate became a core part of the health care law. There is not a family in this country that has not been touched by sickness or injury. I have said it before, and I will say it again. I believe in my heart of hearts that health care is a basic human right. It is not a privilege of the wealthy. It should not be reserved for people that insurance companies have decided are worth the risk. This committee has a mission, an obligation, and a mandate to think of those who have been left out and left behind. We cannot forget the 100 million Americans with pre-existing conditions. We cannot forget the struggles of those people whose care cost more than the insurance limit. We cannot forget the seniors in the donut hole who were unable to afford their medicine. I know that we can come together, to make health care more affordable, more accessible, for every person in our great country. I speak for the Members on this side of the aisle who are ready to do the good work – the people’s work. We must be mindful not to harm the marketplaces where Americans buy insurance. We must protect children from being kicked off their parents’ plans. We must ensure that a woman is not charged more simply because she is a woman. Mr. Chairman, today we face a moral issue. In the coming weeks and months, we should come together to improve the law – not destroy it. At stake are not just the details of policy, but the fundamental principles of justice and the very character of our nation. Thank you. ###
01.19.2017	Freedom of speech and the right to openly disagree were enshrined in our Constitution by the founders of this nation because criticism and debate play a powerful and important role in a democratic society. During the colonial period, English law specifically prohibited something called “seditious libel,” defined as speaking critically of the government or its officials. Before 1700 in this country, there were 1244 prosecutions for seditious speech. People could be humiliated by public confinement to stocks, subjected to public whippings and more, simply for criticizing the government and its officials. Early Americans rankled against tax structures and had a variety of criticisms against British rule, which ultimately gave rise to the American Revolution. The founders ensured their very First Amendment to our Constitution protected the right to free speech for all Americans. It is unfortunate that we are not all aware of this history and that substantive disagreement in our society today gives rise to bullying, trolling, negative barbs and personal attacks. Debating the issues is healthy for our society, but negative personal attacks are unnecessary and damage the credibility of an argument. Personal attacks, first and foremost, avoid the substance of the criticism at hand, and secondly resort to intimidation as an attempt to silence all dissent, which is not in keeping with the values of our society. Rep. Lewis has been subject to trolling and attacks by conservative media, not as a response to the important national security issues he has raised, but in an attempt to destroy his integrity and that of his staff. Two erroneous criticisms have been lobbed at Rep. Lewis and his team. These are the responses to those claims: Rep. Lewis’s Washington, DC property was purchased decades ago for a fraction of its current value today. As most Washingtonians and any real property expert know, property values in the city have risen exponentially in the last 10 to15 years. Rep. Lewis is delighted that he made a wise investment years ago, and that his property’s value has skyrocketed. He also realizes he likely could not afford to purchase his own home were he seeking to buy it today. In 2010, he was subjected to attempts to foreclose upon his home, like many Americans during that period. He is fortunate that he was able to stop that process, though many Americans, including many hundreds of his constituents, were not as successful. His property taxes are paid and currently up to date. House ethics rules state: “Senior staff ‘may not receive any compensation for either providing legal services to a political organization, or for serving as an officer (such as treasurer) of such an organization.’” At one point during the 2016 election season, Rep. Lewis’s chief of staff, paid as a consultant to the 2016 campaign, was listed as the treasurer of the Lewis campaign. This was a temporary measure meant to fill a gap. The former treasurer had to leave the campaign and, in the interim while a new treasurer was being interviewed, Michael Collins was listed as the treasurer of the campaign. His term of service was voluntary and as a substitute. At no time was he compensated for his role as acting treasurer, and once a new treasurer took office, Mr. Collins relinquished those duties. Because he was never compensated for his role as treasurer, he was not in violation of House ethics rules. We have published these responses on our website for the public and reporters to see in an attempt to restrain our response to unmerited attacks, to elevate the quality of the debate, and to respect the dignity of the upcoming inauguration. ####
01.11.2017	Full Written Testimony submitted for the RecordVideo of Congressman Lewis' Testimony Remarks as delivered: Chairman Grassley, Senator Leahy, and members of the Committee, thank you for inviting me to testify today. Millions of Americans are encouraged by our country's efforts to create a more inclusive democracy during the last 50 years, or what some of us call the Beloved Community, a community at peace with itself. They are not a minority. A clear majority of Americans say they want this to be a fair, just, and open nation. They are afraid this country is headed in the wrong direction. They are concerned that some leaders reject decades of progress and want to return to the dark past, when the power of law was used to deny the freedoms protected by the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, and its Amendments. These are the voices I represent today. We can pretend that the law is blind. We can pretend that it is even-handed. But if we are honest with ourselves, we know that we are called upon daily by the people we represent to help them deal with unfairness in how the law is written and enforced. Those who are committed to equal justice in our society wonder whether Sen. Sessions' call for "law and order" will mean today what it meant in Alabama, when I was coming up back then. The rule of law was used to violate the human and civil rights of the poor, the dispossessed, people of color. I was born in rural Alabama -- not very far from where Senator Sessions was raised. There was no way to escape or deny the choke hold of discrimination and racial hate that surrounded us. I saw the sings that said White Waiting, Colored Waiting. I saw the signs that said White Men, Colored Men, White Women, Colored Women. I tasted the bitter fruits of segregation and racial discrimination. Segregation was the law of the land that ordered our society in the Deep South. Any black person who did not cross the street when a white person walked down the same sidewalk, who did not move to the back of the bus, who drank from a white water fountain, who looked a white person directly in their eyes could be arrested and taken to jail. The forces of law and order in Alabama were so strong that to take a stand against this injustice, we had to be willing to sacrifice our lives for our cause. Often, the only way we could demonstrate that a law on the books violated a higher law, was by challenging that law, by putting our bodies on the line, and showing the world the unholy price we had to pay for dignity and respect. It took massive, well-organized, non-violent dissent for the Voting Rights Act to become law. It required criticism of this great nation and its laws to move toward a greater sense of equality in America. We had to sit in. We had to stand in. We had to march. And that's why more than 50 years ago, a group of unarmed citizens, black and white, gathered on March 7, 1965, in an orderly peaceful non-violent fashion to walk from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama to dramatize to the nation and to the world that we wanted to register to vote, wanted to become participants in the democratic process. We were beaten, tear-gassed, left bloody, some of us unconscious. Some of us had concussions. Some of us almost died on that bridge. But the Congress responded, President Lyndon Johnson responded, and the Congress passed the Voting Rights Act, and it was signed into law on August 6, 1965. We have come a distance. We have made progress, but we are not there yet. There are forces that want to take us back to another place. We don't want to go back. We want to go forward. As the late A. Phillip Randolph, who was the dean of the March on Washington in 1963 often said, " our foremothers and forefathers all came to this land in distant ships, but we're all in the same boat now." It doesn't matter whether Sen. Sessions may smile or how friendly he may be, whether he may speak to you. We need someone who will stand up and speak up and speak out for the people who need help, for people who are being discriminated against. And it doesn't matter whether they are black or white, Latino, Asian or Native American, whether they are straight or gay, Muslim, Christian or Jews We all live in the same house, the American house. We need someone as attorney general who is going to look for all of us, not just some of us. I ran out of time. Thank for giving me a chance to testify. (Below is the rest of Rep. Lewis's statement as written. Longer remarks were also submitted to the Senate Judiciary Committee record and can be requested) I want to make it crystal clear for the record -- we have made a lot of progress, but we are not there yet. Some people argue that the 48 years of a fully-operational Voting Rights Act simply erased hundreds of years of hate and violence. This is not ancient history; the scars and stains of racism are still deeply embedded in our society. This is proven by the thousands of pages of evidence submitted to Congress which verify continued voting rights discrimination across our nation and in the Deep South. Representing Alabama on this Committee, Senator Sessions had an opportunity to lead. Instead, the Senator turned a blind eye to the persistent and consistent efforts to make it harder and more difficult for minorities, the poor, the elderly, and others to exercise the right to vote. I spent most of my life living and working in the South. For many years, I worked hard and long to protect the Voting Rights Act. Not once have I heard the Senator recognize the present-day, recorded, voting discrimination which is why Alabama continued to be covered by the preclearance formula. After the Shelby v. Holder decision, minorities were in mourning as Senator Sessions was celebrating. He declared the decision was "good news for the South". Alabama and other States immediately adopted voter ID legislation -- making it harder for minorities to execute their right to vote. We must face the truth. We are a multi-racial, multi-ethnic country. We cannot escape this reality. As we prepared for the March on Washington, the late A. Philip Randolph said, “Maybe our forefathers and foremothers came to this country in different ships, but we are all in the same boat now.” You see, the issue of discrimination cannot be swept into a corner or under a rug. It is still here. And we cannot avoid the fact that there is a systematic, deliberate attempt to destroy the advances of civil rights in this country and take us back to a period when America declared its greatness on one hand, but fostered the worst kind of racial discrimination on the other. As a fellow Southerner, I have no doubt that Senator Sessions is polite to all he meets. My concern is not about how nice he is. My concern is about where he will take the Department of Justice and whether he will respect the dignity and worth of every, single person in our country – regardless of race, color, or background. No one, but no one should be discriminated against because of their race, religion, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin. So today, I ask the Members of this Committee to think long and hard about what it would mean for an outspoken opponent of the Hate Crimes Prevention Act and the Violence Against Women Act to serve as the chief law enforcement official in our land? It will take more than a photo on a bridge in Selma or a medal ceremony in the Capitol. It will take hard work and commitment from the heart and soul. How will Mr. Sessions confront the challenges of protest in a nation? Will he use the law as a shield? Will he use the law to silence the voices of those who are different and disagree with the status quo? The Attorney General is expected to be a champion of justice for all people – not just the rich and the powerful. This person has the duty and responsibility to fight to ensure that every person – White, African American, Latino, Asian, or Native American – can participate in the democratic process. That every person will be equally protected under the law. It is not the law that is sacred above all, but the spark of the divine that is the essence of every human being. Justice is the impact of law, not the law itself. Senator Sessions will be called upon to uphold justice, not to use the law as a cover to pursue a political agenda based on suspicion and contempt of certain Americans. In closing, I ask the members of this Committee to consider the same question that Senator Sessions posed to many witnesses who went through this very same confirmation process. Will his background, will his sympathies, and will his prejudices impact his service to our nation? My friends, I do not envy you. Leadership is not easy. You are expected to make tough decisions – to do what is right, what is just, and what is fair for all the people of this nation who rely on you to speak up and speak out on their behalf. ###
01.03.2017	Rep. John Lewis made this statement today in protest against the House Republican changes to the rules: Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my friend, not just my colleague, but my classmate. We came to this Congress together in 1987. I want to thank you for your leadership, for never giving up, or giving in, but for keeping the faith. Now, I don’t come to well that often, but I come because I remember reading someplace that Benjamin Franklin, a founder of this nation, once said, "It is the FIRST responsibility of every citizen to question authority," and he made sure the right to dissent is protected by the First Amendment to the Constitution. So today, I rise to question the right of House Republicans to institute fines which may violate the First Amendment and have a chilling effect on members who disagree with the proceedings of this body. When House leadership denied the will of the people to bring strong gun violence legislation to the floor, as a last resort, we staged a sit-in here in the Well to give voice to their mandate. As members of Congress, we have a sworn duty to speak up and speak out, if we do not believe the actions of this body represent the will of all Americans. We should never ever give up the right to protest for what is right, what is good, and what is necessary. We were elected to stand on the courage of our convictions. We were not sent here to run and hide. We must use our votes, our voices, and the power vested in us by the people of this nation to speak the truth, as we see it, regardless of the penalty. I am not afraid. I am not afraid to be fined. I have been fined before. Many of us have been fined before. During the 60s, many of us were arrested many times, beaten, left bloody and unconscious on the march from Selma to Montgomery. But no Congress, nobody, and no committee has the power to tell us that we cannot stand and speak up and speak truth to power. We have a right to dissent; we have a right to speak up for what is right. Regardless, rule or no rule, we cannot -- and we will not---be silenced. At the end of debate I'll offer a motion to strike the section that silences calls for gun violence prevention. ###
12.13.2016	As the cost of war skyrockets and its contribution to the federal deficit continues to increase, it is important that Americans fully understand where their tax dollars are spent and how they are spent. This accounting is especially important as cuts are proposed to important safety net programs like Medicare and Social Security, as well as to services for the unemployed, elderly, women, families and children. The Cost of War Act helps inform the discourse around these proposed cuts by calculating, unequivocally, the exact price tag of these ongoing conflicts to each American. It requires the Department of Defense to work with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to calculate and post the cost of war for each American taxpayer in Iraq, Afghanistan, and now Syria on their websites. Article I of the U.S. Constitution does mandate Congress to publish the exact expenditures of all accounts. "Every American has a right to know how their tax dollars are being spent," said Rep. John Lewis. "A variety of accounting methods are used to make it harder for Americans to comprehend how many billions, and even trillions of federal dollars are used to support these international conflicts, meanwhile services they may need to survive are placed on the chopping block due to the claim that our nation cannot afford them. A budget is a statement of values, and the people have a right to know whether the priorities of their government meet their expectations. This is a simple request, and I think that's why it appeals to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle." On May 15, 2015, Congressman Lewis reintroduced H.R. 2376, the Cost of War Act. This legislation was adopted as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Acts in 2013, 2014, and most recently on May 18, 2016. It has been passed now by both the House and Senate, and is awaiting signature by President Barack Obama. In October 2011, Congressman John Lewis (D-GA) first introduced the Cost of War Act as a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his 142nd birthday. 114th Congress Cost of War Act Factsheet 2016.pdf ###
12.12.2016	WASHINGTON-- On Saturday December 10th in its final session of the 114th Congress, the Senate passed the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act of 2016 (S.2854/H.R.5067). In the Senate the bill was led by Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC), Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-MO), and Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO). In the House, original sponsors were Rep. John Lewis (D-GA), Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), and Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI). BACKGROUND Before the passage of major civil rights legislation in the 1960s, hundreds of racially suspicious crimes were committed in this country, and few attempts to prosecute them were ever pursued. Tuskegee Institute once kept a record of verified lynchings in the United States from 1877 to 1950. The institute documented that nearly 4000 mainly unprosecuted civil rights crimes occurred during that period. Many American families continue to pass down stories of loss and disappearance even today without knowing the truth about what actually happened to their loved ones. PRIMARY GOALS OF THE BILL The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act represents a critical opportunity to right these wrongs committed, primarily against African Americans, but also against people of diverse backgrounds. In some cases, individuals still remain who were witnesses to these crimes or who can help provide evidence regarding these incidents. This bill reauthorizes and updates the original legislation that was signed into law in 2008. It seeks to respond to the concerns of victims' family members and strengthen collaboration between the Justice Department, the FBI, State and local law enforcement, and advocates to pursue these cold cases. There is a collective goal to seek the truth about this long-standing tragedies and hold the perpetrators and orchestrators of these atrocities accountable. This reauthorization also seeks to respond to the concerns of advocates regarding the implementation of the original legislation. BI-PARTISAN and BI-CAMERAL STATEMENTS OF SUPPORT "When this bill was signed into law, family members, academics, historians, lawyers, advocates began working to develop a full accounting for these long-standing, gross human and civil rights atrocities. The reauthorization passed by Congress is a response to their appeals to make the law a better tool in their quest for justice. We also worked across the aisle and across the Dome to develop a bill that fulfills our promise to remain committed to the pursuit of truth on behalf of victims and their families. I am very pleased that Congress has passed this legislation and I look forward to the signature of President Barack Obama." Rep. John Lewis - GA “I am pleased that this bill is now finally heading to the President’s desk. Investigators can now work to discover the truth and to seek justice under our legal system for the families of these victims. Every American is worthy of the protection of our laws. I want to thank the Till family, Alvin Sykes, Congressman John Lewis, and all of the civil rights activists who helped make this law a reality. Today’s victory is theirs.” Sen. Richard Burr - NC “Too many families suffer from the unsolved murders of their loved ones during the civil rights era without receiving justice. The way to best serve these families is to provide our Federal government with the tools it needs to investigate these unsolved crimes, and to hopefully, bring some sense of closure for these families. I thank Congressman Lewis for his tireless work on behalf of the families of these victims of unsolved murders from the civil rights era and I am proud to stand with him on this effort.” Sen. Patrick Leahy - VT “This legislation brings justice and closure to the families and communities affected by the heinous acts of violence and hatred that are a stain on our nation’s history. The bill will help us continue the critical work of better investigating and solving these crimes, no matter how long ago they occurred, and I’m thrilled we’ve finally been able to carry it across the finish line.” Sen. Claire McCaskill - MO “The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act sets out to investigate racially-motivated murders. Sadly, there is still more work to be done and it’s important that we reauthorize this bill so that the FBI and DOJ can continue investigating unsolved crimes.” Sen. Roy Blunt - MO “As an original cosponsor of the Emmett Till Reauthorization Act, I’m pleased to see my colleagues came together and supported this important bill. This bipartisan legislation will provide for a sustained, well-coordinated effort to investigate and prosecute unsolved civil rights-era crimes. There are hundreds of cold cases from the civil rights era that have never been solved and it is my hope that we are able to bring justice to the victims’ families.” Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner - WI "As we work to address current questions about racial violence and civil rights, we should be mindful of our history and why so many in the African-American community raise the issue of whether black lives matter. Passage of the original Emmett Till Act represented a commitment to resolving the unanswered questions from one of the darkest periods in modern American history. This bipartisan reauthorization represents a further investment in our history and will allow the Department of Justice to resolve remaining issues." Rep. John Conyers, Jr. - MI MAJOR PROVISIONS OF THE LEGISLATION This bill requires the Department of Justice and FBI to consult with civil rights organizations, universities, and other entities that have also been gathering evidence in these cold cases; Provides clearer direction and improved coordination between federal, state, and local law enforcement and the activists, advocates, and academics working on these issues; Strengthens the Department of Justice’s reporting requirements; Expands the time span of cases to be considered by ten years, to include all cases that occurred not later than December 31, 1979; Eliminates the sunset provision in the original bill; Encourages the Department of Justice to review specific closed cases that warrant further investigation; Maintains the previous investigation structure and funding levels; and Clarifies the law’s intent. ####
11.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Following a series of recent high-profile bus crashes, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) and Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) recently sent a letter to the Department of Transportation (DOT) urging completion of several overdue rules to improve motorcoach safety. According to the most recent statistics available, nearly 300 people are killed and 22,000 people are injured in bus crashes every year. In October of this year alone, 13 people died and 31 were injured in Riverside County, California, when a bus hit a truck. A charter bus driver was killed and 43 senior citizens were injured when a motorcoach collided with a tractor trailer in Georgia. In Maryland, six people were killed and ten people were injured when a school bus and a Baltimore transit bus crashed. Common-sense, proven safety measures could help prevent deaths and severe injuries in crashes across the country. "Too many people die unnecessarily, when simple safety measures could make the difference between life and death," said Rep. Lewis. "These rules could save thousands of people from the anguish and despair of losing their loved ones or suffering disabling injuries. We need to make sure that all buses traveling on our highways are safe for the millions of Americans who depend on them for transportation and for the millions more who drive next to them." “October’s bus crash in Riverside County, California is one in a long line of tragic accidents that underscore the importance of enforcing motorcoach safety standards,” Sen. Brown said. “DOT must finalize commonsense safety measures for all motorcoaches—seatbelts, stronger roofs, and safer windows—to help prevent deaths and minimize injuries. The time to act is now.” Rep. Lewis and Sen. Brown began working together in 2007, after a fatal bus crash on Interstate 75 in Atlanta that killed seven people, including five members of Ohio’s Bluffton University baseball team. Together, they introduced the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act, which called for new regulations requiring seatbelts, increased roof strength, anti-ejection measures, and rollover avoidance. This bill was passed and signed into law in 2012 as a part of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21). However, none of these critical safety rules were issued by DOT before the due dates set in the legislation by Congress. Some are still overdue. Others, like the rule requiring motorcoaches to add seatbelts, only apply to new buses, and not existing ones. This still leaves thousands at risks. The bus involved in an October bus crash in Riverside County, California, killing 13 people was not equipped with seatbelts, proven to save lives. The Lewis-Brown letter calls on DOT to provide a clear timeline for finalizing and implementing these important rules. DOT has issued Notices of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) on roof strength, emergency exits, window retention and release, and anti-ejection glazing, but has not provided updates, though these rules were required to be issued by 2014. DOT also has not made a decision about fire prevention and mitigation standards in accordance with a study completed in November 2015. ###
11.14.2016	This nation has lost one of its premier journalists. Gwen Ifill exemplified the highest standards of professional reporting . As the seasoned host of the PBS Newshour and Washington Week, she understood the complexities of politics and built a national reputation for leading a substantive, balanced and fair newscast. She believed in the necessity and power of news to educate voters about issues they needed to evaluate and comprehend. She began her career when few people of color were represented in national television news and when reporters were mainly men. As a pioneer, the challenges she experienced could never subdue her love of politics or silence her desire to blaze a trail for those who might see her very presence as confirmation that they too could succeed. Beyond her outstanding competence, Gwen Ifill was admired by her colleagues as a gracious, humble, magnanimous human being--rare qualities in a profession that requires ambition and persistence. She was a dear friend to me and to many. She will be deeply missed.
11.10.2016	Our freedom is not free. It comes at a price. No one understands that like the men and women in uniform who serve this nation so well. As Americans gather to celebrate Veterans Day, we honor the thousands of brave men and women who defend this nation on the frontlines of war and peaceful engagement on American shores and around the world. We honor those who have laid down their lives for us as well as those who stand ready to make the ultimate sacrifice for this country. I am immensely proud to represent over 33,000 veterans in the 5th District of Georgia. Their commitment to patriotic duty reminds us of our best selves and the principled selflessness that can be a powerful part of the American spirit. For their honorable service and all that they sufferwe owe our veterans not only a debt of gratitude, but a sacred promise to uphold America's highest ideals of equality, liberty and justice. They should inspire our vow to live true to the founding principles of our democracy in our homes, at work, in our minds and our hearts. ###
10.04.2016	Reps. John Lewis (D-GA), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee; David Scott (D-GA), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee; John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Ranking Member on the Judiciary Committee; and Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member on the Financial Services Committee, urged the Federal Reserve to conduct an inclusive, transparent search for the next President of the Reserve Bank of Atlanta, one that engages candidates from many diverse backgrounds. In a letter to Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen and Thomas Fanning, Chairman of the Atlanta Fed, the Members emphasized the need for Federal Reserve policymakers to account for our nation’s grave racial disparities in terms of unemployment, wages, and income in the development of monetary policy, especially since the economic downturn severely damaged the already tenuous financial security of traditionally underserved communities. In the sixth Federal Reserve district, where the new president will serve, unemployment and poverty rates for African Americans, for example, are about double those for white Americans. Presidents of the 11 other reserve banks have all worked for major financial firms or at the Federal Reserve before their appointments. The Members urged the Fed to consider a wider range of backgrounds, including academia, labor, and non-profit institutions, to capture the perspectives of all Americans as they develop economic policy. Since the appointment of Andrew Brimmer to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors by Lyndon Johnson, there have been only a few minority governors, and no African American or Latino bank presidents have ever been appointed. Currently there is one Asian bank president, Neel Kashkari, who heads the Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. This letter is a follow-up to one sent by 127 Democrats in both the House and Senate in May, urging the Federal Reserve to increase diversity in its executive ranks. “With this search, the Federal Reserve has a unique opportunity to restore confidence in our financial system by including the perspectives and experiences of a wider range of Americans,” Rep. John Lewis said. “Metro Atlanta was hit hard by the Great Recession, and many people in the South are still mired in poverty due to that downturn. In light of recent crises, the Federal Reserve should look far and wide to find the best person for this important job, not only within its own network. The Fed has a responsibility to ensure that the financial needs of the most vulnerable are considered within the policymaking process.” “The Federal Reserve has an opportunity to do something very significant with the recent retirement announcement of the current President of the Atlanta Federal Bank,” said Rep. David Scott. “We’ve never had an African American Regional Fed president. I’m asking the Federal Reserve to take this opportunity to make history. We have many exceptionally qualified African Americans who can do this.” “Selecting the first African-American or Latino Regional Bank president would be a historic milestone for the Federal Reserve, and I greatly appreciate Chair Yellen’s focus on increasing diversity. But given the Fed’s long history of prioritizing low inflation over job creation, the candidate also should be truly committed to full employment and possess deep knowledge of labor market disparities that too often leave workers, especially workers of color, behind,” said Rep. John Conyers, Jr., Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Committee and chair of the Congressional Full Employment Caucus. On September 13, Atlanta Federal Reserve President Dennis Lockhart announced his retirement, effective in February 2017. To find a new president, the Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta will identify and consider candidates, who then must be interviewed and approved by the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta is one of 12 regional Reserve Banks and covers Georgia, Florida, Alabama, eastern Tennessee, southern Mississippi, and southern Louisiana. ### Letter to Chair Yellen and Chair Fanning about Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta presidential search
09.24.2016	Watch Congressman Lewis' Remarks Here President and Mrs. Obama, Vice President Biden, Dr. Jill Biden, President and Mrs. Bush, President Clinton, Mr. Chief Justice and members of the Board of Regents... To the museum Advisory Council, Secretary David Skorton, and Dr. Lonnie Bunch... To the leadership of the U.S. Congress, and all my colleagues in both the House and Senate... In memory of the late Rep. Mickey Leland of Texas... To the District of Columbia, the architects of this incredible building... To all the staff of the White House, the federal agencies, the Congress, the Smithsonian who pushed and pulled together to help make this moment happen, and to all the construction companies and their crews -- I say thank you. Thank you for all you did to help lead our society to this magnificent day. As long as there is a United States of America, now there will be a National Museum of African American History and Culture. This is a great achievement. I tell you, I feel like singing the song Mahalia Jackson sung at the March on Washington over 50 years ago, "How We Got Over." There were some who said it couldn't happen, who said "You can't do it," but we did it, we did it! We are gathered here today to dedicate a building, but this place is more than a building. It is a dream come true. You and I -- each and every one of us -- were caught up in a seed of light. We were a vision, born in the minds of black Civil War veterans and their supporters. They met right here in Washington, DC, in 1916, exactly 100 years ago, at 19th Street Baptist Church, still in existence today. Oh say! Oh say! See what a dream can do! If you could roll up the sleeves of those veterans or touch the rubble on their backs, you might find the wounds of shackles and whips. Most could not read the Declaration of Independence or write their own names, but in their hearts burned an enduring vision of true democracy that no threat of death could ever erase. They understood the meaning of their contribution. They set a possibility in motion -- passing down through the ages from heart to heart and breath to breath -- that we are giving birth to today. This museum is a testament to the dignity of the dispossessed in every corner of the globe who yearn for freedom. It is a song to the scholars and scribes, scientists and teachers, to the revolutionaries and the voices of protest, to the ministers and the authors of peace. It is the story of life -- the story of our lives -- wrapped up in a beautiful, golden crown of grace. I can hear the distant voice of our ancestors whispering by the night fire, "Steal away, Steal away home. We ain't got long to stay here." Or a big, bold choir shouting, "I woke up this morning with my mind stayed on freedom." All their voices -- roaming for centuries -- have finally found their home here, in this great monument to our pain, our suffering, and our victory. When I was a little child growing up in rural Alabama, a short walk to the cotton fields, but hundreds of miles from the Washington Monument or the Lincoln Memorial, my teachers would tell us to cut out photographs and pictures of great African Americans for Carter G. Woodson's Negro History Week, now called African American History Month. I became inspired by the stories of George Washington Carver, Jackie Robinson, Rosa Parks, and so many others whose life and work will be enshrined in this museum. As these doors open, it is my hope that each and every person who visits this beautiful museum will walk away deeply inspired -- filled with a greater respect for the dignity and the worth of every human being and a stronger commitment to the ideals of justice, equality, and true democracy. Thank you. #####
09.23.2016	Today, Rep. John Lewis introduced this resolution honoring the dedication of the National Museum of African American History and Culture. The text of the resolution is attached. He made this statement upon introduction of the legislation: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to offer a bipartisan resolution which recognizes the opening of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture (NMAAHC) on Saturday, September 24, 2016. I am so proud that over 110 of my colleagues from both sides of the aisle have joined me as original cosponsors. This weekend will mark an historic moment in our Nation’s history. Hundreds of thousands of people will convene in Washington, D.C. on the National Mall to celebrate and welcome this historic institution which is dedicated to documenting African American life, history, art, and culture. Many people in this body, across the nation, and around the world shall celebrate this great day. Tonight, I applaud Dr. Lonnie Bunch, III, the Founding Director, Kinshasha Holman Conwill, the Deputy Director, Cheryl Johnson, Chief of Staff, and the hundreds and thousands of people who worked so hard to make this dream a reality. For over 10 years, they have toiled day in and day out to prepare for the opening and operation of the National Museum of African American History and Culture. I know that the leadership and staff of the Museum have labored tirelessly for years and years – designing the building, raising funds, envisioning the exhibits, collecting artifacts, conducting research, and meeting with the many people across this country and around the world who are so excited about this historic moment. Mr. Speaker, I thank each and every one of them for their hard work, determination, and dedication to the National Museum of African American History and Culture. Mr. Speaker, the National Museum of African American History and Culture took over 100 years to evolve from a dream to a reality in the Nation’s Capitol on the National Mall. The most recent congressional effort began with the late former Congressman Thomas “Mickey” Leland from Texas who revitalized the legislation in 1985. I was proud to continue his work and fought for 15 years for the bill to pass the House and Senate before finally being signed into law by President George W. Bush. It was a long, hard, labor of love, and there were so many wonderful Members on both sides of the aisle and the dome, who helped accomplish this mission, which spanned generations, decades, and movements. In 1993, the late Senator Paul Martin Simon from Illinois introduced a companion to the House legislation. Beginning in 2001, former Senator Sam Brownback from Kansas, former Senator Max Cleland from Georgia, and former Senator Chris Dodd from Connecticut joined the House coalition which included Representatives William “Bill” Clay from Missouri, J.C. Watts, Jr. from Oklahoma, and Jack Kingston from Georgia who helped take this bipartisan, bicameral effort across the finish line. Mr. Speaker, I would be remiss if I did not also thank some of the former congressional staff who worked for so many years to pass the legislation which authorized the Museum -- Tammy Boyd in my office; Kerri Watson with former Rep. J.C. Watts; LaRochelle Young with former Sen. Sam Brownback: and Donni Turner with former Sen. Max Cleland. They refused to give up; they refused to give in, and we thank them for their hard work and service. On the eve of this long-awaited day, I join with more than 110 of my colleagues in congratulating Smithsonian Institution’s family, the countless staff, and many volunteers of the National Museum of African American History and Culture on their persistence, their determination, and -- very, very soon -- on their success. Tonight, we should all be proud, and each and every one of us must take the necessary hours, days, weeks, and months to visit, learn, explore, and reflect on the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture and all that it signifies and entails. Mr. Speaker, this is a good day; it is a great day. Thank you. Lewis Resolution on National Museum of African American History and Culture.pdf ####
09.14.2016	Rep. Lewis made the following speech on the House floor today after previous remarks made by Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and other colleagues to encourage the Speaker of the House to bring gun control legislation to the floor. After Lewis’s speech, he asked his colleagues to join him in the well of the House. Ten members and Lewis stood quietly in the well. He was joined by Reps. Robin Kelly (D-IL), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Joseph Kennedy III (D-MA), John Larson (D-CT), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Elizabeth Etsy (D-CT), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Lois Capps (D-CA), and Katherine Clark (D-MA). The House was immediately gaveled into recess. Rep. Lewis’s statement follows: "Mr. Speaker, I rise yet again to speak out about mass shootings and gun violence in our nation. When I think of Newtown, of Charleston, of Orlando, my heart just breaks. Mr. Speaker, what will it take for Congress to act? How many more must suffer? How many more must die? "Today, I ask you to think of Taylor Hayden, the beautiful young woman celebrating a girls weekend in Atlanta, who was killed by gang crossfire. Please think of the young woman killed while driving home from work in Southwest Atlanta. Think of the woman fighting for her life at this very moment in Grady hospital. Just last week, she was injured in a shooting that brought I-85 to a stop. "Mr. Speaker, time and time again, we asked for compassion. Time and time again, we asked for action. Time and time again, we asked for leadership. Our constituents are sick and tired of a do nothing Congress. They elected us to do our jobs. Instead, Congress took a break. Mr. Speaker, Republicans must join Democrats, and do what is right, what is just, and what is long overdue. There are good, common-sense proposals that not only protect rights, but also will save lives. These bills should be passed immediately. "Time is of the essence. We cannot be silent. We cannot be compliant. We cannot wait for another time, another place, or another person. Mr. Speaker, the time to act is now. Today, I urge all of my colleagues to join us. Be brave and take a stand. Or if you prefer, please take a seat, roll up your sleeves, and let us get to work. "We have mission, an obligation, and a mandate. History will not be kind if Congress continues to turn a blind eye and a cold shoulder to those crying, begging, and pleading for action. We must pass common-sense legislation to prevent gun violence and mass shootings in our country, and we must act now. Not next week, next week, or next year, but now." WATCH THE VIDEO: https://youtu.be/W4w0oAiQm2w ####
08.05.2016	"On August 6, 1965--51 years ago--I was looking over the shoulder of President Lyndon Johnson as he signed the Voting Rights Act (VRA) of 1965 into law. It was a crowning moment in the struggle for human dignity in this country that opened access to the ballot box for millions of Americans. "It made the so-called literacy tests, grandfather clauses and other ploys used to block voting access illegal, but it also ultimately opened up the political process for other language and ethnic minorities to cast votes in every election. It also employed a very effective process that blocked discriminatory voting practices from becoming law. "In the 50 years that followed, the VRA changed the shape of electoral politics in America, giving millions a voice in our society for the first time in our history. It was hailed as one of the most effective pieces of legislation Congress had ever passed, but that all came to an end in 2013 when the U.S. Supreme Court gutted the VRA in the Shelby County v. Holder decision. The court invalidated the most powerful tool of the bill, the process that stopped new discriminatory practices from becoming law. "The court decided this even though Chief Justice John Roberts admitted in his opinion that 'voting discrimination still exists; no one doubts that...' Almost immediately states which were anticipating the decision, including Texas and North Carolina, enacted some of the most restrictive voting changes in the country. Recently two courts of appeal struck down those changes made in Texas and North Carolina as overtly discriminatory, but dozens of states still have these changes on the books. "This will be the first national election in this country in decades without the protection of the VRA. Congress must take action to defend millions of voters from the discrimination the court acknowledged still exists. There are two bills which have already been introduced in the House and the Senate. Both would fix the gaping holes left in the VRA by the Shelby decision. "The vote is precious, almost sacred. It is the most powerful non-violent tool for change we have a democratic society. We need to return the VRA to its original effectiveness to ensure that every citizen has a say in the future of our democracy. " ####
07.15.2016	In advance of Nelson Mandela International Day and in response to recent violence, Congressman Lewis introduced a revised and updated version of the Securing American Families by Educating and Training You (SAFETY) through Nonviolence Act and the Gandhi-King Scholarly Exchange Initiative Act. These bills help provide the basis for a 21st century recommitment to the philosophy and discipline of nonviolence by helping to support and renew peace and nonviolence strategies in the United States and around the world. H.R. 5846, the SAFETY through Nonviolence Act, establishes a national initiative to teach the principles and philosophy of nonviolence to develop innovative, integrated, community-based, violence prevention training and programs. Its intention is to break the constant and seemingly increased prevalence of community-based violence and global war, by focusing policy initiatives on prevention, pathways to positive peace, and true reconciliation. H.R. 5847, the Gandhi-King Scholarly Exchange Initiative Act, institutes three international programs to promote exchanges, training, and discussions which apply the philosophies of nonviolence to current human rights, civil rights, democracy, and conflict resolution challenges. "I have come to that point," Rep. John Lewis said, "where I see non-violence as one of those immutable principles that should not be violated. While the entire world community may not have this view, it is imperative that we continue to build our understanding of this invaluable discipline. That way we can ensure our society has trained and capable proponents of peace working at every level of public policy, along with those who may have other views." According to the 2016 Global Peace Index (GPI) report which notes 10-years of declining peacefulness, domestic and international peace has significant economic benefits. The 2016 GPI argues that violence cost $13.6 trillion in 2015. Today, the fiscal losses resulting from conflict greatly exceeds investments in peacebuilding and peacekeeping. This legislation can help to shift that dynamic by yielding a 21st century, global community of scholars and practitioners of nonviolence who can continue the effort to help build the Beloved Community in our society and around the world. ###
07.14.2016	Rep. John Lewis made this statement on the House floor to question the adjournment of the House when pressing matters of national interest still need to be worked on by Members of Congress: "Mr. Speaker, I rise because I cannot believe it. I cannot believe that the Republican Members of Congress will leave Washington, leave the nation’s capital for seven and a half weeks without taking a single step to respond to the real suffering, the real pain, the real despair of the American people. "Mr. Speaker, there is so much hurt, so much hate, so much violence. We have a moral obligation, a mission, and a mandate to do something about gun violence. Too many of our sisters and brothers have suffered. Too many have lost their lives. We have lost too many of our children, too many of our mothers and fathers, too many of our friends and neighbors. "Where are the leaders? Do you have any courage, Republican Members of Congress? Where is the leadership? It is a shame. It is a disgrace that the Republicans would close down the Congress without doing one single thing to protect innocent little children, our mothers and fathers, our sisters and brothers, and our police officers from gun violence. "We must act, and we should be acting now. Not tomorrow, not in September, but now!" VIDEO – Rep. John Lewis Decries Lack of Leadership and No Action on Guns
07.08.2016	Today, Rep. John Lewis made comments about the series of shootings American communities have faced in recent days, including the horrific murder of police officers in Dallas. This statement is based on the comments he made during a Congressional Black Caucus press conference today. "We pray for our nation, for the people of Louisiana, Minnesota, and the families of the victims, for the police officers, their families, and the people in Dallas. There is not any room in our society for violence. We must find a better way in a civilized society to resolve human problems. Violence creates even more challenges , and it solves very little. "We also must respect law enforcement officers. Dallas police officers were only doing their job and were cut down in the line of duty. I do believe, however, that there needs to be better training of law enforcement officers. Sometimes I feel that maybe, not only those of us who engage in nonviolent protest, but also police officers need to be taught the way of peace, the way of love, the way of nonviolence, to respect the dignity and the worth of every human being. That was what we were taught. When we were arrested, jailed, and beaten, we did not fight back. And today, we cry out, we feel the pain; we feel the hurt of the people in Baton Rouge, Minneapolis, and Dallas, and all across our country. "We must take action to stop senseless violence in every form, but whatever we do, we must do it in an orderly, peaceful, nonviolent fashion to redeem the soul of America and create what Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. called a Beloved Community. We all live in the same house, and it doesn’t matter whether we are black or white, Latino, Asian American, or Native American. We are one people. We are one family, we are one house. We must learn to live together as brothers and sisters. If not, we will perish as fools. We have too many guns. There’s been too much violence. And we must act to change that."
07.08.2016	Like so many Americans, I had a chance to view the murder of Alton Sterling on video. I am not an expert, but to me, it looked like an execution. I cannot understand why any citizen who is complying with police commands should need to fear for his life and then be murdered. The lives of his wife and children are shattered. How can they ever be repaired? I cannot imagine the courage that it took for Philando Castile's friend to remain calm and thoughtful while he lay there beside her bleeding to death. These are not the kinds of experiences that law-abiding citizens should have in the hands of police in America, whether they have a police record or not. We must recognize that the African American community is growing weary of the rationale and reasons given to explain these deaths. The taking of black lives seems to be a regular, accepted practice used at will by some police officers without regard for the consequences. The repeated, widespread inability or unwillingness of local courts and prosecutors to punish what appears to be flagrant disregard for human life is hard for any community to bear. We can expect continued protests, and if we are not sensitive to these long-standing, valid concerns, we will have a long, hot summer. Police officers need to be trained and re-trained to deal with Americans from different cultures whose lives they are supposed to respect and defend. Leaders in communities and on the national level must address the persistent, inherent bias within police ranks against black and brown citizens. The time is now to say enough is enough.
07.02.2016	“The world community has lost a giant—one of the most dedicated, committed champions of human rights it has ever known. He transmuted his survival of the worst horrors of the Holocaust in the Auschwitz and Buchenwald camps to become a gifted, poetic voice that called for the liberation of all human kind. “As a writer and teacher, he was an unimpeachable witness to the disturbing consequence of hate, yet he approached those memories with a sense of peace and contemplation. He was a sage who embodied the understanding that ‘hate is too heavy a burden to bear.’ I was blessed to be able to call him a wonderful friend. “As the world community continues to struggle with the pain and loss of anger, war, aggression, and violence, the voice of Elie Wiesel will be deeply missed. We are fortunate that, as a consolation, he has left us with his words. His wisdom will serve as an infinite well of inspiration for all seekers of the truth today, tomorrow, and for generations yet unborn.”
06.24.2016	Reps. John Lewis (GA-05) led members of Congress to register their complaints about recent mass raids and deportations by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) conducted under the name Operation Border Guardian. Reps. Lewis, G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), Hank Johnson (GA-04), and Alma S. Adams (NC-12) shared their deep concerns in a letter to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) released today. The states of Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina – all covered by the ICE Field Office in Atlanta – accounted for more than one-third of all persons apprehended in this nationwide operation, far outnumbering those detained by any other field office in the country. The Huffington Post also reported that Atlanta immigration judges denied asylum requests more than 98 percent of the time to those escaping their homelands under duress. In 2015, the Atlanta court had the worst record in the country among courts that heard more than five cases. “No human being can be illegal, and no innocent child should live in fear of deportation. I have fought my whole life to ensure that every human being is treated with fairness and justice. In 2013, I was arrested while protesting in support of comprehensive immigration reform. The raids conducted as part of Operation Border Guardian have deeply troubled me. They are not right, not fair, not just. They are an inappropriate response to those fleeing violence and disorder. It is my hope that DHS ends this Operation and finds the most humane way to address these refugees.” Rep. John Lewis (GA) “I am deeply concerned with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)’s enforcement actions while conducting Operation Border Guardian, particularly those that have occurred in North Carolina under the jurisdiction of the ICE Atlanta Field Office. These raids have not only had a negative impact on the individuals who have been detained, but they have also created a deep sense of fear within the community and our schools. I continue to believe that ICE should be focusing its limited resources on identifying dangerous individuals who pose a threat to our communities, rather than young people, mothers, and children who fled extreme violence in Central America in search of refuge in the United States. It is my hope that Secretary Jeh Johnson will take a hard look at these operations and the negative impact they are having in communities across the Southeast.” Rep. G. K. Butterfield (NC) “ICE raids should be stopped immediately, Targeting mothers and children who come to our shores fleeing human rights abuses and war in their home countries is against everything we stand for as a nation. We should be doing more to live up to our creed as a safe haven for the downtrodden, not subjecting the most vulnerable among us to more trauma and terror. We have to decide what kind of nation we want to be. I, for one, don't think rounding up innocent women and children in the dead of night and shipping them back to their countries where they face death, violence and persecution is who we are or what we want to be.” Rep. Hank Johnson (GA) “While I respect the discretion granted to ICE and Immigration Judges to uphold our immigration laws, I believe we must have greater empathy for immigrants, who are the heart of our nation. In the State of North Carolina and the greater Southeast region, I am deeply concerned that this discretion is being used to deport individuals whom would have their asylum requests granted by an immigration court if they resided in other parts of the country.” Rep. Alma S. Adams (NC) These members of Congress were provoked to write Secretary Johnson due to their recent meetings with advocates and families who shared horrifying accounts of young students who were aggressively apprehended in their homes or on their way to school. They said many of those detained have been denied legal representation to adequately defend themselves in legal proceedings. They described the alarm and fear these raids have fomented in Latino and immigrant communities across the Southeast. Their stance is that U.S. policies must reflect compassion for our neighbors fleeing violence and disorder in Central America and that those who are detained should be treated with the utmost respect and dignity. This letter is in addition to one sent to the President in January and signed by most House Democrats encouraging the Administration to find a comprehensive, regional solution to the refugee crisis.
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Lewis (GA) spoke on the House Floor this morning to condemn Congressional inaction to mass shootings and gun violence in the United States. He made this statement and led a sit-in against the inaction of Congress on this crisis of violence: “On occasion, Mr. Speaker, I have had what I call an executive session with myself. “For months, even for years, through several sessions of Congress, I wondered what will bring this body to take action. What will finally make Congress do what is right, what is just, what the people of this country have been demanding, and what is long overdue? “We have lost hundreds and thousands of innocent people to gun violence. Tiny, little children. Babies. Students and teachers. Mothers and fathers. Sisters and brothers. Daughters and sons. Friends and neighbors. “And what has this body done, Mr. Speaker? NOTHING. Not one thing. We have turned deaf ears to the blood of the innocent and the concerns of our nation. We are blind to a crisis. Mr. Speaker, where is the heart of this body? Where is our soul? Where is our moral leadership? Where is our courage? “Those who work on bipartisan solutions are pushed aside. Those who pursue common-sense improvements are beaten down. Reason is criticized. Obstruction is praised. “Newtown, Aurora, Charleston, Orlando. What is the tipping point? Are we blind? Can we see? How many more mothers, how many more fathers need to shed tears of grief before we do something? “We were elected to lead, Mr. Speaker. We must be headlights, and not taillights. We cannot continue to stick our heads in the sand and ignore the reality of mass gun violence in our nation. Deadly mass shootings are becoming more and more frequent. Mr. Speaker, this is a fact. It is not an opinion. We must remove the blinders. The time for silence and patience is long gone. “We are calling on the leadership of the House to bring common-sense gun control legislation to the House Floor. Give us a vote! Let us vote! We came here to do our jobs! We came here to work! The American people are demanding action. “Do we have the courage? Do we have raw courage to make at least a down-payment on ending gun violence in America? We can no longer wait. We can no longer be patient. So today, we come to the well of the House to dramatize the need for action. Not next month, not next year, but now -- today! “Sometimes you have to do something out of the ordinary. Sometimes you have to make a way out of no way. We have been too quiet for too long. There comes a time when you have to say something, when you have to make a little noise. When you have to move your feet. And this is the time. Now is the time to get in the way. The time to act is now. We will be silent no more. The time for silence is over. Thank you, Mr. Speaker."
06.17.2016	"June 19th, 2016, marks the anniversary of Juneteenth, also known as “Freedom Day”. On this day, 151 years ago, Union soldiers landed in Galveston, Texas to report the liberating news that the Civil War had ended and all slaves were finally free. They were the last enslaved people to learn about their freedom two years after President Lincoln had issued the Emancipation Proclamation. "This day is celebrated by African American communities around the country because it reminds us all that true liberation does not ensue from an act of Congress and or an order of President. The final frontier to be vanquished lingers in the hearts and minds of the people in this great nation and the world community that surrounds us. "While we have made tremendous strides since 1865, we must never forget the enduring contributions of the slaves and their descendants to this country. They have fought in every war, and given their lives for the liberation of all Americans. Because they had a grand vision that we could be a better nation and a better people, even in the midst of their own suffering, their idealism and activism helped this nation create a more perfect union. "We have come a great distance, but there is still much more work to do in America to finally build a true democracy that respects the worth and dignity of each and every human being. The stories of this enslaved people should empower us all to seek our own liberation from injustice and do what we can to build a Beloved Community in our nation and around the world." ####
06.17.2016	"It was one year ago today that Charleston, SC and this nation lost nine precious souls. Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, Cynthia Hurd, Tywanza Sanders, Myra Thompson, DePayne Middleton-Doctor, Daniel Simmons, Sr., Ethel Lance, Susie Jackson, and Rev. Clementa Pinckney: they were mothers, fathers, sisters, and brothers. They stood for the power of love to overcome the chaos of hate. Their singular faith in this principle, even in the face of death, should be a lesson to us all. Now it is our duty to realize their vision of human unity in this nation and the world around us. "In the face of that tragedy, the Charleston community bonded together to demonstrate that hate can never prevail. The forgiving hearts of the families and loved ones of the victims proved the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr:. Indeed “hate is too heavy a burden to bear.” "As a nation, especially in the wake of the tragedy in Orlando, we must stand up to hatred wherever we find it--in our homes, in our workplace, in our church, or in our hearts. We must continue to speak out. If we see something that is not right we must say something. We must take action. "The people of the 5th Congressional District send their deepest condolences to the families’ of those lost and I continue to pray for their healing and the healing of our great Nation. " ###
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON- Members of the Georgia delegation paused today to pay tribute to Jocelyn Dorsey, the first African American television news anchor in Atlanta, and the first at WSB-TV. Jocelyn has won numerous awards for her work with WSB-TV, including seven Southeast Regional EMMYS for Editorial Excellence from the National Academy of Television Arts & Sciences (NATAS). She was the first African-American inducted into the SE Region NATAS Silver Circle, the first woman and first African-American to receive the Georgia Association of Broadcasters (GAB) Broadcaster’s Citizen of the Year Award, a lifetime-achievement award. Jocelyn was also inducted into the National Association of Black Journalists Hall of Fame, and has been named National Media Woman of the Year by the National Association of Media Women. Other civic honors include an Empowerment Award presented by the League of Women Voters of Georgia, and the YWCA Academy of Women Achievers, and The Winnie Mandela Humanitarian Award of Honor. As the dean of the Georgia delegation, Rep. Lewis topped off the tribute with these words: "Jocelyn Dorsey has won some of the highest honors the field of broadcasting has to offer. And in many categories, she is the first one to do it. She is an Emmy-award winning journalist and the first African American woman to appear on a daily news show in Atlanta. She is the first woman and the first African American to receive the Georgia Association of Broadcasting's, lifetime achievement award, and Broadcaster Citizen of the Year, among many other honors. She has achieved so much. I wouldn't have enough time here today to mention it all. " I've known Jocelyn ever since she first came to Atlanta, decades ago. How do you put into a few short words, the gift that is 40 years of one person's life? It's not easy to sum up all we have seen together, all she has done, and what she means to our community, to our city, our State, and to our nation. But when you boil it all down, Jocelyn Dorsey stands for trust, credibility, generosity, and human kindness. "Jocelyn is a professional who shines in the spotlight, who deserves the fame and acclaim, but the reason she lasted 40 years in a tough business is because she loved the people and the institution she served. We could feel it, and we loved her back. "Jocelyn wants to touch people. She wants to do something that helps create life-changing outcomes for those around her. Her work was not a job, it was a way of life. She has traveled the length and breadth of America on her motorcycle, even as far away as Fairbanks, Alaska, meeting people as she went. "She served on community boards in Atlanta to help the disabled, to mentor young girls, to support minority businesses, children's shelters, voter empowerment, and many other worthy causes. She gave her time and used her power as a broadcaster, not because it was fashionable, but because it was the right thing to do. It was right. "Jocelyn Dorsey has won just about every accolade she could win in her region. I don't know whether I can offer any words that will surpass what she has already heard. But we brought her here to the House of Representatives to celebrate her retirement because she is a committed, dedicated citizen of this country, a woman who took her responsibility as an American seriously, and did all she could to help others in any way she could. "I know, and I truly believe, that WSB is sorry to see her go, but as a community, we are glad to know where she will stay--in our hearts. She will forever be in the hearts of all of our people, and at the center of public service in our community. I want to say, thank you Jocelyn Dorsey for all of your great and good work, and may the blessing of the Almighty be with you. Mr. Speaker, I yield back." ###
06.13.2016	“As the details of this tragic incident become more clear, I am deeply saddened and very disturbed by what has been visited on the Orlando community. As I said earlier today, how many more must die? How long must we wander through this dark killing field filled with the broken bodies of hundreds—even precious little children—before we finally take strong action against the accessibility of assault weapons in this country? We have the right in a democratic society to differ with others, to choose alternate lifestyles and places of worship. And we even have the right to find fault with others and debate these issues passionately in the public square, but there is nothing—not one thing, not anything—that can justify the murder of innocent people. This is a terrible vicious act that must be condemned by the community of nations. I hope it will remind all of us of the critical urgency to build a society and a world community that does not so readily reach for violence as a way to solve human problems. And I hope it will compel us to seriously reflect on the words of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. who said,“We must learn to live together as brothers and sisters, or we will all perish together as fools. The people of the 5th Congressional District of Georgia send their most profound and heartfelt prayers to the people of Orlando. We lift up the victims, their families and the LGBTQ community of Orlando. We pray they will all be rocked and soothed in the protective arms of unconditional divine love in the difficult and dark days of healing that lie ahead.” You can see my message about the tragic events in Orlando on YouTube.
06.09.2016	[WASHINGTON, DC] – Rep. John Lewis (GA-05), along with House Oversight Subcommittee on Transportation Ranking Member Tammy Duckworth (IL-08) and Reps. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Patrick Murphy (FL-18), led 70 House Democrats in a push to permanently reduce excessively-long Transportation Security Administration (TSA) screening lines passengers have been forced to endure at airports around the country. In a letter sent to senior Homeland Security Appropriators yesterday, the Members called for lifting an arbitrary and illogical statutory cap on the number of screeners TSA may employ that can cause needless delays for the flying public. The Members also urged several other substantive reforms and for increased resources to help TSA and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) reduce passenger delays while maintaining a secure and efficient screening process. Rep. Lewis also led Members of Georgia’s Congressional Delegation in a letter to TSA last month asking that at least 100 more Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) be sent to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL). “I am proud to join my colleagues in this important effort,” said Rep. Lewis. “In Georgia, we are very proud to have both the world’s busiest airport in Atlanta and the TSA Academy in Glynn County. The long lines we have seen recently have been frustrating for everyone who flies through Hartsfield-Jackson. I am grateful for the way TSA has worked with the Airport and airlines to find new ways to strike the balance between efficiency and safety. We must do all we can to ensure that TSA has the resources it needs to train and retain officers and to carry out its mission to protect the flying public.” In light of recent high-profile instances of passengers waiting for hours in slow-moving screening lines, often missing flights, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and TSA made several immediate—but temporary—improvements to address delays. In addition to urging the lifting of the needless screener cap, the letter also calls for the House Appropriators to include additional resources and authorities to help DHS and TSA to permanently address screening delays at security checkpoints. The text of the letter follows: Dear Chairman Carter and Ranking Member Roybal-Allard: We write on behalf of American travelers who are frustrated and angry because of excessive delays at security screening checkpoints in airports throughout the country. We are concerned at the recent high-profile instances of multiple hour wait times at major airports. The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) must have the authority and resources to effectively protect the nation’s transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce. While we support DHS’ immediate corrective actions to decrease wait times, these steps are only temporary solutions. In recent years, the size of the TSA workforce has declined by approximately 12 percent, while the number of domestic air travelers has increased by a similar percentage. A range of key stakeholders—including major airports, industry groups and organized labor—have called for increased TSA staffing levels. Accordingly, as the Subcommittee develops the Fiscal Year 2017 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations Act, we strongly urge you to ensure that TSA can effectively and efficiently implement a risk-based aviation security screening process that optimizes deployment of agency resources to match seasonal fluctuations in travel volume. Specifically, we believe the FY 17 DHS appropriations bill should: Eliminate arbitrary restrictions that cap the size of TSA’s Transportation Security Officer (TSO) workforce without regard to the continually evolving and growing range of terrorist threats targeting the traveling public or the level of traveler demand; Ensure TSA possesses necessary flexibility to deploy TSO personnel in an agile and responsive manner that matches a continually changing threat environment and fluctuating traveler volumes based on various factors; Require TSA to analyze and enhance its TSO staffing allocation model to be more flexible and responsive to variations in travel volume; Provide TSA with necessary resources to recruit, retain and continually train a talented TSO workforce that is of sufficient quantity and quality to implement the improved staffing allocation model; and Ensure TSA is provided robust funding to deploy advanced personnel and proven detection technology, particularly K-9 teams, in an agile manner to airports experiencing elevated travel volumes and higher security threat assessments. Recognizing that the DHS appropriations bill must address a range of pressing homeland security priorities, we strongly encourage the Subcommittee provide funding for TSA operations at a level commensurate with the agency’s growing workload in preventing terrorist plots targeting our aviation system. In addition, we strongly believe aviation security must never be compromised by irrational or unjustified congressional caps on the number of transportation security officers the agency may employ to best protect American travelers. Thank you for your attention to these requests. TSA’s counterterror mission is, and must always remain, the agency’s highest priority. Fortunately, the goals of enhanced security and more efficient processing are not mutually exclusive objectives. We look forward to working with you to support the important work that tens of thousands of Transportation Security Officers do every day to keep the American people safe. Sincerely, ####
06.04.2016	"Muhammad Ali was an inspiration to people all around the world. He was a man who gave up his title and risked his place in history to stand up for what he believed. His moral courage and willingness to put himself in harm's way served as a enduring inspiration to young men, especially young activists, in this country and around the world. He spoke out for peace and justice, and he strengthened the resolve of young people to resist militarism and the ill-fated war in Vietnam. "I have not often watched boxing tournaments, but I remember how my father and uncles would root for Ali to win in the ring. His accomplishments gave so many a sense of pride and validated the capacity of African Americans to excel, to lead, and even surpass others in their achievements. "He had great respect for Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the young people of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee. His willingness to defy the draft, to go to jail, and his non-participation in war was very much in keeping with the philosophy and discipline of non-violent resistance. Louisville, the city where he was born, was a hotbed of the movement, and Nashville was only a short distance away. Just as he inspired us, I believe our example may have also provided him with some encouragement to follow the leading of his own heart and act on the dictates of his conscience. "Muhammad Ali has left an indelible mark on American history, not only because he was a phenomenal athlete, but his single-minded commitment to the highest principles of justice proved it is not what a man does, but what he stands for that makes him great. Muhammad Ali will be deeply missed."
05.27.2016	"As this nation pauses to celebrate Memorial Day, we honor the brave and courageous individuals who serve in the United States military. They are the men and women in uniform, who are willing to make the ultimate sacrifice to protect and defend the freedoms this nation holds dear. We salute their families today as well--the mothers, fathers, daughters and brothers, husbands and wives--who often leave the shores of their own land and release their loved ones to face the greatest harm and danger. "We owe them all a tremendous debt of gratitude for all they suffer in our defense. And as we pay them tribute this day, we recognize that they are diverse and many and come from all kinds of varied backgrounds. They are black and white, male and female, Latino, Asian and Native American, immigrants and American-born, but they all have one quality in common: they answered the highest call of patriotic duty. "Let us also remind ourselves today of the core values of this nation, the ideas these men and women place their lives on the line to defend, and let us recommit ourselves to do all we can, in their honor, to live true to the principles of equal justice, individual liberty, and the dignity and the worth of all humankind."
05.20.2016	"Morley Safer was one of the best. He helped set the highest standard of excellence in journalism. He was a reporter by whom others measured themselves. As a nation, we can never forget the ways he helped document and shape American history, through his coverage of the Vietnam War and his work on 60 Minutes. "He had the ability to tell a story in a way that all of us understood. If we listened to his reports, we comprehended the facts and as well as the consequences of what he discussed. He kept us informed about issues we needed to know to participate effectively as citizens, and there were even times when his reports prompted the federal government or local governments to act. "He was a powerful representative of the fourth estate, and he has left shoes that are hard to fill. His impact and his legacy will go down in history. He will be deeply missed."
05.02.2016	Today The Washington Post published a story about the lack of recovery among many African American neighborhoods in the Atlanta metro area since the worst days of the housing crisis in 2004. The paper’s investigation showed a direct correlation between race and the persistence of negative equity and “underwater” home values in African American neighborhoods, despite full recovery in comparable communities. Even Latino homeowners fared better than those living in predominantly black zip codes. In fact, some black communities had actually lost even more value than the drop they experienced during the height of the housing crisis. ‘“This isn’t a story anymore about the crash,” a Post source reports. “This is a story about what happened afterward, or what didn’t happen….If the recovery is happening in a way that really widens the gap in black-white housing wealth this... is going to be a problem for generations.”’ “Once the foreclosure crisis began, “ said Rep. John Lewis, “I knew that I would have to struggle to ensure that communities who needed assistance the most would get the support they deserved. I have sounded the alarm to federal and state agencies and even to the press with very little interest taken in this issue. I am glad the Post reported on it today. I never dreamed I would still be fighting this same battle in 2016.” Beginning in 2012, Rep. Lewis recognized that foreclosure mitigation assistance was not reaching homeowners in his district who needed it the most, and he focused on two initiatives that were missing the mark. First, he led a delegation-wide effort to raise awareness about the problems with the Hardest Hit Funds program. He communicated with the White House, the Treasury Department, and the state government about the fact that millions in federal funding slated for homeowner assistance were stuck in the pipeline in Georgia, not reaching parts of his district that needed help the most. Additionally, Rep. Lewis requested and secured close to $100 million of extra foreclosure mitigation support from the National Recovery Foreclosure Settlement. Despite his protests, those funds were diverted by the governor to support small business in another region in the state. These foreclosure dollars never reached the communities they were meant to serve. “I have been fighting to get someone to shed light on this issue for years," said Rep. Lewis. "I am glad the Post finally did. But federal programs and state disbursement only represent a part of the problem. Appraisers, real estate agents, and mortgage companies also need to be held accountable for undervaluing these properties. A home is the most important investment most families will ever make. "If that major asset is undervalued, it becomes difficult for them to refinance, send their children to college, make home repairs, and sell their homes for what they are truly worth. This also affects the tax base of a community, which impacts funding for schools, roads and other tax related resources. This is how communities fall into disrepair based on under valuation that suppresses the tax dollars available, and it leads to neglect. “This month I was previously scheduled to meet with Treasury's Inspector General on this issue. But I am going to be communicating with the committees of Congress that have jurisdiction over this matter to see whether a hearing can be called on this topic before the end of this session. Some have called on communities of color to 'be more responsible' and have characterized them as 'takers'. But these families are being responsible. They have bought into the American dream. "Some of the negatively assessed homes are those of middle and working class professionals who are not asking for anything but fairness and equal treatment. Isn't it enough that half of all African American wealth was lost in this crisis and few were held accountable? It seems to me the dynamic is not between the 'givers' and the 'takers;' it’s between the 'takers' and the 'taken from'." Attached: 2012 Delegation letter to Governor Deal 2016 Letter to the White House
04.27.2016	On Tuesday, a bipartisan, bicameral coalition introduced the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act of 2016. The House bill (H.R.5067) is led by Rep. John Lewis (D-GA), Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), and Rep. John Conyers (D-MI). The Senate companion (S.2854) was introduced by Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC), Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Sen. Claire McCaskill, (D-MO), and Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO). BACKGROUND Before the passage of major civil rights legislation in the 1960s, hundreds of racially suspicious crimes were committed in this country, and few attempts to prosecute them were ever pursued. Tuskegee Institute once kept a record of verified lynchings in the United States from 1877 to 1950. The institute documented that nearly 4000 mainly unprosecuted civil rights crimes occurred during that period. Many American families continue to pass down stories of loss and disappearance even today without knowing the truth about what actually happened to their loved ones. PRIMARY GOALS OF THE BILL The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act represents a critical opportunity to right these wrongs committed, primarily against African Americans, but also against people of diverse backgrounds. In some cases, individuals still remain who were witnesses to these crimes or who can help provide evidence regarding these incidents. This bill reauthorizes and updates the original legislation that was signed into law in 2008. It seeks to respond to the concerns of victims' family members and strengthen collaboration between the Justice Department, the FBI, State and local law enforcement, and advocates to pursue these cold cases. There is a collective goal to seek the truth about this long-standing tragedies and hold the perpetrators and orchestrators of these atrocities accountable. This reauthorization also seeks to respond to the concerns of advocates regarding the implementation of the original legislation. STATEMENTS OF SUPPORT "It was Dr. King who said the time is always right to do what is right. We can never heal from the injuries of the past by sweeping hundreds of crimes under the rug. We have an obligation, a mission, and a mandate to continue the effort required to wash away these stains on our democracy. I am glad to say this bill incorporates the advice and counsel of numerous individuals and groups who are also dedicated to the pursuit of justice in these matters. Their tireless efforts have helped us improve this legislation so that more work can be done to end the pain, doubt and the inconsistent application of justice that has languished unattended for decades. I thank my colleagues for their support as original sponsors and call on all members who are interested in the fairness and true equality to join us in the passage of this legislation." Rep. John Lewis “There are many evils of our past that we cannot right, but we can make sure that the truth about these injustices does come to light. I am honored to join Congressman Lewis to introduce this legislation to make it possible for the FBI and the Justice Department to continue their important work to investigate these cold cases and bring the perpetrators of racially-motivated crimes to justice. Uncovering and confronting the truth about these crimes is essential to ensuring that no one is above the law and that all Americans are worthy of the protection of our laws.” Sen. Richard Burr “Too many families suffer from the unsolved murders of their loved ones during the civil rights era without receiving justice. The way to best serve these families is to provide our Federal government with the tools it needs to investigate these unsolved crimes, and to hopefully, bring some sense of closure for these families. I thank Congressman Lewis for his tireless work on behalf of the families of these victims of unsolved murders from the civil rights era and I am proud to stand with him on this effort.” Sen. Patrick Leahy “Now’s not the time to let up on our efforts to investigate and prosecute these heinous, racially-motivated murders—the loved ones and communities affected by this violence deserve justice, no matter how long it’s been denied to them,” said McCaskill, a former Jackson County Prosecutor. “Too many civil rights-era cases remain unsolved, so we should keep these vital tools available so federal investigators can keep working toward long overdue justice.” Sen. Claire McCaskill “The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act sets out to investigate racially-motivated murders. Sadly, there is still more work to be done and it’s important that we reauthorize this bill so that the FBI and DOJ can continue investigating unsolved crimes.” Sen. Roy Blunt “I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of the Emmett Till Reauthorization Act. Passage of this bipartisan legislation will provide for a sustained, well-coordinated effort to investigate and prosecute unsolved civil rights-era crimes. There are hundreds of cold cases from the civil rights era that have never been solved and it is my hope that we are able to bring justice to the victims’ families.” Rep. Sensenbrenner "As we work to address current questions about racial violence and civil rights, we should be mindful of our history and why so many in the African-American community raise the issue of black live matter. Passage of the Emmett Till Act represented a commitment to resolving the unanswered questions from one of the darkest periods in modern American history. Reauthorization represents a further investment in our history and will allow the Department of Justice to resolve remaining issues and set to rest the ghost of the civil rights era." Rep. John Conyers MAJOR PROVISIONS OF THE LEGISLATION This bill requires the Department of Justice and FBI to consult with civil rights organizations, universities, and other entities that have also been gathering evidence in these cold cases and allows such organizations to apply for grants to support their investigations; Provides clearer direction and improved coordination between federal, state, and local law enforcement and the activists, advocates, and academics working on these issues; Establishes a public-private joint taskforce to coordinate the investigations; Strengthens the Department of Justice’s reporting requirements; Eliminates the pre-1969 time limitation on investigations; Eliminates the sunset provision in the original bill; Requires the Department of Justice to review specific closed cases that warrant further investigation; Maintains the previous funding levels; Establishes the process to reopen, review, and update the public on the cases previously closed and explain the outcome of cases referred to the Department of the Justice; and Clarifies the law’s intent.
04.27.2016	Judge Horace Ward lived a rich and impactful life. Before Rosa Parks sparked the Montgomery Bus Boycott and while Martin Luther King Jr. was still studying in Boston, Horace Ward sued for admittance to University of Georgia's law school in September 1952. He was a contemporary of Martin Luther King Jr, graduating from Morehouse just one year after King. He earned a degree in political science from Atlanta University and became head of a branch of the NAACP. His legal action against the University of Georgia was subjected to six years of delays. Ultimately, he graduated from Northwestern University's school of law and returned to Georgia to assist Donald Hollowell and Constance Baker Motley in their defense of Charlayne Hunter and Hamilton Holmes who finally integrated the University of Georgia after 175 years of segregation. Ward went on to become a member of the Georgia State Senate, a judge in Fulton County Civil Court and the Georgia Superior Court. In 1979, President Jimmy Carter appointed him to the U.S. District Court, and he became the first African American to sit on the federal bench in Georgia. Rep. Lewis made these comments on his passing: "Judge Ward was a quiet, unassuming man who was a fiercely committed and dedicated member of the bar. He was respected by his colleagues and an inspiration to many young lawyers who followed in his footsteps. Through his skillful application of the law and his evenhanded adjudication on the bench, he made a lasting contribution to the struggle for human dignity in America. We are lucky and very blessed that this intelligent, accomplished man dedicated his life and career to serve the people of Georgia. We are a better nation and a better people because Judge Horace Ward passed our way." ###
04.22.2016	"On this Earth Day, we must face the most pressing environmental issue of our time--climate change. All across the world, there is a movement to help combat its effects. In big cities and small villages, people are taking action to make a positive impact within their community. We must be the change we wish to see in the world--whether it is biking regularly, using public transportation to commute, joining a community garden, or even using reusable water bottles to reduce plastic waste, we all have the power to make a difference, if we work together. "It is my belief that every living being has the right to clean air, water and soil, as well as a right to live in a healthy and nurturing natural environment. It is a fundamental right that is inextricably linked to equality and freedom, the values this nation was founded upon. Throughout my career in Congress, I have supported the strongest environmental measures. I support strengthening the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and giving the Environmental Protection Agency the resources it has long been denied. "We must teach our children through our own actions that each of us has a responsibility to leave this Earth a little cleaner and greener than we found it. The climate change emergency has made it plain that we are all connected. A plastic bottle thrown in a river in the United States can show up on the shores of an island in the South Pacific. Or pesticides and chemicals dumped in rivers here can affect the longevity of wildlife who migrate to the Antartica. The Earth is teaching us that we are one people, one human family. We all share this little piece of real estate we call Earth. It is not ours to hoard and waste. We must all do what we can to preserve our planet for future generations."
04.21.2016	"I was amazed to hear that President Barack Obama's Department of the Treasury, led by Secretary Jacob Lew, announced landmark changes to the $20, $10, and $5 bills today. This is good news. It is so meaningful that this nation has finally come to a point where we can demonstrate our reverence for the contributions of the abolitionist Harriet Tubman, women suffragettes like Sojourner Truth and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and the civil rights activism that has taken shape on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. We are a better nation because these individuals lived. "To think that the image of Marian Anderson, Eleanor Roosevelt or Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. may actually be portrayed on our currency is inspiring. They helped infuse a greater respect for human dignity into the very veins of our democracy. Their work helped move us closer to the ideals of equal justice that motivated our founding. "But these images will not only acknowledge our remarkable past, they also help shape the future of this nation. There are millions of Americans who have never seen people like themselves portrayed in any official setting. When young people, and those who are not so young, see faces like their own on these bills, it will help confirm their worth and the value to this nation. It will communicate that they too can make a contribution that will go down in American history. The President and Secretary Lew are to be applauded. This is another groundbreaking achievement of the Obama Administration."
04.15.2016	In anticipation of Tax Day, falling this year on Monday, April 18th, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) introduced three common-sense tax policy improvements. These include H.R. 4912, the Taxpayer Protection Act of 2016; H.R. 4948, the Artist-Museum Partnership Act of 2016; and H.R. 4949, the Segal AmeriCorps Education Award Tax Relief Act of 2016. Improved Taxpayer Services and Protections As the Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee, Rep. Lewis introduced H.R. 4912, the Taxpayer Protection Act of 2016. This legislation responds to recent key National Taxpayer Advocate recommendations on how to improve taxpayer services. The Taxpayer Protection Act of 2016, sometimes referred to as a Taxpayer Bill of Rights, prescribes common-sense improvements to IRS services and includes certain good-governance provisions supported by other Ways and Means Committee Democratic Members. A full section-by-section description of the bill is attached, but some of the bill's key provisions include: Improvements to identity theft protections and services; Allowing the IRS to refer taxpayers to low-income taxpayer clinics; Enhanced EITC outreach; and A repeal of the tested-and-failed private tax-debt collection program that was resurrected in December 2015. This legislation builds upon Rep. Lewis's previous bill, H.R. 4994, the Taxpayer Assistance Act, which was adopted by the House by a vote of 399-9 in 2010 but did not advance in the Senate. Reasonable Tax Legislation Rep. Lewis was joined by Rep. Vern Buchanan (R-FL) in introducing H.R. 4948, the Artist-Museum Partnership Act of 2016. The Artist-Museum Partnership Act would correct an imbalance in the tax code and allow the artists to take a tax deduction for the fair market value of the works that they donate. (more) H.R. 4948 encourages American artists – including writers, composers, and the like – to donate their work to public institutions (such as schools, museums, and libraries), thus ensuring the preservation of American art for future generations. Without this provision many iconic American images fall into private hands, rarely seen by the public, or are sold to international museums. This bill allows America to benefit more and readily retain the work of their celebrated artists. Unlike most other scholarships and fellowships, Segal AmeriCorps Education Awards are subject to federal taxation. This legislation would simply correct this inequity and reward these hardworking students, who voluntarily serve American communities, by allowing them to preserve their scholarship money and dedicate it to education, not taxes. Help with Tax Preparation Finally, as Americans prepare to file their taxes by April 18, Rep. Lewis offers, through this link, information that can help them head off recent scams. There are also many free tax preparation services and refundable credits for which they may qualify. Below is a list of links which highlight tax credits citizens should use fully to their advantage. The Voluntary Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) The Low Income Taxpayer Clinic (LITC) The IRS Online Free File Program for Taxpayers The Earned Income Tax Credit The Child Tax Credit
04.12.2016	"Equal Pay Day is a solemn reminder of the deep pay gaps that still exist between men and women in this nation. Women will have to work an additional 103 days a year before their earnings match the annual salary of a man in the same job. In 2016, most woman earn an average of 79 cents for every dollar a man makes in this country. That discrepancy costs them an average of $430,480 by the time they turn 65. For women of color, the damage is even deeper: African American women earn 60 cents and Latinas earn 55 cents for every dollar earned by white men. "This inequality disparages the significant contributions of women in the workforce. It suggests that no matter their education, their years of experience, or their competitiveness in the workforce, their work is less valuable than a man’s. Equal pay for equal work should be the norm in a democratic society. We must not rest until gender-based discrimination is a memory of what used to be, not a reminder of what is. On this day, let us reaffirm our commitment to equal pay for equal work for women and for every American."
03.04.2016	Today Rep. John Lewis headlined a news conference with House and Senate leaders to encourage President Obama to announce his selection to fill the Supreme Court vacancy left by Justice Antonin Scalia and to demand that the Senate hold the required confirmation hearings. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) has said he will not hold confirmation hearings while President Obama is in office. If McConnell is successful in stalling confirmation hearings, it would be the longest lasting vacancy on the court in 150 years, since the Civil War. Rep. Lewis joined Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), Senators Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus G.K. Butterfield, and Rep. Shelia Jackson-Lee to give comments during the news conference. The event was inspired by the letter and press releases drafted by Rep. Butterfield on behalf of the CBC decrying McConnell's tactics. Rep. Lewis made these comments at the news conference. (Text as written) Today Kentucky civil rights leaders also sent a letter to McConnell urging him to hold confirmation hearings. Thank you, Senator Reid. I want to thank you, Sen. Schumer, my colleagues in the Senate, Rep. Butterfield and my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus for gathering us here today. In truth, this news conference should not be necessary. The Constitution clearly states that the President has, not only the power, but a duty and responsibility to fill seats on our federal courts. It's a long hard road to the Supreme Court. People place their lives in the balance. They place their faith and their future in the hands of this government, hoping we will hear their cries and answer their call for justice. It was a decision of the Supreme Court that ended the Montgomery Bus Boycott in 1956. E.D. Nixon and Dr. King's homes were both bombed. Dr. King's wife, Coretta, and their little baby were in the home at the time. 80 boycott leaders were arrested and charged with conspiracy. Dr. King was fined and ordered to remain in jail for 385 days. In a city where law had been used to justify injustice, I'm not sure how many people believed the court would ever find in their favor. But when the decision came down, the people were stunned. One elderly woman was heard to say, "God Almighty spoke from Washington today." ...Those are the people Senate leaders deny today. The ones who believe in our government. They have come so far, all the way to Washington. They deserve to argue their cases before a government that is whole. We are on the verge of crisis in this nation because leaders have not listened to the voices of the people. Instead they let ambition and partisan politics take the reins of our democracy. We must do what is right. We must act on the mandate of our Constitution. We must do our job as legislators. The President must nominate a Supreme Court candidate, and the Senate must proceed with the confirmation process with an up or down vote. That is our duty, and it must be done. Thank you. Press these links for photos and video of the news conference. Letter to McConnell from KY Civil Rights Leaders and ReleaseLetter to McConnell from CBC ChairCBC Chairman Release Re McConnell
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON--Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) has sponsored a bill (H.R. 2880) that will change the designation of the Martin Luther King Jr. Historic Site to a national historical park, the highest level of historic protection and preservation offered by the federal government. The Prince Hall Mason Lodge, of which Martin Luther King Jr. was a member, will now be included under this protection as well as King's birth home, Historic Ebenezer Baptist Church, one of the only two churches where King served as pastor, the Martin Luther King Jr. Center, Dr. King's tomb, the National Park Service Visitors Center, and the Martin Luther King Jr. High School. This highest designation will create the only national historic park in the state of Georgia and will provide federal resources for community grants, educational programming, signage and historical markers as well as park rangers who will man the sit and explain its significance. "This is a proud moment for the state of Georgia," said Rep. John Lewis, "and for the 5th Congressional District. This was a bi-partisan, revenue-neutral bill with 77 co-sponsors. We expect it to pass today and that it will move swiftly through the Senate. What Dr. King and others accomplished in Atlanta, the heartbeat of the Civil Rights Movement of the 20th century and the headquarters for non-violent action in America, changed this nation forever. I am glad that federal resources will now be used to preserve his home, his church, his masonic lodge and other places important to his leadership for generations yet unborn." The suspension bill is on the House floor today and is expected to pass. It is also expected to move quickly toward passage in the Senate. Once it is signed by President Obama, it will become law. ###
02.07.2016	Washington--On National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, February 7th, Rep. John Lewis urges all African Americans to know their status. Of the 1.2 million people in the United States living with HIV—including 500,000 African Americans—nearly 1 in 8 are unaware of their infection. Half of the patients diagnosed with HIV in Grady Memorial Hospital’s emergency room testing program are found to be late or end stage HIV or AIDS cases. The 2016 theme, I AM MY BROTHERS’ AND SISTERS’ KEEPER, is a call to each of us to act on our responsibility to support and serve one another in the effort to stop the spread of HIV and AIDS. “Your life is precious," said Rep. Lewis. "Testing is easy and simple. Do it now. AIDS no longer needs to be a death sentence. Today it is treated more like a chronic disease. Getting tested early can free you to still have a productive and meaningful life. Get educated, get tested, get treated. Do it now. Do it today.” HIV and AIDS disproportionately affects African Americans at every stage of the illness from infection to death. Stigma, guilt, homophobia, public policy, and discrimination affect whether people are able to receive high-quality health services, including HIV testing, treatment, and other prevention services. African American women are infected at 20 times the rate of white women, while African American men are infected at seven times the rate of white men. "Knowing your status, advocacy, funding and treatment are the first steps toward the eradication of this deadly disease. Do your part. Do it today." ###
01.13.2016	"Tonight President Obama appealed to the very best in the American people. He suggested we all have a responsibility, as members of Congress and as participants in our democracy, to come together to serve the greatest and highest good. He encouraged us to us to lay aside whatever divides us and find ways to move forward on common ground , knowing that doing so benefits all of us, including those who depend on our leadership around the world. "He spoke with great faith about the dignity of the countless and nameless Americans who are the lifeblood of our democracy. It is those ordinary men, women and children who are the true keepers of the American flame. He reminded us that our vision of a fair and just society can only be realized when we participate as citizens. He charged us to vote, to speak out and speak up as we face the challenges that lay ahead. "He appealed to us to open up the political process and let everyone come in. We cannot fear a change that is inevitable. We must embrace the calling of the 21st century. He encouraged us to take the money out of politics so that the people select us through their votes as their representatives, not party politics, gerrymandering or, big money interests. As a nation and as a people, we must find a better way. "Most importantly, I think President Obama made it crystal clear that the union is strong. Some politicians who are running for president make it appear that the country is weak, in service to their own ambitions. They want us to believe that the American dream is no more. But President Obama said tonight, that even though our nation is challenged by change, it is still strong. It is still vibrant, and it is still the most powerful nation on earth. And I believe the history books will show, that President Barack Obama left this nation much better shape than he found it." ###
01.07.2016	All ships within the John Lewis class named for civil rights heroes Today Secretary of the Navy (SECNAV) Ray Mabus announced Jan. 6 that the first ship of the next generation of fleet replenishment oilers (T-AO 205) will be named USNS John Lewis after the civil rights movement hero and current U.S. representative of Georgia's Fifth Congressional District. Mabus also announced that, not only would one ship be named Rep. John Lewis, but the entire class of ships would be named the John Lewis class, and each of the ships within that class would be named in honor of one of the nation's civil rights heroes. The announcement was made at a ship-naming ceremony held at the Cannon House Office Building in Washington, D.C. "As the first of its class, the future USNS John Lewis will play a vital role in the mission of our Navy and Marine Corps while also forging a new path in fleet replenishment," said Mabus. "Naming this ship after John Lewis is a fitting tribute to a man who has, from his youth, been at the forefront of progressive social and human rights movements in the U.S., directly shaping both the past and future of our nation. T-AO 205 will, for decades to come, serve as a visible symbol of the freedoms Representative Lewis holds dear, and his example will live on in the steel of that ship and in all those who will serve aboard her." "I am deeply moved that Secretary Mabus would grant me this great honor," said Rep. Lewis. "I remember his leadership as the former governor of Mississippi. He was more than progressive. He was just a good and decent man. We need more leaders like him in federal service. When the Secretary came by my office and shared the idea with me that he would like to name a ship for me, we both teared up a bit, and I almost lost it. This is such a magnificent vessel. It is a great honor. It is my hope that the USNS John Lewis and the entire class of ships commemorating civil rights heroes will inspire future generations to do all they can to serve humanity and this country." The future USNS John Lewis will be operated by Military Sealift Command and provide underway replenishment of fuel and stores to U.S. Navy ships at sea and jet fuel for aircraft assigned to aircraft carriers. A contract will be awarded for the ship in summer 2016 and construction is expected to begin in 2018. It is likely that a room on the ship will also be dedicated to commemorating the legacy of Rep. Lewis featuring artifacts and memorabilia which tell the story of his life. It will be manned by some people who have not yet been born and will serve as a lasting tribute to his contribution to the nation.
01.06.2016	Rep. Jim McDermott (D-Wa) is my seat mate on the Ways and Means Committee. I have sat next to him for many years. We have worked closely together, traveled to other states and foreign lands in congressional delegations together, and I will miss his presence here on Capitol Hill. Dr. Jim McDermott is one of the most capable members of Congress. There is no one, but no one in our ranks today who understands the issue of health care better than Rep. McDermott. I regret that he is planning to retire. It is a great loss for the state of Washington, but an even greater loss for the people of this nation. I wish him well. ###
01.05.2016	Gun violence destroys the lives, the hopes, the dreams and aspirations of so many people. In the last decade we have buried more than 20,000 children under the age of 18 killed in gun-related incidents. I, and many other Americans, share the President’s pain that we could not find the courage to take action after the tragedy in Newtown and are still struggling to respond to the daily violence on city streets in America. This morning President Obama took critical and important steps to try to stem the crisis of gun violence in America. Although the U.S. is the undisputed leader of the free world, this nation ranks 94th out of 162 countries on the Global Peace Index. More than 30,000 people are killed in this country every year due to gun violence; and more than 20,000 suicides are committed involving guns. We must face the hard facts: gun violence occurs at epidemic proportions in this country. The initiatives that President Obama announced are proactive and inclusive. Strengthening background check requirements and gun safety measures, adding more federal agents to the field, seeking to prevent suicide fatalities, and engaging manufacturers and retail agents are common-sense, concrete steps to reduce gun violence in our country. In response to persistent mass shootings, the President has repeatedly asked Congress to use its significant power to protect Americans. Instead, the Republican Majority has actually made it easier to purchase deadly assault weapons and lifted common sense restrictions. After countless, possibly preventable acts of violence, Congress has failed to answer the American public’s call. We must see the President's initiatives as an invitation to do what only we as legislators can do. We must fulfill our responsibility and duty to protect Americans. We can find a way to strike a balance between freedom and safe use of firearms. Leaders must lead. ####
12.10.2015	"I was shocked and amazed by Justice Antonin Scalia's comments in the Fisher v. University of Texas case yesterday. His suggestion that African Americans would fare better at schools that are "less advanced" or on a "slow-track" reminds me of the kind of prejudice that led to separate and unequal school systems--a policy the Supreme Court declared unconstitutional decades ago. "Justice Scalia is supposed to be very well read, but he seems to have neglected study in African American history. Is he aware that the current head of the Hayden Planetarium in New York City, the noted astrophysicist Neil de Grasse Tyson, graduated from the University of Texas in 1983, before affirmative action was struck down? Does he know the story of Henry Sampson, the nuclear engineer, whose invention of the gamma-electric cell made the cell phone possible? He graduated from the University of Illinois in 1965 when affirmative action was likely in place. Dr. Charles Drew, the founder of the modern-day blood bank, attended Amherst on a football scholarship in the 1930s, and his medical innovations helped saved the lives of front line soldiers in World War II and are still saving lives today. "These are only three of a host of examples which prove African Americans can not only compete in the best schools in the nation, even in applied sciences, but they can excel and even surpass some of their classmates and colleagues, if given a fair opportunity. Justice Scalia's evident bias is very troubling to me. It leads me to question his ability to make impartial judgments in this case." ####
12.07.2015	It is indeed a blessing during this holiday season to learn that President Jimmy Carter is free of brain cancer. The wonders of modern medicine, the miraculous power of prayer and the hand of God Almighty has blessed President Carter, his family, and our nation to bring him through this tremendous trial. I wish him and his family all the best as they celebrate this good news during this season. ####
12.06.2015	I was glad that President Obama addressed the nation tonight to describe his strategy to keep Americans safe. He was clear and resolved in his determination to defeat this threat to American security. The strategy he presented demonstrated intelligence and precision in its capability to answer this challenge to our nation’s safety. Yet the President cannot wage this struggle alone. Congress must do its part to ensure that semi-automatic and assault weapons do not fall in the hands of people on the no-fly list or others identified as a potential threat to the security of the United States. We must close those gapping loopholes in federal law which allow access to these weapons. President Obama appealed to the very best in America tonight. He encouraged us to hold to our fundamental respect for human dignity as a nation and to maintain the values of our democracy as we face and overcome the challenges that confront us. ####
12.01.2015	Rep. John Lewis made this statement to honor the 60th Anniversary of Rosa Parks' historic protest against segregation on buses in Montgomery, Alabama on December 1, 1955. Mrs. Parks' unwillingness to give up her seat and move to the back of the bus sparked one of the longest protests in American history. African American bus riders launched a 381 day embargo known as the Montgomery Bus Boycott, which ended decades of segregation in public transportation in the city. Rep. Lewis made this statement as he reflected upon the anniversary: "By sitting down, Rosa Parks inspired hundreds and thousands of us to stand up, to speak up, speak out. By just refusing to give up her seat to a white patron, she stirred an entire generation of people, both young and old, to put their bodies on the line for justice by sitting in at lunch counters and in movie theaters. "I will never forget the Montgomery Bus Boycott. I remember it so well. I was only 15 years old. I grew up only 50 miles away from Montgomery. One simple act on the part of a great woman gave an entire generation a way out. She taught us how to strike a blow against legalized segregation and racial discrimination. Rosa Parks freed not just herself, not just a city, but a people and an entire nation from the burden and legacy of hate." " As we face the injustices of this time, it is important that we remember the action of Rosa Parks. Her life and her contribution to the struggle for human dignity demonstrates that one individual can indeed change a powerful nation and that a determined people united for good can never be defeated."
12.01.2015	Today, Rep. Lewis will visit the Infectious Disease Program of the Grady Health System to highlight the need for HIV/AIDS testing and treatment. Georgia ranks second in the country for the diagnosis of new HIV infections, and Atlanta ranks fifth among similar metropolitan areas in the country for new diagnoses. Half of the patients diagnosed with HIV in Grady Memorial Hospital's emergency room testing program are found to be late or end stage HIV or AIDS cases. Today HIV and AIDS is disproportionately affecting young black gay and bisexual men, mainly because of the lack of testing and treatment within the community. That is why Rep. Lewis is visiting Grady's infectious disease program today to highlight the need for education and testing among Atlanta metro area residents. Rep. Lewis said, "The theme of this year’s World AIDS Day is 'The Time to Act is Now'. We in Atlanta must say, OUR TIME IS NOW. If you haven’t been tested, get tested. I’ve been tested. The medicine we have today is saving lives and even stopping the spread of the disease. This disease no longer needs to be a death sentence. Many people are living with HIV and AIDS today. I know that seeing a doctor can sometimes be embarrassing or difficult, but your life is precious. Testing is easy and simple. Do it now. If your results show you are free of the disease, make sure you get information about how you can stay safe." In May of this year, Rep. Lewis signed a bi-partisan letter sent to the White House by 32 members of the U.S. House of Representatives from primarily Southern states, requesting an increase in CDC and government funding dedicated to the prevention of HIV/AIDS in the South. ###
09.25.2015	"The Holy Father, Pope Francis of the Holy See, delivered a powerful message to Congress and the American people today. In his humble, gentle way he used his authority to encourage us all to simply do what is right to protect the dignity of all humankind. "He said, 'All political activity must serve and promote the good of the human person and be based on respect for his or her dignity....Politics is...an expression of our compelling need to live as one, in order to build as one the greatest common good...' "These words and ideas speak to the center of our work as members of Congress and to the importance and vitality of our roles as individual citizens. Pope Francis delivered one of the most moving speeches I have ever heard in all my years in Congress. I loved the way he used the life and work of President Abraham Lincoln, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Dorothy Day and Thomas Merton as the basis of his lesson for all of us. "Though I was reluctant to openly shed tears, I cried within to hear his words. I was deeply moved to realize I had a connection in some way with some of those he mentioned. When TIME magazine, years ago, did a story on "living saints," they actually included Dorothy Day and I in the story. Also Thomas Merton was a monk whose words I studied during non-violence training in the Civil Rights Movement. It was amazing that the Pope mentioned the Selma-to-Montgomery march because during the first attempt to march to Montgomery, now known as Bloody Sunday, I carried one of Thomas Merton's books in my backpack. "Pope Francis spoke to the heart and soul of Congress and America. It is my hope and prayer that members of Congress will heed his simple call to respect the dignity and divinity of every human being then we would be better servants of the American people, this would be a better country, and a better world."
08.26.2015	I was sad to learn that Mrs. Amelia Boynton succumbed to her illness early this morning in Montgomery, Alabama. This nation has lost a crusader, a warrior, and a fighter for justice. She was one of the most dependable, reliable leaders to stand up for the right to vote in Selma, Alabama and in the American South. Mrs. Boynton was involved in the struggle for voting rights long before I was even born. She was a co-founder of the Dallas County Voters League in 1933 and held voter registration drives throughout the darkest, most dangerous decades of segregation in Alabama, from the 1930s through the 1950s. In 1964, she became the first African American woman to run as a Democratic candidate for Congress in Alabama.Amelia Boynton was fearless in the face of brutal injustice, willing to risk all she had on the frontlines of change in America. She was arrested, shoved and pushed in front of the Dallas County courthouse by sheriff Jim Clark. She was knocked down on Bloody Sunday on March 7, 1965, on the Edmund Pettus Bridge as 600 of us attempted to march to Montgomery to dramatize the dire need for voting rights legislation in this country. It was a great pleasure to get to know her and to work with her in our grassroots effort to transform America. Amelia Boynton never got weary. She never gave up. She never gave in. She kept the faith. She kept on defending the need to respect human dignity in America. Her work and her accomplishments were a source of inspiration for so many people in the South and around our country. I am so glad she lived to see Dr. King lead a march from Selma to Montgomery, that she lived to see the Voting Rights Act signed into law, that she lived to see the amazing transformation our work gave rise to in America. I am so glad she lived to see President Obama nominated and elected and that she was on the bridge with two Presidents and two First Ladies this year to mark the 50th anniversary of the march. At over 104 years old, Mrs. Amelia Boynton lived a well spent life helping to make Alabama and our nation a better place. I mourn with her son Bruce Boynton, all of her family members, and all of her friends. She will be deeply missed, but her legacy and her contribution will be remembered always.
08.26.2015	I am shocked to hear that a dedicated reporter and cameraman, Alison Parker and Adam Ward, could be shot in broad daylight while they were simply trying to report a human interest story in Moneta, Virginia. My thoughts are with their colleagues and their loved ones on this day. This is a very, very sad, all too frequent tragedy. There are just too many guns available in this country that get into the hands of sick people, angry people, and irresponsible people. How many more deaths will it take for us to finally take some reasonable action against this kind of wanton violence? We send troops to fight enemies on foreign soil, but somehow we cannot find the courage or the will to answer unchecked violence here at home. This is the most violent Western nation in the world. How many more innocent people will be murdered before we are finally provoked to do all we can about the proliferation of guns in our society? My heart goes out to the victims and their families and to the family of journalists worldwide who risk their lives and are killed gathering the news. Since 1992, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists, 1142 journalists have been killed while reporting stories in this country and in other nations. I hope that one day we will bring an end to this kind of violence in our nation and in conflict zones worldwide.
08.19.2015	"I am very sorry to learn that the first African American member of Congress ever elected from Ohio, Rep. Louis Stokes, has died. He was a gifted public servant who brought dignity to the office, not only on behalf of the people of Cleveland and Ohio, but he contributed to the public good of the entire nation. "The fact that he was chosen to chair the investigations of some of this nation's most tragic events--the assassinations of President John Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., as well as the Iran-Contra affair--demonstrates the respect his colleagues in Congress had for his work and his integrity. He was a vocal advocate for the most vulnerable among us, and he was passionate about the issues of health care." "I will always remember the time we spent together when he came to Atlanta with his son who had just been accepted to Morehouse College. My wife and I enjoyed the company of him and his family as friends and colleagues. My prayers go out to his wife and to all his children and grandchildren. It was an honor to serve with him. He will be deeply missed."
08.17.2015	Julian Bond was one of a kind. We worked together in the Civil Rights Movement and he became one of my closest and dearest friends. He was so smart, so gifted, and so talented. He was deeply committed to making our country a better country. He never, ever became bitter or hostile. We were friends, but we were more like brothers in the struggle. We went through a difficult period during our campaign for Congress in 1986, but many years ago we emerged even closer. His leadership and his spirit will be deeply missed.
07.17.2015	Across the country, there is a deliberate, systematic attempt to make it harder and more difficult for the disabled, students, seniors, minorities, poor and rural voters to participate in the democratic process. We must not let that happen. That is why we need to repair and restore the Voting Rights Act now more than ever before. The burden should not be placed on citizens whose rights are violated to mount their own defense. As leaders of this Congress, we have the power to change that. We can make access to the ballot box more simple and more fair. The right to vote is the most powerful, nonviolent tool we have in a democratic society. My own mother, father, grandparents and great-grandparents could not register to vote. My father died before he was ever able to cast a vote in this country. We must not slip back to that dark past. We have to throw off the burden of fear, and continue to move forward. As leaders of this country, we have a moral obligation to repair the Voting Rights Act. It is our duty in a democratic society to open up the political process and let every citizen have a say in their own future. That is something every American and all of us here in the Congress can agree upon. We must do this now, and we must do it on our watch. It is what the people of this country deserve. Thank you. ####
07.14.2015	Today President Obama announced an historic agreement with Iran negotiated by Secretary Kerry, Secretary Moniz, and the other P5+1 nations. Over the next few months, I look forward to reviewing the details of the proposed agreement with my congressional colleagues. The United States is under no illusion about the threat that a nuclear Iran poses to the global community. Continuing to operate in the dark, however, is unsustainable. An agreement that makes the process of demilitarization and nuclear disarmament more transparent, in the long-term, can lead to greater national security for all members of the world community. US negotiators intended to expand the tools, options, and leverage for engaging with Iran. Close monitoring and the ability to re-implement sanctions swiftly are critical components of the proposed agreement. I look forward to learning more about how the terms of the deal will be maintained throughout the entire negotiated period. I applaud President Obama’s leadership and commitment to peace and diplomacy. I hope that future presidents and other leaders will be able to build upon this effort to bring greater stability to the Middle East, which is in the best interest of the United States, Israel, and the entire world community. ###
06.26.2015	"This is a great day in America. The Supreme Court made the right decision today, a decision that is long-overdue. I have said this for a long time, and I am so glad to see that our nation has finally come to this understanding: If two men or two women want to fall in love and get married, it is their business. No government has the right to authorize whom a person should love. And it is better to love than to hate. "As a nation, we cannot say we are committed to equality, if we do not mandate equality for every citizen. You cannot have equality for some in America and not equality for all. This is another major step down a very long road toward the realization of a fair and just society. We should embrace the decision of the United States Supreme Court. It is now the law of the land." ####
06.25.2015	"The Supreme Court made a historic decision today on behalf of all the people of this nation. This is the second time the Affordable Care Act (ACA) has been upheld by the court, and now we should accept it as the law of the land. "Even though over 16 million people who did not have health care coverage are covered today by the ACA, and 100 million people with existing health conditions are no longer denied coverage, the Republican-led U.S. House of Representatives has voted 54 times to repeal the health care law. "I have sat through too many hearings with the pointed goal of questioning the legality and effectiveness of the act. The decision the Supreme Court made today should end all debate about the constitutionality of the bill Congress enacted and President Obama signed into law five years ago. "It is the duty of government to protect the rights of the citizens of this nation and to make this country better for the least among us and for generations yet unborn. We have a duty to take action on behalf of people who have advocates for themselves. In this wealthy nation, the poor and middle class too often deny themselves the care they need or fall into bankruptcy to get the medical attention they rightly deserved. "Taking action to preserve the dignity, longevity, and fiscal stability of the people of this nation is the job of this Congress. Passing the Affordable Care Act was the right thing to do. Now let the leaders of this nation turn their attention to the other pressing problems before us, and end the debate over this public service once and for all." ####
06.24.2015	"I want to thank my friends and colleagues in the Senate: Senators Durbin, Coons and especially Senator Leahy and his staff for coming forth with a piece of legislation to repair and correct the decision of the U.S. Supreme Court in the Shelby County v. Holder case. I want to thank the representatives of the Tri-Caucuses -- Reps. Sewell, Sanchez, and Chu--for spearheading this effort in the House. "The vote is precious, almost sacred. It is the most powerful non-violent tool we have in a democracy. There is no other work more important in this or any Congress than protecting the full access of all Americans to the democratic process. We should make it simple and easy for people to make their voices heard in our society. "If it was not clear in 2014, I think it is clear today that we have come a great distance in this country toward healing the divisions and problems among us, but we are not there yet. This legislation acknowledges that we still have much more work to do, but we have come too far, and we have made too much progress to stop now. "I support this legislation and hope that this Congress will do what is right by the people of this nation and pass the voting rights legislation that restores justice, dignity, and equal access to the ballot box in America." ###
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON (Wednesday, June 24, 2015) – Two years since the Supreme Court gutted core protections in the Voting Rights Act in Shelby County v. Holder, states and localities throughout the country have passed sweeping laws that disproportionately suppress the voting rights of minorities. These laws have left voters without the protections they need to exercise their constitutional right to vote. To restore and advance the voting protections for all Americans, a group of Senate and House Democratic lawmakers joined together Wednesday to introduce the Voting Rights Advancement Act (VRAA) of 2015. Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), and Senator Chris Coons (D-Del.) introduced the measure in the Senate. Congressman John Lewis (D-Ga.) and Congresswoman Terri Sewell (D-Ala.) of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Calif.), chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and Congresswoman Judy Chu (D-Calif.), chairwoman of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, introduced an identical measure in the House. Senator Leahy said: “The Voting Rights Advancement Act is a voting rights bill for all Americans. It is a bill for the next generation, and helps protect the legacy of the previous generation who fought so hard five decades ago for these voting rights protections.” Protections under the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015 will extend to all voters nationwide. The legislation targets certain voting practices known to suppress the voting rights of minorities. The bill is the result of collaboration with those at the grassroots who have witnessed the harmful effects that discriminatory voting laws have had in their communities. Key provisions of the bill include: A new geographic coverage formula that is based on current conditions. The bill establishes a “rolling” nationwide trigger that continuously moves so that only states that have a recent record of racial discrimination in voting would be covered. Allows federal courts to bail in states for preclearance. Current law permits states or jurisdictions to be bailed in if an intentional violation can be shown. The new legislation offers more protection by allowing a court to bail in states or jurisdictions whose voting practices have discriminatory results. Greater transparency in federal elections to ensure that voters are made aware of late-breaking changes in voting procedures. The additional sunlight will deter discrimination from occurring and protect voters from discrimination. Revises the standard for preliminary injunctions for voting rights cases, allowing a court at the start of litigation to immediately halt a challenged voting practice until a final ruling. This provision recognizes that when voting rights are at stake, stopping a discriminatory practice after the election has already concluded is too late to vindicate voters’ rights. An outline of the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015 can be found here, and a sectional analysis can be found here. Text of legislation can also be found online. Democratic Senators Dick Durbin (Ill.) and Chris Coons (Del.) are original coauthors of the bill. Cosponsors of the legislation include Democratic Harry Reid (Nev.), Chuck Schumer (N.Y.), Patty Murray (Wash.), Debbie Stabenow (Mich.), Amy Klobuchar (Minn.), Elizabeth Warren (Mass.), Mark Warner (Va.), Dianne Feinstein (Calif.), Sheldon Whitehouse (R.I.), Al Franken (Minn.), Richard Blumenthal (Conn.), Sherrod Brown (Ohio), Bob Casey (Penn.), Jeanne Shaheen (N.H.), Jeff Merkley (Ore.), Tammy Baldwin (Wis.), Tim Kaine (Va.), and Cory Booker (N.J.). ##### The Voting Rights Advancement Act: Protecting All Voters Congressman John Lewis (D-Ga.): “If it was not clear in 2014, I think it is clear today that we have come a great distance in this country toward healing the divisions and problems among us, but we are not there yet. This legislation acknowledges that we still have much more work to do, but we have come too far, and we have made too much progress to stop now. I support this legislation and hope that this Congress will do what is right by the people of this nation and pass the voting right legislation that restores justice, dignity, and equal access to the ballot box in America.” (Rep. Lewis’s full statement) Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.): “In the two years since the Shelby County decision, several state legislatures have pushed through discriminatory and onerous restrictions on voting that previously would have required Justice Department clearance. I wish that fifty years after we enacted the Voting Rights Act, our society had reached a point where its protections were no longer necessary. But we have not, and the Voting Rights Act is still very much needed today.” Congresswoman Terri Sewell (D-Ala.): “There is an urgent need to protect the progress we have made since the courageous Foot Soldiers of the Voting Rights Movement dared to cross the Edmund Pettus Bridge 50 years ago. We have inherited their legacy, and the fight to ensure that all Americans can participate in our political process continues today. The Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015 takes an expansive view of the need to protect access to the voting booth, and will offer more protection to more people in more states.” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Calif.): “The Court’s decision in Shelby County two years ago, left Latino voters especially vulnerable. Seven million eligible Latino voters are now without the voting protections they deserve. Voting is one of the most fundamental rights we have and a threat to our voting rights is truly a threat to our democracy. The Voting Rights Advancement Act strengthens voter protections for targeted communities and is being introduced at a most critical time in our country.” Senator Chris Coons (D-Del.): “Fifty years after Selma, the civil rights movement has not yet finished, and in states across Americas, voting rights that were once protected by federal statute are now again at risk from modern day Jim Crow laws. This legislation recognizes the challenges we’ve overcome, but more importantly, it recognizes the challenges we still face today.” Congresswoman Judy Chu (D-Calif.): “For over 40 years, the Voting Rights Act was one of our best tools for combating disenfranchisement – particularly in places with a history of discrimination. But that all changed with the Supreme Court’s Shelby decision two years ago this week. Since then, the ensuing back-and-forth between states and courts over what is a legitimate restriction on access to the polls has made it as clear as ever that we need a national standard. This is particularly important to ensure that people of color, including Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, have the ability to fully participate in our democracy. That is why I am proud to be one of the lead sponsors of the Voting Rights Advancement Act to make sure that no state can systematically chip away at any group’s right to vote.” # # # # #
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON--This morning Rep. John Lewis made an impassioned appeal on the House floor for members to vote No to the Senate passed Trade Promotion Authority bill (TPA). Lewis authored an amendment rejected by House leadership which crystallizes some of the Democratic criticism of TPA . They believe, among other things, that trade partnership should be used as an opportunity to leverage fairer labor and human rights provision in countries who want to partner with the United States. The Lewis amendment would provide instructions to trade partners on labor and human rights and add a procedure, to be used as appropriate, where human rights legislation could be added to any trade deal. He offered this language as an amendment to be debated before the full House of Representatives. His is one of the many amendments Ways and Means Democrats offered to make TPA a more humane legislative package. All of the Democratic amendments were rejected along party lines. Rep. Lewis made this strong speech opposing TPA as it is currently written. Rep. Lewis plans to introduce as a bill, instead of as an amendment, to ensure congressional participation on labor, human rights, and trade. Link to Lewis floor statement ; Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this 'fast track' amendment. Over twenty years ago, I stood on this very House Floor in opposition to NAFTA. I felt strongly then, as I do now, that these agreements are about more than trade. They are a reflections of our values. Let me be clear, I am for trade. Since NAFTA, I have opposed some agreements and supported others. But I am not for trade at any price or at any cost. Those of us on the Ways and Means Committee tried time and time again to make this legislation better. But mine, and every single other Democratic amendment, was rejected. Mr. Speaker, I have visited Vietnam, and I know that there is much work to be done. There is no freedom to organize, and freedom of speech is limited. My constituents from Georgia are calling and writing my office in waves. For over twenty years they have felt the hardship of unfair trade. Textile and automobile factories disappeared from Metro Atlanta. Good jobs were shipped to Bangladesh, to China, to Mexico. Americans should not have to compete with starvation wages and environmental destruction. Mr. Speaker, I do not know about you, but as Joshua of old said, `as for me and my house', I am going to cast my lot with the working people of America. Today we have an opportunity to do what is right and what is just. We can develop smart trade policies which reflect our values. Labor, human rights, and trade have always been connected. This is not new. This little planet is not ours to waste, but to use what we need, and leave this planet a little greener, and a little more peaceful for generations unborn. This Congress must be a headlight not a tail light, or history will not be kind to us. I urge each and every one of the Member to do what is right and stand up for the working people of this country. I urge my colleagues to vote no. ###
04.23.2015	Today in a marathon mark-up of the Trade Priorities and Accountability Act (TPA) of 2015 in the House Ways and Means Committee, Rep. Lewis sought to amend the TPA to clarify and strengthen the instructions on labor and human protections, and it establishes an appropriate process to add human rights legislation to an implementing bill. In many nations where Americans trade, workers and citizens suffer human rights and labor violations that are illegal in this country. Lewis made this statement on behalf of his amendment that would use the influence of the U.S. government's trading relationships to encourage nations to abide by fair and humane labor and civil rights practices: ​ Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I would like to thank Ranking Member Levin for all of his hard work and leadership. He and his staff fight tirelessly for human rights and labor rights in U.S. trade policy. ​My amendment is simple, and it is clear. This amendment would add the labor and human rights processes that labor activists and struggling workers in the U.S. and around the world have requested over, and over, and over again. As you all know, we lost more than 50,000 young men in the tragic war with Vietnam. Many Vietnamese-Americans came to this country as refugees fleeing communism and oppression; they were hoping to achieve the American dream. Two years ago, dozens of Vietnamese-American citizens from my district visited my Washington office. They asked -- begged really -- to do something about what was happening to their friends, families, and loved ones back in Vietnam. Mr. Chairman, I have been to Vietnam, and I know that there is work to be done. There is no freedom to organize, and freedom of speech and assembly are limited. I know that these people are right when they demand for us to do something strong --something meaningful --to protect labor rights and human rights. We must do something. If we don't act now, at this very moment, then who will act? ​We have been down this path before. We have heard these same fears and the same warnings -- in China, in Colombia, and in DR-CAFTA. ​In each and every case, American workers said, "please do not support a race to the bottom; we cannot compete with forced labor, low wages, and no standards." Every single time, workers in these countries said, "please do not support trade without making changes in advance." Time and time again, they warned us that empty promises and plans will do nothing. And their words rang true. To this day, every single week I receive reports of continued labor and human rights violations occurring in Colombia --occurring in the very same places that supporters argued that the FTA would bring jobs, safety, security, and labor protections. ​In a very few weeks, the world will recognize the anniversary of abolition of the transatlantic slave trade. A few years ago, I wrote all of my colleagues on the Committee, to remind them that the question of human rights and trade is not one which began in the 1970s or in the 1990s. ​In 1807, this very Congress passed the Act Prohibiting the Importation of Slaves. Trade and labor, trade and human rights have always been linked; it is not something that is new. It is not an issue for another day, another Committee, or another time. I have said before, and I will say it again, our trade policies are a reflection of our values. We must respect the dignity and worth of every person. What does it profit a great nation to gain trade and lose its soul? As Members of this Committee, we must be a headlight not a tail light, or history will not be kind to us. This amendment responds to a desperate call for action. Congress must do something new and learn from the hard, painful lessons of past FTAs. ​I urge all of my colleagues to support this amendment. Do what is right; do what is just. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Lewis amendment was not adopted. The full committee voted strictly according to party lines.
04.23.2015	"I am glad that the U.S. Senate decided to finally vote on the nomination of Loretta Lynch. It should have happened long before now, but I am very pleased that she was confirmed. "I look forward to working with the first African American woman to serve as the U.S. Attorney General. She is highly qualified, deserving of this appointment, and I expect that she will make a lasting contribution through her work that furthers the cause of justice and democracy in America." ####
04.22.2015	This year, we celebrate the 45th anniversary of Earth Day, a reminder that we all have a responsibility to protect the environment. The Earth Day Network reaches over 25,000 organizations worldwide, and today more than one billion people in 192 countries will participate in community cleanups, educational events and other grassroots activities related to Earth Day. The theme of this year’s Earth Day is “It’s Our Turn to Lead,” which seeks to redefine what progress looks in the quest for environmental justice and a sustainable future. “This year on Earth Day each of us needs to recommit ourselves to stand up for the environment,” said Rep. John Lewis. “This is a call for greater leadership in the fight for environmental justice to defend the causes of human rights, animal rights, conservation and preservation involved in protecting our right to clean air, water, and food. There is no need for economic growth to be at odds with sustainable development. This Earth is not ours to hoard and waste. It is our duty and our responsibility, as individuals, communities and as corporate citizens, to leave this world a little cleaner and a little greener for generations yet unborn. "Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once said that our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter. This year the Earth Day Network is challenging us to stand up for the truth about climate change, to challenge corporate partners to create sustainable solutions, and to make a difference in our homes, our communities, and our societies to help build a green future for us all." ###
04.21.2015	WASHINGTON--Today, President Barack Obama will sign into law H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015. In an effort to streamline the Medicare reporting and payment process so that doctors can spend more time caring for patients, among other provisions, the bill repeals the outdated Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula. In place for 17 years, the SGR formula was criticized because it rewarded doctors for offering more care rather than better care. H.R. 2 repeals the outdated SGR, and replaces it with a formula that helps free doctors from repetitive paperwork and procedures and incentivizes higher quality care. As a part of the H.R. 2 fixes, the bill includes, in its entirety, a provision introduced by Rep. John Lewis last year as the Medicare Employer Relief Act (H.R. 943). The Lewis bill eliminates a burdensome paper reporting process, required of employers by the federal government, with a more cost-effective and efficient electronic reporting system. "Since most Americans receive health insurance through their employers," said Rep. John Lewis, "it is important to limit the burdens that employers must face to offer coverage. The Medicare Employer Relief Act offers the people a win-win solution. It saves the federal government and American businesses time and money. It eliminates costly redundancy, which saves taxpayers money, and lightens the reporting load of business and the federal government." The old statute required that Medicare be notified by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the Social Security Administration (SSA) and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) whenever a Medicare beneficiary is also covered by employer-provided group insurance. This notification process, called the IRS, SSA, CMS Data Match program or ISCDM, saves taxpayers millions of dollars because it allows Medicare to serve as a secondary insurer rather than having the taxpayers foot the majority of the bill as a primary insurer. However, once Medicare determines that a beneficiary receives employer-sponsored insurance, the current ISCDM statute required CMS to mail a paper questionnaire to the beneficiary’s employer that must be completed within 30 days under penalty of a fine. This paper-laden process requires a great deal of handling, which drives up the cost of the reporting. Though a change was made in 2007 which allowed primary insurance companies to report coverage to CMS and Medicare electronically, it still required CMS to generate a paper questionnaire that had to be filled out and returned by employers in 30 days. The Medicare Employer Relief Act creates a simpler, more efficient electronic reporting process for employers and CMS to manage on-going data-matching needs. Obviously House and Senate leadership agreed because this provision This solution will be made law today at a White House signing ceremony. ####
04.06.2015	"During this holy weekend for many religious devotees, I watched in horror as the details of the massacre in Kenya unfolded. My thoughts and prayers are with the Garissa University College students, parents, and employees who are devastated by this senseless violence. "I am deeply disturbed that there are members of the human family who believe they are avenging the sanctity of their faith by killing innocent students whose only desire is to educate themselves and create a hopeful future. Where is the international outcry that repudiates these vile acts of terrorism? Is our silence a form of surrender to these attacks on human dignity in Kenya and others in the Horn of Africa? "I look forward to the day when we, as a community of nations, will protect and defend the propagation of the agencies of peace in the same way we defend the need to proliferate the agencies of war. We must heed the words of one Nobel Peace Prize laureate, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who cautioned that we must learn to live as brothers and sisters or we will perish as fools." ###
04.06.2015	"Dr. Gardner C. Taylor was one of the greatest preachers of our time. I heard him preach on many occasions in Atlanta, New York, Nashville and other cities. He influenced several generations of young ministers and religious leaders who flocked to hear him speak wherever he traveled around the country to spread his message of faith, hope and love. Many tried to emulate the intellect, erudition, authority and fluency of Gardner Taylor, but no one ever could. "He was a master of the art of preaching who knew the Bible cold. He rarely, if ever, wrote any notes for his sermons. He was able to weave together the stories of the scriptures and his extensive scholarship with messages that moved his congregation like an artist whose craft became one with his own self-expression. He was one of the earliest and strongest supporters of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and was a persistent champion for social justice throughout his life. "We have lost a great minister to the souls of humankind who used his gifts to impress on us the urgent need for the action of peace, faith, and love. There is only one Dr. Gardner C. Taylor. We are blessed and very lucky that he walked with us for 96 years. His words and his presence have been an invaluable source of inspiration. He will be deeply missed. " ###
04.04.2015	"Today 47 years ago, this nation lost the moral leader of the 20th century. He was my friend, my brother, my mentor, my leader and the inspiration of millions of people in America and around the world. Since his death I have traveled to many nations including India, Germany, Ireland, Turkey, South Africa and many others where Dr. King is revered as an icon of American history. He was an African American minister from the Deep South who believed that the dynamic application of the power of love could heal all human problems and unite all humanity. He also believed that love is not passive; it takes action to confront injustice, it speaks up and speaks out to encourage the human community to live up to its highest ideals. "At the end of his life, he was coaligning people across religious, racial, class, language, and regional boundaries to bring an end to the burden and humiliation of poverty and hunger. His leadership and his life still offer an example to any human being who seeks justice and peace. His work is not just iconic because of all he achieved, but because what he espoused nearly a half century ago remains a set of goals our society still reaches for today. Dr. King said that we must learn to live as brothers and sisters or we will perish as fools. He said peace is not the absence of tension but the presence of justice, and these are truths we as a nation have yet to fulfill. America is a better nation, and we are a better people because of the life and legacy of Dr.Martin Luther King Jr."
04.02.2015	Periodically, Rep. John Lewis is notified that organizations within the 5th Congressional District have been selected to receive a variety of federal grants. This federal grants announcement will advise press and constituents of these notifications. This announcement details about $85,384,729.55 in federal grants coming to the 5th Congressional District. What is the funding process for federal grants? There are two basic ways the federal government awards funds, through mandatory funding or discretionary funding. Members of Congress vote on “authorizing” legislation that funds the mandatory commitments of the federal government for programs like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, unemployment insurance and SNAP. Also every year, levels of discretionary funding are determined during the Congressional appropriations process. Rep. Lewis and all other members of Congress work to ensure that federal programs which provide key services within their districts are funded at levels requested by local government authorities and constituents they represent. The federal grants announced by this release fall mainly in the discretionary category. The money appropriated by Congress is sent to the federal agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) or of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which then disburse it directly to the states and local governments. Sometimes federal agencies issue requests for proposals which place states, cities, and local organizations in competition with others around the country for the opportunity to gain federal support for a local project. This is where the efficacy of city and state organizations are tested to determine whether they can compete effectively to receive those funds. Rep. Lewis often meets with and advises city, state or local agencies to help them strategize effective methods of engaging the federal agencies throughout the grant process. Pell Grants, Byrne Justice Assistance, veterans’ services, LIHEAP home heating support, early education, COPS, YouthBuild, Jobs Corps, the CDC, minority health programs, TIGER, critical disease research initiatives, tenant and fair housing assistance all stem from Congressional discretionary funding. Recent successful discretionary grant efforts from the 5th Congressional District of Georgia include the Atlanta Streetcar, the Multimodal Passenger Terminal, the Atlanta BeltLine, and the UTC. Through his District Office, Rep. Lewis offers grants assistance and workshops to explain the federal grants process. Please call 404-659-0116 if you are interested in participating in one of these workshops. Following is the list of the most recently granted federal funds to the 5th Congressional District. If you are seeking more information about any one of these federal grants, please consult the granting information for more details on their selection process. Grants over $500,000 are highlighted. This is to inform you that the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, the U.S. Department of Transportation, the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowments for Humanities, and the National Science Foundation, will be announcing the following grant award(s) to recipient(s) within your Congressional district and state. Grant Notifications Economic Development Administration (EDA) Grant Recipient: Georgia Tech Research Corporation Grant Project Title: Georgia Tech’s Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2) Amount: $500,000.00 Additional Details: This EDA investment transfers the experience of Georgia Tech’s Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2) in developing university-fostered startup ecosystems to two university communities located in the downtown area of Atlanta: Georgia State University and the four private, historically black colleges and university (HBCU) members of the Atlanta University Center (Clark Atlanta University, Spelman College, Morehouse College and the Morehouse School of Medicine). In collaboration with Startup Atlanta, a non-profit convener of startup activity in the broader Atlanta region, EI2 will support an exchange of our best practices focused on the development of student startup curriculum and clubs, faculty commercialization programs, accelerators, and incubators. Any questions regarding this notification should be addressed to, please contact EDA at (202) 482-2900. U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Grant Recipient: Egleston Children`s Hospital at Emory University, Inc. Grant Project Title: Children's Hospitals Graduate Medical Education Payment Program Amount: $1,863,468.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:130724 Grant Recipient: Emory University Grant Project Title: Resource for Nonhuman Primate Immune Reagents Amount: $504,257.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:131732 Recipient: Emory University Grant Project Title: Gonococci: Genetics of Resistance to PMN Proteins Amount: $409,722.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:130813 Grant Recipient: Emory University Grant Project Title: SHARE: Statistical Health Information Release with Differential Privacy Amount: $350,252.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:130524 Grant Recipient: Emory University Grant Project Title: Dynamics and Evolution of Immune Responses to Influenza Viruses Amount: $1,631,454.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:130630 Grant Recipient: Emory University Grant Project Title: HIF1a in Neonatal Hypoxic-Ischemic Brain Injury and White-Matter Vulnerability Amount: $234,000.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:128847 Grant Recipient: Emory University Grant Project Title: Allergy, Immunology, and Transplantation Research Amount: $240,350.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:128913 Grant Recipient: Emory University Grant Project Title: Effect of Oxytocin on Brain, Behavior, and Social Development Amount: $862,726.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:131542 Grant Recipient: Emory University Grant Project Title: Retinal Mechanisms of Refractive Development Amount: $320,500.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:131273 Grant Recipient: Georgia Department of Human Resources Grant Project Title: Children's Hospitals Graduate Medical Education Payment Program Amount: $1,500,575.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:130512 Grant Recipient: Georgia Department of Human Services Grant Project Title: State Health Insurance Assistance Program Amount: $1,185,381.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:130512 Grant Recipient: Georgia Department of Public Health Grant Project Title: Ryan White Care Act Title II Amount: $54,415,137.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:131438 Grant Recipient: Georgia Department of Public Health Grant Project Title: ADAP Shortfall Relief Amount: $10,262,288.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:131443 Grant Recipient: Georgia Institute of Technology Grant Project Title: Targeting Scleral Stiffness as a Novel Therapeutic Approach in Glaucoma Amount: $514,817.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:131466 Grant Recipient: Georgia Institute of Technology Grant Project Title: Human Specific Brain DNA Methylation and Neuropsychiatric Diseases Amount: $796,750.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:130741 Grant Recipient: Georgia Institute of Technology Grant Project Title: Multifunctional Biomaterial for Amelioration of MS in Murine EAE Model Amount: $210,157.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:130263 Grant Recipient: Georgia Institute of Technology Grant Project Title: Summer Biomechanics, Biotransport and Bioengineering Conference 2014 (SB3C2105) Amount: $10,000.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:130353 Grant Recipient: Georgia State Department of Public Health. Grant Project Title: Tobacco Control Program Amount: $1,139,101.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:130775 Grant Recipient: Georgia State Department of Public Health Grant Project Title: GEORGIA BEHAVIORAL RISK FACTOR SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM Amount: $138,778.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:130640 Grant Recipient: Medshape Solutions, Inc. Grant Project Title: Shape-Memory Polymer Device for Distraction Enterogenesis to Treat Short Bowel Syndrome Amount: $149,457.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:130973 Grant Recipient: Morehouse School of Medicine Grant Project Title: Neuregulin-1 (NRG1) in Preovulatory Granulosa Cell Survival and Anti-inflammatory Role Amount: $106,125.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:131506 If you have any questions, please contact the HHS Press office at: (202) 690-6343. U.S. Department of Transportation Grant Recipient: Georgia Governor’s Office of Highway Safety Grant Project Title: FY 2015 Section 405(b) Occupant Protection Grants Amount: $581,386.44 Additional Details: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=zddamgtx0o Grant Recipient: Georgia Governor’s Office of Highway Safety Grant Project Title: FY 2015 Section 405(c) State Traffic Safety Information Systems Grants Amount: $506,068.19 Additional Details: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=40uvbk7bet Grant Recipient: Georgia Governor’s Office of Highway Safety Grant Project Title: FY 2015 Section 405(d) Impaired Driving Countermeasures Amount: $1,815,831.64 Additional Details: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=my91d53080 Grant Recipient: Georgia Governor’s Office of Highway Safety Grant Project Title: FY 2015 Section 402 State and Community Highway Safety Grants Amount: $3,117,176.19 Additional Details: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=551kb7ndwh Grant Recipient: Georgia Governor’s Office of Highway Safety Grant Project Title: FY 2015 Section 405(f) Motorcyclist Safety Grants Amount: $57,217.09 Additional Details: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=ycnlf50t5s Grant Recipient: Georgia Public Service Commission Grant Project Title: PHMSA One Call Grants Amount: $45,000.00 Additional Details: https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=f2k72lhan1 If you have any questions, please contact the U.S. Department of Transportation Press Office at: (202) 366-4570. National Science Foundation (NSF) Grant Recipient: Georgia State University Research Foundation, Inc. Grant Project Title: Biogeography of a marine defensive microbial symbiont: relative importance of host defense vs. abiotic factors Amount: $520,440.00 Additional Details: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1459524 Grant Recipient: Georgia State University Research Foundation, Inc Grant Project Title: I-Corps: BMEHeathReach Learning Manipulatives, Games and Modules Amount: $50,000.00 Additional Details: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1505232 Grant Recipient: Georgia Tech Research Corporation Grant Project Title: Collaborative Research: Extrusion Roll Imprinting of High Fidelity Nano-scale Features on Continuously Moving Substrates Amount: $26,664.00 Additional Details: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1462101 Grant Recipient: Georgia Tech Research Corporation Grant Project Title: RI: Doctoral Student Workshop at the Third Annual Conference on Advances in Cognitive Systems Amount: $10,000.00 Additional Details: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1536084 Grant Recipient: Georgia Tech Research Corporation Grant Project Title: Temperature-Dependent Ocean-Atmosphere Equilibration of Carbon Isotopes in Atlantic Thermocline and Surface Waters Amount: $298,193.00 Additional Details: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1459563 Grant Recipient: Georgia Tech Research Corporation Grant Project Title: CRII: CHS: SCH: Novel User Interfaces for Reporting Personal Health Data to Lay Individuals Amount: $174,766.00 Additional Details: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1464214 Grant Recipient: Georgia Tech Research Corporation Grant Project Title: Forecasting Innovation Pathways of Big Data & Analytics Amount: $49,992.00 Additional Details: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1464214 Grant Recipient: Georgia Tech Research Corporation Grant Project Title: AG15: SIAM Conference on Applied Algebraic Geometry Amount: $25,000.00 Additional Details: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1527370 Grant Recipient: Spelman College Grant Project Title: CAREER: A Probabilistic Gene Network Model of Cellular Aging and its Application on the Conserved Lifespan Extension Mechanisms of Dietary Restriction Amount: $611,700.00 Additional Details: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1453078 Any questions regarding this notification should be addressed to NSF’s Office of Legislative and Public Affairs at 703-292-8070. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Grant Recipient: Georgia Tech Research Corporation Grant Project Title: Standardizing Botnet Enumeration Amount: $150,000.00 Additional Details: Standardizing Botnet Enumeration - To assess the impact of various security measures and scientific means to measure the botnet phenomenon. This program will solve two important problems. 1. The first is how to systemically measure the population of botnets. 2. The second involves the periodic exposure of a dataset that researchers can use to study the lifetime of botnets and validate measurement methodology. Any questions regarding this notification should be addressed to NIST’s Office of Public and Business Affairs at (301)-975- 6478. ####
03.31.2015	As we celebrate the life and enduring legacy of a great leader and man of the people, Cesar Chavez, we must recommit to his ideals of fellowship with all who struggle under the burden of poverty. He was a tireless champion asserting the rights of farm workers for a living wage, humane working conditions, and respect for the contributions of their labor. I was fortunate enough to have worked with Cesar Chavez on Sen. Robert Kennedy's presidential campaign in 1968. Sen. Kennedy tasked both of us to knock on doors and help get out the vote before the primary in California. Chavez and Martin Luther King Jr. built a strong relationship while King lived, and afterward Cesar Chavez became a longtime supporter of Coretta Scott King, The King Center and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. In fact in September of 1966, Dr. King sent Mr. Chavez this message via Western Union: "As brothers in the fight for equality, I extend the hand of fellowship and good will and wish continuing success to you and your members (of the United Farm Workers Organizing Committee). The fight for equality must be fought on many fronts--in the urban slums, in the sweatshops of the factories and fields. Our separate struggles are really one--a struggle for freedom, for dignity and for humanity...." As we commemorate Cesar Chavez Day, his life should inspire us all to speak up and speak out against injustice, discrimination, and hate. It should encourage us to look beyond ourselves and our communities to understand that the struggle for human dignity reaches beyond the narrow limitations of race, class, religion, age, language, gender, sexual orientation and nationality. Freedom is the longing of every soul, and when we win victories for a people, as Cesar Chavez did, we champion the cause of all humanity. ####
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, lead sponsors Rep. John Lewis (GA-5), House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5), Assistant Democratic Leader James Clyburn (SC-6), Rep. John Conyers (MI-13), Rep. Robert Brady (PA-1) and more than 170 Democrats reintroduced the Voter Empowerment Act in the House of Representatives. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York will introduce a companion version in the Senate. The Voter Empowerment Act will help ensure equal access to the ballot for every eligible voter, will modernize our voter registration system to help more Americans participate, and takes steps to eliminate deceptive practices and voter fraud that deter voters from casting their ballots. On March 21, 1965, thousands of protestors left Selma, Alabama and marched all the way to Montgomery to underscore the need for voting rights legislation which assured access to the ballot box for millions of Americans. Sponsors offer the VEA today as a continuation of the on-going effort to ensure that every American has an equal and fair opportunity to make their voices heard through the electoral process. At a time when some states have implemented or are planning to implement new barriers for voters who may be seniors, students, low-income Americans, members of our Armed Services, disabled, or speak English as a second language, Democrats see the need to certify their efforts to protect voting access for all Americans. Click for a section by section description, quotes in support, or full bill text of the Voter Empowerment Act. “As we look to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the final Selma-to-Montgomery march, begun on March 21, 1965," said Rep. John Lewis, " I am proud to join my colleagues to reintroduce the Voter Empowerment Act. The goal of this bill is to make voting access equal, fair, and simple for every American. Democracy is not a state; it is an act. The vigilant action of every member of Congress and every citizen is necessary to ensure that liberty, equality and justice remain the guiding principles of our democracy. The VEA is just one of the steps we believe must be taken to make sure the vote retains its power as the most transformative, non-violent tool citizens have in our society to make their voices heard." “I’m pleased to be joining Civil Rights Movement hero Rep. John Lewis, Assistant Leader Clyburn, Ranking Member Conyers, and Ranking Member Brady today to reintroduce the Voter Empowerment Act,” said Democratic Whip Hoyer. “This legislation aims to make it easier for eligible voters to cast their ballots and have those ballots counted accurately at a time when, unfortunately, some states are making it more difficult for voters to exercise their right to participate in our democracy. Our legislation would modernize the voter registration system to include same-day registration, expand early voting, prohibit deceptive practices, create a national voter protection hotline, and mandate a verifiable paper trail, among other reforms. I hope that Democrats and Republicans in the House can come together in this fiftieth anniversary year of the Selma-to-Montgomery march and the enactment of the Voting Rights Act to pass our bill and empower all Americans to have a voice in their government.” Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn said, “The Voter Empowerment Act is the product of a collaborative effort involving dozens of Members and representatives from scores of advocacy organizations. In the face of recently enacted creative devices that constitute a modern version of the Jim Crow-era practice of voter disenfranchisement, this legislation will improve access to the ballot box, protect the integrity of our elections, and ensure that those who seek to cause mischief are held accountable. I am hopeful the voices of people of good will rise above the din of despair we so often hear about the future of our great country and Congress will act on this needed vehicle toward ‘a more perfect Union.’” “There is no more important right in our society than the right to vote– the foundation of all of our other rights enshrined in the Constitution, " said Rep. John Conyers. "Unfortunately, efforts to scale back the right to vote continue to thrive in our country. Today we call on Congress to once again protect that precious right. Congress did not stand idly by in 1965 when we passed the Voting Rights Act and the many federal protections we passed thereafter. When equal access to the ballot box is impaired by any means, the Constitution obligates our most careful and deliberate attention. And, we, the 114th Congress, must not stand idly now by when American citizens are denied their constitutional right to vote.” “We are fewer than two years away from the next federal election," says Rep. Robert Brady, "and are destined to repeat the same unacceptable mistakes of 2012. Without action, thousands of eligible voters will be turned away from the polls because of preventable problems. We need to modernize voter registration and ensure that state and local election officials are fully equipped with the information and resources necessary to effectively and efficiently administer their elections. This is not a Democratic or Republican issue but a democracy issue.” ###
03.03.2015	Rep. John Lewis along with several of his colleagues spoke at a press conference in Washington today following Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's address to both houses of the U.S. Congress. He made these remarks in response to the prime minister's address: In this Congress, I take a backseat to no one in my commitment and support of Israel and the American Jewish community. On many occasions, we have worked side-by-side to strengthen our democracy and fight for equality and justice in this country. That commitment will not change. I have worked consistently throughout my career for long-term peace in the Middle East, a secure Jewish state and have fought against anti-Semitism and hate on American shores and abroad. However, this nation is currently involved in sensitive, on-going negotiations with Iran. Elections in Israel are just about two weeks away on March 17th. That the Speaker of the House of Representatives would allow the floor of this chamber to be used to undercut the negotiations of the President of the United States is partisan, and it is not right. Several ambassadors as well as the leaders of prominent Jewish organizations called upon the Prime Minister to cancel his speech. The Speaker's action is an affront to the President of the United States, to the Democratic leadership of Congress, and the Department of State. It is meant to purposely undermine the work of our elected and appointed representatives who are the ones responsible to protect the interests of the American people. The floor of the House is a centerpiece of public debate in our democracy. It should not be used as a partisan tool. I am saddened, that the Speaker would threaten this nation's historic, bipartisan support of our Israeli brothers and sisters by this action. It is for this reason that I chose not to attend this morning’s address, and it is my hope that today’s partisan, political low will never, ever be repeated again on the House Floor. Thank you. ###
01.20.2015	" President Barack Obama made an appeal to Congress tonight in an uplifting and inspiring speech. I am glad that he took the time to describe some of the successes of his administration, which are not discussed often enough. There is no question that when he took over our economy was teetering on the brink of depression. Today it is also clear that he has guided this nation out of grave difficulty toward a more stable, steady economic course. But this President is not satisfied with that success. He is still pushing Congress, coming up with policy ideas, and extending his hand in partnership hoping to make the kind of progress that will touch every American, not just a few. "Tonight he affirmed the role that government can play in the lives of every citizen. The resources of the federal government belong to the people. It is their contribution that makes up the federal budget, and they sent us to Capitol Hill to distribute those resources wisely in ways that benefit their good. The President wants this Congress to take action that relieves some of the burdens of the people to ensure that their hard-work leads to real progress in their lives. "He is aware that the gap between rich and poor is widening. It is nearly as wide as it was during the Great Depression. Tax cuts in the last 40 years that have benefitted the rich and raised taxes on working Americans; deregulation of safeguards in healthcare, financial industries, and other sectors of our economy; skyrocketing food, transportation and education prices combined with decades of stagnant wages have led millions to fall out of the middle class and into poverty. Today the top 1 percent of families own over 20 percent of America's wealth. According to Fortune magazine, the top 160,000 of the richest American families own more wealth than almost half of all Americans combined, the 145 million people living at the bottom. " President Obama challenged this Congress tonight to answer the growing crisis of income inequality. He put forward some meaningful proposals that can help stem this tide. He has urged Congress to stop being an impediment to change, put partisan differences aside, and make the interests of the American people our highest priority. And if this Congress can do that, together we can give millions of average citizens a great deal of hope that there is still opportunity in this nation and the American dream still lives." ####
01.03.2015	“Sen. Edward Brooke (R-MA) was the first African American elected to the Senate since the Reconstruction, and he was one of a kind. He was never partisan or wedded to party interests. He was a champion for whatever he believed was right. He was instrumental in the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and added an important open-housing requirement to the act. He also crafted the Brooke Amendment a year later which capped the financial responsibility of public housing applicants to no more than 25 percent of a poor person’s income. Sen. Brooke’s charismatic presence, his intellect, integrity, and his impeccable manners, helped him rise above the limitations of race and party politics in a quest for a just and free society. He became the gold standard for politicians who followed his rise to power. Sen. Brooke made a lasting contribution to our society because he was a persistent and consistent voice for social justice, a champion for those who are left out and left behind. He will be deeply missed.” ####
12.17.2014	"I am a strong supporter of President Obama's decision to begin normalizing diplomatic relations with Cuba. I am relieved by this shift in U.S. policy because it is long overdue. It was the right thing to do. It was the moral choice, and I am glad the President had the courage to do it. "Cuba is one of our neighbors. It is only 90 miles from our shores. We work with the Russians. We work with the Vietnamese, we work with China and many other nations that we have had difficult relationships with in the past. At this point the embargo against Cuba is out of date. It relates to the politics of another time and another period in the history of both nations. This is now the 21st century, not the 20th century. To move into the future, we must learn to live together and work together as members of the community of nations." ####
12.12.2014	Last night the U.S. House of Representatives passed an unprecedented, last minute bill to fund the government called the 'CRomnibus'. The bill averted a government shutdown because it contained a short-term continued resolution to fund the Department of Homeland Security until February 2015, bills to fund the rest of the federal government through September 2015, but it also included a number of damaging policy changes. The House and Senate Appropriators worked tirelessly to negotiate a strong compromise to fund the federal government; however, the House majority used the prospect of a government shutdown as leverage to add riders that attacked school lunch nutrition standards, environmental safeguards, and truck safety standards. Also, they added language that could undermine the retirement savings of millions of hard-working Americans and undercut funding for the implementation of President Obama's executive order to jumpstart the process of immigration reform in America. Two specific provisions caused outrage in the Democratic caucus. The first would repeal important taxpayer protections against reckless bank activity enacted as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act. The second strikes at the core of our democracy and the election process; it dramatically increases the amount one individual can contribute to a political campaign from $32,400 to $324,000. This nearly codifies into law the capability of a handful of individuals to buy elections in this country. The bill needed Democratic House members to pass. Rep. Lewis stood firmly against these cynical additions and voted "no" on the CRomnibus bill. Rep. John Lewis made this statement: During the caucus debate last night, I told my colleagues what we used to say in the movement, "People who don't stand for something will fall for anything." When I walk through some neighborhoods in Atlanta, there are still blocks of boarded up houses in once thriving communities. I could not, in good conscience, face the people of my district knowing I had played any role in opening the door to the same excesses that gave rise to that blight. Millions of seniors who had already retired had to go back to work, and they may have to work until the day they die because of games played on Wall Street. African Americans lost 50 percent of their wealth. Millions of Americans dropped from the middle class into the ranks of poverty. Whole families now live in homeless shelters. The numbers of food stamp applications skyrocketed, and people who work everyday don't make enough money to even rent an apartment stung by the excesses of the last financial crisis. These cynical riders are an offensive, blatant attack on our democracy and the security of the average citizen. No one wanted the government to shutdown, but since a bi-partisan effort was required to get any bill passed, I believe we could have used the nights and this weekend to come up with a deal that did not sacrifice so much. As leaders, we must be headlights and not taillights. We have to take a stand and use our political power to stand up for what is right and what is just. I voted "no" on this legislation. ###
12.01.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. John Lewis celebrates the commitment of mayors from around the world who met in Paris today and pledged to eradicate AIDS in their cities. The initiative, spearheaded by the United Nations, the founder of World AIDS Day, aims at ridding the planet of the AIDS epidemic by 2030. Also a goal was set to make 90 percent of the people living with AIDS to know their status, 90 percent of those who know their status to seek treatment, and 90 percent in treatment to live in the best health possible and reduce the risk of transmission of the disease and reduce the transmission of the disease. United Nations Secretary General Ban-Ki moon said in his address today that eradicating the AIDS epidemic will require "social justice, the democratization of society, gender equity and a people-centered approach to health," according to the UN News Centre. Rep. John Lewis made these comments in response to this rededication. “I am glad to hear that the U.S. federal government has been doing its part to help nations meet the oppressive demand of the HIV/AIDS pandemic”, said Rep. John Lewis. “Only 20 years ago, a diagnosis of AIDS was considered a death sentence. Today because the U.S. government united its efforts with those of nations around the world, we are beginning to make some progress. And if we continue working together as a world community and use the advances in scientific research effectively, maybe one day this disease will become as rare as small pox is today.” “A virus does not discriminate. It does not respect rich or poor, race or creed, religion or nationality. That is why we must put aside any fear or reservation we may have and do all we can to help each other, wherever we may find the sick and the suffering. Through unity and an enduring respect for the dignity of all humankind together we can bring an end to this disease together.” ###
12.01.2014	"Today, 59 years ago Rosa Parks was arrested for keeping her seat on a segregated bus in Montgomery, Alabama. Her courage and her action sparked an enduring and effective 381-day protest, one of the longest lasting in American history. She lit the fire of the modern-day Civil Rights Movement which reformed housing, transportation, public accommodations, voting rights, education, and nearly every aspect of American life. "It was during the Montgomery Bus Boycott that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., then a young preacher and the pastor of Dexter Avenue Baptist Church, emerged at the forefront of the movement for civil rights and social justice in America. Today the work that Rosa Parks began and Dr. King directed is studied by non-violent activists all over the world, who use it to discover the ways and the means they can use to challenge injustice in every corner of the globe." "We are fortunate that the example of Rosa Parks and Dr. King are so accessible to us as Americans. They are no longer with us, but the ideas they stood for define a great legacy and the work they have left for us to do still remains. I challenge all Americans in the next year to read the words of Rosa Parks, to study the tactics and the discipline of non-violent resistance, and dig deeply into the comprehensive teaching of Martin Luther King Jr. What they did and how they did it can inform the activism of today and help push our nation forward into the next phase of our destiny until we reach the day when this nation becomes a truly multi-racial democracy that values the dignity and the worth of every human being."
11.24.2014	"I was sorry to learn early this morning that Ward 8 Councilman and four-term Mayor of Washington D.C. Marion S. Barry Jr. died. I first met Marion in 1959 in Nashville when we both were some of the first participants in the non-violent workshops held in the basement of First Baptist Church and Clark Memorial United Methodist Church led by the Rev. James Lawson. "Marion had been a leader and organizer of student protests before he even came to Nashville at Lemoyne Owens College in Memphis. In the spring of 1960 he was elected the first chairman of the Student Non-violent Coordinating Committee because he was smart, articulate, impressive, committed to the philosophy and discipline of non-violence, and a bit more experienced in leadership than those of us who were undergraduates. He had come to Nashville to study chemistry on the graduate level at Fisk. As chairman, he testified on behalf of the students and the movement before the Democratic and Republican conventions in 1960. "Ultimately, he left the deep South and moved to Washington where he became the face of progressive change. He transformed D.C. from a jurisdiction run by the federal government into a self-governing city and a mecca for black politicians, government administrators, businessmen and intellectuals. He used his influence and power to lay the foundation for the thriving, metropolitan community people flock to today. "Marion Barry was always hopeful, always optimistic. He was committed to the cause of civil rights and social justice, and he was committed to the people of Washington, DC. He loved the people, and the people loved him. Marion Barry was a dynamic leader, a wonderful friend, and a strategic master who did all he could to serve the people of the District of Columbia. He will be deeply missed.". ####
11.21.2014	"Tonight President Obama spoke passionately to the nation about the guidelines of an executive order he will issue to jumpstart the process of immigration reform in this country. He was clear that the steps he outlined tonight do not undermine or preclude the necessary legislative action of Congress, where the most far-reaching work on immigration reform still must be done. "As he so eloquently described, the human cost of the stops, starts and delays of this Congress to overhaul immigration through comprehensive, bipartisan legislation has been too great. Families are being torn apart, children are detained in jails meant to incarcerate and punish. People are being rounded up, and some are deported to countries they have never known. This is no way for a leading nation committed to the principles of democracy to treat human beings. We cannot see ourselves as leaders if we allow the lives of others to literally hang in the balance opposite political ambitions, the prospects of the 2016 election, and concerns about which team scores the most points. "The Senate passed a bi-partisan legislative solution to immigration reform, which was never acted on by the House, despite the bitter protests of the minority who were prepared to debate and pass the bill. History will show that this President has used the power of the executive order far less than any other recent president and that the stubborn resistance to legislative action has forced him to respond with executive authority. "Faced with this humanitarian crisis and legislative impasse, any leader who has the power and the tools to help abate this emergency has a moral obligation to act. This executive order affects not only Latino immigrants from Central and South America, but also European, Caribbean, Asian and African immigrants whose trials are not as widely covered, but are just as damaging. I am glad that President Obama has done what he could to assist 5 million people. Some clear step by this nation toward the resolution of this crisis is long overdue." ###
11.07.2014	"I was very sorry to learn of the passing of the former Rep. Lane Evans. I had the honor of serving with him for several years. He was a very serious, committed public servant who faithfully looked out for the well being of the people of his district. He was deeply concerned about the public good, and he voted for whatever he believed served the best interests of the country. It was a pleasure to work with him. He was always a gentleman. My thoughts and prayers are for the comfort of his family and friends in this difficult hour." ###
10.23.2014	WASHINGTON--Yesterday, the historic editor of The Washington Post, Mr. Benjamin Bradlee, died in his home of natural causes at the age of 93. Bradlee was the editor of the Post for 26 years and led the paper during its most powerful era, from 1965 through the height of its influence, after it broke the game-changing stories on the Watergate break-ins and the Pentagon Papers. Under his leadership the paper won 17 Pulitzer Prizes and established itself as one of the top newspapers in the nation. After learning about his death, Rep. Lewis made these comments: "Ben Bradlee was one of the great editors of the 20th century. He set the standard for the Fourth Estate as an effective check on the power of government and as the daily recorder of the life of the nation. To him, news was more than a business. It was a responsibility, it was a calling, a public service that demanded substance above all for every reporter lucky enough to call it a profession, yet he believed stories had to be clothed in a brisk, engaging context. "When Ben Bradlee left the newsroom, a light went out in the news business. It seemed he took with him the courage, the idealism, that intangible spark and a keen awareness of the power of the pen when he left. There are only a few leaders who define the best in their business for decades to come, who become a legend and a high watermark for others who pass that way. Ben Bradlee was that kind of leader, one of the greatest editors this nation has ever known. We would do well to remember his legacy and to use the lessons of his life to inform and strengthen the business of journalism today." ###
10.18.2014	"The Ebola crisis in Africa is devastating. Thousands of people have died, and thousands more are dying. As members of the world community, we cannot shut our doors and turn a blind eye to the suffering of others. Closing our borders will not cut our connection with the rest of humanity. It does not change the fact that we live in a diverse, multicultural, international world where thousands of individuals and professionals from all over the globe cross paths regularly. It will not change the fact that a virus knows no boundaries, and the threat it presents will only be reduced when we confront the problem aggressively and stop it at its source. "The excellent treatment of American patients at Emory University hospital in close consultation with the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention demonstrates that Americans have important knowledge which could help end the crisis in Africa and any threat it poses to the community of nations. In Atlanta, up to this point, we have proved that the disease can be contained, that patients can recover, and medical teams can be kept safe if strict protocols are followed. We must do what a humane and caring people do; offer aid, as President Obama has done, offer medical expertise and guidance, and do what we can to help stamp the problem out at its source. " In this situation, we all need to be guided by experts and the evidence of medical research and experience, not by the calls of politicians who want to make the suffering of others a political football in an election season. We must not take action based on hysteria or fear. We must allow rational thinking and sound medical practice to guide our decisions. However, there are policy questions that do need congressional attention. "Those of us in the Congress need to stand up and ensure that there are adequate appropriations for the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, the Customs and Border Protections service and other agencies to be certain this nation has the capability to respond effectively to medical emergencies of this kind. We must also move with all dispatch to help find a cure or a vaccine that can wipe out this dreadful disease." For more information, visit: johnlewis.house.gov/ebola ####
10.18.2014	WASHINGTON--In a pre-dawn Saturday decision, the U.S. Supreme Court decided today to uphold the most restrictive voter ID law in the country. Though a lower court judge ruled the Texas law was unconstitutional due to the possibility that it could impede ballot access of as many as 600,000 registered voters and targets Latino and African American voters in the state, a majority of the Supreme Court ruled in an unsigned decision without explanation. Justice Ginsberg wrote a six page dissent signed by Justices Sotomayor and Kagan. Upon hearing about this decision, Rep. John Lewis, a champion of voting rights, made these comments: "Despite the Supreme Court's decision today, I agree with many others who still believe that the Texas voter ID law and other such laws around the country are a modern-day poll tax. These laws, as they are written, put additional burdens on hundreds and thousands of voters, particularly the elderly, the poor, rural voters and minorities. These restrictions make it harder and more difficult for many registered voters, who have participated responsibly in elections for years, to have their voices heard in this society. I still believe there is a systematic effort to block voting access of certain segments of the population. We must not allow these efforts to go unchallenged. "This is a very important election that could be the gateway to even more regressive change, if we do not act. I encourage everyone to check the current law in their state and make certain they have what it takes to vote in this election. Organizations must assist low-income, the elderly, rural voters and minorities to get what they need. Whatever it takes to vote, do it. The vote is the most powerful non-violent tool we have in a democracy. People struggled and died for the right to vote in this country. Let nothing stop you from participating in the democratic process." ###
10.09.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) joins millions of Americans in marking October as Domestic Violence Awareness Month. This is a good time to highlight the 20th anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), landmark legislation which included the SMART Teen Dating Violence Prevention and Awareness Act sponsored by Rep. Lewis. Before the passage of VAWA, domestic violence was not managed like a dangerous offense by law enforcement officers. VAWA sharpened their focus on the dangers of domestic violence and engaged police to deal with it as the severe threat to public safety that it is. Despite this important legislation, there is still much more work to be done, as recent news involving the National Football League demonstrates. Twenty people per minute are victims of physical violence by an intimate partner in the United States. Nearly half of all women and one in five men experience sexual violence victimization other than rape at some point in their lives. "As we mark Domestic Violence Awareness Month, let us all strive to renew our commitment to bring an end to the vicious cycle of oppression and victimization in all our relationships once and for all. We must admit that as a nation aggression plays too active a part of our daily lives. A sense of entitlement and a demand for immediate satisfaction can give rise to the worst kinds of dehumanization and abuse. "We need to be reminded that every human being is a spark of the divine, and everyone has the God-given right to be free, to make their own decisions, and chart their own destiny. We must do much more to support women, men, and children who are victimized by violence to find them safe harbor, a secure, effective environment where they can recover and heal, and the resources and services they need to re-establish an independent, violence-free life." ####
10.09.2014	Washington --Today the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights (LCCR), a coalition of 200 civil rights organizations and one of the oldest organizations of its kind in the country, issued its vote ratings for every member of the 113th Congress. The LCCR has issued the Voting Record for every Congress since 1969. The scores reflect positions taken by every senator and representative on matters related to legislative priorities deemed important to the advance of civil and human rights. House and Senate members were graded on about 20 votes taken in the 113th Congress. Rep. John Lewis was one of three members of the Georgia delegation to receive a perfect score. "The Leadership Conference on Civil Rights is a premier civil rights organization with a long history and solid record of standing on the front lines to help this nation advance and transform. I am proud to receive this 100 percent rating and am glad there are organizations tracking voting records on civil rights issues. As we confront the challenges of the 21st century, it is much easier for all Americans to see that the issues of civil rights and social justice are not only relevant to minorities and the poor. "All Americans are affected by the state of civil rights in this country. From maintaining net neutrality to the mass capture of personal data, from the abuses of the mortgage foreclosure crisis to the gutting of voting rights protections, all of these challenges and more fall within the purview of civil rights. These problems affect not just some Americans but all Americans. It is important in this election year for people to know where their candidates stand on these issues. Through this publication, the LCCR provides the public with an important service. " ###
09.25.2014	I am deeply saddened to learn today that the U.S. Attorney General, Eric Holder, is stepping down. His resignation is a great loss for any American seeking justice in our society. He became the symbol of fairness, an embodiment of the best in the federal government. He has been a persistent and consistent leader in the struggle for civil and human rights. That legacy is in his bones. It is written on his heart, and his intelligence and committed leadership will be hard to replace. In my conversation with him today, I thanked the Attorney General for his years of service to this nation. He and his family have been a blessing, and his leadership will be sorely missed. ###
09.18.2014	Rep. John Lewis won kudos in two categories in the Best of Atlanta awards, an innovation of the local Atlanta newspaper Creative Loafing. The 2014 awards were released today. The paper said this about Lewis: "Longtime Atlanta Congressman John Lewis has had a busy year between the 50th anniversary of many Civil Rights Movement milestones and the announcement of the second installment of his bestselling civil rights-themed graphic novel memoir, March. At age 74, he manages to keep getting arrested — his 45th peaceful run-in with the law occurred in October 2013 — and continues to live up to his iconic legacy of nonviolent civil disobedience. In Washington, D.C., the congressman continues to serve his constituents well. He obtained a large affordable housing grant for homeless vets, is backing Georgia’s push for marriage equality and helping to fight controversial judicial nominations. And, of course, his incredible dance moves to the tune of Pharrell Williams’ “Happy” are something to behold." The newspaper is celebrating its 40th anniversary this year, dating back to Lewis's early days in Atlanta as a member of Student Non-violent Coordinating Committee. Votes are cast by thousands of readers. Lewis was named Best Local Politician, along with Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed, and still holds the title of Best Local Hero. ###
09.12.2014	"It is unbelievable to me that the Governor Nathan Deal and a State Senator Fran Millar would advocate legislative action that would make it harder and more difficult for any person to vote. And it is not right for the Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp to suggest something is wrong with voter registration efforts that encourage Democrats or minorities to vote. These public officials are proposing to engage in a deliberate systematic attempt to suppress the vote in our state. "It is unreal that almost 50 years after the Voting Rights Act was signed into law, there are individuals who want to take us back to another period by suggesting that only the wealthy or those with formal education deserve to have a voice in our society. We have covered too much ground to go back to this way of thinking. Too many people suffered and died for the right to vote in this country, and those efforts opened opportunity to men without property, women, and minorities who were all disenfranchised when this nation came into being. We have come too far to turn back now. "It should not matter whether you are black or white, Latino, Asian or Native American. The size of your wallet or the digits in your zip code should not matter. We all have an equal right to participate in the democratic process. The vote is precious, almost sacred, and what these officials are suggesting should be enough reason to make sure each and every one of us goes to the polls on election day. We must not let a few silence the voices of many taxpayers and citizens of this state. We should be making it simple and easier to vote in Georgia, not more difficult." It is important to note that the Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp also recently filed charges of fraud against the state Minority Leader Stacey Abrams and the New Georgia Project for voter registration efforts he alleges were fraudulent. Abrams has said she was surprised by the announcement since the Secretary of State was consulted during the process. She has won the backing of the Georgia NAACP which has questioned whether these charges are actually voter suppression efforts. ###
09.12.2014	Today, Rep. Lewis attended a gathering at the White House in honor of the 20th anniversary of Americorps. Americorps is a volunteer service organization that engages more than 75,000 Americans to assist nonprofits, schools, public agencies, and community and faith-based groups across the country. Since its inception in 1994, over 900,000 AmeriCorps members have given about 1.2 billion hours in service across America. "It was a great pleasure to participate in the White House gathering with President Clinton, the National Corporation for National and Community Service, and hundreds of volunteers to commemorate this great anniversary. President Obama announced important initiatives today which will strengthen the Americorps program and extend its reach to agencies and people across the country. "Volunteer effort is an important part of public life. It requires commitment and hope for a better future, both important motivations for democratic engagement. When individuals put aside the comfort of their own lives and get involved in the conditions and circumstances of others, they find they not only have the opportunity to give, but they often receive even more. That's why Americorps is important because it provides an opportunity for citizens to come to understand aspects of our society they can only perceive in the classroom of experience. They can see, touch, and feel the struggles of other citizens and participate in helping to solve the challenges of our nation. "I applaud Americorps and President Obama's decision to make it even stronger. I am looking forward to all it will achieve in the next 20 years."
09.11.2014	"Thirteen years have passed since the 9/11 disaster reshaped the course of American history. We can never forget the thousands of innocent lives that were lost on that day or the thousands of families whose future was forever changed. "It is a day that no one who lived through it will ever forget, and looking back to that day teaches us many lessons. One of those lessons is that we are a nation that does endure, and when we pull together, we can overcome even the greatest tragedy and the most transformative loss. My prayers remain with the families and survivors in New York, Washington, DC, Virginia, and Pennsylvania who have moved forward out of necessity, but who can never recapture what they lost that day. "A great president once said, 'There is nothing to fear but fear itself'. And it was this declaration by President Roosevelt that helped to define what historians now call ‘the greatest generation’ of World War II Americans. They demonstrate that it is our reaction to challenge that helps define who we are. "Today let us reflect upon our past and all the struggles we have had to survive and ultimately transmute to establish this great nation. And let us reflect upon what will be required of us in this generation to one day rid our nation and the world community of violence of every kind. Let us use this moment of sorrow and contemplation to consider what we must give and what action we must take to help build a Beloved Community, a nation and a world that is finally at peace with itself. ###
09.08.2014	"We have lost a very successful member of the Atlanta community. He was a winning businessman who took the tasty idea of putting seasoned chicken between two pieces of bread and created a billion-dollar restaurant chain. He first tried the sandwich on customers at the Dwarf Grill in Hapeville. When he realized it was a hit, he built the first Chick-Fil-A in an Atlanta mall in 1967. Since then his sales have surpassed those of Kentucky Fried Chicken, an American fast-food standard, and he has spread 1800 franchises all across the United States. "Many young people found their first jobs in his restaurants, and he encouraged them to pursue a college education. Despite, Cathy's own struggles as a student, his organization has awarded nearly $1.4 million in 4-year college scholarship awards and more than $30 million in leadership training for his employees. "His willingness to invest in the betterment of his employees enriched each community where his restaurants are located and created a legacy that will last for generations. Truett Cathy was a respected corporate citizen who did not forget the people who contributed their time and service to help make his success. He will be missed." ###
08.14.2014	"The death of Michael Brown is a grave tragedy the community of Ferguson, Missouri should not have to bear. How many more young men of color will be killed before we realize that we have a problem in America? We are permitting the incarceration and shooting of thousands of black and brown boys in their formative years who might have become great artists, leaders, scientists, or lawyers if we had offered them our support instead of our suspicion. "It is a shame and a disgrace that a city with a significant African American population has only three representatives from that community on the police force. What kind of a police department is it that would refer to the people it should be trying to protect as animals? It is unbelievable that these ideas could run rampant in 2014. This is not 1940 or 1950 in America, but today it is hard to see the difference. "This is not China or Russia or Syria. This is America, and in this country we have a right to protest in a peaceful, orderly non-violent fashion, and the press should be free to cover these protests without fear. The police should not interfere in the exercise of these constitutional rights. If people are not allowed to express their dissatisfaction through peaceful protest, they will find other means to make their voices heard. "This is a good time to consider the words of Martin Luther King Jr., who said that "Peace is not the absence of conflict, but the presence of justice." I am glad the federal government will make an independent investigation of these matters. " I urge every agency, every department, every community, every official and every person involved in this conflict to allow the whole truth to emerge so that peace--true peace and real justice will be the result. "My prayers are with the family of Michael Brown who lost their hope for a better future, with the city of Ferguson which has become the crucible of this conflict, and my prayers are for this nation still struggling with the scars and stains of racial discrimination, wanton violence, and flagrant injustice." ###
07.11.2014	Today Rep. John Lewis learned of the passing of John Siegenthaler--a pivotal civil rights reporter for The Tennessean in Nashville who would ultimately rise to become editor, publisher, and chairman emeritus of the journal. He was the founding editorial director of USA Today and a director on the board of the American Society of Newspaper Editors. Rep. Lewis made these comments upon hearing about his death: "John Siegenthaler was an award-winning reporter, a respected publisher, a military veteran, and a heroic public servant. He was a wonderful man who was honorable and good to the core. As a representative of President John F. Kennedy and Attorney General Robert Kennedy, he literally put his body on the line during the Freedom Rides to protect Susan Wilbur from being attacked by an angry mob in Montgomery. Earlier in his career as a reporter, he also saved a man's life who was threatening to jump off a bridge. That was John Siegenthaler. He always went beyond the call of duty. He was a newspaper man at heart who represented the highest tradition of journalistic integrity and reporting. He used the power of the pen to help make this country a better place. He was a skillful negotiator, the consummate professional, yet he was a humble, down-to-earth gentleman who was dedicated and committed to his family and friends. He was proud of his Southern heritage and loved to talk about growing up in Nashville. He was brave and courageous, unafraid to stand up for what he believed was right. John Siegenthaler was a beloved friend. My thoughts and prayers are with his family. He will be deeply missed." ####
07.02.2014	"Today this nation celebrates the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Civil Rights Act by President Lyndon Johnson. Over the years it, along with the Voting Rights Act, has been hailed by many legal historians as one of the most transformative pieces of legislation ever passed by the U.S. Congress. "This Civil Rights Act-- the result of a bi-partisan effort by members of Congress and the actions of two presidents-- ended legalized racial discrimination in public places and in the workplace based on race, gender, and religion and has been extended to include the disabled, seniors and other classes of Americans. This bi-partisan effort set the stage for the kind of America we live in today, a more fair and inclusive democracy than it has ever been before. "But it took more than legislative power to get this act passed. It did not happen before hundreds and thousands of people were arrested during non-violent protests, beaten, jailed, and many were even killed before this moral injustice was addressed by our society. Four little girls died after a church was bombed in Birmingham, churches across the South were burned to the ground, synagogues were bombed, Medgar Evers was gunned down in his driveway in Mississippi, Fannie Lou Hamer was beaten, three civil rights workers were killed in Mississippi, hundreds were jailed during the Freedom Rides and thousands were jailed during the sit-ins in Nashville, Greensboro and all across the country. "We are still battling forces that want to turn back the clock--that want to nullify the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act. They want to make it harder and more difficult for people to participate in our democracy and reserve those privileges for a wealthy few. We still live in a society where the problems of separation and division, of hate, violence and hostility still exist. We must make it plain through our activism today that we as a people will not go back; we want to move forward to make this a democracy based on simple justice that values the dignity and the worth of every human being. "On this day, we can reflect on the lives and the sacrifice of Rosa Parks and Martin Luther King Jr., Presidents Kennedy and Johnson and the bi-partisan leadership that made the passage of this act possible. The story of their action helps reveal the work we still must do and how we must do it. We all need to do our part, to push and pull together, to make a difference in our society. Democracy is not a state; it is an act. We must all stay in the continuing struggle to create a Beloved Community, a nation and a world society at peace with itself." ####
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON—In 2004, a bill sponsored by Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) in the House and by Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI) in the Senate was passed by the U.S. Congress, granting a Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. posthumously and to Mrs. Coretta Scott King. The minting of the medals takes about a year’s time. Unfortunately, Mrs. King fell ill and subsequently died in 2006. Today the U.S. Congress gathered to complete the effort by giving its highest honor to Dr. and Mrs. King. Rep. Lewis was the only speaker who received a standing ovation by the audience, when he rose to make these comments. These are his remarks as written: “We gather here in the Capitol to honor Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and his beloved wife Coretta Scott King, one of the most distinguished and admired husband and wife teams of the 20th century. “Often history remembers speeches, or facts and figures, but I cannot forget their love. From their union came an enduring strength that carried many of us through the darkest days of the movement. When they stood together, their bodies became great pillars of hope, the roof of the American house resting on their shoulders. “They helped lead a nonviolent revolution, a revolution of values, a revolution of ideas. “Mrs. King had the rare ability to tell the story of the movement through song, through music. She traveled the length and breadth of America. She built the Martin Luther King Center for Nonviolent Social Change in Atlanta. Together, they taught us the way of peace, the way of love, the way of nonviolence. They inspired an entire generation to find a way to get in the way, to find a way to get in trouble--good trouble, necessary trouble. “Through their action, their speeches, and their writings, they helped create the climate for the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. So it is fitting and appropriate that on the 50th anniversary of the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, we honor this unbelievable couple, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and his beloved wife Mrs. Coretta Scott King. They were my friends, my brother and my sister.” ###
06.20.2014	"Fifty years ago this month thousands of college students from around the country came to Mississippi during their summer break to help register black citizens to vote. The Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, under the direction of its Mississippi lead, Bob Moses, had been working in the state for several years. SNCC made only limited progress, so Moses developed the Freedom Summer concept as a way to demonstrate the challenges of the voting rights struggle there. "It was the hardest, meanest state in the South. Civil rights workers were harassed, beaten and even killed. Fannie Lou Hamer had been severely beaten one year earlier after participating in a literacy workshop. Just days later NAACP civil rights organizer Medgar Evers was killed in his driveway. Moses too had lost colleagues during his years of work in the state. He decided the only way to create a national sense of urgency was to invite people to participate in the struggle in Mississippi to they could experience the challenges for themselves. "As chairman of SNCC, I worked with organizers from a federated council of civil rights organizations. I traveled all around the country talking to students asking them to participate in Freedom Summer, and they came from everywhere. They had witnessed and admired the struggle for human dignity waged all across the South through sit-ins and non-violent protests. They wanted to be a part of something greater than themselves. Andrew Goodman and Mickey Schwerner were two of the students I met, and both were committed to the creation of a more inclusive democracy. James Chaney was a native of Mississippi who had been involved in civil rights work there in the months leading up to Freedom Summer. He volunteered to serve as a guide to help Goodman and Schwerner navigate the intricate landscape of Mississippi. "On June 21st, these three young men set out in a car to investigate the burning of Mt. Zion United Methodist Church. The Mt. Zion congregation had voted the evening before to allow the church to host a Freedom School, which engaged in voting rights education. The next day it was set fire by the Ku Klux Klan. Chaney, Goodman, and Schwerner left together in a car to find out what happened, and they never returned. "We found out later they were stopped by the sheriff, arrested, jailed, and then released to the Klan. Then they were beaten, shot, killed and buried in a dam. They were missing for nearly two months when finally their bodies were discovered. During the course of the investigation officials dredged the local rivers and discovered nameless victims they never knew were missing. This injustice did not happen in Honduras or Libya. It did not happen in China or Iraq. These three young men did not die in the Sudan, Columbia or Syria. They did not die in Pakistan or North Korea. They died right here in this country trying to help people register and vote. "As we look, during this election year, toward the one-year anniversary of the Supreme Court decision in Shelby v. Holder, it is clear that concerted efforts have been made to restrict the voting access of people of color. We must never forget the blood that was shed by thousands so that we could vote without threat or fear today. As we commemorate their courage and their sacrifice, we must also realize that our freedom is not free. The struggle for voting rights is not over. It still continues today. There are forces still working to block participation in our democracy. We have a mission and a mandate passed to us down by these three young men. We must make sure they did not die in vain. In the face of this powerful legacy, there is no room for apathy. We must use the rights these young men afforded us to do all we can to help build a more just society. But, if we choose not to use them, we can still lose them." ###
06.17.2014	U.S. Representative John Lewis (D-Ga.) announced today that the 5th District was granted $700,000 in affordable housing funding from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta (FHLBank Atlanta), one of the 12 district banks in the Federal Home Loan Bank System. The funding will support two projects -- The Commons at Nelms and the Phoenix House. Funding for the Commons project will be used to develop 95 units of housing for veterans in Atlanta, in keeping with its mission. The agency provides veterans experiencing homelessness and/or disability with affordable housing and supportive services in partnership with the Veterans Administration. Funding for the Phoenix House, a multifamily development for formerly homeless households with very low-incomes and some form of disability, will assist the redevelopment of the existing property to provide 77 units of permanent supportive housing for 5th District homeless. “Affordable housing is one of the greatest challenges we face in metro Atlanta today, "said Rep. John Lewis. "Very few private projects are developed these days to ensure that low to very-low income residents have a safe, decent, place to live. Offering needed assistance of this kind is one of the ways the federal government works to help answer community problems motivated solely by the interests of public health and public safety, not profit. These grants could serve to secure the safety and longevity of more than 100 Atlanta metro residents. They represent an important opportunity for our district." Including the 5th District, FHLBank Atlanta awarded a total of $2.8 million to affordable housing projects in Georgia. Since 1990, FHLBank Atlanta has awarded funding to support 285 projects in Georgia that created or rehabilitated 17,658 units of quality, affordable rental and homeownership housing. “AHP funding not only helps bring affordable housing to areas that have the greatest need, but also provides an important economic boost to entire communities,” said Robert Dozier, FHLBank Atlanta Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer. FHLBank Atlanta awards AHP funds annually through a competitive application process. Applications for the 2015 AHP funding round will be accepted beginning June 2015. Potential applicants must work with an FHLBank Atlanta member financial institution to complete the AHP Competitive program application. A list of member financial institutions is available on the FHLBank Atlanta website at www.fhlbatl.com Georgia 2014 AHP Winners City/County Project Name Member Sponsor Award Total Units Columbus, GA Waverly Terrace Senior Apartments Branch Banking & Trust Company Affordable Housing Solutions for Florida, Inc. Beneficial Development, LLC (Secondary sponsor) $500,000 80 Lawrenceville, GA Pathway HOME The Brand Banking Company Lawrenceville Housing Corporation $100,000 8 Dublin, GA Middle GA Center Synovus Bank Teen Challenge of Florida $500,000 65 Atlanta, GA Phoenix House Branch Banking & Trust Company Project Interconnections, Inc. Tapestry Development Group, Inc. (Secondary sponsor) $200,000 77 Albany, GA Bethel Housing Preservation SunTrust Bank Bethel Housing Community Development, Inc. Affordable Housing America, Inc. (Secondary sponsor) $500,000 98 Atlanta, GA Commons at Nelms Bank of America, National Association National Church Residences $500,000 95 Griffin, GA Meriweather Redevelopment Phase 1 United Bank Housing Authority of the City of Griffin Tapestry Development Group, Inc (Secondary sponsor) $500,000 84 What is the funding process for federal grants? There are two basic ways the federal government awards funds, through mandatory funding or discretionary funding. Members of Congress vote on “authorizing” legislation that funds the mandatory commitments of the federal government for programs like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, unemployment insurance and SNAP. Also every year, levels of discretionary funding are determined during the Congressional appropriations process. Rep. Lewis and all other members of Congress work to ensure that federal programs which provide key services within their districts are funded at levels requested by local government authorities and constituents they represent. The federal grants announced by this release fall mainly in the discretionary category. The money appropriated by Congress is sent to the federal agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) or of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which then disburse it directly to the states and local governments. Sometimes federal agencies issue requests for proposals which place states, cities, and local organizations in competition with others around the country for the opportunity to gain federal support for a local project. This is where the efficacy of city and state organizations are tested to determine whether they can compete effectively to receive those funds. Rep. Lewis often meets with and advises city, state or local agencies to help them strategize effective methods of engaging the federal agencies throughout the grant process. (more) Pell Grants, Byrne Justice Assistance, veterans’ services, LIHEAP home heating support, early education, COPS, YouthBuild, Jobs Corps, the CDC, minority health programs, TIGER, critical disease research initiatives, tenant and fair housing assistance all stem from Congressional discretionary funding. Recent successful discretionary grant efforts from the 5th Congressional District of Georgia include the Atlanta Streetcar, the Multimodal Passenger Terminal, the Atlanta BeltLine, and the UTC. Through his District Office, Rep. Lewis offers grants assistance and workshops to explain the federal grants process. Please call 404-659-0116 if you are interested in participating in one of these workshops. ###
06.16.2014	Rep. John Lewis made this statement today upon hearing that President Obama intends to issue an executive order banning federal contractors from discrimination based on sexual orientation. "This is a very important step forward," said Rep. John Lewis. "The federal government, the largest employer in the United States, played a primary role in ending legalized discrimination based on race. Today President Obama has joined two great presidents by leading this nation to take one more step down a very long road toward laying down the burden of discrimination altogether. "In 1941, A. Philip Randolph began organizing what would have been the first March on Washington to underscore his demand that Roosevelt issue an order to stop discrimination within war industries, create equal employment opportunity within those industries, and address the lynching that was rampant in Southern states. At first, Roosevelt said he could not comply, so Randolph threatened to organize a march 50,000 people strong. "Once he realized Randolph was serious, Roosevelt soon issued an executive order ending discrimination in war industries, similar to the role federal contractors play now. Then, again with Randolph's encouragement, after World War II was over, Truman ordered the integration of the entire federal government due to his concerns about the mistreatment of black veterans. The actions of these two presidents marked the beginning of the end of legalized segregation in government, universities, and the marketplace. "Through the executive order President Obama issues today, he is adding to a legacy of presidential leadership. He is sending a powerful message that discrimination in any form has no place in a democratic society. It also gives hope to the 9 million LBGT Americans and their loved ones who have had to bear the pain and sorrow of rejection, loss and shame with limited means to make their voices heard." ####
06.12.2014	"Today we have lost an American icon, one of the most talented, committed and dedicated artists of our time. Not only did Ruby Dee--along with her husband Ossie Davis-- portray the lives of African Americans in film with eloquence and integrity, she had the rare ability to speak truth to power. She used the time she was given to live a life that stood for what is fair, what is right and what is just. "She traveled the length and breadth of America during the Civil Rights Movement making speeches at peace rallies and protests. She used her intellect and her voice to challenge this nation on the issues of social justice and articulate the struggles of the human condition. Whether it was marching on Washington or supporting activism in the Deep South, engaging in sympathy protests in New York or getting arrested on the frontlines of change, Ruby Dee was there. "She never saw her activism as separate from her celebrity, but she viewed them both as valuable parts of her contribution to humanity. We may not be so lucky to have someone with her grace, her talent and her vision for humanity to pass this way again. She will be deeply missed." ###
05.27.2014	Periodically, Rep. John Lewis is notified that organizations within the 5th Congressional District have been selected to receive a variety of federal grants. This federal grants announcement will advise press and constituents of these notifications. This announcement details about $17,096,767 in federal grants coming to the 5th Congressional District. What is the funding process for federal grants? There are two basic ways the federal government awards funds, through mandatory funding or discretionary funding. Members of Congress vote on “authorizing” legislation that funds the mandatory commitments of the federal government for programs like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, unemployment insurance and SNAP. Also every year, levels of discretionary funding are determined during the Congressional appropriations process. Rep. Lewis and all other members of Congress work to ensure that federal programs which provide key services within their districts are funded at levels requested by local government authorities and constituents they represent. The federal grants announced by this release fall mainly in the discretionary category. The money appropriated by Congress is sent to the federal agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) or of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which then disburse it directly to the states and local governments. Sometimes federal agencies issue requests for proposals which place states, cities, and local organizations in competition with others around the country for the opportunity to gain federal support for a local project. This is where the efficacy of city and state organizations are tested to determine whether they can compete effectively to receive those funds. Rep. Lewis often meets with and advises city, state or local agencies to help them strategize effective methods of engaging the federal agencies throughout the grant process. Pell Grants, Byrne Justice Assistance, veterans’ services, LIHEAP home heating support, early education, COPS, YouthBuild, Jobs Corps, the CDC, minority health programs, TIGER, critical disease research initiatives, tenant and fair housing assistance all stem from Congressional discretionary funding. Recent successful discretionary grant efforts from the 5th Congressional District of Georgia include the Atlanta Streetcar, the Multimodal Passenger Terminal, the Atlanta BeltLine, and the UTC. Through his District Office, Rep. Lewis offers grants assistance and workshops to explain the federal grants process. Please call 404-659-0116 if you are interested in participating in one of these workshops. Following is the list of the most recently granted federal funds to the 5th Congressional District. If you are seeking more information about any one of these federal grants, please consult the granting information for more details on their selection process. Grants over $500,000 are highlighted. This is to inform you that the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, U.S. Department of Commerce, and Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta will be announcing the following grant award(s) to recipient(s) within your Congressional district and state. Grant Notifications U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Grant Recipient: Fulton County Government, Board of Commissioners Grant Project Title: HIV Emergency Relief Project Grants Amount: $16,081,767.00 Additional Details: https://hhsgrants.econsys.com/apex/f?p=103:210:0::NO:210:P210_GRANT_ID:111325 If you have any questions, please contact the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services at: (202) 690-6343. U.S. Department of Commerce Grant Recipient: Georgia Tech Research Corporation Grant Project Title: Building an Integrated MGI Accelerator Network: Workshop to be held June 5-6, 2014 at Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia, USA Amount: $15,000 If you have any questions, please contact the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Office of Public Affairs at: 202-482-4883. Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta Grant Recipient: The Shamrock Partnership 2012, LLC Grant Project Title: Shamrock Gardens Amount: $500,000 Grant Recipient: Community Housing Concepts, Inc. Grant Project Title: Trestletree Village Amount: $500,000
05.23.2014	WASHINGTON -- This week, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously adopted the Cost of War amendment authored by Rep. John Lewis during consideration of H.R. 4435, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This was the third consecutive year that the House has passed the Lewis amendment which simply requires the Department of Defense and the Internal Revenue Service to calculate and publish the cost of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq to every American taxpayer on their websites. H.R. 4435 is now pending before the U.S. Senate. On passage of the bill, the Congressman remarked -- “As the U.S. prepares to recognize Memorial Day, it is fitting that the House adopted my amendment. Experts estimate we have spent between $4 and $6 trillion on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. When Congress is cutting benefits to the poor, the homeless, and the elderly, the American people have the right to know how their money is being spent. "While it is important that the American taxpayer knows the financial cost of war, there is no way to calculate what American service members and their loved ones have sacrificed. "They put their lives on hold as they serve our country away from family, friends, and all they know and love. When they return, they must deal with the physical, social, and economic remnants of war every day. "We must not only end the cycle of war, but as a nation we must commit to providing every possible resource to support and pay tribute to Americans who served on the front lines and their families who care for them. They know firsthand the full cost of war, and every day, we must take the time to honor their selfless, commitment to democracy and service.” ###
05.19.2014	WASHINGTON --"I have fought long and hard and even put my life on the line for the cause of equal rights and social justice. My commitment to these ideals has never changed, and my record is solid and unwavering. I take a back-seat to no one and have been at the forefront for decades in defense of the right to marry, a woman's right to choose, and the imperative of non-violence as a means of dissent. I have worked tirelessly to rid Georgia, the South, and this nation from the stain of racial discrimination in any form, including the display of Confederate emblems in the Georgia state flag. I am not about to change that position now. "I have tried to refrain from making public statements out of respect for my colleagues and the Senate process. I believe it is important to allow each candidate to be evaluated according to his or her own merits and to allow the Senate judicial nomination process to take its course. This willingness to permit due process is all that I have indicated in any conversation I may have had with my colleagues. I did not at any time indicate my support for the Boggs nomination or say that he had the backing of the African American community in Georgia. "Based on the evidence revealed during this hearing, I do not support the confirmation of Michael Boggs to the federal bench. His record is in direct opposition to everything I have stood for during my career, and his misrepresentation of that record to the committee is even more troubling. The testimony suggests Boggs may allow his personal political leanings to influence his impartiality on the bench. I do not have a vote in the Senate, but if I did I would vote against the confirmation of Michael Boggs." ###
05.12.2014	Last Friday, Speaker John Boehner appointed Rep. Lynn Westmoreland, who serves as the National Republican Campaign Committee’s Deputy Chairman in charge of political strategy, to sit on the Select Committee on Benghazi. This weekend, during a meeting of Coweta County Republicans, Rep. Westmoreland discussed his work on the Benghazi committee at a political event, further illustrating a glaring conflict of interest, which would enable him to use the work of the congressional committee for political purposes. Today, Rep. John Lewis called on him to step down from the Select Committee on Benghazi and released this statement: “The attacks in Benghazi were a national tragedy – not a political opportunity. It is clear, however, that House Republicans have no interest in respecting the memory of the four heroes lost that day. “The House Republican effort to exploit the deaths of those brave Americans is utterly exposed by naming the Deputy Chairman of the NRCC to the Select Committee on Benghazi. Based on his comments this weekend at a political meeting, it seems Rep. Lynn Westmoreland will work to enable House Republicans to further politicize a supposedly sober investigation in an effort to rally the rightwing base. His participation on such a committee is as inappropriate as it is revealing. “I am calling on Rep. Westmoreland to step down from the Select Committee on Benghazi immediately. The political position he holds and the partisan behavior he has exhibited make it clear that he has no business serving on this committee. The American people deserve better than yet another partisan investigation from Republicans desperate to distract attention from their do nothing record."
05.07.2014	Subcommittee Hearing on the 2014 Tax Filing Season May 7, 2014 (Remarks as Delivered) Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this important hearing. Mr. Commissioner, thank you for joining us today, and congratulations to you and the IRS staff on a successful filing season. Over the past year, the IRS has dealt with many serious challenges. I commend you for taking the time to go out into the field to visit and connect directly with IRS staff across the country. Your thoughtful work and outreach has restored the morale of thousands of IRS employees, and I speak for many when I thank you for your efforts to tackle the serious challenges facing the agency. As we all know, many issues remain; chief among them is the need to increase the IRS budget. Last month, the Government Accounting Office (GAO) released a report that makes it clear that reducing the IRS budget has cut thousands of staff and hurt taxpayers. The agency sorely needs adequate resources in order to provide our taxpayers with the services they expect and deserve. When you can’t answer the telephone for 20 minutes, our taxpayers hang up. When you don’t get an answer to your letter for 30, 60, or even 90 days, you get aggravated. Taxpayers deserve better. They are hardworking Americans who need a functioning IRS and want to have faith in our government. For the very first time, the Affordable Care Act has opened the door for millions of Americans to access for health care. This will mean more work for the IRS, and we need to make sure that the agency has all the necessary resources to do their part in a fair and transparent manner. The Administration has requested $12.5 billion for the IRS fiscal year 2015 budget. Although that may seem like a lot, the IRS is getting less funding today than they did in 2009. And even if they were fully funded, which we know is unlikely, the GAO estimates this would only bring the IRS back up to 2012 staffing levels. It is important to highlight that providing the IRS with the necessary resources also helps crack down on identity theft and tax cheats. Last year IRS examinations of individual tax returns declined 5 percent, and collection activities declined 33 percent. When we don’t fund the IRS’ enforcement efforts, we essentially endorse an unfair playing field and reduce compliance across the board. Mr. Chairman, I am hopeful that this Committee can find a way to work together, and with the Commissioner, to provide the IRS with adequate resources and to make the IRS the best federal agency in the government. Again, thank you for holding today's hearing, and I look forward to working together in a bipartisan manner for the good of our country and the good of all of our taxpayers. ###
05.07.2014	"Three weeks ago, over 200 of our world’s future doctors, lawyers, leaders, and mothers were kidnapped from their high school in northern Nigeria. "I add my thoughts and prayers to those of each and every member of their families and all those of the human family who are calling out to have these children returned to their homes unharmed. We mourn for these innocent, beautiful children who are held captive solely for the "sin" of pursuing a better life through education. "Every second that these students remain in bondage is one second too many, and the fact that this tragedy has continued for so long without redress is a shame and a disgrace. These girls must be brought home – not tomorrow, not next week, but now. "This senseless violence and lack of regard for the human dignity of Nigerian women must cease and must be condemned. The Nigerian government should not stand idly by while their citizens are violated and sold into the worst kind of human slavery. All people of good will around the world must stand united in our censure of this wrong until these children are returned to their families and their attackers are made to bear full responsibility.” ####
05.05.2014	"Today we remember the Mexican struggle for freedom and independence symbolized by the conflict at Puebla, and we join with individuals around the globe who are inspired by this holiday. It reminds me of the words of President Lyndon Johnson offered during one of the most important speeches of his term. He referenced the long history of sacrifice and suffering humanity has engaged an "unending search for freedom". No matter how long a people must face oppression and degradation, the human soul will always call out for liberation. When the cause of equality and justice becomes so great, that it mobilizes and unites that "soul force" within us, social change is inevitable. On this day, over 150 years ago, the people of Mexico turned the tide in their own struggle and maintained their independence. We celebrate their rich history, culture and their contribution to cause of human liberation.” Spanish Translation - Traducido al español Hoy conmemoramos la lucha de los mexicanos por la libertad simbolizada por la batalla de Puebla, y nos unimos con toda la gente alrededor del mundo que se siente inspirada por este día. Me recuerda las palabras que el Presidente Lyndon Johnson expresó en uno de los discursos más importantes de su gobierno. Mencionó nuestra larga historia de sacrificio y sufrimiento por una “búsqueda eterna por la libertad.” No importa cuánto dure la opresión y la degradación de un pueblo, el alma siempre pedirá la libertad. Cuando la causa por la libertad y la justicia se vuelve tan grande que moviliza y une esa “fuerza del alma” que llevamos dentro, el cambio social es inevitable. En este día, hace más de 150 años, el pueblo de México cambió el curso de su propia lucha y conservó su independencia. Celebremos su rica historia, cultura y contribuciones a la causa de la libertad humana.
04.17.2014	WASHINGTON - On Monday, the Georgia Department of Human Services received a letter from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) warning that due to its continued failure to meet federal requirements in the effective disbursement of supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits (SNAP), often referred to as "food stamps," it risks suffering a $15 million cut in federal funding, if the state does not become compliant within 30 days. THE PROBLEM The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), formerly called the Food Stamp Program, is a domestic food assistance program designed to help eligible low-income households buy a nutritionally adequate low-cost diet. Authorized by Congress, SNAP is administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Food and Nutrition Service (USDA-FNS). This law, formerly the Food Stamp Act of 1977, has since 1973 been reauthorized by the "farm bill," omnibus legislation that also typically includes the authorization of other federal agricultural policies and programs. The USDA provides funding and guidance to States who administer the program and distribute benefits locally. USDA began meeting with Georgia DHS weekly in January of 2014 to monitor the problem and offer support. Prior to those weekly meetings, the department engaged in many face-to-face, phone and other visits in an effort to avoid issuing a warning. Earlier this year, however, Rep. Lewis was notified that the state was having difficulty meeting federal USDA requirements in the disbursement of food stamps and that a letter of advanced warning had been issued to Georgia. But when he was made aware that a formal letter of warning might be forthcoming, his staff began trying to quantify the nature of Georgia's problems. That inquiry revealed that in the past ten years, the USDA has only issued six letters of advanced warning regarding food stamp backlogs. In every case, all states involved became compliant within the time frame required in order to avoid receiving a formal letter of warning and risk a lapse in federal funding. Georgia is the only state issued an advance letter of warning, within the past ten years, which has not been able to become compliant within the allotted period. There also appears to be a series of compounding problems beyond the backlog that bring into question the state's ability to effectively meet the needs of families and individuals who depend on food stamps to survive. Not only is there a backlog of pending cases, but there are call center problems, which suggest that more than 40 percent of the people who call in requesting support are unable to successfully gain answers to their questions. "DHS continues to submit data confirming callers are not able to reach a worker through the call center. The most recent data shows 38 percent of calls were disconnected by the system during the week of April 4 and 47 percent were disconnected during the week of March 28. FNS continues to stress with the State the urgency of resolving this concern so that applicants have access to the program. " As of January of this year, the state had a backlog of over 30,000 cases, waiting to be processed. As of April 8, 2014, though significant progress had been made in paring down the backlog, there were still a total of 3328 cases, according to DOA, that remain pending. Plus the state's concentration of resources on the backlog problem have resulted in a new backlog of "overdue SNAP applications and recertifications". This indicates the possibility of some kind of systemic breakdown in the management of the SNAP program in Georgia that the federal government will insist be rectified. WAIVER In order to relieve some of its pressure, the state requested the ability to waive two critical federal requirements--verification and the interview process. Waiving verification would permit people who request food stamps to receive them without verifying whether those people are who they say they are. The interview provides the context of the request and offers more information to the administrator processing the application, which can be used to determine need. In response to the state's request, the USDA has said that verification is a cornerstone of the program's integrity and cannot be waived unless the state can devise some means to ensure that the federal standard is maintained. It has granted a postponement, not a waiver, of the interview until the state can become compliant. LEWIS STATEMENT ON WARNING Throughout his career, Congressman Lewis has been an outspoken champion of anti-poverty programs including SNAP. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Lewis applies every tool available to him and fights persistent efforts to cut SNAP funding and/ or change the program into block grants. He consistently supports legislation to increase SNAP funding and opposes any and every effort to further penalize struggling families. After learning these facts and hearing that a formal letter of warning had been issued to the state, Rep. Lewis made this statement: "The state of Georgia seems to have become callous and indifferent to the needs of its most vulnerable people," said Rep. Lewis. " The poor, the seniors, and the sick must travel to a state office and pay for an ID card just to register to vote. The ill and the suffering will receive no relief from the expansion of Medicaid. People who feared they might lose their homes can't receive help in time to save themselves from foreclosure, even though millions of dollars were allocated by the federal government to the hardest hit states. And now the hungry, who are looking for Georgia to offer a safety net of support are victimized by poor management, even when federal money is available. "Somewhere I read that as you have done to the least of these, so you have done it to me. The state of Georgia needs to be evenhanded in its administration. It cannot operate competently in some cases and incompetently in others. It must serve all the people --the poor and the rich, the sick and the able-bodied, the hungry and the well-fed--justly. It seems that our food stamp program in Georgia is not receiving the human resources and management expertise it demands in order to meet the needs of the people it was created to serve. That is not right, not fair or just. The state needs to fix the systemic and backlog problems immediately." ####
04.14.2014	Rep. John Lewis made this statement about the murders of three people yesterday, on the eve of Passover, by 73-year-old Frazier Glenn Cross of Aurora, Mo. "It is deeply tragic that such senseless brutality should occur on the eve of Passover, the time when Jews all over the world remember their liberation from slavery in Egypt thousands of years ago. Hate itself is a kind of bondage that poisons the well of the soul. Somehow we must finally learn that it can never be a meaningful answer to human problems. "Martin Luther King Jr. once said that hate paralyzes life; it darkens and confuses life. Only love has the power to release dynamic potential, to harmonize and illuminate our lives. When will humanity learn that we will never find the solution to our suffering down the barrel of a gun? "We must teach our children and our children's children these simple lessons of human unity. We must learn to live as brothers and sisters, as Dr. King said, or we will perish as fools. I lift my mind and heart in prayer to the victims of this violence and their families. May God give them comfort and peace. And I pray for all those who have bound themselves to the ill-fated burden of hate, that their violence will cease." ###
04.08.2014	Calls on House to Pass Emergency Unemployment Insurance for Nearly 3 Million Americans Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John Lewis commended Senate bipartisan action on legislation to extend unemployment insurance for nearly 3 million Americans, and called on the House to follow suit. The Senate passed the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act by a vote of 59 to 38, which retroactively extends emergency unemployment insurance through the end of May. “Bipartisan action in the Senate on unemployment insurance is a crucial step for economic security for those who have lost their jobs. By the end of this month over 85,000 Georgians, including over 43,000 children will be impacted. Because the House has failed to act, more than 2 million Americans are struggling to make ends meet with no end in sight, costing Georgia's economy alone over $110 million dollars,” said Rep. Lewis. “Speaker Boehner and House Republicans must listen to their constituents who are searching for an economic lifeline so they can support their families and pay their bills while they look for a new job. I have joined with 192 of my Democratic colleagues in signing a petition to hold a vote in the House on extending unemployment insurance.” The bipartisan Senate agreement would: · Retroactively restore emergency unemployment insurance for five months; · Exclude millionaires from receiving emergency unemployment insurance; · Strengthen efforts to help get job seekers back into the workforce; · Be fully paid for with pension smoothing and extending fees on U.S. customs users through 2024. Despite the jobs crisis in America, House Republicans have blocked multiple efforts by Democrats to bring up legislation to extend unemployment insurance on the House floor for more than three months. To overcome this opposition, 193 House Democrats have signed a discharge petition to force action on this widely supported legislation. The discharge petition will require the House to bring unemployment insurance extension legislation up for a vote once a majority of Members of Congress (218) have signed it. ###
04.04.2014	"When Martin Luther King Jr. was shot and killed 46 years ago today, I was in Indianapolis, Indiana working on Robert Kennedy's presidential campaign. That was a sad and dark hour for this nation and the world community. We lost a warrior for peace and human dignity who gave all he had so we could live in a better America today. "What we must realize 46 years later is that you can kill a man, but nothing can stop an idea whose time has come. As we face the challenges of today and all the attempts to turn back the progress we have made, we must remain committed to moving forward, to continue to build upon the progress that Dr. King stood for, regardless of the roadblocks thrown up in our paths. "What Dr. King's death can teach us is that setbacks are only temporary delays on a mission and a mandate that is divinely inspired. We can learn that the tactics of humankind will never snuff out the truth that we are all one people, one family, the human family. We all live in one house, the American house, the world house. "And one day I believe we will fulfill Dr. King's dream for humanity. We will all learn to live together peaceably as brothers and sisters or we will perish as fools." ####
04.03.2014	Periodically, Rep. John Lewis is notified that organizations within the 5th Congressional District have been selected to receive a variety of federal grants. This federal grants announcement will advise press and constituents of these notifications. This announcement details about $13,839,382 in federal grants coming to the 5th Congressional District. What is the funding process for federal grants? There are two basic ways the federal government awards funds, through mandatory funding or discretionary funding. Members of Congress vote on “authorizing” legislation that funds the mandatory commitments of the federal government for programs like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, unemployment insurance and SNAP. Also every year, levels of discretionary funding are determined during the Congressional appropriations process. Rep. Lewis and all other members of Congress work to ensure that federal programs which provide key services within their districts are funded at levels requested by local government authorities and constituents they represent. The federal grants announced by this release fall mainly in the discretionary category. The money appropriated by Congress is sent to the federal agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) or of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which then disburse it directly to the states and local governments. Sometimes federal agencies issue requests for proposals which place states, cities, and local organizations in competition with others around the country for the opportunity to gain federal support for a local project. This is where the efficacy of city and state organizations are tested to determine whether they can compete effectively to receive those funds. Rep. Lewis often meets with and advises city, state or local agencies to help them strategize effective methods of engaging the federal agencies throughout the grant process. Pell Grants, Byrne Justice Assistance, veterans’ services, LIHEAP home heating support, early education, COPS, YouthBuild, Jobs Corps, the CDC, minority health programs, TIGER, critical disease research initiatives, tenant and fair housing assistance all stem from Congressional discretionary funding. Recent successful discretionary grant efforts from the 5th Congressional District of Georgia include the Atlanta Streetcar, the Multimodal Passenger Terminal, the Atlanta BeltLine, and the UTC. Through his District Office, Rep. Lewis offers grants assistance and workshops to explain the federal grants process. Please call 404-659-0116 if you are interested in participating in one of these workshops. Following is the list of the most recently granted federal funds to the 5th Congressional District. If you are seeking more information about any one of these federal grants, please consult the granting information for more details on their selection process. Grants over $500,000 are highlighted. (more) This is to inform you that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services will be announcing the following grant award(s) to recipient(s) within your Congressional district and state. If you have any questions, please contact the HHS Press office at: (202) 690-6343 or consult their website: https://www.hhs.gov/news/contacts/index.html Grant Notifications by Date April 3, 2014 Grantee Name Grant Project Title Link EMORY UNIVERSITY Vaccine Induced Immunity in the Young and Aged - $2,884,146.00 View details SHELTERING ARMS (THE) PA-22 FYPD, PA-25 Early Head Start, PA-20 & PA-21 T&TA/CDA - $2,774,919.00 View details Y M C A OF METROPOLITAN ATLANTA Head Start Projects: PA-22 FYFD, PA-20 T/TA - $4,733,342.00 View details April 1, 2014 Grantee Name Grant Project Title Link CLAYTON COUNTY COMMUNITY SERVICES AUTHORITY, INC Head Start Projects: PA-22 & PA-20 T&TA/CDA - $1,490,566.00 View details EMORY UNIVERSITY Are Diabetes Risk and Preventive Behaviors Shared in Households? - $248,720.00 View details GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Intravascular Ultrasound Imaging Guidewire with Wireless Readout - $213,202.00 View details GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY Role of CD98 in Intestinal Permeability - $321,900.00 View details The Young Adult Guidance Center, Inc. Transitional Living Program - $186,000.00 View details March 31, 2014 Grantee Name Grant Project Title Link Georgia Department of Human Resources STATE HEALTH INSURANCE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM - $986,587.00 View details
04.03.2014	WASHINGTON--Today the U.S. Supreme Court made a critical decision that will dramatically affect the quality of the electoral process in the United States. The decision extends the damage the Citizens United v. FEC decision made to the integrity of U.S. elections by removing the cap placed on the number of campaigns to which one individual can contribute. Before the ruling one person could only donate a maximum of $2600 to a limited number of campaigns. Now individuals must still abide by the $2600 cap to any one campaign, but they can contribute to as many political campaigns in one election or around the country as they would like. The decision was sharply divided 5-4 with pointed dissent launched by numerous justices. “If Citizens United opened a door,” said Justice Stephen G. Breyer during his dissent, “today’s decision we fear will open a floodgate.” Rep. John Lewis made these comments upon hearing about the decision: "Today the Supreme Court has declared that the federal government is up for sale to the highest bidder. To suggest, as the Chief Justice did that, political campaign contributions can be likened to newspaper subscriptions, is an unfortunate comparison. This decision tilts the balance of electoral power toward individuals with the deepest pockets, who after today have the power to influence as many elections across the country as they would like. "One man one vote is a sacred principle of our democracy. The reason limits were placed on campaign contributions was to protect the integrity of the vote in this country, so that no one individual or corporation would have the power to override the public will or dictate the outcome of elections. Today a series of Supreme Court decisions and state legislative actions are silencing the voices of the poor and the working class in the electoral process, and are giving the wealthy an unfair advantage over those who depend on the protection of the government the most. "It is important for the people to remain vigilant and struggle against these new devices. As Martin Luther King Jr. said nothing can stop the power of a determined people committed to make a difference." ###
03.06.2014	Tomorrow, on the 49th anniversary of Bloody Sunday, Rep. John Lewis will lead a congressional delegation to civil rights sites in Mississippi and Selma, Alabama. The tour through Mississippi commemorates the Mississippi Freedom Summer project developed by the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) 50 years ago. Then Chairman of SNCC, Rep. John Lewis traveled to college campuses throughout the country to encourage students to come to Mississippi during the summer of 1964 to help register voters. Shortly after the summer project began, three civil rights workers were killed--Andrew Goodman, James Chaney and Mickey Schwerner--as they went out to investigate the burning of a church on June 15, 1964. "This is an important journey," said Rep. John Lewis. "It is important for members of Congress to see what happened and how it happened, for members to witness how people sacrificed and had to give their very lives to register and vote, something that was already promised them by the Constitution by was denied them by immoral laws. "Hundreds of people were jailed during the Freedom Rides in Mississippi and many people died trying to register voters in the state. Those of us who were jailed in Parchman Penitentary, known as one of the hardest prison farms in the country, emerged with greater resolve than ever before to take on the dangerous challenge of organizing in Mississippi. "Under the direction of Bob Moses, SNCC set up an office in Greenwood and developed a brilliant strategy to register people to vote. Some of the best organizing of the entire movement occurred there, and that's why the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party had so much strength and why there are more black elected officials in Mississippi than any other state in the country. They continued to use the organizational foundation laid by SNCC." The pilgrimage will visit the home of Medgar Evers--a World War II veteran and NAACP leader who was killed in front of his home on June 12, 1963. The participants will meet with his wife Myrlie Evers-Williams. They will visit Ruleville--the home town of famed SNCC leader of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party--Fannie Lou Hamer, as well as the town of Money, where 14-year-old Emmett Till was kidnapped and murdered in 1955. Some historians see the Till murder as the beginning of the modern-day civil rights movement. They will also see Tougaloo College and visit with Mississippi Veterans of the Civil Rights Movement. The group will leave Jackson on Sunday morning to attend church services at historic Brown Chapel AME Church in Selma, Alabama. Honorary Co-leaders of this pilgrimage are Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-MS) and Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS). Reps. Terri Sewell (D-AL) and Spencer Bacchus (R-AL) are honorary Co-Chairs of the Alabama leg of the pilgrimage. This year at least 20 members of Congress will attend, including Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA), Minority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Senators Tim Johnson (D-SD), Tim Kaine (D-VA) and Tim Murphy (D-CT). ###
02.28.2014	Yesterday Rep. John Lewis attended a ceremony at the White House where President Barack Obama introduced his new initiative, My Brother's Keeper, a White House program serving young African American men and boys. Rep. Lewis made these comments: "I don't think there is any person in America who could have a stronger influence on the lives of African American men and boys than President Barack Obama. His very presence in the White House demonstrates the power of possibility to young men who may never have dreamed they had any chance to make it at all. I am very glad that the President decided to use his power to make a difference in the lives of these young men. "Of course President Obama serves all of America, but just as a national program can affect individual communities, focused, effective work in one community can have a national impact. We are one people, one family, the human family, and what serves one person helps us all. Plus the statistics are alarming and suggest there is an emergency that no responsible public figure should ignore. "86 percent of African American boys read below grade level by the time they reach the 4th grade. They are six times more likely to be victims of gun violence than white boys. In the state of Georgia only 49 percent of African American boys graduate from high school, compared to 65 percent of white boys. These problems make them more vulnerable to get into the kind of trouble that is hard to get out of. "If someone had not reached out to me, in my case it was Dr. King, I don't know where I would be today. One man like President Obama can make a significant difference in this lives of these young men, and I applaud the president for throwing them a lifeline, to let them know someone they admire and respect wants to help them succeed." ###
02.28.2014	This week Rep. John Lewis joined his Democratic colleagues to sign a Discharge Petition to raise the minimum wage to $10.10 an hour. If 218 members of the U.S. House of Representatives sign the petition, it would bring a minimum wage bill to the floor for a vote. Speaker John Boehner has previously said he will not allow a vote on raising the minimum wage. A recent Think Progress report says that CEO salaries have risen 127 times faster than that of their workers in the past 30 years, while the wages of employees have remained flat or have fallen, if adjusted for inflation, during that time. They report income inequality in America is approaching that of Pakistan and the Ivory Coast. According to a Bloomberg News economist, if a highly profitable business like WalMart passed the entire increase in the minimum wage along to the consumer, it would raise the price of DVDs by 1 cent, but it would help their employees significantly. Raising the minimum wage would help over 25 million Americans live with more dignity and would lift 1 to 4.5 million out of poverty. Rep. Lewis made these comments: "Corporations have seen record profits in the last 30 years, and some of that increase should be passed on to the workers who helped make that success possible. People are working harder now than ever before but with more and more limited results. "Studies are showing that the face of homelessness is changing in America. Homeless shelters are reporting more and more whole families--children with their parents--are being housed by the shelters. And they are finding more people who work everyday go home to shelters at night because they do not make enough money to even rent a room. "This kind of poverty inside the wealthiest nation in the world is a disgrace. The American people deserve much better. That's why I joined my colleagues to sign the discharge petition." ####
02.05.2014	Today in Washington, the Atlanta Beltline Eastside Trail and Historic Fourth Ward Park received the Environmental Protection Agency's highest award, the National Award for Smart Growth Achievement for Overall Excellence. The award recognizes projects around the country for their creative, sustainable initiatives that better protect the health and the environment while strengthening local economies. The winners represent "exceptional approaches to development that respect the environment, foster economic vitality and enhance quality of life." There were 77 applications from 31 states in 2013. Rep. Lewis attended the reception for award winners on Capitol Hill this evening. "There is a reason why Atlanta is called the Gateway to the South," said Rep. John Lewis. "We have our problems, but we should never forget that Atlanta has been one of the most progressive cities in our region. This Beltline project and its emphasis on sustainable growth is just one way we continue to prove that we are thinking ahead and on the move. Congratulations to the City of Atlanta for its fine work and development, and I look forward to working on continued efforts to develop a comprehensive transportation plan that will transform the way people travel in our region." The Atlanta BeltLine is a unique collaborative effort of public and private partners, and is the most comprehensive economic development effort ever undertaken in the City of Atlanta. It provides a network of public parks, multi-use trails and transit along a historic 22-mile railroad corridor circling downtown and connecting 45 neighborhoods through an integrated approach to land use, transportation, greenspace and sustainable development. It is the largest, most wide-ranging urban redevelopment project currently underway in the United States. The program is a national model for building livable urban communities around transit, parks, and trails in a manner that changes regional patterns of sprawl, reduces the city’s carbon footprint and becomes an economic engine for decades. ###
02.05.2014	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this hearing. I am pleased to welcome the new Internal Revenue Service Commissioner, John Koskinen, to the Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee. Mr. Commissioner, you have a tough job ahead of you, and I want to thank you for accepting this challenge. Please know that many of us want to work with you to address the financing, services, and staffing problems facing the IRS. As you know, the recent omnibus funding bill provided $11.2 billion for IRS operations in fiscal year 2014. This is a $1 billion decrease from fiscal year 2010. I am very concerned about the unavoidable reality of these budget cuts. Today, there are thousands fewer IRS workers struggling to meet a heavier workload. Now, it takes much longer for taxpayers to receive responses to their inquiries, and the backlog is not a dream -- it is grounded in cold, hard facts. The IRS staff must process 5 million more individual returns and answer 15 million more phone calls with $1 billion less. Let me say that again -- 5 million more returns, 15 million more calls, and $1 billion dollars less. My friends, you can only get out what you put in, and you cannot get blood out of a turnip. In particular, I am very concerned that the IRS’ long-standing practice of assisting low-income, elderly, and disabled taxpayers in preparing their returns has been discontinued because of these cuts. Why is this Congress so determined to balance the budget on the backs of the poor? Enforcing tax laws, collecting taxes, and providing services to taxpayers are some of the most vital responsibilities of our government. We cannot keep robbing Peter to pay Paul. Congress cannot cut the IRS' budget and hope taxpayers will continue to receive the services they expect and rightly deserve. It is not just the Commissioner who has called for more resources, but also the IRS Oversight Board, the Taxpayer Advocate, and the Treasury Inspector General. When taxpayers cannot get the help they need and deserve from a federal agency, they turn to us. I am hopeful that this Committee, and the Appropriations Committee will listen. We must do everything in our power to support this agency and its staff. In closing, I would like to thank you for being here today. I look forward to your testimony and working with you and the Members of this Committee to address these important and other issues. Thank you, Mr. Commissioner; thank you, Mr. Chairman. ###
01.30.2014	"I have been keeping track of the weather and traffic problems in Georgia since yesterday. It was at the top of my mind after the State of the Union address. I heard about how people were stranded, sleeping in their cars, shops and in schools to get out of the weather. "Yesterday, I closed my offices in Atlanta at 1 PM. After several hours most of my staff made it home, but one who lives in Conyers, Georgia. He uses both MARTA and his car to get to work. He was stranded for almost 12 hours. "I am glad to hear that people are obeying the best advice to stay indoors today and off the streets and highways unless it is absolutely necessary to travel. I was especially gratified to hear about the goodwill welling up between strangers in this crisis. "I understand there is a website on Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/SnowedOutAtl) where people can share their needs and work to help each other. People are volunteering their four-wheel drives to help stranded travelers, offering their homes for shelter and rest, opening their businesses to people who need assistance, and extending the friendliness, grace and hospitality that is a trademark of our region. In trying times, there is often some good that emerges, and in this crisis the people are the greatest good. When even the best plans fail, the outpouring love, goodwill, hopefulness and helpfulness of the people is often the saving grace. So I want to thank the people of Georgia and the 5th Congressional District for their gracious concern during this difficult time. Your warmth and ingenuity are what makes this metropolitan area the great region that it is." ###
01.30.2014	Today the House passed what is known as the "Farm Bill", H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013. The bill required the House and Senate to confer to come up with a compromise that could pass both Houses. The compromise included cuts to SNAP benefits at a time when poverty and hunger are on the rise in America. Rep. Lewis was the only Democrat in the Georgia delegation to vote against the bill. In a statement to the congressional record Lewis said, "This is a very good effort... and I want to commend every member of the conference committee .... For months they worked hard and found compromise on many difficult issues.....[but]...I am disappointed to say that I cannot support the final product. During these trying economic times every cent counts for those who are struggling to keep a roof over their heads and food on the table. ... I believe in my heart and soul that we cannot continue to reduce the deficit at the expense of those who are struggling from no fault of their own....The poor are getting poorer." "We are cutting policies that help to sustain people, policies that helped create a middle class. These actions threaten to take us back to a time in America when the poor were simply left to fend for themselves," he added. "People lived in grinding poverty, and there was very little opportunity to move up. In the richest nation in the world, people should not have to struggle to meet their basic needs or struggle just to survive." ###
01.29.2014	"President Obama gave an extraordinary speech tonight. It was full of hope and described a very optimistic vision of America. The President emerged as a headlight and not a taillight. He demonstrated that he is not affected by the challenges of his work, but he showed the American people his continuing willingness to lead. " He made it plain that if Congress was not prepared to make progress, he would take action on all the issues that are important to the American people. I was so glad to hear him talk about giving every American a chance to reignite a flame of hope in people across the land. He knows how hard so many are working to stay in the middle class and falling farther and farther behind. It means a great deal to people to know that the President sees their pain and wants to do something about it. "He talked about creating jobs, offering people a living wage, and addressed the issues of climate change and environmental preservation. Climate change is a fact. We have to ask ourselves why has it started snowing in New Orleans, Charleston and Atlanta where people have been stuck on the freeways for hours today just trying to make it home? The answer may lie in climate change, and we need to face the scientific truth. "He talked about preserving the pristine lands, which is a vital issue to me. We have a fundamental right to know what is in the food we eat, the air we breathe and the water we drink. I was so glad the President mentioned these issues. "Immigration reform is another area where he signaled that we can make progress in Congress this year, and the president encouraged it. Also I met the President as I was leaving the hall and he said to me, "John, are you making any progress on the Voting Rights Act?" And I said, "Yes, Mr. President we are making some progress." "President Barack Obama is not deterred by any criticism or doubt. He demonstrated tonight that he is still standing tall, still a man of courage and vision, and still prepared to fight for what he believes is good for the American people." #####
01.28.2014	Folk singer Pete Seeger died Monday night in New York at the age of 94-years-old. The news media once called him "the pied piper of musical dissent," as he became a fixture in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s. He led a resurgence in the popularity of folk music during the last half of the 20th century. Rep. Lewis made these comments upon hearing about his death. "Pete Seeger was an amazing man. He traveled all over America and the world calling for peace and civil rights. He marched with us in Selma and in Mississippi. He was a regular at Highlander Folk School in Monteagle, Tennessee. He and Guy Carawan are more responsible than any two people for making "We Shall Overcome" the theme song of the Civil Rights Movement. "He believed in our mission and felt it was a part of his mandate to help build, not just a society, but a world community at peace with itself. He popularized the songs of working people, the labor songs and folk music. And when he would sing those simple, pure songs of the heart that came out of the everyday experiences of life, he helped us confirm the power of ordinary people to do extraordinary things. Pete Seeger was one of a kind--a great musician, a man of the people, and a servant of the greatest good for all humanity." ###
01.17.2014	"In the next few days this nation will celebrate the life of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. This one man liberated, not just a people, but an entire nation from the burdens of separation and division. Dr. King helped make this world a better place. "His message was love. His weapon was truth. His method was creative nonviolence. His goal was the Beloved Community -- a society based on simple justice that values the dignity and the worth of every human being. In a sense, he spoke a strange language. He talked about the philosophy of passive resistance to evil and the use of nonviolence in the struggle for good. He was a radical, far too advanced in his concepts of love and peace for the violent times in which he lived. "Dr. King may have been cut down by an assassin’s bullet, but his legacy lives on. Men could conspire to take his life, but they can never kill the truth of his words or the power of his message. The movement that Martin Luther King, Jr. led, the movement that he sustained, was too right, too necessary, too noble to ever die. "This man of vision, this man of peace was never elected to any public office. But you can find his likeness on the National Mall today standing with generals and presidents. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. must be looked upon as one of the founding fathers of the new America, who injected true meaning into the very veins of our democracy." ####
01.10.2014	Rep. John Lewis made these comments upon learning of the death of Franklin McCain, one of the four young men who began the sit-in movement in Greensboro, North Carolina in the 1960s. “Franklin McCain must be looked upon as one of the founding fathers of the sit-in movement. He was one of the four students who inspired an entire generation of young men and women, black and white, to stand-up by sitting down. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said that the four young men who sat down in Greensboro taught us all how to use the power of passive resistance on a mass scale. “Because Franklin McCain had the courage and the vision to take non-violent action, along with his three friends, the sit-in movement spread across the South like wildfire. Sit-ins commenced in Nashville, Atlanta, Memphis, Jackson, Montgomery and many other cities across America. “Franklin McCain was one of the founders of a New America, a nation that was transformed because he lived. Every citizen of this country owes him a debt of gratitude because he insisted that we create a more fair, more just democracy. We are a better people and a better country because Franklin McCain lived.” #####
12.23.2013	ATLANTA--A broad coalition of elected officials and community leaders will announce their opposition to the slate of candidates nominated last Thursday by the White House to sit on the bench in the Northern District of Georgia at a news conference on Monday, December 23rd. The news conference will be held at Ebenezer Baptist Church, 449 Auburn Avenue, NE, Atlanta, Georgia 30312, at 11:00 a.m on Monday December 23rd. The group cites serious concerns that the proposed candidates do not adequately reflect the diversity of the northern district and that the selection process lacked meaningful community input. Additionally, the coalition finds it troubling that several of the nominees include persons who have advocated in favor of Georgia’s voter ID laws and for including the Confederate Battle Emblem as part of the Georgia State Flag. Three recipients of the Presidential Medal of Freedom--Rep. John Lewis, the Rev. Joseph Lowery, and the Rev. C.T. Vivian--will speak, as well as U.S. Reps. David Scott and Hank Johnson. Representatives of the Gate City Bar Association, members of the Georgia Association of Black Women Attorneys, Georgia Alliance of African American Attorneys, the Atlanta and Georgia Chapters of the NAACP, The Coalition for the People's Agenda, and the SCLC will also be present. For more information contact Charles Johnson (Charles.johnson@hklaw.com) or Suzy Ockleberry sockleberry@yahoo.com For Rep. Lewis contact, Brenda Jones (brenda.jones@mail.house.gov or 202.226.4673). ###
12.12.2013	In recent meetings of the House Democrats, Rep. John Lewis encouraged members of his caucus to send “the strongest possible message” to the Speaker of the House, the Republican House leadership, and the American people that there are members of Congress who want to take action to pass comprehensive immigration reform in this Congress. The Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi pulled the entire caucus together to join with the Fast 4 Families protest, a coalition of groups fasting for immigration reform in tents near the U.S. Capitol. Members who fasted and those who are supportive of reform participated in a news conference with some of the 1200 Fast 4 Families lobbyists today. Some members marched to the Fast 4 Families tent after the news conference hand-in-hand with protest leaders and clergy. This is Rep. Lewis statement made at the news conference as written: Thank you, Leader Pelosi, for organizing this effort to send the strongest possible message to the leadership of the House of Representatives. There are members of this body who want to make a difference in the lives of immigrants in this country. There are young children in America who live in constant fear. They are afraid to go to school, afraid someone will point them out. They are afraid their mothers and fathers will be deported. We don’t want to go home and start this holiday season of love, forgiveness and compassion and turn our backs on those who live in fear in America. The Senate has already passed comprehensive immigration reform. The House has a companion bill, H.R. 15, with over 190 bi-partisan co-sponsors. If the Speaker would bring that bill to the floor, we could begin the process of immigration reform in America tomorrow. Mr. Speaker, millions of lives are hanging in the balance as this Congress leaves for a break. How can we turn our backs on the families who must hide in the shadows of this country? They help advance our economy and add to the richness of our culture. We are joining with Fasting 4 Families today to say we want to confront the challenges of immigration, including the issues around citizenship and border security. We want to put these issues on the table and begin the process of reforming our law to end the humanitarian crisis our current policy creates. We still have time to bring H.R. 15 to the floor for a vote. Mr. Speaker, as a nation and as a compassionate people, we can do better. It has been said maybe our foremothers and forefathers all came here in different ships, but we’re all in the same boat now. We’re all one people, one family, the human family. Let’s do what the American people sent us here to do. Let’s us work together and lead this nation. Let’s find reasonable and humane solutions to human problems. Let’s pass comprehensive immigration reform today, in this Congress. Thank you. ###
12.05.2013	“The whole of humanity has lost one of the most beloved, admired, and inspiring leaders of the last century. Through his action in defense of human dignity, his unjust, brutal imprisonment, and his attempts to heal a nation he demonstrated to all of us that we must never become bitter or hostile. He showed us that we each, despite our tribulation, have the power to forgive, that we can be reconciled with the worst offender. When he walked out of prison with grace, dignity and pride, he taught us how to thrive as members of the human family. “I had the opportunity to meet and talk with President Mandela on several occasions in South Africa and here in America. I remember as a student, hearing and reading about him long before the worldwide Free Mandela movement emerged. We identified with him. We identified with the struggle in South Africa, the Sharpville massacre, and were intimately aware of all the major events that occurred in the struggle against apartheid. “The first time I had a chance to meet him was in South Africa after his release from prison. He gave me this unbelievable hug. I will never forget it. He said, “John Lewis, I know all about you. You inspired us.” I said, “No, Mr. Mandela, you inspired us.” He said, “The struggle continues.” I felt unworthy really to be standing at his side. I knew I was in the presence of greatness. “I attended his inauguration, spent time with him alone in the chambers of the U.S. Capitol before he addressed a joint session of Congress, and saw him several times when he came to meet the Congressional Black Caucus. The last time I saw him in the United States, he said he thought it would be his last journey across the water. “President Nelson Mandela must be looked upon as modern-day saint. He was a giant of a man. Even those who opposed him could not help but admire and deeply respect him. His redemptive, unearned suffering, his dedication to the philosophy and discipline of non-violence, and his magnificent grace are a testimony to the power and endurance of the human spirit. He was one of those rare individuals, like Mohandas Gandhi or Martin Luther King Jr., who come along only once in a generation who are a blessing to all humanity. They teach us not just how to liberate the body, but how to free our minds and unleash the power of the human spirit.” ###
12.03.2013	UPDATED 12/4/2013 “I was very disturbed to hear today that Metro Atlanta residents had gathered near the Department of Labor after being turned away from the Partnership for Community Action on Covington Highway this morning hoping to apply for energy assistance, and they encountered problems. Even though there have been automatic cuts to some federal spending programs that have dramatically affected many of my constituents in the 5th District, this program is not one of them. “The funding for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) has not been subject to automatic cuts. In fact, funding was disbursed to Georgia by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) at the beginning of November. I received notices in my office saying that the application process would begin for seniors on November 14 and the remaining applicants in Fulton County on December 1. “Our preliminary review of federal records shows that the state of Georgia actually received slightly more this year than in 2013--$60.441 million in FY2014 as compared to $60.387 million in FY2013, about a $54,000 difference. And national funding for LIHEAP has also remained fairly steady, FY 2014 - $3.29 billion and FY2013 - $3.21 billion. Though there are many reasons to try to press this Congress to be more productive, this apparently is not one of them. “People from my office have been reaching out to HHS and the Fulton-Atlanta Community Action Authority (FACAA) today to determine what happened this morning and why there is some question as to whether funds have already been depleted for this winter. We have not confirmed this as a fact at this time, but are still inquiring to get more information. When I receive more details, I will share them.” ###
11.22.2013	Rep. John Lewis made this comment while reflecting on the death and assassination of President John F. Kennedy in Dallas on November 22, 1963. “When President Kennedy was assassinated, something died in those of us who knew him, and something died in America. He was the first American president to say that the issue of civil rights and social justice was a moral issue. He represented our hope, our idealism, our dreams about what America could become. He made us believe that we could do anything, tackle any challenge, and that through our efforts we could help heal the problems of the world. “Many people, some who still serve in public office today, got involved with public service because they were inspired by President Kennedy. People joined the Peace Corps, they ran for public office, they volunteered and gave their assistance not simply due to a mandate, but because his leadership made them believe they could make a difference. When he died, a light went out in America and the nation has never quite been the same since. “The last time I saw President Kennedy alive was the day of the March on Washington. He invited all the speakers to the White House after the march was over. I can still see him standing in the door of the Oval House beaming, waiting to greet us. He shook the hand of each person saying, “You did a good job. You did a good job.” And when he got to Dr. King he said, “And you had a dream.” “President John F. Kennedy represented the youth, the vigor, the intellect, the imagination and ingenuity of the American identity. We lost a great leader in Dallas on November 22nd. I am not so sure we will be so lucky or so blessed to ever see his likeness again.” ###
11.18.2013	Rep. John Lewis made this statement today in support of the nominations of Judge Robert Wilkins to the U.S. District Court and Rep. Mel Watt to lead the Federal Housing Finance Agency: I am glad to add my voice to those of my colleagues here today in support of the nomination of Judge Robert Wilkins and other capable candidates to the D.C. Circuit Court. All of these candidates are qualified. Judge Wilkins is qualified. Mel Watt, the President’s nominee to lead the Federal Finance Housing Agency is qualified. But their nominations have been blocked by unfair filibuster in service to the worst kind of partisan politics I have seen in my 26 years here serving in Congress. In 2005, Chief Justice John Roberts delivered a lecture entitled “What Makes the D.C. Circuit Court Different?” according to The New York Times. He explained that the D.C. Circuit court, more than any other court in the federal appeals system, has a “special responsibility to review legal challenges to the conduct of the national government.” About two-thirds of the cases heard before that court involves review of the actions of the federal government. I had to ask myself and the American people should ask themselves, what troubles my Republican friends in the Senate so much that they cannot allow any recent nomination by President Obama to go through? Could it be they are afraid that an impartial review by judges of impeccable merit, like Robert Wilkins or Nancy Pillard, would slay some of their “sacred cows”? Could it be they are afraid an impartial hearing might bring an end to the cloak of partisan protection that has allowed this Congress to focus on work that has not represented the will or the interests of the people of this country? If these positions were necessary when Justice Roberts was appointed to the 9th seat of the D.C. Circuit Court, when Justice Clarence Thomas was appointed to the 10th seat, and when Justice Scalia, Judge Douglas Ginsburg and former Special Prosecutor Kenneth Starr were appointed to the 11th seat, then why are they suddenly so unnecessary now? For members of the Senate to try to shape the character of the judiciary through pure, unvarnished partisanship is a discredit to the dignity of this body and a disservice to the American people. Let the nomination of a qualified candidate like, Judge Robert Wilkins, named by Legal Times as one of the Greatest Washington Lawyers of the last 30 years come up for a vote without partisan interference. Let the nomination of Rep. Mel Watt to lead the Federal Housing Finance Agency come up for a vote without partisan intervention. Let the House and the Senate get back to the work of representing the needs and the concerns of the good people of this nation, instead of wasting our time and the people’s money on partisan politics that serves the interest of a few, and not the many people of this nation. We can do better. The people of this nation deserve better. Thank you. ###
10.22.2013	“Major Owens was a wonderful man. I actually felt it was an honor to have the chance to get to know him and call him a dear friend. He was a graduate of Morehouse College and Atlanta University, where he studied library science. He was one of the few librarians ever elected to Congress. “As a representative, he was a consistent and persistent champion for justice. He fought for equal access for the underprivileged and underserved. One of the highlights of his career was the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act which opened up opportunities for the disabled and made it illegal to discriminate against them. He also believed that every young American had the right to a quality education, and he fought to defend educational opportunity for the most vulnerable populations. His district included many Caribbean families, especially Haitians, but he took a stand for immigrants from every continent who were seeking fairness and justice. “Major Owens was an honorable man who used his life and his talents to serve humanity. My heart goes out to his wife and family. I know he will be deeply missed. ####
10.17.2013	“It was a shame and a disgrace that the government of the most powerful nation on earth was recklessly shutdown and allowed to slip perilously close to default. However, I am glad that tonight the great majority of the members of the House and Senate finally came together and did the right thing. We passed a clean bill, as we should have had an opportunity to do days ago. We simply restored the government to normal functioning and raised the debt limit so this country can pay its bills on time, as it has for over 230 years. “Today Standards and Poors released a report estimating $24 billion in damage to our economy from this unnecessary crisis. Many federal workers, small businesses and institutions, schools, families, and children have suffered. We may never fully understand the anguish and uncertainty they experienced, not knowing when they would get paid or when they would receive the services they should expect as citizens. We must never let this happen again. It is irresponsible to govern from crisis to crisis. “The Congress of the United States of America must operate for the good and in the interests of all of the people of this land, and not to satisfy the will of a few.” #####
10.01.2013	Rep. John Lewis made this statement early this morning after the federal government was shutdown for the first time in 17 years: “I am very sorry that some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle do not believe in government and the collective good it can do to help citizens, businesses and communities lead more humane, productive lives. They do not share our democratic values and seem to feel compassion and support should not be extended to every citizen, but should be reserved for a privileged few. They did not see fit to keep the federal government open to serve the millions of Americans who depend upon it. And they had no regard for the over 700,000 federal employees and their families whose lives hang in the balance because of this reckless and unnecessary action. “Throughout the past years of budgetary and funding struggles, Democrats have made serious compromises and agreed to deep cuts to programs we believe need to be sustained in order to avoid reaching this kind of impasse. But no serious concession was ever made on the other side. We have fought very hard to defend Social Security, Medicaid, and Medicare from attempts to end those programs as we know them. We also fought, in this instance, to extend healthcare benefits to millions of Americans who currently have no access to coverage. “It is irresponsible for the House majority to allow the federal government to shutdown. We must get back to the true work of governing, which involves fair negotiation and mutual compromise. That’s what the American people expect and that is what they deserve.” ###
09.26.2013	Rep. John Lewis made this statement upon hearing about the passing of Mrs. Evelyn Gibson Lowery, the devoted wife of the Reverend Joseph Lowery and the founder of the SCLC Women, Inc. and the Drum Major for Justice awards. “When I heard that Mrs. Evelyn Lowery had passed, I was actually chairing a Whip meeting for the Democratic Caucus in the U.S. Capitol. I asked all the members to stop for a moment of silence in her honor. Mrs. Lowery was a pillar of our community, a valuable participant in the struggle for civil rights, and an admired role model to the young people she mentored. She supported her husband in all his work, but she was a leader in her own right, born into the struggle through the activism of her parents in Memphis, Tennessee. A few years ago, she organized a campaign, called the Drum Major for Justice Award, which commemorates some of the participants in the Civil Rights Movement by placing markers that help to tell their stories. Among the awardees were the Rev. James Orange, the Rev. Hosea Williams, Viola Liuzzo and other non-violent soldiers who sacrificed a great deal for the cause of civil rights and social justice. Her steadfast devotion to her husband was admirable, and her unwavering commitment to the issues of social justice will be hard to replace. Mrs. Lowery will be deeply missed.” ###
09.11.2013	Rep. John Lewis made this comment in response to President Barack Obama’s speech tonight regarding American intervention in Syria: “I was very encouraged to hear that President Obama and his administration are prepared and willing to give diplomacy a chance to succeed. I look forward to the U.N. report that is forthcoming and to hear the results of our talks with Russia. We must continue to do everything in our power to avoid military conflict.” #####
08.08.2013	“News reports about my interview with The Guardian are misleading, and they do not reflect my complete opinion. Let me be clear. I do not agree with what Mr. Snowden did. He has damaged American international relations and compromised our national security. He leaked classified information and may have jeopardized human lives. That must be condemned. “ I never praised Mr. Snowden or said his actions rise to those of Mohandas Gandhi or other civil rights leaders. In fact, The Guardian itself agreed to retract the word “praise” from its headline. “At the end of an interview about the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, I was asked what I thought about Mr. Snowden’s actions. I said he has a right as an individual to act according to the dictates of his conscience, but he must be prepared to pay the price for taking that action. In the movement, we were arrested, we went to jail, we were prepared to pay the price, even lose our lives if necessary. I cannot say and I did not say that what Mr. Snowden did is right. Others will be the judge of that.” ####
08.06.2013	"At 10 AM in the morning 48 years ago, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act of 1965 into law. His signature on that bill changed America forever. Millions of Americans who had been left out of the political process, who had been denied the right to participate in our democracy became registered voters and helped usher in a new and better nation. If it had not been for the Voting Rights Act there would not be as many women and minority elected officials in office today, who strengthen the deliberation of every legislative body where they serve with their sensitivity to the issues of varied cultures and experiences. We have come a great distance. We have made some progress, but the deliberate, systematic attempt to make it harder and more difficult for many people to participate in the democratic process still exists to this very day. Only hours after the Supreme Court made its decision invalidating Section 4 of the act -- before the ink was even dry -- states changed their law in an effort to suppress the voting rights of some of their citizens. The vote is precious; it is almost sacred. It is the most powerful nonviolent tool we have in our democracy. And these actions on the part of state governments serve to demonstrate that the Voting Rights Act is needed now more than ever before. The burden cannot be placed on those citizens whose rights were, or will be, violated to open up the political process. That is the duty of Congress to restore the life and soul to the Voting Rights Act. And we must do it on our watch, at this time." ###
06.27.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. John Lewis celebrated with opponents of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) legislation after the U.S. Supreme Court declared it unconstitutional. The decision is a vindication of a position Rep. Lewis has long held and adamantly express about the unfairness of the act. “You cannot protect equality for one group and allow unequal treatment of another,” said Rep. John Lewis. “If we are a society committed to the concept of equal justice under the law for every individual, then it must apply for every citizen, and cannot be reserved for some citizens. This decision is just one more step our society is taking toward building a more fair, more just society. Following is the transcript of the statement Rep. John Lewis made on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on July 11, 1996, to describe his opposition to DOMA when the bill was introduced. See CSPAN video of this statement by pressing this link. DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT (House of Representatives - July 11, 1996) Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. Chairman, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from Georgia [Mr. Lewis] because I cannot think of a more fitting response, since he would not yield on the question of morality and discrimination, than one of the great heroes of the fight against discrimination in our lifetime. Mr. LEWIS of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank my friend and colleague for yielding me the time. Let me say to the gentleman that when I was growing up in the south during the 1940s and the 1950s, the great majority of the people in that region believed that black people should not be able to enter places of public accommodation, and they felt that black people should not be able to register to vote, and many people felt that was right but that was wrong. I think as politicians, as elected officials, we should not only follow but we must lead, lead our districts, not put our fingers into the wind to see which way the air is blowing but be leaders. Mr. Chairman, this is a mean bill. It is cruel. This bill seeks to divide our nation, turn Americans against Americans, sow the seeds of fear, hatred and intolerance. Let us remember the Preamble of the Declaration of Independence: We hold these truths self-evident that all people are endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights. Among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. This bill is a slap in the face of the Declaration of Independence. It denies gay men and women the right to liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Marriage is a basic human right. You cannot tell people they cannot fall in love. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. used to say when people talked about interracial marriage and I quote, `Races do not fall in love and get married. Individuals fall in love and get married.' Why do you not want your fellow men and women, your fellow Americans to be happy? Why do you attack them? Why do you want to destroy the love they hold in their hearts? Why do you want to crush their hopes, their dreams, their longings, their aspirations? We are talking about human beings, people like you, people who want to get married, buy a house, and spend their lives with the one they love. They have done no wrong. I will not turn my back on another American. I will not oppress my fellow human being. I have fought too hard and too long against discrimination based on race and color not to stand up against discrimination based on sexual orientation. Mr. Chairman, I have known racism. I have known bigotry. This bill stinks of the same fear, hatred and intolerance. It should not be called the Defense of Marriage Act. It should be called the defense of mean-spirited bigots act. I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill, to have the courage to do what is right. This bill appeals to our worst fears and emotions. It encourages hatred of our fellow Americans for political advantage. Every word, every purpose, every message is wrong. It is not the right thing to do, to divide Americans. We are moving toward the 21st century. Let us come together and create one nation, one people, one family, one house, the American house, the American family, the American nation.
06.25.2013	“Today, the Supreme Court stuck a dagger into the heart of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, one of the most effective pieces of legislation Congress has passed in the last 50 years. These men never stood in unmovable lines. They were never denied the right to participate in the democratic process. They were never beaten, jailed, run off their farms or fired from their jobs. No one they knew died simply trying to register to vote. They are not the victims of gerrymandering or contemporary unjust schemes to maneuver them out of their constitutional rights. I remember in the 1960s when people of color were the majority in the small town of Tuskegee, Alabama. To insure that a black person would not be elected, the state gerrymandered Tuskegee Institute and the black sections of town so they fell outside the city limits. This reminds me too much of a case that occurred in Randolph County in my own state of Georgia, when the first black man was elected to the board of education in 2002. The county legislature changed his district so he would not be re-elected. I disagree with the court that the history of discrimination is somehow irrelevant today. The record clearly demonstrates numerous attempts to impede voting rights still exist, and it does not matter that those attempts are not as “pervasive, widespread or rampant” as they were in 1965. One instance of discrimination is too much in a democracy. As Justice Ginsberg mentioned, it took a Bloody Sunday for Congress to finally decide to fix on-going, institutionalized discrimination that occurred for 100 years after the rights of freed slaves were nullified at the end of the Civil War. I am deeply concerned that Congress will not have the will to fix what the Supreme Court has broken. I call upon the members of this body to do what is right to insure free and fair access to the ballot box in this country.” ###
06.14.2013	Yesterday, Rep. John Lewis’s Cost of War Act amendment passed the House as a part of its Defense Authorization Bill. The act requires the Department of Defense to post on a public website the cost to each taxpayer of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. “The war in Afghanistan has become the longest war in our history,” Rep. Lewis said. “ According to a Brown University study we have spent and currently obligated almost $4 trillion dollars on war since FY 2001. This is much, much more than the $50 billion we were told these conflicts would cost in the beginning. The Pentagon was originally allocated $1.4 billion to pay for these conflicts, and we have spent trillions more, paid for mainly by raising taxes and selling war bonds. “There are millions of Iraq and Afghani refugees, and 675,000 disabled veterans as a result. Over 158,000 civilians have been killed, 6650 of our troops have died, and 3000 contractors have been killed. “These are just a few of the horrifying impacts of war. In past administrations, attempts have been made to conceal the facts of these expenditures from the American people. The people have a right to know what they actually spend on these conflicts, and that is what this bill will do. It makes the cost of war plain, simple, and transparent so every American is aware of the sizeable sums we throw at these conflicts. Then each person can make his or her own assessment about whether this investment is worth the human and financial costs.” ####
06.03.2013	“The people of America and New Jersey have lost a statesman. We must remember Sen. Frank Lautenberg as one who was courageous to the very end. He never, ever shied away from he believed was right, fair, and just. He was dependable. You could count on his moral courage to do what was right. We have lost a dear friend. We mourn with his family, the people of New Jersey and members of the Senate.” ###
05.29.2013	ATLANTA—Rep. John Lewis made this statement about his visit to the Atlanta VA Medical Center. “Today, while Congress was not in session, I took the opportunity to visit the Atlanta VA Medical Center in Decatur. I met with the new Director there, Leslie Wiggins, who has only been on staff for seven days. I toured the facility, was able to ask questions and get answers about the new direction Ms. Wiggins hopes to take in leading the institution to a new and better future. “I learned that the Atlanta VA Medical Center is one of the largest VA hospitals in the country and that it is also the fastest growing facility in the country. There are many challenges, as recent news reports have demonstrated. It seemed Ms. Wiggins was aware of those challenges and is seeking to put remedies in place in an effort to resolve some of the complex problems a hospital like the Atlanta VA Medical Center has to face, especially as more and more veterans return home. “I think we had a meaningful and productive meeting, and I look forward to the possibility that her leadership could lead to impactful change at that institution. “In addition, I want my constituents to know that I have the deepest concern for and commitment to American servicewomen and men. Their sacrifice deserves our enduring honor and respect. My staff and I work tirelessly to ensure that they receive the services and benefits they are due in a just, dignified, and timely manner. We will not waver in this commitment on in this work either here in Atlanta and in the Congress.” #####
05.16.2013	WASHINGTON--Rep. John Lewis made this statement today about the turmoil confronting the IRS: “I am deeply disturbed by the findings in the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration’s report that the Internal Revenue Service used inappropriate criteria to scrutinize tax-exempt applications. “The Internal Revenue Code must be enforced in a fair and unbiased manner, which does include close regulation of all 501(c)(4) organizations to ensure that their activities are not primarily political and contribute to our social welfare. I look forward to the full implementation of the Treasury Inspector General’s recommendations to improve the IRS Exempt Organizations Office and to the conclusions of any inquiries into this matter. “The American people deserve and require the highest level of ethical integrity from their government, and I believe the IRS is capable of achieving that standard.” ###
05.15.2013	“I am deeply disturbed by what I have heard surrounding the broad capture of Associated Press journalist phone records by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. I realize that we are entering into a very difficult era of cybercrime and terrorism and that we must use new methods to protect the national security of this nation that could require more intrusion than citizens have been accustomed to in the past. “I also understand the FBI’s concern that the leak it was investigating was very serious and damaging. However, in our zeal to defend ourselves from outside threats, we run the risk of losing the very freedom we are working to protect. Freedom of the press is a central principle of our democracy. Government should take care in how it invades this aspect of our civil liberty and take every precaution to respect the dignity and integrity of these institutions and protect the vital role they play in our democracy.” ####
05.09.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. John Lewis joined other members of the House Ways and Means Committee today in an effort to derail the “Pay China First Bill,” H.R.804. Republicans have waged an unprecedented battle against raising the debt limit of the United States which is required in order for America to pay its bills. The debt ceiling has been raised without issue many times before, especially during the terms of Republican presidents, like Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush, who led Americans into eras of unprecedented deficit spending and debt. A New York Times article suggests economists see the focus on the deficit and Republican attempts to force austerity are hurting the economic recovery. Standards and Poors has already said it would downgrade the U.S. credit rating if the debt prioritization bill advanced by Republicans was made law. The bill develops a protocol and prioritizes America’s debts by enabling the Treasury Department to pick and choose which bills it would pay first in the case of default. Rep. John Lewis has led Democratic opposition to this plan. He made this statement on the House floor today: Madame Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the Pay China First Act. We are the United States of America, and we pay our bills. Madame Speaker, I cannot believe that this body would even entertain or consider a bill that puts the Social Security checks of 56 million seniors and people after China? How can we justify putting 2 million American military personnel -- many of whom are currently in harm’s way – after China? That is not right; that is not fair. As a Congress we can do better, much better. Let me be crystal clear – default is not an option. The United States of America pays all of its bills as they come due. This is the American way. Let’s just stop playing games, and do what is right, do what is just, do what is fair. Let’s do what every American citizen has to do -- pay our debts. I urge each and every one of my colleagues to vote no on the Pay China First Act. We have a moral obligation to do what is right. ###
05.08.2013	Oversight Subcommittee Oversight Subcommittee Hearing on the IRS’s Colleges and Universities Compliance Project Committee on Ways and Means (Remarks as Prepared) I thank the Chairman for holding this hearing. Today, we will review the results of an Internal Revenue Service project on colleges and universities. Colleges and universities play an important role in our society. They educate our young people and create our workforce for the future. I am honored to have many colleges and universities in my District. We have wonderful institutions in Metro Atlanta – Spelman, Morehouse, Georgia State, Clark Atlanta, Georgia Tech, and Emory to name just a few. They are training the next generation of scientists, doctors, and engineers. They also provide many positive benefits to their local communities. I understand that many colleges are large and complex organizations. They have sports programs that enrich their student body and raise revenue for the university. Many engage in activities, such as advertising and operating golf courses, that may generate income subject to federal tax. The range of their activities is diverse. I commend the Internal Revenue Service for taking a closer look at these organizations. Projects like this are positive for both the agency and the universities. They are a useful tool for educating each other. As we move toward tax reform, it is important that we all understand how colleges and universities operate and comply with the federal tax laws. The agency’s report helps us begin this process. I look forward to hearing from our witness today. I am pleased that she is here to discuss what the agency learned from this project. Thank you. ###
05.08.2013	WASHINGTON-Today Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) and Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), all Senate and House lead sponsors, discussed the Every Child Deserves a Family Act of 2013 at a news conference in the U.S. Capitol. (See youtube of news conference, click to get the photos) Their legislation limits federal funding for adoption agencies involved in discriminatory placement practices for foster children seeking adoption into capable, loving single-parent families or families headed by same-sex couples. The bill also eliminates discriminatory barriers blocking the adoption of LGBT children, who are readily found in the ranks of the homeless. “The single biggest problem our nation’s foster care system is facing,” said Emily Hecht-McGowan, Director of Public Policy for the Family Equality Council, “is the lack of available, stable, and loving homes.” According to the most recent estimates, about 400,000 children currently matriculate in the foster care system and more than 100,000 of them are eligible for adoption. National surveys suggest that as many as two million LGBT families would consider adopting foster children if barriers were eliminated. Couple this with the thousands of capable single-parent households eligible to adopt, and it is clear that the problem of foster care adoption could potentially be eliminated by the passage of this legislation. “New York has been a leader on ensuring that any family can adopt children and set a great example for the rest of the country,” U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand said. “Every child deserves a loving home, and it is just wrong to keep children from a brighter future with a loving family by discriminating against adoptive parents based on their sexual orientation, marital status or gender identity. By removing all barriers for loving, committed LGBT couples to serve as foster parents we will uphold a core American value. I hope we can come together and pass this important legislation that would open thousands of new foster and adoptive homes." “This bill highlights why discrimination in any form is unreasonable in a civilized society,” said U.S. Rep. John Lewis. “You do the math. Our society has the chance to eradicate the foster care adoption problem entirely, if this bill is passed and enforced. It mandates that agencies put nothing before the happiness and well-being of our children and use every measure to place them with willing, capable adoptive families, regardless of their make-up. Every healthy family has an equal opportunity to give a child a home. The persistence of discriminatory policy robs us of that opportunity.” “I’m proud to join Rep. John Lewis and Sen.Kirsten Gillibrand,” said U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, “in introducing the Every Child Deserves a Family Act, a common-sense legislation that will open the hearts and homes of so many parents who are qualified and ready to give all their love and nurturing to children who are in the foster care system. All children deserve the opportunity to enjoy a wonderful home life with loving parents. Our bill will decrease the length of time that a child has to wait for a permanent home with a loving family by preventing discrimination in adoption and foster care placements based on sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status. Without this legislation, many families who are longing to provide children with an adequate home environment will continue to be arbitrarily turned away on the subjective and prejudicial basis of who they are.” “In our 40 years of experience supporting parents and children all over the country, we have seen the positive effects parental support can make in the life of a child,” said PFLAG National Executive Director Jody M. Huckaby. “This is truly discrimination at its worst: hurtful to the people who are being denied the opportunity to become parents, and harmful to thousands of vulnerable children being denied the opportunity for stable, loving, permanent homes.” The bill is important because most state law does not require non-discrimination in foster care adoption agency policy, and a few have specifically supported discrimination within the process. Florida is the only state with a statutory ban prohibiting LGBT families from adopting, however it was recently declared unconstitutional by a Florida State Appellate Court. Utah and Arkansas have laws barring adoption by unmarried partners, affecting both same sex and single parent families. Arizona law allows agencies to give preference to married heterosexual couples in the adoption process, and just last year Virginia passed a law permitting agencies to discriminate against children and potential parents based on any written moral or religious policy. In states that mandate comprehensive relationship recognition through marriage equality, civil unions or domestic partnerships, adoption rights are protected, but states that bar co-habitation also effectively deny adoption by same sex couples. This legislation gives clear guidance to states about the federal guidelines surrounding adoption policy. Increasing adoption rates, as well as establishing children in permanent homes that help decrease risk factors for those youth can yield an annual federal cost savings of between $3 and $6 billion. ###
04.22.2013	Rep. John Lewis made these comments to commemorate Earth Day. This year’s theme is The Face of Climate Change: “The face of climate change,” said Rep. John Lewis, “is the face of every human being on this planet and the face of the entire creation because every aspect biological life on this planet is affected by climate change. In this age of technological advancement, as Martin Luther King Jr. once said, we have the way to resolve these problems, but the question we must ask ourselves is whether we have the will. Only when we accept the inextricable link that binds us all to each other and the entire creation, only then we will realize denial, blame, self-indulgence and resistance are useless. Then we will understand the human imperative to collaborate. Then we will discover ways to end the suffering that climate change has caused and shift away from a foreboding future to a tomorrow of hope and peace. We can do this only if we make a conscious decision to do it. There is no way to peace, Mohandas Gandhi said; peace is the way.” Earth Day, an annual holiday celebrated worldwide, and first established in 1970, is a celebration of our planet and a reminder of the duties we all have to preserve our environment. It is coordinated by the Earth Day Network , which has organized numerous global initiatives, which reach over 25,000 organizations worldwide. More than one billion people in 192 countries participate in activities related to Earth Day. On Earth Day, thousands of grassroots organizations around the world sponsor activities such as community cleanups, educational events, fundraisers, and other events. Each annual Earth Day has a different theme. The theme of this year’s Earth Day is “The Face of Climate Change,” which seeks to recognize those already facing the effects of climate change. The program emphasizes that climate change is not a remote problem, as it is considered by many political leaders worldwide, but a real problem already devastating the lives of many around the world. By personalizing the effects of climate change, they argue that there is a paradoxical divide between those suffering from the effects of climate change, who are often powerless to curb its effects, and leaders who are insulated and unaware of its effects but have the greatest ability to fight this problem. “The Face of Climate Change” also emphasizes the importance of an individual’s ability to fight climate change. The “faces” include not only those suffering from climate change, but also those that can take action against it. The campaign calls on activists, engineers, public servants, and others at the forefront of the struggle against climate change to take action. The “faces” are not only humans, but also animals and ecosystems affected by climate change. The Earth Day website urges people to send in photos and stories of people, places, and animals affected by climate change to show the numerous and varied “faces” of the problem. ###
04.18.2013	Rep. John Lewis made this statement today in response the Senate’s inability to pass background check legislation: “I am deeply dismayed by the inability of my colleagues in the Senate to pass a bipartisan proposal to require background checks before guns can be purchased in this country. We are standing in the wake of the Newtown Massacre and the everyday occurrence of gun violence in too many American cities. I ask my Senate colleagues when will enough finally be enough? How many children must be killed before we have the courage to take one step to protect American lives and communities? The blood of the innocent is crying out from their graves. It is our responsibility to make sure they did not die in vain. The American people have delivered a clear mandate to this Congress. They have placed their trust and authority in our hands. They expect us to have the guts to enact their will and pass legislation that restricts the availability of guns in our communities. They have not demanded a wholesale ban on gun sales, but have conceded to a reasonable intervention in this matter, a simple background check that would help ensure gun ownership is limited to responsible citizens. The Senate’s inability to act on this mandate is a disgrace. It is heartless. A shameful cowardice was displayed on the Senate floor today and an amazing lack of courage. The people of this nation should have a sense of righteous indignation by the failure of this body to take any action steps on this issue. The people must make their voices heard. They should let members of Congress know why they were elected and whom they were sent here to serve.” On December 14, 2012, the tragic shooting of innocent children, teachers, and school administrators at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut shook our nation to its very core. Twenty-six people died on that horrific day, and around the country Americans mourned. They demanded action – expecting Congress to do something to break the cycle of senseless violence and mass killings. Committees in the House and Senate held numerous, emotional meetings and hearings. Within weeks, House Democrats established a Gun Violence Prevention Taskforce chaired by Mike Thompson (D-CA) himself a hunter and gun owner and began exhaustive outreach towards the development of an informed, comprehensive approach to reduce and prevent gun violence in our nation. Senate leaders began crafting legislation, and finally it seemed that there was a path forward with the introduction of S. 649, the Safe Communities, Safe Schools Act of 2013, legislation which takes critical steps to reduce the epidemic of gun violence in our country. For nearly a month, the Senate has tried to move this bill. Finally, hope was restored when Sens. Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Patrick Toomey (R-PA) agreed to offer a compromise amendment on background checks. Today, this amendment failed on the Senate Floor by a vote of 54-46; four Republicans supported this bipartisan path forward. ###
04.12.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. John Lewis recently wrote a letter to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius highlighting the troubling prospect that federal support to safety-net hospitals might be reduced due to Republican governors’ refusal to expand Medicaid. The thrust of the ACA was to cover more Americans, spread out the cost of healthcare services among a larger number of people, thus helping to bring individual costs down. However, the Republican governors of Georgia, Louisiana, Tennessee, Texas, Mississippi and others--states with large populations of poor citizens that seemed to need the coverage the most--very publicly rebuked this coverage simply because it was part of President Obama’s health reform package. One recent Christian Science Monitor opinion called these decisions “immoral’ because of their direct disregard for the medical plight of millions of Americans in some of the poorest states. Twenty percent of Georgia’s population, for example, is uninsured. This rebuke will not only affect the most vulnerable Americans, but Lewis highlights it also will affect hospitals who care for low-income patients to provide life-saving services. “It is very hard for me to understand how the governor of my own state and others would demonstrate reckless disregard for the dramatic needs that exists among the working poor and low-income Americans,” said Rep. John Lewis. “The opportunity to serve citizens should not be examined through some partisan lens, especially when reject ion of that opportunity can affect a person’s life or death. The impact of these decisions will weigh heavily on the most vulnerable citizens, whom government should be seeking to protect, and they may affect the ability of hospitals to serve these citizens, if some solution is not found.” Currently, HHS disburses “disproportionate share payments” or DSH to hospitals who care for large numbers of low-income patients who may be underinsured, uninsured or unable to pay for the services they receive. Hospitals cannot legally turn patients away, so the federal government compensates those which care for large numbers of the uninsured through the DSH payments. The ACA offers states a significant opportunity to expand Medicaid, and thus cover more vulnerable citizens because the federal government foots 100 percent of the cost for the expansion for 3 years. In Georgia that would allow 600,000 uninsured people to be covered. Afterwards, the state would only have to pick up 10 percent of the bill, and the federal government would continue to pay 90 percent of the cost. To help fund the government’s outlay, the ACA offsets additional costs by cutting DSH payments to safety-net hospitals. Under the plan, those hospitals should need fewer DSH dollars because more patients would be insured. However, in the states like Georgia, where governors determined not to expand Medicaid, DSH payments to hospitals, like Grady Memorial for example, will still be reduced unless some kind of adjustment is made. Those health care institutions that serve a large population of the uninsured would be rendered even less capable of meeting their needs. Rep. John Lewis ‘s letter highlights this problem to light in an effort to ignite a suitable federal response. The White House has since said it is looking for ways to table some DSH payment cuts. (Letter attached) Other articles on the topic: NY Times; Washington Post, Paul Krugman
04.11.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep John Lewis wrote another letter to President Obama, this time signed by 28 other Members of Congress requesting he issue an Executive Order to help release the flow of mortgage relief funds to the hardest hit regions in the mortgage foreclosure crisis. The banks are well on their way to recovery but millions of Americans are hanging by a thread, hoping against hope that they will receive some kind of federal mortgage support before it’s too late. In February 2010, during the height of the recession, the Treasury Department established the “Housing Finance Agency Innovation Fund for the Hardest-Hit Housing Markets” which promised $7.6 billion to states suffering with the highest unemployment rates and the greatest losses in home values. It represented a way the Administration chose to directly address the debacle Main Street experienced due to recklessness in the financial services industry. Three years later, banks are well on the way to recovery, while families in America are still in crisis. Less than 10 percent of this funding has been distributed throughout the 18 hardest hit states and the District of Columbia. Last year the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) reviewed the status of HHF and outlined steps to address the issues, but the recommendations have not been implemented. “A home is the cornerstone of the American dream,” said Rep. John Lewis. “It is often the largest investment any American will ever make. Stabilizing the thousands of homeowners who are in crisis is key to our economic viability as a nation. Even in this tight economic climate, the money has already been allocated. The help must come more quickly, otherwise it is just too little too late. I hope the President will help.” The Lewis letter requests the President to issue an “executive order directing the Department of the Treasury to amend their HHF contracts and immediately implement the April 2012 SIGTARP recommendations.” This is the second letter Rep. Lewis has sent on this matter. He sent another letter in the fall of last highlighting this issue. "I thank my dear friend and Colleague, Rep. Lewis for his leadership on this issue. Affordable housing is a priority in my Congressional District in New York City, where all-time high rent in the area presents a severe threat to our local economy. As such, I have fought to ensure that the tenants and prospective residents are provided with proper support needed to finance affordable housing, while strengthening the quality and accessibility of our housing market. As a nation, we must do everything we can to alleviate the pain everyday Americans are feeling due to fear of losing a roof over their heads or inability to afford their rent." Rep. Charles B. Rangel (New York City). “Homeowners in Southeast Michigan have bit hit hard by the foreclosure crisis during the Great Recession. Continuing to make them wait for assistance is unacceptable. Three years ago they were given a glimpse of hope in the Hardest Hit Fund assistance programs. We must follow through now to do everything in our power to insure these funds are distributed to homeowners anxious for this support. An executive order that allows for greater use of housing counselors, provides additional program flexibility, and implements some of the common-sense reforms outlined in last year’s SIGTARP report would give vital assistance to the recovery of the housing market in Michigan.” Rep. John Conyers (Michigan) “Foreclosure is still a crisis for far too many communities, including in my district. We need urgent and bold action to help struggling families retain their homes.” Rep. Barbara Lee (Northern California) “The housing crisis has deeply impacted California, where more than 43,000 homes are estimated to be in the process of foreclosure. It is essential that the funding provided to the Hardest Hit Fund initiative is maximized, so that as many homeowners as possible are able to benefit from HHF foreclosure help. Given the failures evident within the HHF initiative, I urge the President to direct the Department of Treasury to amend HHF contracts to improve the allocation of HHF resources. We must take full advantage of the HHF initiative as we work to help the homeowners whose houses are hanging in the balance.” Rep. Loretta Sanchez (Southern California) “The Hardest Hit Fund was created with the purpose of helping homeowners stay in their homes by avoiding foreclosure, and I thank Congressman Lewis and others for urging the Treasury to carry out an initiative that provides such direct relief.” Rep. Albio Sires (New Jersey) “We are grateful for Congressman Lewis’ leadership in working to release the mortgage relief funds owed to D.C. and the states hit hardest by the mortgage crisis. There are thousands of homeowners throughout the nation, including in D.C., who are struggling and in need of this assistance.” Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (District of Columbia)
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON— Rep. John Lewis castigated the direction of a House Republican hearing today which explored the possibility of default on America’s debt instead of simply raising the debt ceiling. The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee Oversight Subcommittee held a hearing examining the government’s ability to prioritize its financial obligations while continuing operations, if the U. S. Treasury should reach its statutory debt limit. Rep. John Lewis, the ranking Democrat on the Oversight subcommittee said in his statement, “The clear message of [this panel] is that … House Republicans as a body are thinking about a debt default by the United States government. This is obvious from their testimony because in the absence of default there is no reason to consider the order in which we pay our bills.” Lewis along with other House Democrats resoundingly rejected this option, especially because it would mean putting international interests before the needs of American citizens. “The leading house Republican bill discussed here today would pay China first, yes would pay China first before the Social Security checks of 56 millions seniors, if they are even paid at all, “ Lewis continued. “This bill would pay China before the salaries of 2 million military personnelm if they are even paid at all. This bill would pay China before food and nutrition programs for low-income American families. This bill would pay China! “We’re not going to not enact laws that fail to pay hundreds and thousands of American business that provide goods and services to the government. This is not the American way. We will not enact a law that will pay China first before we pay unemployment compensation to Americans looking for work. It is unbelievable that House Republicans would think this is an option to cast aside American families and American businesses.” See Rep. Lewis Video , See House Democrats on the Issue TEXT OF LEWIS OVERSIGHT SUBCOMMITTEE STATEMENT VIDEO: Well, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for yielding. I join you in welcoming all of our colleagues here today, and I want to thank you for your testimony. But I must say to my colleagues and to you Mr. Chairman, the simple answer today is that the United States of America must pay all of its bills as they become due. Despite the testimony, our only legal option is to pay all of the bills in the order we receive them. The debt ceiling is about paying our bills, about paying for spending that the Congress has already approved. This great nation will not default on its bill. It will not. That is our history. The leading house Republican bill discussed here today would pay China first--yes would pay China first--before the Social Security checks of 56 millions seniors, if they are even paid at all. This bill would pay China before the salaries of 2 million military personnel, if they are even paid at all. This bill would pay China before food and nutrition programs for low-income American families, this bill would pay China. We’re not going to not enact laws that fail to pay hundreds and thousands of American business that provide goods and services to the government. This is not the American way. We will not enact a law that will pay China first before we pay unemployment compensation to Americans looking for work. It is unbelievable that House Rep. would think this is an option to cast aside American families and American businesses. We have struck a new low. I have been here now for 27 years almost. This is a new low. After listening to the testimony I would like to make an observation. The clear message of the Members panel of the Senate is that they and perhaps the House Republicans as a body are thinking about a debt default by the United States government. This is obvious from their testimony because in the absence of default there is no reason to consider the order in which we pay our bills. The Treasury Department has made it clear that the only option we have if we reach the debt ceiling is to pay all bills in the order they are received as money becomes available. There is no fair way to pick and choose among the bills that become due. The Treasury Department makes over 80 million payments each month. Mr. Chairman, I am submitting for the record a letter written by the Council of Inspectors General of the Dept. of Treasury to Sen. Hatch dated August 24, 2012. This document makes clear that the only option is to pay all bills in the order they are received. And with that Mr. Chairman, I yield back and I thank you for your kindness. ###
04.04.2013	ATLANTA-Tomorrow at the culmination of a series of programs hosted by Georgia Institute of Technology, Rep. John Lewis will receive the Ivan Allen Jr. Prize for Social Courage. The ceremonies will take place on the 45th anniversary of the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr.—April 4, 1968. Lewis will speak about the legacy of Dr. King in his speech at Georgia Tech tomorrow and discuss one of the last sermons Dr. King delivered at Ebenezer Baptist Church. Upon reflecting on the meaning of Martin Luther King Jr.’s death 45 years later. Rep. Lewis released this statement: “I will never forget that day,” Rep. Lewis said, “April 4, 1968. I was in Indianapolis working with Robert Kennedy’s campaign for president. I had heard that King had been shot but it was Robert Kennedy who informed us that Dr. King was dead. That was a sad and dark hour, not only for me, but for hundreds and thousands of people around the world. “When Dr. King was killed, something died in America and something died within many of us. This man gave us hope in a time of hopelessness and deliverance in a time of despair. He lifted us from the valley of hatred to the highest mountain of love, peace and goodwill. If Dr. King were alive today, he would say there is still too much violence in this world; there are too many killings. We need to question our belief that violence can resolve any of our problems, he would say, and we need to stop the proliferation of guns. “He would remind us that ends and means are inseparable. Darkness cannot put out darkness, he would say, only light can do that. Hatred cannot stamp out hate, only love can do that. Violence cannot end violence, only peace can do that. If peace, love and human unity are truly our goals, then we must not waver . We must choose the way of peace, the way of love, and the way of global harmony at every crossroad of human decisionmaking.” ###
04.02.2013	Upon learning about the death of Elwin Wilson, the former Ku Klux Klan member who beat him when the Freedom Rides stopped at a bus station in Rock Hill, South Carolina in 1961 and apologized for his actions decades later, Rep. John Lewis made this statement: “I am very sorry to learn of Elwin Wilson’s passing. It is my prayer that he will rest in peace since he made amends to many of those he had injured. He told me he wanted to be right when he met his Maker, and I believe Elwin Wilson accomplished what he set out to do. “We can all learn a valuable lesson from the life of this one man. He demonstrates to all of us that we fall down, but we can get up. We all make blunders, but we can get on the right road toward building a greater sense of community. “Elwin Wilson experienced what Martin Luther King Jr. told all of us that “hate is too heavy a burden to bear”. He demonstrated the power of love and the effectiveness of non-violent direct action not only to fix legislative injustice but to mend the wounded souls in our society, the soul of the victim as well as the perpetrator. Elwin Wilson shows us, that people can change, and when they put down the mechanisms of division and separation to pick up the tools of reconciliation, they can help build a greater sense of community in our society, even between the most unlikely people. Elwin Wilson proves that we are all one people, one family, the human family, and what affects one of us affect us all. “I will never forget Elwin Wilson. I speak about our meeting often. In fact, just this morning I mentioned him to 147 students from California, New York, and Ohio. And I spoke about him earlier this month on the pilgrimage to Alabama. Because this one man had the courage to seek the power of forgiveness, he stepped off the sidelines and into the pages of American history forever.” ###
03.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – A new report reveals hundreds of thousands of Georgians already benefit from the Affordable Care Act. The third anniversary of the Affordable Care Act falls on March 23. “Thousands of people in Georgia benefit from the passage of this health care reform bill,” said Rep. John Lewis. “It took 100 years to pass meaningful health care reform, and instead of trying to revoke it, we need to keep trying to build an even more effective and more comprehensive system. Recent reports, like the recent feature in Time magazine, are defining the crisis we face in health care in this country. Good healthcare has become a privilege affordable only to the wealthy in this country. That is not right. Decent healthcare should be accessible to every citizen and not determined by the size of a wallet or the digits in a zip code. The ACA has allowed this nation to take important steps to close the gaps and bridge some of the problems we are facing, but it is still an emergency. Instead of working to repeal these changes, we need to do more to broaden the reach and the effectiveness of the movement toward reform of the healthcare industry.” Beginning October 1st of this year individuals and small businesses will be able to shop in a marketplace for healthcare coverage and services. Sign up for alerts on the HHS website to make sure you have all you need to decide on coverage when the marketplace comes online in October, and stay tuned for more information about the transition. HHS recently released a new report detailing some of the benefits Georgians are experiencing due to the law: · No lifetime limit on coverage for 3,317,000residents of Georgia, including 1,256,000 women and 916,000 children. The health care law prohibits insurers from placing a lifetime limit on coverage. In the past, lifetime limits on coverage have forced some families into bankruptcy. · Lower drug costs for seniors in Georgia. The health care law makes prescription drug coverage for people with Medicare more affordable. It does this by gradually closing the gap in drug coverage known as the ‘donut hole.’ Because of this provision, in 2012 alone, 99,057 seniors in Georgia saved $161.9 million on their drugs – an average of $732 per senior. Also, since the enactment of the health care law, seniors in Georgia have saved a total of $72.5 million. · Free key preventive services used by seniors in Georgia The health care law provides free Medicare coverage of key preventive services, such as mammograms, colonoscopies, and annual wellness visits. Because of this provision 742,634 seniors in Georgia received one or more free preventive services under Medicare in 2012, lowering their out-of-pocket health care costs. Before reform, some preventive services could have a co-pay as high as $160. · Free key preventive services for 2.2 million individuals under age 65 in Georgia The health care law also provides, for those enrolled in most private plans, free coverage of key preventive services. As a result of this provision 2, 202,000 individuals in Georgia with private insurance plans received one or more free key preventive services, such as mammograms or flu shots, in 2011 and 2012. · Coverage for 123,000 additional young adults in Georgia who would otherwise be uninsured. The health care law requires health insurers to permit parents to retain coverage for their children until their 26th birthday. Because of this provision, 123,000 young adults in Georgia have obtained health insurance through their parents’ plan, who would be uninsured without this coverage. For more information on Georgia’s ACA benefits, click here. ###
03.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John Lewis voted against the Ryan-Republican budget that could reverse our climb toward economic recovery, lead to more layoffs and prolong unemployment. It would end the Medicare guarantee, while of course, providing huge tax cuts for the wealthy at the expense of the middle class and the poor. “The Republican/Ryan budget,” said Rep. John Lewis, “demonstrates a deaf ear to the priorities the American people have repeatedly stated are most important to them—to preserve Medicare, protect Social Security, continue federal commitments to education and other services, and require every person, regardless of wealth or status, to pay his or her fair share.” The House also voted on H.Con Res 25, a continuing resolution which funds government programs and operations at the current sequestration levels. However, the bill cuts funding for the implementation of the health care reforms of the Affordable Health Care act , which allows coverage for young people through their parents to the age of 21 and mandates coverage of individuals with pre-existing conditions, who need health care the most. It also cut funding for the Dodd-Frank Wall Street reforms meant to protect consumers from the worst and most damaging practices of the financial services industry. “These bills,” said Rep. Lewis, “demonstrate where the priorities of this Congress lie. They are not representing the wishes of the majority of Americans, but they are protecting special interests at every turn and turning a blind eye to the declining conditions millions of Americans find themselves facing. Hunger, homelessness, illness, and joblessness are hounding many who are discovering that hard work is not enough to keep them from falling into desperation. Today food lines and homeless shelters are finding more and more of the working poor using their services. We must fix these problems through investment in the people of this nation and not take the meager support that people have away, especially when others other are enjoying tax breaks and benefits they could stand to give up.” Democrats offered three separate alternatives to the Ryan budget supported by Republicans. The budget offered by the Congressional Black Caucus preserved the Military Tuition Assistance Program, cut by the Republican budget, which allows servicemen and women to continue their education while they are in service to their country. ####
03.19.2013	WASHINGTON—“Today is not a day for celebration, but a time when this nation should reflect upon the true meaning of our involvement in Iraq. We can take heart in the fact that the most brutal aspects of this conflict seem to be coming to an end. And we continually marvel at the courage and bravery of our young men and women in uniform who face the hardest responsibility we can imagine. They deserve our honor and our enduring allegiance. “As I reflect on this conflict, it reminds me of the greatest speech Martin Luther King Jr. ever made, in my estimation. He spoke at Riverside Baptist Church in Harlem on April 4, 1967, exactly one year before he died. In the 50th anniversary year of the March on Washington and only a few weeks before the anniversary of his death, I find it meaningful to hear what he said. Decades later, his words still ring true, especially when you simply think the word Iraq or Afghanistan in place of the word Vietnam.” The following are excerpts of his speech: “I speak as a citizen of the world, for the world as it stands aghast at the path we have taken. I speak as an American to the leaders of my own nation. The great initiative in this war is ours. The initiative to stop must be ours...The words of John F. Kennedy come back to haunt us. Five years ago he said, ‘Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable’…..I am convinced that if we are to get on the right side of the world revolution, we as a nation must undergo a radical revolution of values. When machines and computers, profit and property rights are considered more important than people, the giant triplets of racism, materialism, and militarism are incapable of being conquered…. “…. True compassion is more than flinging a coin to a beggar; …It comes to see that an edifice which produces beggars needs restructuring. A true revolution of values will soon look easily on the glaring contrast of poverty and wealth… and say: This is not just…. A true revolution of values will lay hands on the world order and say of war: ‘This way of settling differences is not just.’ A nation that continues year after year to spend more money on military defense than on programs of social uplift is approaching spiritual death… “We must find new ways to speak for peace in Vietnam and justice throughout the developing world, a world that borders on our doors. If we do not act we shall surely be dragged down the long, dark and shameful corridors of time reserved for those who possess power without compassion, might without morality, and strength without sight. “Now let us begin. Now let us re-dedicate ourselves to the long and bitter, but beautiful, struggle for a new world…. The choice is ours, and though we might prefer it otherwise we must choose in this crucial moment of human history.” ####
03.18.2013	After voting for another week on partisan legislation that does not address the need to curtail punishing automatic cuts which threaten the longevity of many important federal commitments, and yet another week with no attention to America’s need for jobs, Rep. John Lewis released this statement: “The people of this nation are looking to this Congress for help. My constituents and the constituents of every elected representative here sent us to Congress to take action on their behalf. “They are worried about how they will keep a roof over their heads, food on their plates, keep the lights turned on, and get back and forth from work. They are holding out some hope that we might actually do what they sent us here to accomplish. They have told us they want Social Security and Medicare to continue. They want to keep their health benefits and to hear that this nation’s resources will be used to restore our infrastructure, create jobs and educational opportunities, strengthen our economy and restore confidence in our leadership as a nation. “They expect elected officials to build, and not to tear down. They want to unify this nation and not divide it into two camps of the super-rich and the struggling poor. They have told us this in so many ways, especially during the last election. But instead, they are witnessing what seems to be a full-scale assault at every level of government on American life as we know it. From the U.S. Capitol to state capitols even in Georgia, extremists seem determined to reverse our climb toward recovery and drive this nation into a ditch. “Our first priority should be trying to improve the lives of the middle class, the working class, and low-income Americans, not negotiating lay-offs, freezing salaries, scapegoating government employees, eliminating civil rights protections and collective bargaining. Public servants at every level of government are under constant attack, and in these urgent times we are reducing service to communities and teetering on the edge of economic instability. At the same time that we are reducing the number of livable-wage jobs, we are gutting re-training and re-employment opportunities. These policies will pull the rug out from under people’s lives in the name of some kind of pseudo-fiscal discipline that legislators declare will do this nation some good. “For yet another week, the Republican-led Congress has turned its back on the number one issue in this country – jobs. Instead of brainstorming a way to fix the massive problems sequestration presents, the House is considering legislation which guts 40 years of bipartisan engagement in Workforce Investment Act (WIA) programs. “This bill would consolidate or eliminate successful initiatives like YouthBuild, the Disabled Veterans Outreach Program, Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional Occupations, and Community-Based Job Training Grants. This week, House Republicans also passed H.R. 890, the partisan welfare bill, that would overturn the Obama Administration proposal to allow states the flexibility to move more Americans from welfare to work. "And next week, this Congress will move closer to making massive sequestration cuts permanent for millions of Americans. Instead of alleviating suffering, these bills will add to the woes of my constituents and Americans across the country. “We need to come together to find a way to help the people in this country keep their jobs and become gainfully employed, not slashing and cutting when there is no emergency that really warrants these measures. We must not balance the budget on the backs of the poorest and most vulnerable Americans, especially when closing common-sense loopholes could easily raise the revenue we need. “ Every day, millions of Americans go to bed hungry because they have fallen into poverty. They were evicted from their homes and have lost their jobs. This Congress has turned a blind eye to their suffering and seems to be determined to pile on more. When we will do the work of policy and put aside partisan politics? How can we look our constituents in the eye, knowing these changes will do them harm? We are here to help solve the problems of America, not create more problems for this country. Legislators can do better; we must do better. “ ##
03.11.2013	We all should be encouraged that our economy is showing some signs of vitality. The Dow Jones average has been high, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports 246,000 private sector jobs have been added in February alone, and jobs have increased every month for three straight years in that sector, totaling 6.35 million jobs. National unemployment fell last month to the lowest point since December 2008. All this is encouraging, but we are not out of the woods yet. “Points on a graph do not tell the stories of suffering and struggle that some people in my district are still facing. Some have lost their homes and their families. They have been unemployed for years, are struggling with underwater mortgages, working more and getting paid less. They are barely making it. The World Economic Forum issued a warning that the gap between the haves and the have-nots has become a gulf almost too difficult to cross. And even though this Congress does have the power to relieve this suffering, it has never discussed any solution. Instead, without any apology it has looked for ways to cut deeper with a heartless disregard for the lives of millions of Americans they were elected to serve. “This week, the House said yes to the loss of 750,000 jobs. Next week it will consider legislation that guts worker training programs and ties the hands of state governments that may want to innovate to help their citizens become gainfully employed. Congress has repeatedly targeted federal employees, including those who work in my district to protect us from disease, secure our airports, move products from our ports across the state, and process Social Security, veterans and tax return benefits.” “The greatest tragedy is that we could balance the budget without placing this pain on millions of American families, if we only ask a wealthy few to pay their fair share. The people of this country need to understand what is happening here. A choice is being made by representatives you elected to sacrifice your well-being to preserve the profits of a wealthy few. You have the power to change that representation and you should. Make your voices heard.” ####
03.01.2013	Passage Means Lewis SMART Teen Dating Bill Becomes Law WASHINGTON-- Today, Rep. John Lewis applauded the passage of the Senate version of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) following the failure of the partisan and discriminatory proposal put forth this week by House Republicans. With House Democrats pushing for a stronger, more comprehensive reauthorization, the Senate’s version passed the House by a vote of 286-138, extending the law’s crucial protections to LGBT, Native American and immigrant victims, providing for more rape kits as well as a national registry of forensic evidence from sexual assault cases, strengthening criminal anti-trafficking statutes, providing for temporary housing for victims, and addressing domestic violence on American college campuses. The House adoption of the Senate bill means that the Lewis SMART Teen Dating Bill and the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TVPRA) will also become law. Following a disturbing conversation with Fulton County District Attorney Paul Howard, the Congressman became the House leader on teen dating violence prevention by drafting the SMART Teen Dating Violence Prevention and Awareness Act . The bill was passed by the House on the last day of February,Teen Dating Violence Prevention and Awareness Month. In addition to sponsoring an annual resolution and congressional briefing in February, the Lewis introduced legislation to focus on the alarming national rise of teen dating violence. In October of last year, Rep. Lewis sent a letter to House and Senate leaders urging them to pass VAVA and the TVPRA. He was especially concerned about FBI reports that Atlanta had one of the highest rates of child prostitution in the country. The Senate acted by including it within the VAWA legislation. The House developed a more partisan measure that failed. Ultimately, the House decided to pass the Senate version which included more progressive measures. “This is a victory,” said Rep. John Lewis, “for women in this country who live in fear. They can breathe a little easier tonight knowing that federal law will continue to protect and has expanded protections for victims of domestic violence and women who are trafficked worldwide. It took this Congress too long to do what it should have done without hesitation, but I am glad we finally these bills. They that on our watch the federal government will not turn a blind eye to defenseless children and the vulnerable women who are terrorized by violence of this kind. ###
02.27.2013	WASHINGTON--Today at an official ceremony in the U.S. Capitol, the House and Senate leadership and President Barack Obama gathered to unveil the celebrated statute of Rosa Parks that was placed in Statuary Hall today. The hall is located in the oldest section of the Capitol where the Congresses of this nation’s founders held their first legislative sessions. Throughout the Capitol, there are two statues representing the historic legacy of each of the 50 states. Now 36 statues currently occupy Statuary Hall, and that of Rosa Parks will be the first full standing replica of an individual of African American descent within the Capitol building. A bust of Martin Luther King Jr.’s image also resides in the hall. Rep. Lewis made these remarks after the statue was unveiled: “Rosa Parks was an inspiring woman. Her life and her legacy demonstrate what an ordinary citizen with extraordinary vision can do to change the course of a nation’s history. Even though I grew up only about 40 miles from Montgomery, I never met Rosa Parks until I became involved in the student movement at Fisk University in Nashville. I was only 15 years old during the Montgomery bus boycott, but I, like everyone else I knew in Alabama, had a deep admiration and respect for Rosa Parks because of her dignity, her courage, and her integrity. “When Rosa Parks decided to sit down, she inspired thousands of others to stand up against segregation and racial discrimination. And her story still inspires young people and activists from around the world today who resist unjust laws and traditions that disrespect the dignity of human kind. Without this one woman, without Rosa Parks, there would be no Martin Luther King Jr. and Barack Obama would not be President of the United States. This entire nation owes her a debt of gratitude for all that she sacrificed, stood for and continues to symbolize to make this society and this world community a better place.” ####
02.20.2013	WASHINGTON—Earlier this week, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee Dave Camp (R-MI) announced the formation of a Tax Reform Working group, naming Reps. John Lewis (D-GA), co-chair of the Philanthropy Caucus and ranking member of the W&M Oversight Committee, and Rep. David Reichert (R-WA) to lead the effort. The working groups will be responsible for compiling public commentary from stakeholders, academics and think tanks, practitioners, the general public and House colleagues. “While most people think only of charities when they hear the term ‘tax-exempt organizations,’ the reality is that these organizations encompass much more than that,” Lewis said. “Charities and foundations are wide in scope and breadth, and they play many roles in our society. I look forward to working with Rep. Reichert, the public and organizations to develop a complete record of how this sector works today. He will bring a unique law enforcement perspective to this working group, and together we hope to better identify and examine their issues as we move toward tax reform.” “Bi-partisan collaboration is essential to developing a real plan for comprehensive tax reform,” said Reichert. “I know Rep. Lewis will be a true asset to this group, and I look forward to working with him. The charitable community plays an important and active role in the life of many Americans, and we must develop a plan for ensuring that tax exempt status is not abused while making certain that no one who wishes to will be discouraged from giving.” The Charitable/Exempt Organizations Working Group will deal with all sections of the Internal Revenue Code that deal with charitable giving and tax exempt status. ####
02.15.2013	WASHINGTON—Today President Obama visited College Heights Early Childhood Learning Center in Decatur, Georgia. Rep. Lewis was glad the President chose a school within the state to highlight his early childhood learning initiatives. Congressman John Lewis made these comments about the President’s visit. “I was very pleased that President Obama used an early childhood education center in Georgia as a model for what an early investment in education can do. “Head Start was an important innovation of the civil rights movement, and for many years it was a model government program. Unfortunately, Congress has divested its support in the education of all America’s children and has cut the program in recent years. Now it is another victim of sequestration. If those looming cuts go into effect, the NEA estimates Head Start could lose about 30,600 jobs. “The President is undaunted by the logjam in Congress and is devising proposals to address these problems in the ways that he can. He is using the resources at his disposal to commit to high-quality early childhood education by raising standards, exposing children to the best teachers, and the best measures of their success. I support these ideas and I urge my colleagues to lay politics aside, come together and take action to move America forward to address these vital issues.” Rep. Lewis has been a stalwart supporter of educational initiatives. Recently, he has cosponsored several bills, even in this fiscally restrained Congress, to bolster education: · The Equal Access to Education Act – H.R. 2902 creates a solution for high-need schools to recruit, induct, and retain the best teachers to close the achievement gap by decreasing teacher turnover, teacher mentorship and training programs, among other programs; · The Teacher Tax Relief Act, H.R. 1738 which would increase and make permanent the maximum deduction allowed for teachers purchasing classroom supplies and expand the deduction to include professional development expenses; · The Young Adults Financial Literacy Act, H.R. 300 which would create a grant program to develop financial literacy in young adults; · H.R. 3826 which prevents Stafford student loan rates from doubling; · and the Student Loan Grace Period Extension Act, H.R. 4286 which extends the grace period for federal subsidized and unsubsidized student loans from 6 months to 12 months. ###
02.13.2013	“Tonight President Obama spoke to the American people. He inspired us with his vision for a better nation, and he invited us to share in his vision. He acknowledged the struggles of the common man, and he laid out a powerful agenda for the strengthening of the middle class and the continued recovery of our economy. President Obama is right. We do not need bigger government, but smarter government that uses the advantages of change to build a better future. “Through his leadership the deficit has fallen under a trillion dollars for the first time in five years, but we cannot ‘cut our way to prosperity.’ Congress must adopt an even-handed approach that requires everyone to pay their fair share. We must not balance our budget on the backs of the most vulnerable Americans who have already suffered enough. We must keep the promises we made to protect seniors in their golden years. “His focus on creating jobs by investing in this country—manufacturing, infrastructure repair, alternative energy, education—and by looking toward the future to take advantage of new opportunities is good policy. A speech is not the place to lay out the details of these plans. The legislative and appropriation process are where those ideas take shape, but we saw tonight that the President does have a plan to invest in America’s future. He suggested proposals based on American values that any member of Congress should be able to embrace. “Above all, hard work should create a decent living in this country. Who can argue with that? When people see that their efforts can pay off, their hope and confidence in the future of this nation is rekindled. It helps restore the American dream. “It is up to the Congress now to create a bipartisan coalition to fulfill some of these ideas. The President has challenged us to get to work. I believe we can come together. We must come together, lay partisanship aside, and carve out a new future for the American people. That’s what they sent us here to do. I look forward to his visit to Atlanta on Thursday when we will hear more about his ideas to support early childhood education. ” ####
01.23.2013	Voter Empowerment Act (H.R.12) Simplifies and Modernizes the Voting Process Offering Equal Access for Every Citizen WASHINGTON, DC—Today Rep. John Lewis (GA-5), House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5), Assistant Democratic Leader James Clyburn (SC-6), Rep. John Conyers (MI-13), and Rep. Robert Brady (PA-1) reintroduced the Voter Empowerment Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York introduced a companion version of the bill in the Senate. The Voter Empowerment Act (H.R. 12) will help ensure equal access to the ballot for every eligible voter, will modernize our voter registration system to help more Americans participate, and takes steps to eliminate deceptive practices and voter fraud that deters voters from casting their ballots. As more and more stories of voting problems emerge from last year’s general election, Democrats are continuing to press the issue of ensuring Americans’ voting rights through Congressional action, especially at a time when some states have implemented or are planning to implement new barriers to voting for certain groups, including seniors, students, low-income Americans, and members of our Armed Services. The bill is being reintroduced on the anniversary of the 24th Amendment, which banned the discriminatory practice of the poll tax. Click here for a fact sheet on the Voter Empowerment Act. Click here for a section by section description of the bill. Click here for the full bill text of the reintroduced Voter Empowerment Act. Click here quotes in support of the bill. Rep. John Lewis said, “The right to vote is precious, almost sacred. Too many people in this country had to give their lives to exercise a right already guaranteed them by the Constitution. Outlawing the poll tax 49 years ago does not mean we are finished protecting democratic freedom. New challenges to equal access still arise today. To be a credible voice for equal justice abroad, we must be watchful here at home to alleviate every historic and current impediment to the democratic process.” “I am proud to join in reintroducing the Voter Empowerment Act,” Democratic Whip Hoyer said. “Last year, this bill was introduced after several Republican-controlled state legislatures enacted restrictive new voting laws, which made registering to vote and casting ballots difficult or impossible for many. (more) In November, we saw long lines at polling places, with many people waiting hours to vote. This legislation introduced today is needed to protect Americans seeking to exercise their right to vote. With just a few months before the next special election for a seat in Congress, House Republicans ought to waste no time in bringing this bill to the flloor and working with Democrats to pass it.” “The right to vote should be the birthright of every American, but in the past several years more than a dozen states have passed laws making it more difficult for citizens to exercise their constitutional right to vote,” said Assistant Democratic Leader Clyburn. “We urgently need to update our federal laws to safeguard the sacred right of American citizens to vote. Working with Representatives John Lewis, Marcia Fudge, George Miller, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and others, we consolidated several bills that had been under discussion for some time. We convened a legislative summit last year with dozens of Members and representatives from scores of advocacy organizations. Working extensively with Ranking Members Robert Brady and John Conyers, we developed this comprehensive bill. The Voter Empowerment Act contains three main parts: improving access, protecting integrity and ensuring accountability. On this date in 1964, the 24th Amendment to the Constitution was ratified, ending forever the Jim Crow era practice of poll taxes as a barrier to the free exercise of the right to vote. This legislation will end recently enacted creative devices that constitute a modern version of the poll tax. I urge the 113th Congress to pass this needed legislation this year.” Rep. Conyers stated, “There is no more important right in our society than the right to vote – the foundation of all our other rights enshrined in the Constitution. Unfortunately, efforts to scale back the right to vote continue to thrive in our country. Today we call on Congress to once again protect that precious right. Congress did not stand idly by in 1965 when we passed the Voting Rights Act and the many federal protections we passed thereafter. When equal access to the ballot box is impaired by any means, the Constitution obligates our most careful and deliberate attention. And we, the 113th Congress, must not stand idly by now when American citizens are denied their constitutional right to vote.” Rep. Brady stated, “We’re committed to strengthening our democracy and ensuring no eligible voter is ever denied the opportunity to cast a ballot. Disenfranchisement, for any reason, is an affront to our process and cannot be tolerated.” “Dr. Martin Luther King often spoke about the fierce urgency of now; now is the time to protect the voting rights battles that have already been won and to press for new protections,” said Sen. Gillibrand. “Ensuring that every vote counts is a cornerstone of our democracy that should be embraced by both sides of the aisle. I am honored to work on this bill with a true American hero like Congressman Lewis and the other leaders on this bill to ensure that voting is accessible and every American’s voice is heard.” ADDITIONAL LINKS “On Voting: Listen to John Lewis” -- Reuters https://blogs.reuters.com/great-debate/2013/01/22/on-voting-listen-to-john-lewis/ “Saving Democracy: A Priority for the 113th Congress” – Huffington Post https://www.huffingtonpost.com/nancy-kaufman/saving-democracy-a-priori_b_2431684.html “It Should Not be This Hard to Vote in Florida” – Tampa Bay Times https://www.tampabay.com/opinion/columns/it-shouldnt-be-this-hard-to-vote-in-florida/1264922 “No One in America Should have to wait 7 Hours to Vote” – The Atlantic https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2012/11/no-one-in-america-should-have-to-wait-7-hours-to-vote/264506/ “Obama Won. Now It’s Time to Change the System” –The Nation https://www.thenation.com/article/171263/obama-won-now-its-time-change-system ###
01.15.2013	Today, as the nation heads moves ever closer to reaching its debt limit and funding for critical aspects of government are set to expire in a matter of weeks, the leadership of the U.S. House of Representatives determined to read the U.S. Constitution. The reading begins at 10 AM. Rep. John Lewis has been asked to read the 13th Amendment, as he was last year: “I am very pleased,” said Rep. John Lewis, “to read this important amendment. It represents an important turning point in our history. Aspects of the legislative and political work necessary to pass this amendment have been depicted so well this year by the movie Lincoln. So many Americans have a better sense today about the meaning of this important amendment. “It was a moral imperative, something this nation had to do to begin to free itself from the blight of selling human beings for profit. President Lincoln and others used their power to right a moral wrong and changed the destiny of this country forever. It is one example of the best kind of contribution legislators can make to society.” The 13th Amendment was made law in December, 1865, and was intended to fortify the action of the Emancipation Proclamation, made by President Abraham Lincoln. The proclamation freed the slaves of states in rebellion during the Civil War and was based on special authority the president is extended during war. However, Lincoln recognized he had no real jurisdiction to end slavery permanently, so he helped to push the 13th Amendment through the Congress to abolish the institution in the United States altogether. Interestingly enough, the first draft of the 13th Amendment was authored before the secession of states that led to the Civil War and actually was intended to permanently protect the legality of slavery in this country. However, Congress was not able to act upon it before the Civil War began. Lincoln transformed the original intention of this amendment to end the institution in this country forever. It had been 60 years since the Congress had passed an amendment to the Constitution when it passed the 13th Amendment. ###
01.15.2013	Rep. John Lewis commented today on the death of Eugene Patterson, former Editor of the Atlanta Constitution and a Pulitzer Prize winning columnist for the paper during the height of the Civil Rights Movement. He held other distinguished positions at The Washington Post and United Press as well. He ended his career as CEO of the St. Petersburg Times and COB of The Poynter Institute. He died on Saturday. He was 89 years old. Rep. Lewis made this comment: “Eugene Patterson, along with his mentor and friend Ralph McGill-- the beloved publisher of the Atlanta Constitution--played a major role in moving this nation toward the creation of a new South and a new America. He was an extraordinary journalist who used the power of his pen to articulate a vision of what the South could be. He hoped his words would change hearts and persuade minds to build a truly multiracial democracy in America, and they did. I sat on many panels with him to give meaning to the history we lived together. He was a great friend and a true humanitarian who used his tremendous talents to make a difference in our society. There are not many left like Eugene Patterson. He will be deeply missed.” ####
01.04.2013	On New Year's Eve, December 31, 2012, Mrs. Lillian Miles Lewis, the devoted wife of U.S. Representative John Lewis, died in Atlanta, Georgia. Services will be held at 11 AM on Monday January 7 at The Historic Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta.
12.19.2012	After seniors suffered through two years during some of the roughest economic times in recent American history without seeing a Cost of Living Increase, there are some suggesting a significant change to the formula used to calculate cost of living adjustments for Social Security beneficiaries. An obscure term is being used to refer to this cut—“the chained Consumer Price Index or chained CPI”. What it means is that all current and future retirees receiving Social Security, including veterans and the disabled, would see a dramatic cut to their current and future benefits, and the cuts would compound over time. So for example, if the average Social Security beneficiary receives about $14000 yearly, then this cut to the COLA would represent a $653 loss by the time a retiree is age 75, a $1139 cut by age 85, and a $1611 cut by age 95, according to the Social Security Administration’s figures released in September of this year. Rep. John Lewis was deeply disturbed by this proposal. “The people of this nation are depending upon us to be true to our word,” said Rep. John Lewis. “I don’t know how many members ran on a promise not to cut Social Security. Now, without any hard proposal to raise taxes on the rich, some are using Social Security as a carrot to get a deal. We cannot, and we must not play with the lives of senior citizens. People work hard in America, and they deserve to retire with dignity. The reward of their hard work should not be a significant reduction in resources the longer they live and the more vulnerable they become. Something is wrong with this equation. “Social Security is solvent. It is insurance citizens have paid into in good faith. They have honored their commitment, and the federal government should honor its commitment. We should not tolerate cuts to Social Security. It is a sacred trust that should not be violated, not a piggybank used to fix fiscal problems. “Democrats have made concessions in these negotiations. We created $492 billion in Medicare savings, and in prior negotiations around the nation’s fiscal problems we offered another $300 billion in cuts. We have done our part. Why can’t Republicans do theirs? Why can’t they simply put tax increases on the table that they would vote for, instead of requiring us to cut the sick, the veterans, the seniors, and the orphans until it hurts. This is not right. It is not fair or just negotiation. We should not offer more concessions. We should demand solutions in light of the concessions we have already made.”
12.18.2012	“I first met Jesse Hill Jr. during the Civil Rights Movement in the early 1960s. He was a tireless fighter for civil and human rights. He conducted voter registration efforts in Atlanta long before the Voting Rights Act was passed in 1965. He was a strong supporter of the Atlanta student movement, the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the work of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and he assisted Mrs. Coretta Scott King in helping to build the King Center for Nonviolent Social Change. He was also a leader in getting African American support behind the development of MARTA. “During the past 50 years, very little progress has been made in Atlanta without the involvement of Jesse Hill. He was a very successful business man, and he used his position as the CEO of the Atlanta Life Insurance Company to get things done, not just to position himself, but to advance the causes of equality, social justice, and humane business practice for all of the people of the city. He envisioned Atlanta as a cornerstone in the South of a transformed and renewed America. He did more than dream, but he worked to make that vision a reality. “Jesse Hill was a man of unbelievable energy. He did not like drawn out meetings. He was in one place one moment and somewhere else the next. He was a wonderful friend to me. He would always call me early in the morning, and sometimes he would just say, “John, I’m thinking about you.” “Jesse Hill helped Atlanta become what it is today. He helped support my run for Congress in 1986. As a matter of fact, he came to me when it looked like everyone else wanted to go another way, and threw his support behind me. He is one of the major reasons that I became a Congressman in 1986. Many people in this city, including Maynard Jackson, Andy Young, Jimmy Carter and me are deeply indebted to Jesse Hill. We have lost one of the strongest pillars in this city."
12.14.2012	I am incredibly grieved by this horrible tragedy. As one who has experienced violence and even terrorism in my life, I deeply regret that young innocent children were killed and that their families and the people of Newtown, Connecticut must face this violence in their communities. My heart weeps at the senselessness this atrocity. This time of year is special for the children of this nation. They are looking forward to the magic and wonder of the holidays, but today they are suffering through a very sad and dark hour in American history. The psyche of many children in Connecticut and throughout this country will be scarred for decades to come. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and the entire Newtown community in this very difficult hour. We as a nation and as a people must take a stand against the tragic problem of mass shooting in American schools. There’s not any room in American society for these unspeakable acts of violence.
10.03.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT Rep. John Lewis Congress in the Community Events ATLANTA—Rep. John Lewis has been bringing the work of his congressional offices to constituents through a series of Congress in the Community Events. Thursday October 4 Atlanta Public Library in Stewart-Lakewood 3:30 PM to 5:30 PM 2893 Lakewood Avenue, SW Atlanta Thursday October 11 Clayton Public Library – Forest Park 11:00 AM to 1:00 PM 696 Main Street, Forest Park Wednesday October 17 Atlanta Public Library – Buckhead 1:00 PM to 3:00 PM 269 Buckhead Avenue, NE Atlanta ✔ DONE Wednesday Sept. 19 Atlanta Public Library in Hapeville 11:00 AM to 1:00 PM 525 King Arnold Street, Hapeville ✔ DONE Friday Sept. 28 Atlanta Public Library in QLS Garden 11:30 AM to 1:30 PM 1870 Campbellton Road, SW Atlanta Each Congress in the Community event is an opportunity for 5th District residents to get advice or assistance with challenges they may have involving the federal government. They can also use this opportunity to communicate any concerns they have to knowledgeable staff in the Congressman’s office who can assist them. A member of Rep. Lewis’s staff will be on hand at the library to meet with constituents. No appointment is necessary. For more information call 404-659-0116.
09.25.2012	Periodically, Rep. John Lewis is notified that organizations within the 5th Congressional District have been selected to receive a variety of federal grants. This federal grants announcement will advise press and constituents of these notifications. This announcement details about $4,299,000 IN FEDERAL GRANTS coming to the state of Georgia affecting the 5th Congressional District.What is the funding process for federal grants?There are two basic ways the federal government awards funds, through mandatory funding or discretionary funding. Members of Congress vote on “authorizing” legislation that funds the mandatory commitments of the federal government for programs like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, unemployment insurance and SNAP. Also every year, levels of discretionary funding are determined during the Congressional appropriations process. Rep. Lewis and all other members of Congress work to ensure that federal programs which provide key services within their districts are funded at levels requested by local government authorities and constituents they represent. The federal grants announced by this release fall mainly in the discretionary category. The money appropriated by Congress is sent to the federal agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) or of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which then disburse it directly to the states and local governments. Sometimes federal agencies issue requests for proposals which place states, cities, and local organizations in competition with others around the country for the opportunity to gain federal support for a local project. This is where the efficacy of city and state organizations are tested to determine whether they can compete effectively to receive those funds. Rep. Lewis often meets with and advises city, state or local agencies to help them strategize effective methods of engaging the federal agencies throughout the grant process. Pell Grants, Byrne Justice Assistance, veterans’ services, LIHEAP home heating support, early education, COPS, YouthBuild, Jobs Corps, the CDC, minority health programs, TIGER, critical disease research initiatives, tenant and fair housing assistance all stem from Congressional discretionary funding. Recent successful discretionary grant efforts from the 5th Congressional District of Georgia include the Atlanta Streetcar, the Multimodal Passenger Terminal, the Atlanta BeltLine, and the UTC. Through his District Office, Rep. Lewis offers grants assistance and workshops to explain the federal grants process. Please call 404-659-0116 if you are interested in participating in one of these workshops. Following is the list of the most recently granted federal funds affecting the 5th Congressional District. If you are seeking more information about any one of these federal grants, please consult the agency granting information for more details on their selection process. This is to inform you that the U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES will be announcing the following grant award(s) to recipient(s) within your Congressional district and state. If you have any questions, please contact the HHS Press office at: (202) 690-6343 or consult their website: August 22, 2012 Grantee Name Grant Project Title Link American College of Rheumatology The commitment of the ACR's existing Lupus Initiative is to eliminate causes of the persistent gaps between the lupus-related health status of minorities and non-minorities. $1,000,000.00 View details GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Kinetic analysis of ligand binding by TCR and CD8 $388,518.00 View details GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY Developing Measures of Little Cigar Use for Young Adults $73,792.00 View details Georgia Department of Community Health, Office of Inspector Background Check Program for Long-Term Care Providers $2,633,765.00 View details Wholistic Stress Control Institute, Inc. (WSCI) CIR II is to improve the HIV/AIDS health outcomes for 450+ high-risk African American males & females, 13-19, in Atlanta by providing HIV education, testing, and linkage to care over a 3yr period. $200,000.00 View details
09.21.2012	Rep. John Lewis Sees Failure to Put People First The 112th Congress was elected in 2010 based on promises to “clean up Washington,” but they ushered in a partisan environment of acrimony and accusation that has led to an unrewarding conclusion. This may prove to be one of the least productive sessions of Congress since World War II. Even the do-nothing Congress of the Truman era was more productive than this one. Under partisan and divisive GOP leadership, the people’s regard for Congress has dropped to its lowest levels in over 40 years. The current 10 percent approval rating is the lowest Congress has ever received. A close look at the Congressional Record will reveal that the second week of September 2012 was the first 5-day voting work week for the House in two years. Congress has closed its business to campaign earlier than at any time in the last 60 years, creating only about 150 pieces of legislation that have actually become law. None of these bills have addressed the most pressing issues Americans are facing—high levels of unemployment, rising hunger, poverty, and homelessness, a debt crisis among students and a middle class burdened with the rising cost of living and underwater mortgages. Rep. John Lewis made this statement on congressional inaction: “It is a disgrace,” said Rep. John Lewis, “that the leadership of the House feels satisfied to end our business while people in this country are struggling and suffering. I think Gov. Romney said what he really believed. The leadership of the Republican party does not feel compelled by the needs of 47 percent of the people, and they are willing to let them fend for themselves. They do not believe that government has a responsibility to act, even when we are facing alarming levels of unemployment, debt and poverty. It’s ok to bail out the banks and big business, but it is not ok to use the resources of government of the people to help meet their needs. Something is wrong with that. It is just not right.” Today the Democrats held a news conference on the issue after having sent a letter to the Speaker of the House, John Boehner, imploring him to keep Congress in session to work on some of the critical legislation still hanging in the balance. In comparison the following is a list of accomplishments of the 110th Congress. “It is my hope”, said Lewis, “that the people of this nation will recognize the need to elect a new Congress committed to bi-partisanship and compromise. Under the best practices of this Congress, we work to reconcile the differences between parties for the good of the American people. We never held the work of the people hostage to partisan nature of politics. The people deserve better. I hope they will send back members committed to taking the nation forward.”
09.21.2012	Comprehensive Legislation Originally Introduced By Rep. John Lewis In The House Of Representatives Would Strengthen Federal Law On Voting Rights WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand today teamed up with Rep. John Lewis, a nationally recognized leader often called "one of the most courageous persons the Civil Rights Movement ever produced," by introducing companion legislation in the Senate of the Voter Empowerment Act, authored by a collaboration between Majority Whip Steny Hoyer and Assistant Leader Jim Clyburn, and Reps. John Lewis, Jim Brady, and John Conyers. The House version of the bill was introduced earlier this year. At a time when numerous states have passed restrictive voter laws, this comprehensive legislation would strengthen federal law on voting rights by modernizing voter registration, ensuring equal access to the ballot box for all Americans and prohibit deceptive practices that predominantly disenfranchise Americans from minority communities. "We’ve come too far in our nation’s history to re-fight old battles over voting rights that already have been won,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Instead of adding new burdens on voters, we should be giving them new protections. Ensuring that every vote counts is a cornerstone of our democracy that should be embraced by both sides of the aisle. I am honored to work on this bill with a true American hero like Congressman Lewis to ensure that voting is accessible and every American’s voice is heard." "It should be easy to vote, as simple as getting a glass of water, in a society that believes in the immutable right of every human being to determine his or her own future,” said Rep. Lewis. “We must eliminate every barrier and impediment to the electoral process to make voting fair, accessible, and an accurate representation of the will of the people. The vote is the most powerful non-violent tool we have in a democratic society to build." Over the past two years, numerous states have passed restrictive voter laws, including limiting early voting, purging voter registration lists, and new voter identification requirements. With a pivotal election just weeks away, access to voter registration and to the ballot remains a problem of great concern. Approximately three million Americans were turned away from the polls in the 2008 Presidential election alone due to voter registration problems. One in four voters – an estimated 51 million Americans eligible to vote – are not registered. The Voter Empowerment Act would modernize voter registration, ensure equal access to the ballot box for all Americans and prohibit deceptive practices and voter fraud that keep people from exercising their constitutional right to vote. The legislation contains three main sections: improving access to the ballot, protecting the integrity of voting systems, and ensuring accountability in elections. Specifically, the legislation would: Open access to the ballot box by: Modernizing the voter registration system Authorizing an online registration option Authorizing same-day registration and permitting voters to update their registration data onsite Providing additional tools to alleviate any additional burdens for people with disabilities Requiring all universities that receive federal funds to offer and encourage voter registration to their students Simplifying registration and ensuring that ballots from all military personnel serving overseas are counted Ensure integrity of process by: Authorizing funds for training poll workers and setting standards for polling place practices Requiring provisional ballots be available and counted at all polling places Prohibiting voter caging and designating it as a felony Protecting against deceptive practices and intimidation Protect accountability of result by: Establishing a national voter hotline to ensure timely reporting and corrective action of voting related issues Setting standards for voting machines to ensure accurate tabulation and confirmation of voter intent paper copy verification Reauthorizing the Election Assistance Commission to ensure that the highest standards are being met nationwide to guarantee fair elections The Voter Empowerment Act is supported by civil rights groups across the country including the NAACP, Project Vote, DEMOS, National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty, FairVote, Common Cause, and National Association of Social Workers.
09.21.2012	WASHINGTON — Today, Ways and Means Committee Members Reps. John Lewis (D-GA), Pete Stark (D-CA), and Gary Peters (D-MI) introduced the Computers for Our Communities Act. This legislation will extend a tax code provision that encourages companies to make donations of computer equipment to public schools and libraries. Congressman Stark worked with Steve Jobs to introduce this provision into the tax code nearly 30 years ago. Rep. Stark shared Jobs' commitment to put a computer into every school in America. Introducing this legislation reinforces Rep. Stark’s commitment to our nation’s students. “Today’s students need access to the latest technological innovations in order to be prepared for the employment opportunities of tomorrow and be competitive entrants into the global job market,” said Rep. Stark. “At a time when many school districts are struggling to make ends meet this legislation will go a long way in ensuring that that America’s students have access to the technological resources they need. I am proud to be introducing legislation that will extend this vital tax credit.” “Access to the internet and new technology is emerging as one of the greatest civil rights issues of our time. If education is the great equalizer, then access to technology is the great facilitator,” commented Rep. Lewis. “It is changing the way we live and move as a society, so we must make sure that no one is locked out or left behind. This legislation will put more computers in our poorest schools and libraries, helping our most vulnerable young people have the access they so greatly need.” “Developing digital literacy and access to technology are essential to the education of our students and critical for adults that want to advance their careers,” said Rep. Peters. “I'm proud to have worked with Representatives Stark and Lewis to introduce this legislation that extends a commonsense tax incentive for our nation’s businesses to provide computers to our schools and libraries, many of which are facing significant budget shortfalls.” BACKGROUND ON SECTION 170(e)(6) Section 170(e)(6) of the Tax Code allows companies that donate computer technology and similar equipment to public libraries, public schools, and educational organizations to take an enhanced tax deduction, instead of just the minimal deduction of their basis in the property. Section 170(e)(6) expired at the end of 2011. This legislation would extend the tax provision through 2013. To read Rep. Stark’s introduction statement, please click here. To read the bill text, please click here.
09.21.2012	ATLANTA—Rep. John Lewis will bring the work of his congressional offices to constituents with a series of Congress in the Community Events. REP. JOHN LEWIS CONGRESS IN THE COMMUNITY Wed 9/19 11:00 – 1:00 Atlanta Public Library - Hapeville 525 King Arnold Street Hapeville Fri 9/28 11:30 – 1:30 QLS Garden 1870 Campbellton Rd, SW Atlanta Thu 10/4 3:30 - 5:30 Atlanta Public Library - Stewart-Lakewood 2893 Lakewood Ave SW Atlanta Thu 10/11 11:00 - 1:00 Clayton Public Library - Forest Park 696 Main Street, Forest Park Wed 10/17 1:00 - 3:00 Atlanta Public Library - Buckhead 269 Buckhead Ave NE Atlanta Each Congress in the Community event is an opportunity for 5th District residents to get advice or assistance with challenges they may have involving the federal government. They can also use this opportunity to communicate any concerns they have to the congressman representing them. A member of Rep. Lewis’s staff will be on hand at the library to meet with constituents. No appointment is necessary. For more information call 404-659-0116.
09.20.2012	Rally at GA Capitol on National Voter Registration Day: Congressmen to Ensure State's Voters Ready on Election Day ATLANTA, GA -- On September 25, 2012, National Voter Registration Day, hundreds of metro Atlanta residents will join Reps. John Lewis, David Scott and Hank Johnson along with a cross-section of Atlanta voter rights groups to make sure all eligible voters in Georgia are registered and prepared to vote this fall. The event will be one of many across the country held simultaneously by varying members of the Congressional Black Caucus, as a part of the “For the People” Voter Protection Initiative H. Res. 542. In Atlanta, the congressmen and speakers will discuss voter suppression efforts, such as restrictive voter ID laws, which may impede as many as 5 million Americans from registering to vote and/or casting a ballot this November. At least 34 states have introduced laws that would require voters to show photo identification in order to vote and at least 12 states have introduced laws that would require proof of citizenship, such as a birth certificate, to register to vote or to vote. States that have passed voter suppression laws account for 171 electoral votes in 2012, 63 percent of the 270 needed to win the presidency. In Georgia, voter ID laws passed in 2005 made the state one of the earliest adopters of voter suppression techniques. “The founders of this nation declared every individual has an immutable right to determine his or her own future,” said Rep. Lewis. “That is why voting should be easy, simple and accessible to every citizen in a democracy, regardless of language, education, class or zip code. The vote is the most powerful non-violent tool we have to build a more perfect union. That is why we must continue to struggle and resist every attempt to block access to the ballot box.” “A citizen’s right to vote must not be left to the political winds of the day but should be protected to fulfill our nation’s ideals of equality for all Americans,” said Rep. Scott. “Although we have come a long way by ending the techniques used for decades to deny millions of minorities the right to vote, voter inequities, disparities, and obstacles still remain for far too many voters.” “Across the country, our Constitutional right to vote is under attack,” said Rep. Johnson. “Sweeping new state voter laws – including an end to same-day registration, cuts to early voting and voter ID laws – create barriers for millions of voters. Nothing is more fundamental in our democracy than the right to vote. We must reject any attempts to curb citizens’ access to the ballot.” The Congressmen and other members of the Congressional Black Caucus are committed to ensuring that no eligible voter is turned away from the ballot box during early voting and on Election Day. For more information about the events to protect the right to vote for all eligible voters, visit: https://www.lawyerscommittee.org/projects/voting_rights . WHO: Reps. John Lewis, David Scott and Hank Johnson; Civil Rights legend the Rev. C.T. Vivian; The Georgia League of Women Voters; Georgia Stand Up; Georgia Association of Latino Elected Officials (GALEO); Georgia NAACP; Atlanta 9to5; Asian American Legal Advocacy Center (AALAC); Coalition for the People's Agenda; Georgia Equality; Georgia Conservation Voters; Georgia State Conference, Georgia WAND; Planned Parenthood Southeast; Partnership for Southern Equity and eligible voters. WHAT: National Voter Registration Day, CBC “For the People” Voter Protection Initiative. Eligible voters will learn about Georgia voting rights laws, hear from elected officials, register to vote obtain voter ID at the Georgia Board of Elections and march to the voter registration office. WHEN: Tuesday, Sept. 25 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. WHERE: Georgia State Capitol – Washington Street Side.
09.19.2012	Tomorrow Thursday September 20, Rep. John Lewis will host a discussion entitled “Cities in the 21st Century: Lessons from the Making of Modern Atlanta” at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, Room 143-B, from 2-4 pm. WHO: Ambassador Andrew Young, Chair Andrew J. Young Foundation, Inc. The Honorable Shirley Franklin, former Mayor of Atlanta The Honorable Marc Morial, President and CEO, National Urban League Dr. Harvey K. Newman, Professor, Georgia State University Dr. Ravi K. Perry, Assistant Professor, Mississippi State University Andrea Young, Executive Director, Andrew J. Young Foundation, Inc. Moderator, The Honorable Stacey Abrams, House Minority Leader for the Georgia General Assembly WHAT: This panel will address critical policies in managing a diverse city to include: • The approach to minority business joint ventures in city contracts; • Public sector leverage of private sector resources to preserve public institutions; • The role of education, sports, transportation and hospitality in creating a virtuous cycle of economic growth; • The electoral strategy of progressive interests to include analysis, policy recommendations and implications for cities in the 21st centuryWHEN: September 20th from 2:00 pm to 4:00 PM WHERE: Walter E. Washington Convention Center, Room 143 B
09.14.2012	After a moving ceremony at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland led by the President of the United States Barack Obama, Vice President Joseph Biden and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who received the remains of four Americans killed recently in an attack against the American consulate in Libya, Rep. John Lewis made this statement: “I join the Americans who mourn today for the loss of four brave professionals killed in the line of duty—U.S. Ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens, Foreign Service information officer Sean Smith, and two Navy SEALs Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty. We pay tribute to their abiding commitment to the work of international diplomacy, not only when it was easy, but especially when it was difficult. "This nation is honored by their sacrifice and will be forever grateful for their dedicated service. It is my hope and my prayer that one day very soon the community of nations will dignify all they have given by ending the strife among us all to take up the meaningful work of lasting peace. We embrace the loving families and friends they leave behind with our thoughts and pray for their comfort in the difficult days ahead.”
09.11.2012	Today the members of the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate will gather on the steps of the U.S. Capitol to pay tribute to the victims and the heroes who died on September 11, 2001, due to the Al Quaeda terrorist network. Two planes hit the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and one crashed in Pennsylvania on that day, believed to have been intended to strike the U.S. Capitol. The Architect of the Capitol has commissioned a plaque honoring the victims of United Flight 93, whose heroism averted a likely disaster at the Capitol. “It is fitting and appropriate for every American to pause today and remember those who sacrificed their lives on September 11, 2001. We are eternally grateful to the firefighters, police officers, and everyday citizens who rose to meet the challenges of that day and who gave their lives so that many others might live. We also honor the thousands who died and send out our prayers to their families, who live in constant awareness of the tragic, personal consequences of terrorism and violence. “I will never forget how the hurt and the anguish of that time broke down every wall between us and brought this nation together like never before. The world community also put aside all its grievances and, both friend and foe opened its arms to America. If there is anything to be gained from such a difficult time, it is the memory of harmony that filled our hearts. It is my hope and my prayer that as we commemorate the lives that were lost and the acts of courage which ensued on that day, we will also find ways to come together as we did then and remember that we are one people, one family, and the American family. We are one nation, one world community that must use the lessons of the past to lead us toward the human unity and reconciliation that is our final destiny.”
08.28.2012	Today Rep. John Lewis participated in a panel discussion in Atlanta commemorating the 49th Anniversary of the March on Washington and honoring Atlanta’s unique civil rights legacy. As the last surviving speaker from that March, Lewis issued this statement, a revised version of an early editorial, honoring this anniversary and anticipating the 50th anniversary of the March next year: Next year this nation will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington on August 28, 2013. Many of you will be on your way to DC to honor the legacy of a movement that helped liberate, not just a people, but an entire nation from the chains of legalized segregation. As we approach this significant moment in our history, I challenge you to dig even deeper into American history and reflect upon the importance that this one day-- August 28th--has played. It was on August 28, 1955, that a 14-year-old boy named Emmett Till was kidnapped from his uncle’s home in Money, Mississippi and lynched. Many historians mark his death as the launch of the modern-day Civil Rights Movement in America. Just a few months later on December 1, 1955, Rosa Parks’ action would inspire the boycott of segregated buses in Montgomery, Alabama that lasted 381 days. On August 28, 1957, Strom Thurmond, a Republican senator from South Carolina and a staunch segregationist held the longest filibuster any one senator ever conducted to block passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1957. The bill was written by then Senate Majority Leader, Lyndon Johnson, and originally devised as an attempt to mandate voting rights by outlawing intimidation and coercion at the polls. The filibuster ended with alterations to the bill, but it did not stop its passage. It was ultimately signed into law by President Dwight Eisenhower, establishing the Civil Rights Commission and the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice. Those two agencies continue to play powerful roles in helping to ensure that the voting rights and civil rights of African Americans and all Americans are enforced to this day. On August 28, 1963, Dr. King gave his historic I Have A Dream Speech on the National Mall at the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. It was a testament to the power of non-violent resistance. But just one year later on August 28, 1964, acts of police brutality incited rioting in Philadelphia. Over 300 were injured and over 700 arrested. Altogether seven American cities experienced rioting that summer including the Harlem and Rochester, New York and those in Paterson and Elizabeth City, New Jersey. Violence struck again on the 28th in1968 outside the Democratic National Convention in Chicago due to another episode of police brutality. By midday on August 28, 2005, Hurricane Katrina slammed the New Orleans coast with 145 mile an hour winds prompting a mandatory evacuation of Orleans Parish. And finally on August 28, 2008, as if to link this great past to a turning point in America’s future, Barack Obama became the first African American Democratic nominee for President of the United States. The story of August 28 tells a powerful tale of the struggle to demand respect for human dignity in America. I was there when Dr. King pricked the moral conscience of the nation calling us to lay down the burdens of hate and division. As the last remaining speaker from the March on Washington I can tell you that the lessons of that day make it plain. We cannot defeat the adversaries of justice in one day, a week or a year. Ours is the struggle of a lifetime. We must dedicate ourselves to this higher calling and stay in the struggle. The only way to make a difference is to get involved and stay engaged, through the highs and lows, the easy times and the difficult struggles. That is the lesson of August 28th. We have to keep on pushing and pulling knowing without a doubt that “the arc of the moral universe is long, but it always bends toward justice.” That is why we must vote in November and vote like never before, not because we have gotten everything we ever wanted from the political process. But because, if we do not join forces together and continue to take action, we cannot ever expect to get what we so rightly deserve.
08.23.2012	ATLANTA – Tomorrow Atlanta City Councilmember Kwanza Hall will lead the dedication of a mural honoring Rep. John Lewis at 10 a.m. on Friday, August 24, at 171 Jesse Hill Jr. Drive N.E. (at the corner of Auburn Avenue and Jesse Hill Jr. Drive NE, on the west side of the Renaissance Walk at Auburn building). “I am thrilled that Auburn Avenue is the home to this stunning mural honoring Congressman Lewis,” said Hall, who represents the area. Sean Schwab, an Atlanta-based artist and a member of the Loss Prevention arts collective, created the mural. “I am deeply moved, “said Lewis, “and very touched by the beautiful work of this artist—Sean Schwab-- and also by the generosity of the building owner who so graciously allowed this mural to be painted on his wall in downtown Atlanta. It means a great deal to me that the mural was depicted in the same community where Martin Luther King Jr. was born and nurtured. It is an inspiration to me, and I hope it will inspire others.”WHO: Atlanta City Councilmember Kwanza Hall U.S. Congressman John Lewis Reverend Gregory Eason, Senior Pastor, Big Bethel A.M.E. Church The children of Renaissance Learning Center A.J. Robinson, President, Central Atlanta Progress Sean Schwab of the artist collective Loss PreventionWHAT: Dedication of HERO, a mural honoring U.S. Congressman and Civil Rights Leader John LewisWHEN: 10 a.m. on Friday, August 24WHERE: 171 Jesse Hill Jr. Drive N.E. (West side of Renaissance Walk at Auburn building)
08.14.2012	“I remember what it was like before Social Security came into being. For elderly people who had worked hard and already given their best years to this country there was no such thing as a leisurely retirement. They had no pensions, very little savings, and most, as many as 75 percent of the elderly population, did not own their homes. “If they were lucky, when they were sick they moved into the apartments or farmhouses of their children, who were trying to raise their own families. If they had no children, they went to what we called “the poor house” along with other wards of the state—orphans, widows, the disabled, and the mentally ill. There provisions were meager, often unsanitary and all too frequently cruel. “Social Security helped lift generations of elderly citizens out of grinding poverty and freed their children to focus their resources on their own families. Social Security is not a government hand-out. It is an insurance program that people contribute into while they are working, so they can receive benefits once they retire. It was once hailed as one of the most effective government programs this nation ever implemented, before trillions were raided from the Social Security trust fund. “Social Security is a sacred promise we have made to the people of this nation that government must make every effort to honor. There are no problems with Social Security that cannot be fixed. The solutions are well within our reach as a nation. We have the means; all we need is a Congress that has the will. “In this election year, the people should find out where their candidates stand on this important issue and send members to Congress who will not to sacrifice retirement security of elderly citizens. As for me, I will continue to stand in the gap and fight for the dignity and independence of the elderly in every forum of government I have a chance to address. You can count on that.”
08.06.2012	“On August 6th, 47 years ago, President Lyndon Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act of 1965 into law. We must never, ever forget that people right here in this country suffered, struggled and died simply trying to register and vote. They were trying to exercise a right guaranteed to them by the Constitution but denied to them by the unjust laws and practices of local and state governments." “In this election year, only a few decades later, there is once again a systematic, deliberate attempt to make it almost impossible for some among us to vote. Yet again, some local and state governments have designed and implemented legal barriers that will lock millions of Americans out of the democratic process.” “Each and every one of us, not only those who are affected, but all Americans who believe in justice must do all that is in our power to resist these efforts to disenfranchise our fellow citizens. Know the law in your jurisdiction, organize yourselves to help others who might struggle to comply with new laws, and help people get to the polls to elect the officials of their choice on Election Day. “The vote is precious, almost sacred. It is the most powerful, non-violent tool we have in a democratic society. The struggle for equal voting access in America demonstrates that organized participation can defeat systematic efforts to deny citizens of their constitutional rights. Nothing can stop a committed and determined people who insist that equal justice must prevail.”
07.27.2012	WASHINGTON—Today Rep. John Lewis, a central supporter of the Multimodal Passenger Terminal, celebrated its inclusion in the President Obama’s We Can’t Wait initiative which helps to fast-track important infrastructure projects in American cities through Washington red tape. The Administration’s intervention can speed a project’s completion by as much as a year by shortening the Federal review and permitting processes. Rep. Lewis has been a key player in the development of the Multimodal Terminal vision and funding. (See attached graphic). He gained the original authorization for the Multimodal Passenger Terminal (MMPT) in the 1991 Intermodal Surface Transportation Enhancement Act (ISTEA), and he was responsible for its first federal appropriation in that year. Those funds and a local match were used for design work on a terminal. “Congressman Lewis’s support for transportation projects in our region is unwavering and his initial and ongoing work for the multimodal project is unprecedented,” said A.J. Robinson, President of Central Atlanta Progress and the Atlanta Downtown Improvement District. “Early on he grasped the concept of how impactful the multimodal terminal could be to our City, region, and State and has been running with it ever since. Now that we are getting our local act together to support his pioneering efforts in Washington, the project takes on a new trajectory and perhaps the light at the end of the tunnel may appear sooner rather than later. We are grateful for the Congressman’s support.” Through the efforts of Congressman Lewis and Senator Cleland, the 1997 Transportation Efficiency Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21) authorized and obtained an additional $20.1 million in funding for the MMPT. In the FY02 appropriations bill, Congressman Lewis requested an additional $10 million for the MMPT in the federal transportation appropriations bill and an additional $14.2 million in TEA-21.” “The Transportation Board and I,” said Dana Lemon, State Transportation Board Chairperson, “are so grateful to Congressman Lewis for being such a forceful advocate for the MMPT project for so many years. More than 20 years ago – in the 1991 federal highway authorization legislation, he secured the first federal funding for this facility. For over two decades, he has worked tirelessly to help secure the necessary local matching funds to keep the MMPT dream alive. His wise counsel and leadership over these many years have been invaluable. We would not be here today were it not for John Lewis.” During consideration of the SAFETEA-LU legislation, Congressman Lewis secured an additional $1.6 million for the MMPT. In October 2011, Congressman Lewis joined State, local government, and private leaders to celebrate the signing of an agreement for the initial development of a Multi-Modal Passenger Terminal (MMPT) and commercial center in downtown Atlanta. “Congressman Lewis has shown unwavering support for the Multi-Modal Passenger Terminal in Atlanta,” said Dr. Beverly Scott, Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority General Manager. “Since the early planning stages, he has demonstrated his commitment to bringing passenger rail back to Georgia and implementing multimodal transportation options. He recognizes that the economic recovery of the Atlanta region, and Georgia, is directly related to investing in our transportation infrastructure. His support and tireless efforts have been instrumental in bringing national attention to this project through its selection for the White House We Can’t Wait program.” Rep. Lewis could not attend the program in Atlanta this morning, but he issued the following statement, read on his behalf: Good Morning. First, let me sincerely apologize for not being able to be here with you this morning. I had hoped that I would be able to rearrange my schedule in order to be here with you this morning, because the Multimodal Passenger Terminal is so near and dear to my heart. Let me begin by thanking my congressional colleagues, the unparalleled Dr. Scott, and the MARTA team, the Atlanta Regional Commission, the Georgia Regional Transportation Authority, Central Atlanta Progress/Atlanta Downtown Improvement District, Mayor Reed, and the city of Atlanta. I would like to thank this amazing coalition for their tireless work and commitment to this project. We must also thank President Obama’s administration, and especially Secretary LaHood for their commitment and support to Metro Atlanta and the State of Georgia. The MMPT has spanned decades, generations of leaders, countless staff, planners, and advocates. So many people are committed to seeing this project completed. The City of Atlanta, GDOT, the State of Georgia, the GDOT Board -- especially Emory McClinton and Dana Lemon-- residents, and business leaders never gave up on this vision, on this dream. We began this process so long ago. We had a shared vision of a centralized, transportation hub in the heart of downtown Atlanta – where rail, bus, and train would meet seamlessly. Over 20 years ago, I was proud to help secure the very first funds for the MMPT. It is a model that should guide us through our many other transportation challenges. And just a few months ago, we were here together celebrating progress on this long stalled effort. This terminal is an important key to our transportation puzzle. I look forward to returning sooner rather than later to celebrate the MMPT’s unveiling here in the heart of downtown Atlanta. This project is an example of a true partnership, a team, a commitment to moving Metro Atlanta forward. Thank you all for your hard work and determination to see this project through to the end. A few of you were here at the beginning, and many have joined along the way. With this team, this coalition, this commitment to just getting the job done, I know that we will see the fruits of our labor sooner rather than later.
07.20.2012	ATLANTA—Rep. John Lewis made this statement one day after a gunman at a movie theatre in Aurora, Colorado opened fire and shot 71 people. It is one of the worst mass shootings in American history. “As I watch the news reports today, “said Rep. John Lewis, “telling the terrible tales of violence that ruptured Aurora, Colorado, I hope the families and friends of the victims of this unspeakable act will rest assured that they are surrounded by our prayers. When one suffers, we all suffer. When one mourns, we all mourn. “These dark hours remind me of a poignant speech that Senator Robert F. Kennedy made in Cleveland one day after Martin Luther King Jr. was killed by gun violence and only a few months before he was also shot and killed. More than 44 years may have passed since their deaths, but these words continue to strike at the heart of the rising tide of violence still surging in America today. “ I invite you to reflect upon his words which have so much meaning at this time. We pray for the victims, and we pray for our nation with the hope that one day we will all learn to study violence and war no more.” “… I have saved this one opportunity to speak briefly to you about this mindless menace of violence in America which again stains our land and every one of our lives. “It is not the concern of any one race. The victims of the violence are black and white, rich and poor, young and old, famous and unknown. They are, most important of all, human beings whom other human beings loved and needed. No one - no matter where he lives or what he does - can be certain who will suffer from some senseless act of bloodshed. And yet it goes on and on. “Why? What has violence ever accomplished? What has it ever created? No martyr's cause has ever been stilled by his assassin's bullet……Whenever any American's life is taken by another American unnecessarily - whether it is done in the name of the law or in the defiance of law, by one man or a gang, in cold blood or in passion, in an attack of violence or in response to violence - whenever we tear at the fabric of life which another man has painfully and clumsily woven for himself and his children, the whole nation is degraded….. (more) “Yet we seemingly tolerate a rising level of violence that ignores our common humanity and our claims to civilization alike. We calmly accept newspaper reports of civilian slaughter in far off lands. We glorify killing on movie and television screens and call it entertainment. We make it easy for men of all shades of sanity to acquire weapons and ammunition they desire. “Too often we honor swagger and bluster and the wielders of force; too often we excuse those who are willing to build their own lives on the shattered dreams of others. Some Americans who preach nonviolence abroad fail to practice it here at home. Some who accuse others of inciting riots have by their own conduct invited them. “….this much is clear; violence breeds violence, repression brings retaliation, and only a cleaning of our whole society can remove this sickness from our soul….we know what we must do. It is to achieve true justice among our fellow citizens….The question is whether we can find in our own midst and in our own hearts that leadership of human purpose that will recognize the terrible truths of our existence. “We must admit the vanity of our false distinctions among men and learn to find our own advancement in the search for the advancement of all. We must admit in ourselves that our own children's future cannot be built on the misfortunes of others. We must recognize that this short life can neither be ennobled or enriched by hatred or revenge…..” Excerpts from Remarks of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy to the Cleveland City Club in Cleveland, Ohio. April 5, 1968.
07.18.2012	WASHINGTON—Even though the U.S. Supreme Court decided the most debated aspect of President Obama’s healthcare reform bill is constitutional, Republicans remain relentless in their attempts to repeal the law. While millions of Americans have been unemployed for years, while they face Republican-induced reductions to unemployment benefits, food stamps, and other supports, and millions more have lost their homes, the House-Republican leadership has offered no legislative responses to these fundamental crises. Instead it has spent precious legislative time, limited taxpayer dollars, and hearing hours, debating and voting on efforts to repeal this law. Today’s efforts in the House to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) represents the last of 31 to damage landmark progress on health care reform, either in part or completely. The Congress has debated the need for healthcare reform for over 100 years in view of constantly rising costs to working families who can be financially wiped out due to a catastrophic illness. Rep. Lewis spoke forcefully today on the House floor about the need for this Congress to focus its efforts on the needs of the American people, instead of wasting the taxpayer’s time and money on pointless attempts to repeal ACA. Rep. Lewis made the following statement on the House floor today: “We’ve been down this road before. We have been here 31 times before, voting to repeal the Affordable Care Act. We are wasting time! The American people are suffering. They have lost their jobs, their homes, and more than 50 million uninsured are worried about whether they are one illness away from disaster. “The Affordable Care Act was a historic and necessary step to cover ALL Americans. And all the Republicans can say is “REPEAL!” These are the same forces that fought against Medicare and Social Security. People get it! If it were not for Medicare, where would our seniors be? Where would they turn? “Health care is a right; and it is not a privilege. Not just for some people, but for ALL people. We cannot and we will not go back. Do you want to go back? Do you want people to be afraid to have a checkup? Do you want the only doctor people see to be in an emergency room? The Affordable Care Act is moving us away from this tragedy and toward insurance coverage for All Americans. We have come too far, suffered too long to go back! Too much progress has been made with the Affordable Care Act to go back. The American people will not be fooled this time. Vote NO on Repeal! And get to work putting the American people back to work."
07.05.2012	For decades, advocates have been fighting to mandate safety protections in buses, similar to those required in cars. Finally seven years after Rep. John Lewis introduced the legislation requiring safety protections in motorcoaches, his efforts and that of safety advocates have finally come to fruition. The Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act (MESA) H.R. 873 sponsored by Rep. John Lewis passed both the House and the Senate as part of the Surface Transportation Bill and is scheduled to be signed into law some time this week by President Obama. Rep. Lewis began his efforts after receiving a frustrated phone call from a Grady Memorial Hospital surgeon named Dr. Jeffrey Salomone. Salomone was treating victims of the Bluffton University school bus crash which occurred in Atlanta on March 2, 2007. He suggested that had the victims been wearing seat belts he believed many more individuals could have been saved and spared significant trauma. The university’s baseball team was traveling down I-75 in Atlanta to participate in a game in Florida. The bus fell off of an unfinished exit and crashed on to the highway below. Lewis began legislative efforts immediately. In 2010, 33,000 people died and over 2 million were injured due to motorcoach accidents. “These safety requirements are long overdue,” said Rep. John Lewis. “Those of us who have been concerned about this issue have been fighting to save lives. Though motorcoach crashes are not as frequent as car crashes, they are often more deadly. Because simple safeguards, like seat belts, are not provided in buses, thousands of people die who might have been saved can end up dying when buses crash. This legislation will save millions of lives.” The motorcoach safety provisions will implement overdue recommendations by the National Transportation Safety Board to improve passenger protection and industry oversight. A partial list of the new safety requirements that protect passengers are: Safety belts and stronger seating systems to ensure occupants stay in their seats in a crash. Improved commercial driver training. Currently, no training is required by Federal regulation. Anti-ejection glazing windows to prevent passengers from being easily thrown outside the motorcoach. Strong, crush-resistant roofs that can withstand rollovers. Improved protection against fires by reducing flammability of the motorcoach interior, and better training for operators in the case of fire. A National Commercial Motor Vehicle Medical Registry to ensure that only medically qualified examiners conduct physical examinations of drivers and a medical certificate process to ensure that all certificates are valid and no unqualified operator is allowed to drive. Strengthened motorcoach vehicle safety inspections, including roadside inspections, safety audits, and state and motor carrier programs for identifying vehicle defects. Electronic On-Board Recorders (EOBRs) with real-time capabilities to track precise vehicle location that cannot be tampered with by the driver.
06.29.2012	During the mounting tension surrounding the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on healthcare, an important financial issue had become obscured. Absent action from Congress by today, the interest rate governing student loans was due to double. Of the 20.5 million college students in America, an estimated 7.4 million students have taken out government subsidized Stafford loans, which means one out of every three students would have been subjected to these increased rates if nothing had been done by July 1st. This increase would have hit students at a time when college tuition has been rising, on average, by 8 percent every year. Aware of this crisis, Rep. John Lewis decided to use his seniority on the Ways & Means Committee, which oversees the government’s use of tax dollars, to offer students an important option. Last week, he introduced H.R. 6010 which allows people to claim a tax deduction of up to $2500 for student loan interest payments they make in one year. “The rising cost of college tuition,” said Rep. John Lewis, “leaves college graduates tens of thousands of dollars in debt. Students who continue to graduate school can be more than $100,000 in debt. The only factor that makes this massive debt even begin to be manageable are lower interest rates and reasonable repayment terms that allow students to stretch out payments well deep into their professional career, when they have higher incomes and a better capacity to repay these loans. Studies have shown the prospect of debt discourages students from pursuing advanced degrees. This bill helps relieve some of the weight of this debt and gives young people and graduate students some breathing room.” Lewis’s bill would expand the current income limits so that more middle class families could claim this important tax deduction. Under this bill, single taxpayers earning less than $90,000 and married couples with a household income of less than $180,000 would be able to claim the deduction. After a high pressure push by President Obama demanding Congress to act, the Republican-led House and Senate passed a one-year freeze that would keep student loan rates at their current level of 3.5 percent.
06.28.2012	“This is a great victory for the American people. The Supreme Court decision makes it clear that people have been misled about the benefits of this bill and its value to them and their families. “Because of this bill, 2 million Georgians with pre-existing conditions, denied by insurers before, are able to purchase healthcare. Seniors and people with disabilities, 3.6 million Georgians, will be able to save on their prescription drugs, and young adults who have just started in the workforce can be carried on their parents’ policies until the age of 26. And the best is yet to come. In 2014, 30 million more Americans will be covered. This is now the law of the land. “I understand a multi-million dollar campaign is being launched in Georgia based on false conclusions to foment ire among the people to repeal this legislation. In response to this televised barrage, Americans must use their own experience and the experiences of people who now have healthcare to assess the truth of these ads. I petition Republicans to end the partisan politicking and get back to the work of leading a nation in need of answers to the healthcare crisis. Let’s move forward together to build upon the progress this law represents.”
06.27.2012	Today marks the groundbreaking for the National Center for Civil and Human Rights in Atlanta. The center’s mission is “to continue the universal search for a secure human existence in a way that inspires vigilance and leadership among future generations.” Rep. John Lewis made this statement to commemorate this effort: “This is a powerful moment in the history of Atlanta, the city which served as the heartbeat of a mass movement in America that commanded respect for the dignity and worth of every human being. It is fitting and very appropriate that Atlanta preserve this great legacy through the building of a National Center for Civil and Human Rights. This museum will serve as a guiding light for future generations who will join the unending struggle for freedom and justice in our world. It will not only document and preserve the history of social justice movements, but it will also serve as a point of reflection and inspiration for thousands of visitors. This is a proud day for a great city.”
06.25.2012	Yesterday, U.S. Reps. John Lewis, David Scott, and Hank Johnson sent a letter to Georgia Governor Nathan Deal, Community Affairs Commissioner Michael Beatty, and Economic Development Commissioner Chris Cummiskey urging that the *$104 million the State of Georgia received from the National Mortgage Settlement be invested in foreclosure prevention. Governor Deal’s spokesman, Brian Robinson, responded earlier today, “Funny they don’t mention that $700 million of the settlement is going directly to homeowners.” This evening, the three congressmen issued the following joint statement: “The state government has only received and will only receive *$104 million from the National Mortgage Settlement. The approximately $650 million to which the governor’s spokesman refers is administered by loan servicers and does not reflect any decision to help homeowners by the State of Georgia. It is critical to understand that the $104 million of settlement funds that the State currently intends to spend on ‘economic development’ is the only money from the settlement over which the state has control. “We strongly believe that those funds should be invested in relief for homeowners in hardest-hit areas, as unambiguously intended by the National Mortgage Settlement, not on subsidies for businesses in rural areas. We renew our call for the governor to invest these funds accordingly and to provide our offices with information detailing the process for this money’s allocation and information on every recipient.” *The $104 million mentioned here refers to previous statements made in other news reports. The amount of discretionary funding given to the state of Georgia as stated on the settlement documents is actually $99.36 million.
06.22.2012	ATLANTA, Ga. – U.S. Representatives John Lewis, David Scott, and Hank Johnson today urged Georgia Governor Nathan Deal, Community Affairs Commissioner Michael Beatty, and Economic Development Commissioner Chris Cummiskey to ensure that the $104 million awarded to Georgia from the National Mortgage Settlement be invested in foreclosure prevention. Georgia received the funds under a settlement with the country’s five largest mortgage servicers after 49 state attorneys general sued the servicers for negligent foreclosure practices. Reps. Lewis, Scott, and Johnson previously wrote Governor Deal on March 15, 2012, urging that the same funds be dedicated to foreclosure relief. On March 26, the State of Georgia announced that the funds had been committed to the state’s Department of Economic Development. Noting that the settlement stated the funds should be used “to avoid preventable foreclosures, to ameliorate the effects of the foreclosure crisis, and to enhance law enforcement efforts to prevent and prosecute financial fraud,” the June 21 letter urged Governor Deal, Commissioner Beatty, and Commissioner Cummiskey to make “the most appropriate use of resources to meet the description in the consent judgments would begin with housing counseling services and legal aid.” In addition, the congressmen requested “information detailing the process for this money’s allocation and information on every recipient.” “I cannot understand,” said Rep. John Lewis, “how an elected representative with millions available to him in these hard economic times, would not use that money to ease the burden foreclosure has placed on thousands of Georgians. We understand some states have decided to divert these necessary funds and use them for other purposes, but we are appealing to the governor to apply these resources to services the people in one of the hardest hit states desperately need.” “Georgia led the nation in foreclosures in May,” Congressman Scott said. “The State economy will not improve unless we can stabilize neighborhoods and bring back property values. For example, teachers and school employees are being laid off due to dropping property tax revenues. Using these settlement funds for other projects is ignoring the core economic problem in suburban Atlanta.” “These funds should be used to relieve the suffering of Georgia’s homeowners, period,” said Johnson. “Any other use violates the public interest and the spirit of the consent judgment.” Read the full text of the letter here.
06.18.2012	“President Obama’s statement should be welcome news to hundreds and thousands of young people and all American citizens. Many youth live in constant fear that at any moment the federal government will swoop in and destroy the only life they have ever known. ‘We are a better nation,’ the president said, ‘than one that expels innocent young kids’ who have the potential to contribute to America’s future. Preserving the dignity of every human being is the right and fair thing to do. “The action the federal government is taking today is a major step down a very long road that we, as a nation, must travel to reform our immigration system. It is not logical or humane to have 50 different states develop 50 different approaches to immigration policy. It is not a matter for state and local governments; it is a federal issue. And I am glad the president is offering some leadership today by taking a bold and necessary step to begin to right some of the wrongs that have been committed, while simultaneously protecting our borders. This directive affirms that we are a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants.”
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON--Long-time peace advocate, Rep. John Lewis scored a victory today by gaining the inclusion of his Cost of War Act H.R. 3088 as an amendment passed en bloc as part of the Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013. The Congressman made this statement on the House floor in support of his amendment today: Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the en bloc amendment, which includes my amendment. It requires that the Secretary of Defense, the IRS, and Commerce calculate the total cost of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq to each American taxpayer. My amendment is about truth and transparency. Americans need to know how their taxes are being spent, so we can make informed decisions about our budget. Even if you do not oppose war, don’t you want to know what it costs you, your children, your grandchildren, and your great-grandchildren? For too long, there has been a big, fat blank check for war. We need to be honest with ourselves. We need to be honest with each other. Mr. Chairman, I hope all of my colleagues will support the Lewis amendment and this en bloc package.” The Cost of War Act is a measure which creates openness and transparency around spending for war, which is often not clearly defined in the federal budget. This bill was named bill of the day by PopVox and featured in an EPI blog. This legislation simply requires the Department of Defense to work with the Internal Revenue Service to calculate and post on their websites the cost of the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Libya paid by every American taxpayer. A few weeks ago, Rep. Lewis sponsored a staff briefing in conjunction with the Institute for Economics& Peace to discuss their recent report: Economics Consequences of War on the U.S. Economy. During the briefing, we learned that the U.S. is still paying out benefits for the Civil War, and that the institute estimates around 8 percent of the US GDP is spent on war-related costs. During debate, the Congressman was given only one-minute to discuss his bill. The longer more expository version of the statement was included in the Congressional Record and is also attached to this document along with the text of the bill.
05.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. John Lewis (GA-5), along with House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5), Democratic Assistant Leader James Clyburn (SC-6), Rep. John Conyers (MI-14), and Rep. Robert Brady (PA-1), unveiled comprehensive voting rights legislation. The Voter Empowerment Act will modernize voter registration, ensure equal access to the ballot box for all Americans, and prohibit deceptive practices and voter fraud that keep people from exercising their constitutional right to vote. Less than six months away from a presidential election, Democrats will not sit idly by as states across the country attempt to pass unprecedented laws that would erect barriers to voting for military, disabled, minority, young, elderly and low-income Americans. Rep. Lewis stated, “The ability to vote should be easy, accessible and simple. Yet there are practices and laws in place that make it harder to vote today than it was even one year ago. The sponsors of this act believe we need to take action or risk losing the liberties we have enjoyed. We should be moving toward a more inclusive democracy, not one that locks people out.” Democratic Whip Hoyer stated, “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the Voter Empowerment Act. Just six months from a presidential election and amid an unprecedented drive to impose new restrictions on who can vote in states across the country, Democrats will fight for the right to vote and for the integrity of our electoral system. This bill is a major step towards greater accountability and broader access. Moving forward, we will continue to shine a light on efforts to deter eligible voters from the exercising their rights." Assistant Leader Clyburn stated, “Everywhere I go, people are expressing great concern and are asking whether or not their access to the ballot and ballot box are going to remain unfettered. The Voter Empowerment Act contains three main parts: improving access, protecting integrity and ensuring accountability. If adopted, it will go a long ways towards making our nation a more perfect Union.” Rep. Conyers stated, “There is no more important right in our society than the right to vote – it is the foundation of all of our other rights enshrined in the Constitution. Unfortunately the right to vote is under attack in too many states and today we stand together to protect that precious right. Our legislation will help protect the right to vote for veterans, senior citizens, students, and minorities who are vulnerable to disenfranchisement. This should not be a partisan issue, but a legal and moral imperative for both parties.” Rep. Brady stated, "This bill ensures that everyone – seniors, the disabled, working families, students and our military can register to vote. It makes registering to vote simpler, faster, and more secure for each and every American. The Voter Empowerment Act reaffirms the basic principle our democracy: one person, one vote" A fact sheet on the bill can be found here. The full text of the bill can be found here.
05.17.2012	WASHINGTON—After emotional press statements and heated floor debate the House passed a deeply controversial version of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) this afternoon in direct opposition to the spirit and the letter of the Senate bill. First passed in 1994 and reauthorized twice since then, the Senate version upholds the bipartisan traditions of VAWA reauthorization and seeks to offer greater protections to victims of domestic violence based on updated reports from advocate groups and state judiciary systems, the House bill rolls back protections. It weakens protections for battered spouses of legal immigrants; It discourages immigrant women living in the shadows to report abusive behavior to authorities; It fails to protect LGBT victims It fails to protect Native American women abused by non-Indian defendants on tribal lands; The House version of the bill is opposed by over 100 advocacy groups who see it as regressive and dehumanizing. "Let's call this bill what it's really is,” said Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA) during a news conference today. “It's not the Violence Against Women act, but the Open Season for Violence Against Women Act.” Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI) gave a riveting account of her personal experiences with domestic violence 20 years ago, recounting her vulnerability after being raped and choked only to be victimized again during judicial proceedings which sought to blame her for the abuse. She described her disappointment at having progress rolled back. “This Republican bill suggests,” said Rep. John Lewis, “that some victims are more important to protect than others. It is as though we are saying those who are different—immigrants, Native Americans, or have a different sexual orientation—do not deserve protection. It you start choosing who deserves democracy and who does not you jeopardize the administration of justice for every American citizen. In America we should be legislating in ways that demonstrate every human being has the right to dignity and respect.” Passage of the bill was a bittersweet victory for Rep. Lewis whose SMART Teen Dating Violence Prevention Act of 2011 was included in both the Republican and Democratic versions of the bill. This double inclusion indicates the bill is likely to become law, however, the question is when. At this juncture the discrepancies between the House and Senate versions will have to reconciled before the bill can become law. President Obama has threatened to veto the House bill if it arrives on his desk. This week Rep. Lewis also held two briefings—one policy briefing and the other on domestic violence against men. He seeks consideration of the plight of men who may have been taught restraint yet are victimized by women. One notable case was that of Phil Hartmann, the popular Saturday Night Live comedian killed by his wife in 1994 who was reported to be given to fits of rage. Though the prevalence of domestic violence against men is not as great, Rep. Lewis believes men deserve the same protections against their abusive spouses.
05.10.2012	WASHINGTON--Yesterday evening, while most of America was consumed by issues of marriage equality, another important action slipped by without much notice. In response to an announcement made last October by the Justice Department to close four of its antitrust field offices, Rep. John Lewis with Rep. Hank Johnson offered an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2013 that would have kept the DOJ from using funds to close the offices in Atlanta, Philadelphia, Cleveland and Dallas. The move was described by DOJ as a cost saving measure to comply with the President’s mandate to cut spending across the federal government. The closures would save the department over $8 million annually, but in Atlanta alone DOJ has collected more than $265.5 million in the last 11 years due to successful pursuit of antitrust cases. Rep. Lewis felt the logic of closure was flawed. “This decision seems pennywise and pound foolish,” said Rep. John Lewis. “The impact of antitrust violations stretches across the lives of all Americans,” said Rep. John Lewis. “They affect the quality and availability of goods and services, the prices of staple products, like computer equipment, software, telephone service, and food. They reduce the impact of market forces on big businesses that in turn lessens the power of the consumer to influence the marketplace. Aside from these very pervasive effects, collecting fines and restitution can add millions to the federal Treasury, which helps defray the need to raise more revenue from taxes. The federal government is the only force with any chance to take a stand against huge, multinational conglomerates. Closing these federal offices weakens the power of the government to defend the rights of the people. That is why I offered this amendment.” The amendment did not pass simply because the committee opposed all “limitation” amendments. However, Chairman Frank Wolf of the House Appropriations Committee Commerce, Justice, and Science subcommittee offered to bring the Justice Department together with individuals who opposed these closures, including Rep. Lewis, next week to discuss possibilities for relief. Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA) a member of the Appropriations Committee, also spoke about his concern related to these closures.
05.10.2012	Rep. John Lewis released this statement today regarding President Barack Obama’s willingness to support same sex marriage equality. Rep. Lewis has been a long-time, outspoken advocate for equal rights for many underserved Americans, including same sex couples: “In President Obama's interview with Robin Roberts, he described the kind of steps many Americans have taken on the issue of same sex marriage. Once people begin to see the similarities between themselves and others, instead of focusing on differences, they come to recognize that equality is essentially a matter of human rights and human dignity. The President's growth reflects the growth of many Americans on this issue. I am glad to see more Americans, including President Obama, empathize with the struggles of same sex couples and express willingness in state after state to give their unions the same legal rights as other married couples.”
05.01.2012	WASHINGTON—The month of May marks commencement season when young students will be taking giant steps in their academic and professional careers. This year Rep. John Lewis is scheduled to make commencement addresses at the following schools and universities: May 4th Metropolitan College, Atlanta May 6th North Springs High School, Atlanta May 19th University of New Hampshire School of Law Rep. Lewis has the distinction this year of being granted honorary doctorates from five prestigious universities, three of which are members of the Ivy League. Those which can be disclosed in advance of the ceremony are listed below. May 14th University of Pennsylvania May 18th The New Hampshire Supreme Court Society will confer Rep. Lewis with the Life and Liberty Award May 19th University of New Hampshire School of Law May 20th University of Connecticut School of Law May 27th Brown University “In bestowing honorary degrees each year Penn seeks to inspire our graduates ,” said Leslie Laird Kruhly University Secretary and Vice President of the University of Pennsylvania, “by recognizing individuals who have made their mark on society through lives of scholarship, discovery and service to others. Throughout his unparalleled career—one distinguished by courageous leadership, personal sacrifice and dedicated public service on behalf of our county and all Americans. Congressman John Lewis has set and extraordinary and inspirational standard…..” “We are truly honored, “ said John Broderick, dean of the University of New Hampshire School of Law, “ to have Rep. John Lewis as our commencement speaker. His decades of heroic public service and his commitment to holding our nation to its highest ideals are an inspiration to us all. An abiding commitment to social justice has always been a hallmark of UNH Law, and as our graduates prepare to embark on their legal careers, we trust that the principles of leadership expressed by Congressman Lewis will resonate with them for years.”
04.27.2012	WASHINGTON--Today Rep. John Lewis encouraged members of the House to vote against H.R. 3523, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act of 2011 (CISPA). He joined many other civil liberties, entertainment, and cyber privacy organizations in opposing the bill. The bill would allow organizations like the National Security Agency (NSA) or the Department of Defense Cyber Command to share data it collects on American citizens with private industry or other government agencies without restriction. Objectors to the bill are concerned this unregulated provision could enable data collected could be used to monitor, infiltrate or frustrate American citizens or groups who protest or dissent against corporate interests or the government. Rep. John Lewis made this statement today on the House floor: I oppose H.R. 3523. It is a step back. Those of us who protested in the fifties and the sixties, who were called communists, who had our telephone calls recorded—we have a long memory. We remember our nation’s dark past. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s telephone was wiretapped. His hotel room was wiretapped. His home was wiretapped. Our offices were wiretapped. Our meetings were wiretapped. And it was not just people spying on civil rights activists, but people protesting against the war in Vietnam. We didn’t have a Facebook or Twitter or email. These new tools must be protected. Today, we have a mission, a mandate, a moral obligation to protect future generations of activists and protestors. Stand with me today. Stand on the right side of history. Oppose H.R. 3523. President Barack Obama has threatened to veto the bill if it lands on his desk.
04.24.2012	WASHINGTON--Today, the Social Security Trustees released their annual report on the financial solvency of the program. Much political debate in the past decade has surrounded the potential bankruptcy of this foundational element of the social safety net programs offered by the federal government. Figures have been bandied about, but the trustees’ report reveals talk about the imminent demise of Social Security is unfounded. An overview follows: It should be noted that the Social Security system has borne the significant pressure of a crashing economy remarkably well and that, unlike the banks, it did not require a bailout. Apparently, Social Security has a “large and growing surplus” equalling $2.7 trillion at the end of 2011, and the trustees project it will retain that surplus at the end of 2012. The trustees suggest that continuing maintenance, as is required of any system, is needed to build upon this growth, but without any Congressional action, Social Security benefits can be “paid in full and on time” until 2033. Some organizations suggest equalizing the percentage of contribution to strengthen the future of the program even further. Currently people making $50,000 contribute 6 percent to Social Security, while those making above $500,000 contribute 1 percent. Finding a way to balance this rate of contribution, especially when the highest wage earners are also receiving the biggest tax breaks and thus have more expendable income, will help strengthen the system. “This report,” says Rep. John Lewis, “should lay the fears of many people to rest. Many of the Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee have been trying to shout above a flood of misinformation that one of the best run and most effective government programs ever devised is still inherently sound and should remain an important federal investment. The people need to ask why some of their representatives were arguing in favor of privatization when the program still demonstrates a great deal of vitality. And with modest adjustments Social Security could continue to provide security and stability for seniors many decades into the future.” CHANGES TO SOCIAL SECURITY PAYMENT SYSTEM Recently, the Treasury Department underscored an important change to its system of payments. Beginning in 2013, people will no longer receive their federal checks in the mail. The federal government is phasing out all paper check benefits and will require people to receive payments electronically, either through direct deposit or a debit card, if they have no bank account. This will affect Social Security, veterans’ benefits, railroad pensions and federal disability payments. Tax refunds are exempt though many people already file electronically. The changes will save the federal government $120 million a year, and Social Security will save $1 billion over the next decade.
04.18.2012	WASHINGTON –Rep. John Lewis repeated his call for Congress to restore tax fairness for the middle class, beginning with the Buffett Rule. The Buffett Rule ensures that people making over $1 million per year do not pay a lower tax rate than middle-class Americans. "It is simply unfair to ask middle class Americans to pay a higher tax rate than millionaires and billionaires," said Rep. John Lewis. “People understand the need to sacrifice, but not when they are repeatedly cut to the bone while others are given a break.” The Ryan budget , which the Republican House leadership has advanced would not only continue this imbalance, it would offer an additional $265,000 break, beyond the Bush tax cuts, for all people earning over $1 million a year. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities says if the Ryan plan becomes law it would “impose trillions in spending cuts, at least 62 percent of which would come from low-income programs [while enacting] new tax cuts that would provide huge windfalls to households at the top of the income scale. The Republican approach to fixing the deficit would also end the Medicare guarantee, reduce Medicare benefits, and repeal preventive care and prescription drug benefits for seniors all in the name of balancing the budget. Meanwhile, it would offer additional tax benefits for the richest among us. “That is not fair,” said Rep. Lewis. “ Profitable giant corporations like GE made $14 billion in profit last year and not only paid no taxes but received millions from the federal government in a tax return. Why can’t GE pay something to help our nation’s bottom line, especially when our economy is trying to recover? Instead, the Republicans argue people making $30,000 should pay even more in taxes so big corporations can keep their profit, along with tax returns paid out of the federal Treasury. That money could be used to serve Americans—families, children and seniors. If these ideas become law, the middle class, which is already struggling with high energy costs, stagnant wages, exorbitant health care costs, higher education and food costs will find it much more difficult than it already is to make ends meet.” The Republican plan, already passed by the House, would subtract funds from transportation and infrastructure projects, funds that are very important to Georgia ,and give tax breaks to companies which outsource American jobs. (See attached Ways and Means one-pager on HR 9 – MORE) Their budget provides an average annual tax cut of $394,000 for those making over $1 million per year , and they are advancing a tax bill this week (H.R. 9) which interprets the term “small business” in a way that gives benefits away to wealthy entrepreneurs like Kim Kardashian , but leaves “mom and pop” businesses with no relief. Democrats oppose this unfair approach to tax policy. “The American people, “said Rep. John Lewis, “need to ask themselves who their members represent. Are they representing the interests of the majority of Americans, the middle and working class, or are they only interested in the advancing the causes of the rich.” The "Buffett Rule" is so-named because billionaire Warren Buffett has decried the fact that his secretary pays a higher tax rate than he does. To restore tax fairness and provide tax cuts for economic growth, the Democratic budget includes the Buffett Rule, and extends middle class tax cuts while ending the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy. All Republicans opposed this budget. Yesterday debate on the Buffet rule was blocked by Senate Republicans.
04.18.2012	WASHINGTON-- Today the leadership of the House continues its attempts to destroy the safety net that protects millions of Americans from falling into grinding poverty, while it defends exorbitant tax breaks for the rich. The Republican leadership of the House has passed proposals that would drastically reduce Meals on Wheels programs for seniors in many states, severely reduce domestic violence protections, emergency shelter, food stamp programs and much more, while poverty and hunger are on the rise in the US. According to Feeding America, Georgia is one of ten states, which reflect rates of food insecurity that are significantly higher than the national average. And only 10 percent of people who use food supplement programs are homeless; most come from families where at least one adult is working. “The voting public needs to look at these actions very carefully, “said Rep. John Lewis. “The House leadership has offered no proposal--not one--that even begins to address the problems of poverty, hunger, homelessness and unemployment that hit this country after the economic crash. They have cut unemployment money, food programs, support for seniors, students and the working poor. Who do these members serve, if not the majority of American families? Where is their compassion for the millions who are struggling to make ends meet?” If the House Republican budget were to become law, it would enable earners of over $1 million annually to receive $394,000 in tax breaks every year. Even though this nation is faced with a mounting deficit, House Republicans have added $265,000 in additional tax cuts for people earning over $1 million annually, on top of the much-contested Bush tax cuts. Meanwhile, these same Republican proposals would simultaneously raises taxes for individuals and families earning less than $30,000 annually requiring them to pay between an additional $58 to as much as $193 per year in federal taxes. In an untelevised Ways and Means mark-up yesterday, the Republican committee leadership passed proposals that require even more sacrifices from these families to offset mandated defense department cuts. Rep. Lewis referred to it as an attack on children and families (video). Since the supercommittee could not agree on a deficit reduction plan, a series of mandated cuts are slated to go into effect. The supercommittee’s discussions did require both sides to offer some of their “sacred cows” in good faith to assure that sacrifice would be balanced and bi-partisan. Thus cuts to defense and some to social programs were agreed upon. The supercommittee also agreed, however, to exempt some programs from these automatic cuts including “food stamps” or the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the Earned Income Tax Credit, veterans’ compensation, Social Security and aspects of Medicare among a few others. However, the House Republican approach to budget reconciliation reneges on this promise of bi-partisan sacrifice. Instead of holding to their original promise to exempt certain necessary programs that keep the social safety net intact, they determined to protect the defense budget from any agreed-upon cuts and offset the loss in federal income by putting exempt programs on the chopping block. Today Ways and Means Republicans passed tax proposals that allow sports franchises and television production companies to claim a small business tax credit, while it offers no relief for sole proprietorships or small family businesses who are struggling against many obstacles, including a heavy tax burden. “This is not right. It is not fair or just. All Americans should be required to share the burden of taxes equally, according to their ability to pay. Trickle down economics does not work. We learned that in the Reagan years, but it has not stopped this Congress from giving away the store to the richest, while kicking the legs out from under the working poor in America. “Usually, when we need to reconcile the budget, leadership will move beyond partisan ideology because the good of the entire nation is at stake. They will call several committees to meet, research bi-partisan alternatives, dialogue across the aisle and come up with bi-partisan solutions. This House does not see compromise as an option.” Ways and Means leaders could have used the Buffet rule to offset defense cuts they wanted to protect. It would spread sacrifice among more Americans instead of requiring the working poor to shoulder the burden of the federal deficit, particularly when their actions did not lead to the problem. The damaging cuts to the social safety net House Republicans have passed will raise $52 million. Using the Buffet rule could have spared $46 million on social safety net cuts, if the Republicans had been willing to even consider it. “It seems very clear that sound fiscal policy is not the point of these cuts,” said Rep. Lewis “no matter what the other side says. They want to create a society where the rich get richer and the poor get poorer, with no chance that hard work will help them rise out of their circumstances.”
04.10.2012	In response to news reports about the sluggish disbursement of $339.9 million in Hardest Hit Funds to Atlanta area residents facing foreclosure, Rep. John Lewis wants his constituents to know he has been demanding answers from federal agencies for several months to address this problem. He first learned about the bottleneck in June of last year. “Finding ways to assist homeowners in this crisis has been challenging for the federal government because it does not hold all the cards or all the mortgages. However the Hardest Hit Funds initiative can be a productive way for the government to help people struggling with the burden of foreclosure and unemployment. It is a ray of hope for these citizens. That’s why I was very dismayed to hear that millions in potential assistance has been held up. I immediately began looking for a solution.” Lewis and his staff engaged in the following chronology of interactions to highlight the need for housing counseling and program marketing to make the application process more accessible and a better known option for Atlanta metro residents. Most people do not even know the program exists. After working for about six months to get some viable resolution to the problem, he wrote to the president to suggest he consider mandating counseling services and program marketing as a requirement of the program. That letter is attached. “Once again, we are calling upon the federal agencies involved and the Georgia Department of Community Affairs to expedite and facilitate the applications of Georgia citizens who are affected by the mortgage crisis. While we wait for steps to be taken, people are losing their homes, even though help was available. Efficiency is important, but public service cannot be so tight-fisted that thousands are left wading in need while only a few are assisted. We are seeking efficient public service, not ‘efficiency’ that ends up denying service.” According to the last quarter report, which can be found on the Treasury Department website, the DCA, reported only 524 contracts with homeowners had been made and $1.2 million of the entire award had been disbursed. Original estimates suggested 9000 families could be served in the first year. CHRONOLOGY OF REP. JOHN LEWIS’S WORK ON HARDEST HIT FUNDS March, 2011: Representatives from Department of Community Affairs’ (DCA) meet with Rep. Lewis staff in Washington, DC and report that they expect great demand for, and delivery from, the Hardest Hit Funds (HHF) program in Georgia. April, 2011: DCA launches HHF as “HomeSafe Georgia”. April, 2011: Rep. Lewis staff meets with constituents to discuss various issues on housing including the HHF. They express concern with DCA decision to use a web-based platform for its application process. They suggest the process will exclude people who have difficulty using the internet, or people who have had their internet service terminated. They recommend that funds be dedicated towards housing counseling. June 2011: Constituents report to Rep. Lewis staff that local housing stakeholders believe HomeSafe Georgia to be performing poorly due to web-based platform and lack of awareness among GA residents. Congressman Lewis is briefed. July 2011: Rep Lewis sends correspondence to DCA asking them to amend their contract with the department of Treasury to allow for housing counseling. July 2011: DCA responds describing their efforts to facilitate the application process. They do not consent to offer counseling services. October, 2011: Constituents inform Rep Lewis staff that DCA is reporting incomplete applications and beginning to consider outreach to homeowners who have not completed the application process. October, 2011: Rep Lewis staff phone call with Phil Foil of DCA. Mr. Foil acknowledges difficulties with HomeSafe Program and expresses reluctance to adopt more aggressive methods. February, 2012: Rep Lewis sends correspondence to President Obama asking for an Executive Order directing the Department of the Treasury to amend HHF contracts with states mandating that they dedicate funds for simple housing counseling services and program marketing. March, 2012: Rep Lewis staff meets with White House Liaison and representatives of the Department of the Treasury.
04.04.2012	“On this day 44 years ago, the world was in shock. The moral leader of our nation had been shot and killed in Memphis, Tennessee. If he were here today, Martin Luther King Jr. would be proud of the progress we have made and the distance we have come toward ending legalized discrimination. However, he would be deeply disappointed that in a world community which witnessed the power of non-violence to resolve human needs, the incidence of violence has not abated, but has actually risen since the days of his campaign. “If Dr. King were here today, he would still be saying there is too much violence and too much division in America and around the world. He would still be preaching and teaching the human mandate to lay down the burden of hate and racial division. He would still be advising that “hate is too heavy a burden to bear” and reminding us that “there is no way to peace; peace is the way.” He would still be pointing out the work that needs to be done to create a nation and a world community at peace with itself, a world that can live with its conscience."
03.25.2012	Periodically, Rep. John Lewis is notified that organizations within the 5th Congressional District have been selected to receive a variety of federal grants. This federal grants announcement will advise press and constituents of these notifications. This announcement details about $22,791,823.77 in federal grants coming to the 5th Congressional District. What is the funding process for federal grants? There are two basic ways the federal government awards funds, through mandatory funding or discretionary funding. Members of Congress vote on “authorizing” legislation that funds the mandatory commitments of the federal government for programs like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, unemployment insurance and SNAP. Also every year, levels of discretionary funding are determined during the Congressional appropriations process. Rep. Lewis and all other members of Congress work to ensure that federal programs which provide key services within their districts are funded at levels requested by local government authorities and constituents they represent. The federal grants announced by this release fall mainly in the discretionary category. The money appropriated by Congress is sent to the federal agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) or of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which then disburse it directly to the states and local governments. Sometimes federal agencies issue requests for proposals which place states, cities, and local organizations in competition with others around the country for the opportunity to gain federal support for a local project. This is where the efficacy of city and state organizations are tested to determine whether they can compete effectively to receive those funds. Rep. Lewis often meets with and advises city, state or local agencies to help them strategize effective methods of engaging the federal agencies throughout the grant process. Pell Grants, Byrne Justice Assistance, veterans’ services, LIHEAP home heating support, early education, COPS, YouthBuild, Jobs Corps, the CDC, minority health programs, TIGER, critical disease research initiatives, tenant and fair housing assistance all stem from Congressional discretionary funding. Recent successful discretionary grant efforts from the 5th Congressional District of Georgia include the Atlanta Streetcar, the Multimodal Passenger Terminal, the Atlanta BeltLine, and the UTC. Through his District Office, Rep. Lewis offers grants assistance and workshops to explain the federal grants process. Please call 404-659-0116 if you are interested in participating in one of these workshops. Following is the list of the most recently granted federal funds to the 5th Congressional District. If you are seeking more information about any one of these federal grants, please consult the granting information for more details on their selection process. Grants over $500,000 are highlighted. (more) This is to inform you that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services will be announcing the following grant award(s) to recipient(s) within your Congressional district and state. If you have any questions, please contact the HHS Press office at: 202) 690-6343 or consult their website: https://www.hhs.gov/news/contacts/index.html Grant Notifications by Date March 21, 2014 Grantee Name Grant Project Title Link EMORY UNIVERSITY Tet-mediated Epigenetic Modulation in Autism - $684,145.00 View details Georgia Department of Public Health RYAN WHITE CARE ACT TITLE II - $13,725,291.00 View details March 20, 2014 Grantee Name Grant Project Title Link EMORY UNIVERSITY Transcription-dependent and -independent signaling of RSK2 in cancer metastasis - $323,700.00 View details EMORY UNIVERSITY Improving extent of glioblastoma resection by combining volumetric MRSI and 5-ALA - $336,932.00 View details GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY Biosynthesis of Polysaccharides - $296,000.00 View details March 18, 2014 Grantee Name Grant Project Title Link Georgia Governor’s Office of Highway Safety Atlanta, GA State Highway Safety Program - $4,734,185.77 View details GA Department of Community Health Advancing Georgia's CB-LTSS Care through Improved Electronic Information Exchange and Quality Feedback - $489,043.00 View details GEORGIA ASSOCIATION FOR PRIMARY HEALTH CARE, INC. State and Regional Primary Care Associations - $1,080,056.00 View details Georgia Department of Public Health ADAP Shortfall Relief - $1,021,707.00 View details March 13, 2014 Grantee Name Grant Project Title Link EMORY UNIVERSITY Summer Undergraduate Program in Emory Renal Research (SUPERR) - $100,764.00 View details
03.23.2012	WASHINGTON– At the second anniversary of a landmark piece of healthcare legislation, a new analysis shows that thousands of people in the Atlanta metro area are benefiting from the passage of the Affordable Care Act. The second anniversary of the Affordable Care Act falls on March 23. “Ever since I have been in the Congress,” said Rep. John Lewis,” members have been working to pass meaningful healthcare legislation. It is a response to great disparity in this country that allows the richest among us not only to benefit from the best terms at the bank, the easiest tax burden, but also gives them access to the best healthcare. I am of the opinion that healthcare is a right. It should not depend on the size of your wallet or the digits in your zip code. Contracting a major illness should not be a leading cause of bankruptcy in this country. This health care legislation is helping to change that. In just two years millions of Americans are already seeing lower costs and better coverage.“ A new analysis prepared by the Minority staff of the House Energy and Commerce Committee breaks down the progress by congressional district so we can easily see how many of our friends and neighbors are actually benefiting from the new law. The consumer protection provisions of the Affordable Care Act have ended some of the worst abuses of health insurers. They help protect 160,000 5th district residents from excessive rate increases because they limit the amount of money health insurers can spend on administrative expenses and require them to post and justify rate increases of 10 percent or more. They have eliminated the threat of health coverage termination for more than 380,000 residents; and they have banned insurance companies from establishing lifetime coverage limits for 230,000 residents of the 5th district. Here are further benefits of the bill provided by this new analysis. State statistics follow as reported by the Department of Health and Human Services with specific additions requested of the House Energy and Commerce Committee : 5th Congressional District Progress State of Georgia Progress 7,800 young adults in the 5th district now have health insurance due to a provision that allows parents to retain children on their health plan until the age of 26. As of June 1, 2011, 85,090 young adults in the entire state of Georgia gained health insurance coverage because of this extension. 5,900 seniors in the district received prescription drug discounts worth $3.7 million, an average discount of $640 per senior. In the state, overall the discount represents an average savings of $573 per person and a total savings of $58,632,728. 50,000 seniors in the district received Medicare preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. In the state 851,076 people with Medicare received free preventive services like mammograms and colonoscopies. 20,000 children and 110,000 adults now have health insurance that covers preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. In the state 1,713,000 people in Georgia with private insurance received preventive care coverage at no cost to them. 750 small businesses in the district received tax credits to help maintain or expand health care coverage for their employees. In the state, 10,000 small businesses are claiming the tax credit.* 8,000 to 39,000 children with preexisting health conditions can no longer be denied coverage by health insurers. In the state between 130,000 and 610,000 children with pre-existing health conditions are no longer denied coverage.* $24.6 million in public health grants have been given to community health centers, hospitals, doctors, and other healthcare providers in the district to improve the community’s health In the state 56 awards to those agencies worth over $42 million have been granted.* Starting in September of this year, health insurers and employers will be required to provide 380,000 district residents with an easy-to-understand summary of benefits and coverage under their health care plan, providing them with clear and consistent information so they can easily compare health care options. The healthcare law is under attack. Don’t allow politics to get in the way of your pocketbook. Don’t bash it before you find out more about it. It could be making a difference in your life. *Additional figures provided by Energy and Commerce Committee
03.22.2012	WASHINGTON--Rep. John Lewis testified today before the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade on “Motor Vehicle Safety Provisions in House and Senate Highway Bills.” He advocated for his Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act which was launched by a frustrated phone call from a Grady Memorial Hospital surgeon named Dr. Jeffrey Salomone. Salomone was treating victims of the Bluffton University school bus crash which occurred in Atlanta on March 2, 2007. He suggested that had the victims been wearing seat belts he believed many more individuals could have been saved and spared significant trauma. The university’s baseball team was traveling down I-75 in Atlanta to participate in a game in Florida. The bus fell off of an unfinished exit and crashed on to the highway below. Rep. Lewis’s Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act has been included in the Senate transportation bill which passed last week. Unfortunately, the House Republican bill is controversial, regressive legislation which negates safety provisions, among other things, and guts funding for public transportation projects. It has been repudiated by many transportation advocates in Atlanta. Rep. Lewis’s testimony follows: Good morning, Chairwoman Bono Mack, Ranking Member Butterfield, and Members of the Committee. I would like to thank you all for the opportunity to testify today. On March 2, 2007, an accident occurred in my congressional district which shook the nation to its core. A chartered bus careened off a closed exit and crashed onto highway I-75 in Atlanta, Georgia. The driver mistakenly drove up an exit ramp. When he attempted to break, the driver lost control. The bus swerved off the exit, flipped over the rail at the top of the intersection, and crashed onto the freeway below. My staff and I joined the entire nation in watching the news coverage of emergency responders desperately attempting to save the lives of the Bluffton University baseball team, the driver, and his wife. It was heartbreaking. The team was treated at Grady Memorial Hospital, the major trauma center for Metro Atlanta, Atlanta Medical Center, and Piedmont Hospital. Seven of the thirty-five passengers lost their lives on that terrible day. (MORE) A university, a community, parents, teachers, teammates, and friends mourned. News outlets across the country asked, “Why did this happen? How can we prevent this from occurring again?” A few days later, I received a phone call from Dr. Jeffrey Salomone, one of the leading surgeons who treated the players. He was outraged and frustrated. As the leading surgeon who operated on the Bluffton victims, he knew that he could have saved more lives if the passengers had not been thrown from their seats and ejected from the bus. He explained their painful effort -- trying desperately to save lives and do patchwork that would have been so much simpler if only their patients had been protected by seatbelts. Dr. Salomone knew that countless lives across the country could have been saved if Congress had acted years ago, and established safety standards for motorcoach buses. He was furious at our inaction. The doctor knew what his job was, and he demanded that we do ours. I responded immediately. First, I reached out to Chairman Olver and the Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee to request report language from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) on national standards to reduce complete and partial ejections in buses. In the meantime, there was yet another accident, and another tragedy. As a nation, we keep learning the hard way that motorcoach accidents are rare, but when they do occur, the consequences are devastating. When I heard that Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson (R-TX) introduced a bipartisan response, the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act (MESA), I reached out to sponsor the House companion. It was the least I could do. As I was preparing to introduce the House-version of the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act, I took the time to study this issue in greater detail. I learned that, like seatbelts in cars, the National Transportation Safety Board had repeatedly recommended stronger, comprehensive motorcoach bus safety standards. I was shocked to learn how far behind we were on this very basic issue. You can find seatbelts on motorcoach buses all around the globe, but not here in the U.S. -- the leading country of the developed world. Why is that? Congress has had decades to think, study, and review. It is simply unconscionable to think that we can wait one more minute, one more day, or one more month to act. Any delay will just bring more headlines, more victims, and more tears. Since that terrible day in Atlanta, there have been 120 accidents across the country. Some are noted in quick blurbs on the local news. But others -- like the tragedies in Sherman, Texas; the Bronx, New York; East Brunswick, New Jersey; High Point, North Carolina; or most recently in Clinton, Montana – break your heart. For me, buses are very personal, very important. I grew up taking motorcoach buses – in Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, Virginia, and the Carolinas. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. sent me a bus ticket to meet him for the first time, and later I joined thousands of Freedom Riders to desegregate interstate commerce. I know all too well that buses are the lifeline of our nation, a major means of transportation for all Americans -- sporting teams, students, and tourists -- in every corner of our country. Is it wrong to push for them to be safe? This Committee and the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee have held multiple hearings on this important issue; I know that you take safety very seriously. My good friend and our former colleague, Secretary LaHood has made safety a national transportation priority – acting on cell phone use, texting, and motorcoach safety – to the best of his authority. Our bill gives the administration a comprehensive plan and the authority to make motorcoaches safe. Senators on both sides of the aisle have tried repeatedly to push this bill forward. Every time an accident occurs in their home states, their constituents demand action. I commend the Senate on their inclusion of the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act in the surface transportation reauthorization bill. Recently, my good friend and colleague, Congressman Ted Poe from Texas, joined me in offering an amendment to H.R. 7 to ensure that the House bill included equally high motorcoach safety standards. This is one of those issues, where we just need to put partisan politics aside and get it done. The motorcoach industry has had decades to make their fleets safer, and time is up. Congress needs to act now. You can get on a bus and have access to wireless service and outlets, but not a seatbelt? Your window is not crash-proof. The roof is not crush-resistance, and the list goes on and on. I hope that you will support this bipartisan, bicameral effort. Trust me; you do not want to be on the receiving end of a phone call from a doctor, a parent, a survivor, or a child who has lost a patient or their loved one in a preventable motorcoach tragedy. I hope and pray that any bill that this Committee puts on the Floor will send an unmistakable message that the U.S. House of Representatives – the body of the people – speaks in a clear voice for safety. Again, I thank you for the opportunity to testify today.
03.22.2012	Rep. John Lewis made this statement about the shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in Sanford, Florida: “This shooting is a tragedy. It reminds me too much of what happened in the 1930s, 40s and 50s in this country when thousands of people of color were murdered without impunity simply because their lives were thought to be cheap. The death of Trayvon Martin has a chilling effect on black parents and their children, especially their sons. “They realize that in the 21st century they may still live in a circumstance where the law is no protection, government authorities permit the worst violence, and little is done to enforce justice. Hundreds and thousands of African American boys in Atlanta and other urban cities are killed, just disappear everyday. Of all the violence we hear about on the news, we rarely hear the stories of these boys. It’s as though no one even expects them to survive so their loss is not newsworthy. “There are forces in America today who want to take us back. They are suppressing voting rights across the country and encouraging legislatures like that in Georgia to expand the right to carry and use violent weapons.This tragedy is a reminder to all those concerned about justice that we cannot be complacent. There is no door that closes, no wall that is built, no line drawn in the sand that prevents us from going back. The only prevention is us. “We must get informed, know the history, be aware of current attempts to change progressive law. We must advocate and struggle against regression and injustice and march in the streets if necessary to dramatize the need for justice.”
03.12.2012	WASHINGTON—Today marks the 100th anniversary of an American iconic institution, Girl Scouts of America. Juliette Gordon Low, 100 years ago today gathered 18 girls together to form the first local Girl Scout meeting in Savannah, Georgia. The organization has since become a meaningful part of the development of more than 50 million girls across America and throughout contemporary history. Low formed the organization during a time of progressive expansion in the area of women’s rights. For several years prior women had been marching and protesting seeking the right to vote, shorter working hours, more fair working conditions and equal pay for equal work in New York City and other places in the country. Low made an important contribution to the call for equal rights by focusing on the development and training of young girls. Rep John Lewis made this statement on this seminal anniversary: “The Girl Scouts of America is a national treasure that breeds independence, skillfulness, and integrity into millions of girls across the country. The troops which expose girls to hiking and camping encourage resourcefulness, a valuable appreciation for the wilderness, and a typically American spirit of freedom and adventure, often neglected in the training of young women. “During International Women’s Month and the Month of the Girl, I am glad to join with many prestigious Girl Scout alumnae, with all the troops in the 5th congressional district of Georgia, and those throughout the state and the country in celebrating the longevity of this important organization and honoring its accomplishments. May Girl Scouts of America continue to thrive and expand on its efforts to build the character and self-esteem of young women and girls.”
03.08.2012	WASHINGTON—On March 7, 1965, 600 non-violent protestors led by John Lewis, then chair of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, and Hosea Williams of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) walked two-by-two in silent protest across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama. Their intention was to march all the way to the state capital in Montgomery to highlight the need for voting rights protection in Alabama. On that bridge, they were beaten in a bloody confrontation later named Bloody Sunday. Outcry against the event eventually led to the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 which opened up voting access for African Americans, language minorities, seniors, the disabled, Latino, Asian and Native Americans who all experienced limited access to the polls. Bi-annually, Rep. John Lewis leads a congressional pilgrimage to Alabama managed by The Faith and Politics Institute to immerse legislators in the history of contemporary struggle around the right to vote in America. On this anniversary, Rep. Lewis made this statement: “Forty-seven years ago, people had to pass a so-called literacy test, pay a poll tax, even count the number of bubbles in a jar of soap so they could register to vote. The Voting Rights Act ended those abuses, but it did not end attempts to suppress access to the ballot box today. On this anniversary, we cannot rest. We must honor those who gave their lives for the right to vote in this country by getting informed and getting involved. “Right now there are only six states in America which have no voter ID requirement and no pending voter ID legislation. Forces are gathering to make it more difficult for as many as 21 million Americans who have no government -issued ID and 5 million registered voters to cast a vote in this election. “They have launched litigation aimed at the U.S. Supreme Court with hopes to gut section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, which requires pre-clearance of voting changes in states with a history of discrimination by the Justice Department to stop voter suppression before it becomes law. Democracy is not a state. It is an act. It requires the continued vigilance of us all to ensure that we continue to create an ever more fair, more free democracy. “Get up-to-date on the voting requirements in your state. Mobilize to take action to make sure everyone who is eligible to vote has the ID required so they can vote without restriction on Election Day. And join in the struggle to combat every attempt to suppress the vote in your area.”
03.07.2012	Washington. – Today, the dean of the New Jersey delegation, the distinguished Rep. Donald Payne passed away at the age of 77 after a struggle with cancer. Mr. Payne had served in the U.S. Congress for 23 years representing the 10th Congressional District of New Jersey and was the current chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation. Rep. Lewis was deeply saddened to hear of his death and made this statement: “Today I have lost a wonderful friend and the company of a colleague whom I deeply respected. My admiration began from the time Donald Payne was first elected to the Congress, and as I watched him multiply his accomplishments, my respect for him only grew. He was a champion of all those who are left out and left behind, and he served as a symbol in Congress of the elegance and effectiveness of quiet, strategic diplomacy. He believed that every child in America had the right to a good education, and as a senior member of the Education and Workforce Committee, he fought to defend that access. He believed in the dignity of every human being, and as the chair and now ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, he defended the humanity of millions caught in the throes of hunger, genocide, war, and oppression. “Donald Payne was a loyal friend, a gentleman, and a statesman who led by example. He will be deeply missed.”
03.01.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) and Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) announced that the House will vote this week on a resolution instructing the Office of the Historian to compile testimonies from current and former Members of Congress who have participated in historic or commemorative Civil Rights Movement actions. This resolution offers the opportunity to preserve a powerful and transformative period in American history and has been introduced by members who represent cities in Alabama where landmark events of the movement took place, Rep. Terri Sewell (D-AL) and Rep. Martha Roby (R-AL). Leader Cantor and Congressman Lewis released the following statements: Leader Cantor stated, “On March 7, 1965, Congressman John Lewis led hundreds of marchers in Selma, Alabama, in a pivotal moment that led our nation towards equality for all. This week, the House will recognize every Member of Congress who participated in the Selma marches forty-seven years ago, and the pilgrimages that have followed, by adding their testimonies to the historic record of the House. Their stories are part of our nation’s heritage and serve as a reminder to every American of the determination and sacrifice that shaped the greater democracy we live in today.” Rep. Lewis stated, “This is a gracious act on the part of the Majority Leader and the House leadership to help preserve the history of our democracy. Without the brave and courageous souls who shed blood, sweat and tears in Alabama and throughout the South, this would be a very different nation today. It is very important that members of Congress understand and acknowledge the debt we owe to ordinary people with extraordinary vision who, as Dr. King once said, ‘injected new meaning into the very veins of our democracy.’” Since 1998, Rep. John Lewis has led a congressional delegation on a pilgrimage to civil rights sites in Birmingham, Montgomery and Selma, Alabama managed by The Faith and Politics Institute.
03.01.2012	ATLANTA – Today Federal Aviation Administration Acting Administrator Michael Huerta,visited Atlanta to announce an air traffic control tower modernization project at Hartfield-Jackson Airport called Next Generation Transportation. Within the NextGen program there is a satellite navigation system initiative called Metroplex which will the FAA believes will improve the flow in and out of all the airports in the Atlanta/Charlotte region by subjecting it to a traffic analysis which will allow officials to determine how to streamline and improve procedures over the two cities. According to the an FAA brief, the initiative is a collaboration between FAA, the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, Delta Air Lines, USAirways, and the Atlanta and Charlotte area airports. Because of the initiative, travellers should experience fewer delays, quicker flights, and a greener, safe travel experience due to reduced time in the air, less fuel consumption and thus fewer carbon emissions. Rep. Lewis made this statement based on the announcement: “I wish I could have been there for this to welcome Acting Administrator Huerta to the 5th District, but we had votes in Washington today. I congratulate the strong coalition between Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, Delta Airlines, the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, USAirways and Charlotte airport in this effort. “The NextGen technology was a cornerstone of the long-stalled federal FAA reauthorization bill, so I am glad it is finally coming into fruition. Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, the largest passenger airport in the world, has an outstanding track-record of managing federal grants and executing innovative programming. I think this project seems to be in good hands. “Hopefully Metroplex will help realize the goals of the NextGen initiative by increasing passenger travel and business through Atlanta. More business means more jobs for Metro Atlanta’s residents.”
03.01.2012	ATLANTA – On Monday Rep. February 27 Rep. John Lewis hosted his annual Legislative Luncheon at the Georgia Depot. Every year Lewis brings members of the Georgia State House and Senate together with city officials and local legislators to discuss issues facing the Fifth Congressional district. Legislators share concerns, ideas, build alliances, and develop collaborative strategies to help address the district’s problems. “What legislators discover in the forum,” said Rep. Lewis, “is that many of them are concerned about the same issues, and some of them are even strategizing around the same approaches. Mayors, city councilpeople and state legislators are so busy they rarely have a chance to come together to simply talk and brainstorm. This luncheon gives them the room to do that.” The meeting is always a closed-door session which allows legislators to openly and freely communicate. This year foreclosure was at the top of every participants’ list of concerns. They wanted to be briefed on details of the settlement the Obama Administration made with five banks and understand how it affects Atlanta metro area residents who are still struggling to save their homes, facing eviction and concerned that they may be the victims of fraud. Education was next on the agenda. They discussed the under-funded mandate of No Child Left Behind and the impact on teaching standards. “So many studies show,” said Lewis, “that the teacher is the game-changer in the classroom. The teacher-student connection is the key to excellence. These legislators wanted to know how to reinforce the work of teachers so that Atlanta students can learn.” Transportation was another top issue. There was a discussion of the controversial Surface Transportation bill, the impact on MARTA funding as well as other infrastructure projects necessary to the district—noise barriers and streetscapes among them. Some of these items had been included in amendments Rep. Lewis offered to the bill which were not allowed to come to a vote by House leadership. Participants were also concerned about healthcare for seniors, pushing for reauthorization of the Older Americans Act, and wondering how to alleviate the healthcare problems seniors are facing.
02.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Today Rep. John Lewis participated in a ceremony at the U.S. Capitol where a marker was unveiled to honor the contributions of slave laborers to the U.S. Capitol. The following is his statement: As the chairman of the Special Task Force to Study the History and Contributions of Slave Laborers in the Construction of the U.S. Capitol, I want to thank the leadership of the U. S. Senate and the House of Representatives--Senators Reid and McConnell, Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi--for ushering in this powerful moment in our history. On behalf of all the members of the Slave Labor Task Force, both past and present, I want to thank each and every one of you for being here today. Of all the buildings that symbolize the dignity and the authority of the federal government, the U.S. Capitol is the finest to me. It is so beautiful yet so restrained. It is a testament to the culture of a great nation that shines like a beacon of liberty. When building first began in 1793, I wonder if anyone noticed the contradiction. Maybe no one even mentioned the clear discrepancy, that among those who toiled to build a monument to freedom were men and women who came to our shores in chains. But they knew. Those men and women sold in bondage, they knew, and they waited for just the right time to end their silence. They waited through the Federalist Period and the Age of Reform. Through the Gold Rush and the days of the wild, wild West. Past the Emancipation Proclamation and Juneteeth Day. Past Reconstruction and the Gilded Age. They waited through two World Wars and a Great Depression. Past the flight of the Tuskegee Airmen and even the protests of the Civil Rights Movement. The waited for a moment of relative peace at the silent turn of the 21st century for the evidence of their art to be brought to light. And from the moment we discovered their contribution, we realized that we had been blind ourselves. Of course it made sense that slaves were involved, but it never even occurred to most of us. To them our clouded vision did not matter, all they asked was that we simply make it right. And once we heard their call, it was easy to take heed. Through the unveiling of this marker today, we finally permit countless and nameless souls to rest. We honor the work, the dedication, the artistry, the imagination, and the contribution of men and women in chains who help us, even at this hour, to sanctify the U.S. Capitol as our “Temple of Liberty”. Thank you.
02.28.2012	Yesterday Rep. John Lewis attended a ceremony at the White House where President Barack Obama introduced his new initiative, My Brother's Keeper, a White House program serving young African American men and boys. Rep. Lewis made these comments: "I don't think there is any person in America who could have a stronger influence on the lives of African American men and boys than President Barack Obama. His very presence in the White House demonstrates the power of possibility to young men who may never have dreamed they had any chance to make it at all. I am very glad that the President decided to use his power to make a difference in the lives of these young men. "Of course President Obama serves all of America, but just as a national program can affect individual communities, focused, effective work in one community can have a national impact. We are one people, one family, the human family, and what serves one person helps us all. Plus the statistics are alarming and suggest there is an emergency that no responsible public figure should ignore. "86 percent of African American boys read below grade level by the time they reach the 4th grade. They are six times more likely to be victims of gun violence than white boys. In the state of Georgia only 49 percent of African American boys graduate from high school, compared to 65 percent of white boys. These problems make them more vulnerable to get into the kind of trouble that is hard to get out of. "If someone had not reached out to me, in my case it was Dr. King, I don't know where I would be today. One man like President Obama can make a significant difference in this lives of these young men, and I applaud the president for throwing them a lifeline, to let them know someone they admire and respect wants to help them succeed." ###
02.28.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. John Lewis made this statement upon hearing of the passing of James Young: “Today Atlanta has lost one of the pillars of our community. As President and CEO of Citizens Trust Bank James Young helped to hold this community together. He used the principles of sound finance to build the holdings and assets of the bank he headed, but he never forgot the people he was called to serve. He was always accessible, always willing to find a way to use his knowledge of fiscal affairs to solidify local organizations and everyday families. James Young leaves a powerful void in our community that can only be filled by a unique combination of expertise and compassion. He will be deeply missed.”
02.27.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) and Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) announced that the House will vote this week on a resolution instructing the Office of the Historian to compile testimonies from current and former Members of Congress who have participated in historic or commemorative Civil Rights Movement actions. This resolution offers the opportunity to preserve a powerful and transformative period in American history and has been introduced by members who represent cities in Alabama where landmark events of the movement took place, Rep. Terri Sewell (D-AL) and Rep. Martha Roby (R-AL). Leader Cantor and Congressman Lewis released the following statements: Leader Cantor stated, “On March 7, 1965, Congressman John Lewis led hundreds of marchers in Selma, Alabama, in a pivotal moment that led our nation towards equality for all. This week, the House will recognize every Member of Congress who participated in the Selma marches forty-seven years ago, and the pilgrimages that have followed, by adding their testimonies to the historic record of the House. Their stories are part of our nation’s heritage and serve as a reminder to every American of the determination and sacrifice that shaped the greater democracy we live in today.” Rep. Lewis stated, “This is a gracious act on the part of the Majority Leader and the House leadership to help preserve the history of our democracy. Without the brave and courageous souls who shed blood, sweat and tears in Alabama and throughout the South, this would be a very different nation today. It is very important that members of Congress understand and acknowledge the debt we owe to ordinary people with extraordinary vision who, as Dr. King once said, ‘injected new meaning into the very veins of our democracy.’” Since 1998, Rep. John Lewis has led a congressional delegation on a pilgrimage to civil rights sites in Birmingham, Montgomery and Selma, Alabama managed by The Faith and Politics Institute.
02.27.2012	WASHINGTON--On Tuesday February 28, 2012, at 4:30 PM in Emancipation Hall of the Capitol Visitors Center the leadership of the House and Senate will unveil a marker that commemorates the contributions of slaves who helped build the U.S. Capitol. The unveiling is the result of 12 years of work by the Special Task Force to Study the History and Contributions of Slave Laborers in the Construction of the U.S. Capitol led by Rep. John Lewis. The committee was formed after a bill held in the National Archives came to light showing payment for the use of slaves in the building of the Capitol. The bill was something archivists had known about for years, but a reporter discovered the it and publicized his findings. “I am very proud,” said Rep. Lewis, “that the work of the task force has led to this and other ways that the story of slave laborers will be remembered as contributors to the Capitol building. Too many people believe that African Americans had played no significant role in establishing this country. That is partially due to the fact that the story of their contribution has not been told. “ When I walk through Statuary Hall, it means a great deal to me to know that the unusual grey marble columns were likely hewn` and polished by slaves in Maryland. They quarried the stone in Maryland and sailed ships or barges many miles down the Potomac River weighed down by heavy marble columns to bring them to DC. Somehow they carried them several miles through the streets perhaps using wagons and mules or horses, and then hoisted them up so they are standing as we see them today in the Capitol. The bronze statue sitting on top of the Capitol dome also involved the contribution of slaves. These men and woman played a powerful role in our history and that must not be forgotten.” In 2005 the Architect of the Capitol, an ex-officio member of the task force, submitted a report called History of Slave Laborers in the Construction of the United States Capitol. The report includes the names and cost of the labor of over 100 slaves who helped build the Capitol. In 2007 the task force requested a hearing by the Committee on House Administration on the subject. Finally, after this initial study, the task force developed a series of recommendations for use by House, Senate and Architect of the Capitol curators to determine the best means to honor the role that slaves played in the work. Tuesday’s ceremony marks the culmination of the work of the committee, led by Rep. Lewis. NOTE: TV Crews will be able to access Emancipation Hall at 2:00 PM on February 28th for set up on the press riser. All TV crews must have equipment in place no later than 2:45 PM for a security sweep of the hall. All media must be appropriately credentialed through the press gallery.
02.22.2012	WASHINGTON-- As the original sponsor of the legislation which authorized the building of the National African American Museum of History and Culture, Rep. John Lewis was one of the speakers today at the groundbreaking for the newest Smithsonian Institute museum on the National Mall. The effort was begun almost 100 years ago by black veterans of the Civil War who were concerned that the contributions of black soldiers were not acknowledged. The idea had some supporters, but the stock market crash of 1929 killed the flow of private contributions. The next major push for passage would not occur until after the death of Martin Luther King Jr. led new members of the Congressional Black Caucus to resurrect this bill. When Rep. Lewis arrived in Congress in 1986, Rep. Mickey Leland (D-TX) was introducing legislation to authorize a national museum to document the African American contribution to this country. When Leland died in a tragic plane crash, Rep. Lewis became the original sponsor for the bill, introducing it in every session of Congress for over half of his congressional career. At one juncture, the bill was blocked by Sen. Jesse Helms (R-NC) who was openly opposed to the project. After 15 years of “persistence and consistency” the bill finally found passage with the bi-partisan support of Rep. J.C. Watts (R-OK), Sen. Max Cleland (D-GA), and Sen. Sam Brownback (R-KS). It was signed into law in 2003, after which an A-list board of celebrities and scholars was chosen to pursue the dream. Board members include Oprah Winfrey, Quincy Jones, Bob Johnson, Richard Parsons, and Linda Johnson Rice, among others. The museum director, Lonnie Bunch, has begun building a collection for the museum and has already purchased the Bible used by John Brown who mounted the Harper’s Ferry Raid, for example, one of the planes used by the Tuskegee Airman, and a shawl worn by Harriet Tubman. Rep. Lewis spoke today on a program moderated by actress Phylicia Rashad along with President Barack Obama, former First Lady and current board member Laura Bush, and Gov. Sam Brownback. The President and Mrs. Obama were present during the entire program. The President spoke at the end of the ceremonies. Following is the text of Rep. Lewis’s statement. What we are witnessing today will go down in history. It is the substance of things hoped for and the validation of our dreams. It is the moment a people protested, struggled, and longed for. It is the moment millions of our ancestors believed in, but died never to behold. It is that point of critical mass when an idea becomes so powerful, it leaves the realms of inspiration and becomes visible even to the untrained eye. This is an idea whose time has come. When I think about all it took to reach this point—the black Civil War veterans who took up this cause many decades ago, the spirited debate and the long years of silence, the lineage of advocates and their opponents. When I think about the plane crash that killed one champion and the ironic election of this poor boy from Alabama who spent more than half of his congressional career introducing the museum bill, only to have it end in a bipartisan effort inspired by men of faith--it reminds me of the words of one of my favorite poets, Langston Hughes, which seem so fitting here. The name of the poem is Harlem, and in it he says, “What happens to a dream deferred. Does it dry up like a raisin in the sun? Or fester like a sore and then run?.... Maybe it just sags like a heavy load. Or…. does it explode?” Today we must thank the White House and the U.S. Congress, my former colleagues Governor Sam Brownback, Senator Max Cleland, and Congressman J.C. Watts, the Smithsonian Board of Regents, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution Wayne Clough, the director of the National Museum of African American History and Culture Lonnie Bunch and his entire staff, the distinguished advisory councils of celebrities and scholars, and the generous corporate and individual donors who have taken a dream deferred and helped it find its place in history. This is an end, but it is also a beginning. There is still much more work to do, and as we pursue this worthy goal sent to us down through the ages, we must not shrink. We must call on the courage of those who were in this struggle long before any of us were even born. We must tell the whole, 400- year story of the African American contribution to this nation’s history, from slavery to the present, without anger or apology. The problems we face today as a nation make it plain that there is still a great deal of pain that needs to be healed. The stories told in this building can speak the truth that has the power to set an entire nation free and reveal the boldest lessons of liberty, justice and true democracy to us all. I look forward to the day when I can amble through the exhibits, search through the archives, participate in the programs, rest my tired feet in the café and get lost in history inside the granite walls of an idea whose time has finally come. Thank you. Reporters seeking tape of the ceremony can request coverage shot by CSPAN.
02.21.2012	I am excited to tell you about a free service that’s available to help you with your taxes. Free File is an online service that gives free tax preparation and e-file options for taxpayers who make less than $57,000. At no cost, you can access the service through the IRS website and take advantage of all it has to offer. Free File is available through the government and private tax software coming together to make tax day a little easier. Click here to learn more about Free File on the IRS website, and to get started on your tax return today.
02.10.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. John Lewis made this statement today about the beating of Brandon White, allegedly because he is gay. There is not any room in our society for any crime against any citizen simply because of individual differences. All human beings are made by the same hands, so no one has the right to demean, humiliate or beat down another individual because he or she is different. We should begin to see difference as an opportunity to grow, to understand something that is new to us, not as an invitation to violence. Atlanta is the home of a historic movement that was centered upon respect for the dignity and the worth of every human being. We have a responsibility as the citizens of this great city to teach our children that history, to pass on the legacy of peace, the way of love and non-violence. It is tragic that the perpetrators have found themselves in a world of trouble, and I hope they will come to understand that violence is not the answer. I have reached out to the victim of this brutal encounter to offer my support and am making arrangements to meet with Brandon White in the near future.
02.09.2012	WASHINGTON—Today The U.S. House of Representatives passed a watered down version of a Senate bill meant to stop members of Congress from using insider information to gain investment advantages. Senator Grassley lambasted House Republicans for weakening the “political intelligence” portion of the bill, which would require greater disclosure and transparency by members of Congress. Grassley was quoted by The Hill as saying, “it's astonishing and extremely disappointing that the House would fulfill Wall Street's wishes by killing this provision,” and implied the House Republican leadership was doing the bidding of Wall Street. Rep. John Lewis made this comment about passage of the bill: "It is very important that members of Congress focus on the business of the people while they are here and not using inside knowledge to gain financial advantages. I hope the leadership of the House will find more courage to stand for fairness and an even-hand in the development of policy. Currently this House seems willing to give public figures and big business a pass at every turn, while it exacts the highest costs from millions of Americans. This weakened bill demonstrates who the leadership of this Congress really serves. Admittedly, some legislation on this issue is better than nothing, but I wish that we would require the same standards of ourselves that we place on others. That would be closer to true justice."
02.09.2012	WASHINGTON—Today President Barack Obama announced the results of a series of negotiations with America’s top five banks. He described a $25 billion settlement in an attempt to move beyond the housing crisis that sent this nation’s economy, international markets, and the economy of Atlanta in particular into a tailspin. Rep. John Lewis offered this statement after his initial evaluation of the settlement deal. I want to applaud President Barack Obama’s continuous efforts to resolve the problems of our nation. Despite a great deal of pain and turmoil that has characterized this crisis, and despite the massive nature of the fraud and injustice that needed to be corrected, this president has remained focused on the task at hand. He is always trying to offer creative solutions to our problems and steady guidance in a very difficult time. This $25 billion settlement is a major step. I am hopeful that it will provide the banks with some of the certainty they need to begin lending again, will rein in unlawful foreclosure, and offer underwater homeowners some relief. It is very important, however, to continue to pursue the trail of deception which led to this downfall, bring the facts out in the open, and make institutions and individuals accountable for the mess they have made of American lives. Also there are still millions of Americans who are beyond the reach of this legislation and will see little return from this settlement. Many of them live in the Atlanta metro area. One bill cannot do it all. I look forward to the continued work of the Administration to bring individuals to justice and to cast the net as wide as possible to assist those who have lost all they have due to this crisis. I also call upon my colleagues in the Congress as well as those in state and local government to respond to the desperate needs of the people of this nation who want to be restored to their families, their jobs, and their homes. The people of this nation must be our top priority. They are depending upon us to advocate on their behalf. They are our charge and our responsibility above all else. We must do all we can to help meet their needs in this dark our of our nation’s financial history.
02.07.2012	Only Member of Entire Georgia Delegation with Top Rating WASHINGTON—Today the League of Conservation Voters (LCV) released its 2011 National Environmental Scorecard for the First Session of the 112th Congress. The LCV has issued a rating for every Congress since 1970 and represents the consensus of 20 of the most respected environmental and conservation organizations in the country, including the National Resources Defense Council, Friends of the Earth, The Wilderness Society, the National Audobon Society, Earthjustice, and the National Wildlife Federation. Notably, Atlanta sophisticate and philanthropist Laura Turner Seydel is a member of the LCV Board of Directors. The LCV scorecard tracks legislation affecting the environment and the votes of congressional members on the issues of energy, global warming, public health, public lands, wildlife conservation as well as spending for environmental programs. This year it tracked 15 House votes, more than it has ever tracked before. The LCV saw this as a critical moment in the effort to defend the environment and public health. Rep. John Lewis was one of only 24 members of the House to receive a 100 percent score, meaning he voted solidly to support the environment, public safety and public health on every single vote the LCV felt was critical to those issues. He was the only member of the entire House and Senate Georgia delegation to receive the top ranking. His votes are especially significant at a time when environmental protections are under attack. The overview of the LCV report begins with these words, “In 2011, the Republican leadership of the U.S. House of Representatives unleashed a truly breathtaking and unprecedented assault on the environment and public health, the breadth and depth of which have made the current House of Representatives the most anti-environmental in our nation’s history.” In a release announcing the report, an LCV-VP made this statement: The 2011 National Environmental Scorecard is a sad testament to the radical nature of the U.S. House of Representatives in the first session of the 112th Congress,” said Tiernan Sittenfeld, LCV Senior Vice President of Government Affairs. “We applaud those members who opposed the multitude of attacks on vital public health and environmental protections in 2011. However, it's deeply disappointing that so many members chose to put corporate polluters and other special interests ahead of the health and well-being of their constituents. The report offers perspectives on the controversial Keystone Pipeline XL and severely criticizes H.R. 1, the House Continuing Resolution spending bill crafted to avoid a federal shutdown. Even though H.R. 1 traditionally is not an used to legislate on environmental matters, this House included what the LCV called “ sweeping assaults on the air we breathe, the water we drink …; it also made drastic cuts to transit, energy efficiency, and renewable energy while protecting the profits of polluting industries.” (more) “These are difficulties times,” said Rep. Lewis, “when so much that has defined the American way of life has been jeopardized by partisan attempts to fundamentally change our society without the full awareness of the American people. Due to progressive legislation during the past 50 years, we made significant advances in protecting the environment. But today just as in voting rights, worker’s rights, privacy rights, and fair housing rights, there are forces attempting to return environmental protection to the dark ages. We must use our votes and our voices to take a stand against these efforts in the interest of public health and the well being of future generations.
01.23.2012	“President Barack Obama presented an inspiring vision of the future to the Congress and the American people tonight. An America built to last should certainly be the hope of every member of Congress and every citizen of this nation. “I have seen many state of the union addresses, and I think this was one of the best I have heard. It was not partisan or political, but full of ideas. The President used his administration and the expertise of the federal government wisely to develop many proposals in education, manufacturing, taxation, clean energy, infrastructure repair, re-education of the workforce, immigration reform and other pressing areas that could breathe new life into our economy. He said he is willing to utilize the power of the presidency to realize these reforms, but he cannot do it alone. “Tonight the President appealed to us all, the people of this nation and the Congress, to put aside everything that divides us and pull together. We cannot retreat to our individual corners. We must come together as one solid force, the people and their government, to rebuild America again. In essence, he said something I believe rests at the core of our capacity to restore this nation. We must finally understand that we are one people, one family, the American family, and what affects one of us affects us all.”
01.18.2012	WASHINGTON--Today one of the least productive Congresses in recent history turned its attention to H. J. Res 98 for the only full day of voting scheduled this week. The resolution, unlikely to move in the Senate, expresses partisan disapproval of the President’s authority to extend the debt limit. Republican Presidents from Reagan to Bush raised the debt ceiling numerous times during their tenure without any complaint from Republican conservatives, though the deficit bloated more during these administrations than any others in the past 30 years. Rep. John Lewis took to the House floor and labeled this bill a cynical maneuver a time of crisis for the American people. He said the following: Here we go again, Mr. Speaker. Instead of working on legislation to help create jobs, House Republicans have gathered us here for political games. This bill is not constructive, Mr. Speaker, it is destructive. It is disruptive to the most important task we face, helping struggling Americans get back to work. We have been down this road before. We fought this so-called battle last year. The debt limit is America’s credit card bill, and just because we don’t like the balance doesn’t mean we don’t have to pay it. This exercise is a waste of time and taxpayer dollars. I urge my colleagues to vote no on this bill. Let’s come together and work for the good of this nation, not partisan dissent. In the meantime Lewis has practiced what he is preaching. He has introduced H.R. 3701 the Back to Basics Job Creation Act. The bill offers support to individuals who are currently unemployed and underemployed who decide to create their own small businesses to make ends meet. “Atlantans are very industrious,” said Lewis. Contrary to what some of my Republican brothers believe, most people are trying to face their unemployment with courage and ingenuity. They are not waiting to get hired. Many are taking the initiative, dusting off old skills, and developing new ones. They use these talents to create small businesses making pottery, greeting cards, soaps, paintings, sculptures and other products they can sell. Instead of vilifying the unemployed, we need to empower them.” The bill provides a $5 million grant program directed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to be disseminated as seed money to fund self-employment opportunities, small business development and related work. It could not be used to fund salaries or existing jobs. It would provide immediate relief for those who are creative, and business-minded, yet unemployed. The bill has been referred to the House Ways and Means Committee for action.
01.13.2012	In honor of the Martin Luther King Jr. federal holiday, Rep. John Lewis made these comments: This is the first holiday marking the birth of Martin Luther King Jr. that we can stand in the shadow of his statue on the National Mall. The King Memorial holds a special place in the hearts of all Atlantans who can see one of their favorite sons honored among the presidents and founders of this nation. It says something about the power of his message and the universal impact of his service that this young Southern preacher, never elected to any public office would have his contribution commemorated in the frontyard of America. If Dr. King were here today, he would tell us that there are still too many Americans who are left out and left behind, locked out beyond the gates to opportunity and success. And he would warn that there are forces today that are trying, and succeeding in some ways, to take us back to a time when the benefits of this wealthy nation were only available to a few. He would remind us that freedom is not free. It requires the vigilant action of every individual in a democracy to exercise the privileges of this system and demand greater equity and access where rights are still restricted. If Dr. King were here today, he would still be saying that the discipline and philosophy of non-violence is still the most excellent way to find justice. He would say that there is no way to peace. Peace is the way.
01.04.2012	Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs announced it will be launching a mobile vet center initiative which will have the ability to bring vet readjustment counseling services to urban and rural areas that are not readily served by stationary government offices and may be inaccessible to affected families. Rep. John Lewis applauded this effort on behalf of the Obama administration to reach veterans, especially those hardest hit by post traumatic stress disorder, unemployment, depression and other lingering impacts of a youth spent at war. "It is tragic that veterans represent a large percentage of the homeless population in many urban centers, including Atlanta," said Rep. John Lewis. "I am very glad that the Obama Administration under the leadership of General Eric Shinseki has determined to use advanced technology to reach these Americans. They were prepared to give all they had in the defense of this country. It is the least we can do to extend ourselves and the resources of our government to serve them more effectively." Atlanta is one of the 20 cities that will welcome the first new mobile units. There are already more than 50 in operation around the country. They are customized vehicles equipped with confidential counseling spaces and the most advanced communications technology. They will offer emergency response services as well as routine transportation for veteran patients within a metropolitan area. They also can be converted to assist evacuation of patients and their care teams during disasters or cataclysmic emergencies. There are more than 300 Vet Centers around the country which offer individual and group, family, bereavement, and sexual trauma counseling and referral as well as substance abuse, employment, VA benefits, and medical assessment and referral, including traumatic brain injury and depression assessment and referral. For more information go to www.vetcenter.va.gov.
12.13.2011	Today the U.S. House of Representatives will consider a bill entitled the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act H.R. 3630. The bill is deceptively named. Doctored by House Republicans, who heard quite clearly the Democrats' call for an extension of unemployment insurance before the Christmas adjournment, Republicans have used this mandate to load a so-called "extension" of benefits with damaging add-ons that are an all-out assault on Americans families. "This bill hits Americans when they are down," said Rep. John Lewis. "While they are trying to recover from the worst recession this nation has seen in decades, while poverty and homelessness are on the rise and millions of Americans have been out of work for years, the Republicans in the House want to use the dire need to extend unemployment insurance to kick the legs out from under the American people and gut the benefit for those who need it the most. That is why I proposed an amendment to this bill, which provides for a clean, straightforward extension of unemployment benefits, just as the American people are expecting. The bill is paid for by the significant increase in revenue we would receive from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and it simply offers the support the American people need." Lewis, the original sponsor of the bill, was joined by three colleagues--Reps. Danny Davis (D-IL), Gwen Moore (D-WI) and Barbara Lee (D-CA)-and sent the amendment and their statement of intent to the House Rules Committee last night. The House committee blocked consideration of all amendments, paving the way for the passage of a bad bill. "The American people want unemployment insurance extended," said Rep. John Lewis, "But this is bait and switch. The name of bill sounds good, but it actually cuts the benefit in half, targets the states with the worst unemployment problems, like Georgia, and burdens the unemployed with suspicion and needless requirements. These individuals have lost their jobs due to no fault of their own. They should not be penalized and abused because they have fallen on hard times." The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act reduces the maximum number of weeks unemployment insurance will be federally funded from 73 weeks to 33 weeks, meaning 1 million Americans will slip off the rolls next year. Instead of offering states with high unemployment more support, it targets them for the largest cuts. States facing high rates of unemployment would lose 40 weeks of unemployment benefits next year, and Georgia is one of those states. The bill opens the door for some states to replace the unemployment benefit with a requirement for people to engage in workfare or voluntary work or even to divert up to 20 percent of the benefit into other activity as determined by the state. Additionally, if the unemployed are not already struggling enough, the bill allows states to require drug testing as a prerequisite for receiving the benefit and requires those without a high school diploma to be enrolled in GED classes in order to be eligible to receive the benefit. "This requirement adds insult to injury. My Republican colleagues are completely unwilling to compromise. They are focused on changing the government's relationship to the American people by getting rid of every safety net the people have come to depend on, whether the people agree with them or not. I will do everything in my power to oppose this bill."
12.09.2011	"Early this morning," said Rep. John Lewis, "I heard the sad news that State Senator Robert Brown had passed. It is disturbing and very tragic that such a gifted and capable legislator, who contributed 20 years of valuable public service to our community, would feel so alone that he would take his own life. "He was a voice for the voiceless, an eloquent advocate for equal treatment and even-handed justice for those who never have a chance to face the State Senate and plead their case. At a time when the role of compassion is ignored in public policy, when poverty is on the rise and the struggles of the unemployed, the homeless and everyday working people have fallen on deaf ears within the chambers of government, we need a man like Senator Brown to remind us of the good that government can do. "This state has lost an honorable man, at a time when men of honor are in short supply. Sen. Robert Brown will be deeply missed."
12.05.2011	WASHINGTON-The Department of Veterans Affairs has announced it will make $100 million in federal grants available to community agencies to help prevent homelessness among veterans and their families. "The problems that lead to homelessness begin long before Veterans and their families are on the streets," said Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki. "By putting more resources into prevention services for people at risk of becoming homeless, we will continue to help Veterans and their families get back on their feet and turn their lives around." The funds will be made available in fiscal year 2012 through VA's Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program. The SSVF provides funding for counseling, training, education assistance, direct time-limited financial assistance, transportation, child care, rent, utilities, and other services aimed at preventing homelessness or providing housing for participating Veterans and their families. "Lately, Atlanta non-profits have developed very smart, strategic approaches to the application for federal funds. And those strategies have been rewarded with the lion's share of federal funding in areas which usually require lots of financial investment to address, like transportation and healthcare. "Since cities and states are cutting back on social welfare spending, this grant represents a prime opportunity that I hope organizations will seize upon to make a difference in our community. One particularly effective approach has been the development of strategic partnerships among groups to present a comprehensive proposal. I think this is very attractive to the federal government, which like any other granting institution, looks favorably on applications that offer the greatest chance to make a significant impact. The deadline for the submission of an application is February 15th, 2012. The VA is offering free workshops this month and in January to review the grant application process with local organizations interested in applying. Currently the Atlanta workshop is scheduled on January 9th, from 9-12 PM at the Atlanta VA Medical Center, Pete Wheeler Auditorium, 1670 Clairmont Road in Decatur. Groups should follow the VA website to track changes to the workshop schedule and to find out the dates workshops will be scheduled in Atlanta, Baltimore, Denver, San Francisco, and St. Louis. Last year the SSVF granted $60 million to local groups to assist 22,000 veterans in 40 states and the District of Columbia. "Veterans have risked all they have on the front lines of battle to protect this country. They deserve nothing short of our best to help ease their transition back to society. So I hope local organizations will study will make the smart choices that will offer Atlanta additional funding to address homelessness prevention among veterans and their families."
12.02.2011	The older sister of executed Georgia prisoner, Troy Anthony Davis, died yesterday in Savannah. Martina Davis-Correia was the most outspoken advocate of the "I Am Troy Davis" clemency campaign, which spread to countries all around the world. Correia traveled far and wide to any group that would give an ear in a strenuous effort to save her brother's life. Despite several commutations of his sentence, Davis was killed by lethal injection in Georgia in September of this year. The Davis case has helped turn the tide of public opinion in the struggle for repeal of the death penalty. Rep. John Lewis made these remarks upon hearing about Correia's death: "I am deeply saddened to hear about the passing of Martina Davis-Correia.The agony of this death sentence and execution has killed not just one man, but has decimated an entire nuclear family. After 22 years of struggle, Davis's mother died in the spring, her son was killed by the state of Georgia in September, and now her daughter has died. Correia was a brave and courageous woman who was her brother's most stalwart advocate for clemency. She was angel of mercy who sacrificed her health to win her brother's life. “For a state which could have used its power to do what is right, the outcome is tragic. But for the Davis family, if it had to be this way, it is an elegant ending. God has finally accomplished what the state of Georgia could not. In his mercy he granted their prayers to be all together again--happy, healed and whole. They leave us the lessons of their lives and a legacy of struggle that strengthened a movement for repeal of the death penalty in this country. I send my deepest condolences to the Davis family and to Martina Correia’s son, who needs our support in this time. May God richly bless you for the sacrifice you as a family have made in the long, hard struggle for justice in America.”
12.01.2011	Washington, DC-Today Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives that would establish a tax credit to improve access to medical treatment for infertility, a problem affecting millions of Americans. The Family Act of 2011 (HR 3522) is the first tax credit introduced in Congress to support those seeking to build a family through medical treatment for infertility. This important legislation offers a maximum lifetime tax credit of $13,360 to families who want children but must build their families through in vitro fertilization (IVF). Cost is one of the biggest barriers infertile families face when they confront IVF as an option. The treatments are expensive and are typically paid for out-of-pocket without the support of health insurance. Most health plans will not pay for the treatments. The American Society of Reproductive Medicine (ASRM) has calculated the average price of one in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycle in the U.S. to be $12,400. Only 15 states have passed laws requiring that insurance policies cover or offer to cover some level of infertility treatment. The tax credit maximum is a lifetime cap, and it does not include expenses already covered by an individual's insurance plan or already claimed within a schedule of itemized deductions for healthcare expenses in a tax year. The amount of the credit diminishes incrementally for families with annual incomes over $182,500 and reduces to zero for families with incomes exceeding $222,520. "Infertility is far more common than people believe. In fact there are nearly 200,000 people diagnosed with infertility in Georgia alone," said Representative Lewis. "For too many of those people the cost of treatment will silence their dreams of having children forever. Insurance coverage is rare, so what should be a personal, intimate decision between couples is reduced to a financial calculation. Without this credit, access to all the advances of modern medicine and the ability to bear children, despite physical impediments, becomes, for average Americans, a luxury defined by the size of their wallets or the digits in their zip code. That's not right, not fair or just. I believe that access to decent health care should be a fundamental right, not a privilege." The FAMILY Act of 2011 is supported by the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, the American Society of Reproductive Medicine, the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, LIVESTRONG and RESOLVE, the National Infertility Association. The Senate companion to this bill was introduced by Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) earlier this year.
11.22.2011	Washington, DC- Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) and Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) the two chairs of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, also know as the "supercommittee" released a statement today saying, "....it will not be possible to make any bipartisan agreement available to the public before the committee's deadline." Rep. John Lewis made these comments in light of the committee's inability to come to an agreement: "I think the American people are disappointed, and I am also very disappointed that the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction was unable to develop any kind of agreement. A lot of time and a lot of effort has been dedicated to this process, but apparently, the talks broke down around the need to find a compromise that both reduces spending and also raises additional revenue. This setback is a reflection on all of us. The people will not separate Democrats from Republicans or House from Senate members. “We cannot continue to govern in this way. We were elected to make the tough decisions, and we must continue to work. The future of our republic is at stake. We can no longer continue to kick the can down the road. Rising poverty, increasing economic insecurity, and so many other pressing issues suggest this is not a time to pull up our hands and give up. I am certain that next week we will be meeting on both sides of the aisle to come up with our next steps. There is still an opportunity to develop a bi-partisan approach to our challenges as a nation. I would welcome any truly bi-partisan effort to resolve these differences for the good of the people of this country.” CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 -4673
11.18.2011	Washington, DC—Today the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS) announced the first group of grants to fund a health care demonstration project which offers the federal government an opportunity to discover better ways to secure safe and healthy transitions for patients moving from one health care facility to another. The program is a part of the Affordable Health Care Act, called the Community-Based Care Transition Program, and CMS was granted $500 million in total funding from 2011 through 2015 to “improve care transitions for high risk Medicare patients.” When patients with serious and complex illnesses are transferred from one health care provider setting to another, such as from a hospital to a nursing home, they often experience complications. CMS reports that “nearly one in five Medicare patients discharged from the hospital—approximately 2.6 million seniors—is readmitted within 30 days at a cover of over $26 billion every year.” This program seeks to discover the reason for this frequent relapse and compile best practices to strengthen the care of Medicare patients. Resolving this challenge will help make health care “safer, more reliable, and less costly for all Americans.” “I am not surprised that Atlanta was once again singled out among the first picked institutions to participate in this important program,” said Rep. John Lewis. “Atlanta is home to some of the best health care institutions and medical research facilities in this country. I applaud the strategic development of the Atlanta Community- Based Care Transitions Program, a collaborative partnership serving ten counties in the Atlanta region, which includes Emory University Hospital Mid-town, Gwinnett Medical Center, Piedmont Hospital, Southern Regional Hospital, WellStar Cobb Hospital, WellStar Kennestone Hospital. “Even though the Affordable Healthcare Act has been vilified, this program represents some of the deeply beneficial aspects of the bill does. The findings of this community-based program have the potential to assist health care institutions around the country and throughout the world. They have the power to contribute to the longevity, comfort and care of the elderly, the sick and the disabled, which is a worthwhile interests of the people” For more details about the grant, please see the attached fact sheet and links below. The first site selections for the CCTP are available at the link below: https://www.cms.gov/DemoProjectsEvalRpts/downloads/CCTP_FirstSiteSelections.pdf For more information, please see the attached factsheet and visit: https://www.healthcare.gov/partnershipforpatients or https://go.cms.gov/caretransitions.
10.28.2011	Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal a 3 percent withholding related to certain payments made to vendors by government agencies first implemented under a Republican majority in 2006. Implementation of the law was delayed once Democrats came into authority because they disagreed with the charges. H.R. 674 repeals this withholding. Rep. John Lewis made these comments on the bill and also criticized the cynical, partisan approach Republicans have taken to pay for the repeal: “Today I am glad to support HR 674, a bill to repeal the 3% withholding requirement on payments made to government contractors. This bill is good for small businesses, and it is good for state and local governments. "HR 674 provides relief to small businesses in Atlanta and across the State of Georgia, many of whom are already struggling to make it in these tough economic times. If this 3% withholding requirement were in effect it would make it even harder for small businesses to make payroll. We have seen building and construction grind to a halt in Georgia, and withholding this money would further deprive them of the money necessary to invest in and complete other projects that serve to beautify our communities. " "I have also heard from local counties who support HR 674. The 3% withholding requirement is an unnecessary burden that costs them money at a time when they already face significant strains on their budgets. They would much rather use their resources to serve the people and provide quality services to their constituents." "I object, however, to HR 2576, the bill that Republicans have chosen to use to pay for HR 674. While HR 674 is a bipartisan bill, Republicans have decided to use this opportunity to pass the partisan HR 2576 in another attempt to undo the successes of health care reform. HR 2576 would cause an estimated 500,000 people to lose health care coverage altogether , and many more would face increased health care costs. The $13 billion burden of HR 2576 would fall entirely on the shoulders of America's senior citizens, the disabled, and their families. To pay for this bill we could stop spending millions every hour on wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. We could simply require the richest Americans to pay their fair share, but once again the leadership of this House wants to balance the budget on the backs of the least among us. It is a disgrace. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.26.2011	According to the latest news reports, Democrats on the debt-reduction supercommittee have advanced an aggressive plan to offer $3 trillion in cuts, more than twice the $1.2 trillion mandated goal of the committee. Slightly different reports in CQ Today and in a Reuters exclusive suggest cuts to Medicare and Medicaid are both on the table. CQ says cuts will be as high as $500 billion to Medicare and Medicaid, and Reuters reports that $400 billion will come from Medicare alone--$200 billion in cuts to health care providers and $200 billion in cuts to beneficiaries. These reports are still unconfirmed by any formal statement from the committee, however, The Washington Post just released a news story confirming these details. Rep. John Lewis issued this statement in light of these reports. "If these reports of massive cuts to Medicaid and Medicare are true, I will do everything in my power to stand against them. I will join forces with my colleagues and do all I can to defeat them. The people of this country are looking for fairness. They are sitting in and sitting down to protest the unwillingness of government to legislate with their best interests in mind. These proposals rob from the poor, the sick and the elderly, the very least among us. "A recent Congressional Budget Office report released yesterday shows that after tax income for the top 1 percent of Americans has grown by 275 percent in the last 30 years. But for the middle 60 percent of Americans, after tax income grew by a little more than 1 percent per year over the same time period, and those increases were no doubt eaten up by a greater increase in inflation. This report also shows that the top fifth of America's most affluent earn more than the rest of Americans combined. The CBO report was commissioned by a leading member of the supercommittee, and it clearly states that tax policy has a much less equalizing affect today than it did in 1979. "These figures are not chips on a board or numbers in a book. We are playing with the future of our citizens whose lives depend on the viability of Medicaid and Medicare. They are already struggling to keep up, and these proposals would make it almost impossible for them to recover from financial distress. "Cutting Medicare and Medicaid in this drastic way is a moral outrage. How much more must the elderly, the sick, and the poor sacrifice to protect tax breaks for the rich? What does it say about our values as a nation that we believe we must turn our backs on the least among us, while we defend tax breaks for millionaires and spend $2 billion dollars a week in Afghanistan? The federal government made a commitment to the people of this nation, and we should do everything we can to keep that commitment. If these proposals do make it to the floor of the House or pass through the Ways & Means Committee, of which I am a senior member, I will do everything in my power to highlight this moral injustice and stand against any attempt to betray the trust of the people of this nation." ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.21.2011	“I am glad that President Obama has decided to stay the course and begin the long, difficult, but necessary process of bringing our troops home. The National Priorities Project estimates that the war in Iraq has cost the state of Georgia $20.6 billion. And it has cost the people of the United States almost $800 billion since 2001. While American families are suffering through one of the worst recessions we have ever experienced, we are spending millions of dollars every day on the destruction of war. We could use that money to invest in repairing our infrastructure, our bridges and roads, strengthening our economy, honoring our promises to pay pensions, Medicare and Social Security beneficiaries. “The people of Iraq also need and want to begin rebuilding their lives, their homes, their culture, and their government. As long as the violence of war impedes the progress of restoration, they cannot begin walking the challenging road toward a new national identity, hopefully a more democratic identity. Our withdrawal will usher in the work of diplomacy that is the only way to build f a more free, more fair Iraqi society. I am encouraged by this news. I hope this is just the beginning of the end of American military engagement in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. We have seen what war can do; now we need to give peace a chance.” ###
10.20.2011	Every year Rep. John Lewis fosters the spirit of unity in the 5th District by inviting multicultural organizations to share their food, heritage, traditional dress, dance, and music with others in the Atlanta metropolitan area. This year the event takes place on Sun. October 23 from noon to 4 pm at the historic Fourth Ward Park, 680 Dallas Street, NE Atlanta. The U.S. Department of State will make a special presentation about passport services available in the new Atlanta passport office. A passport is your ticket to the world. GUEST SPEAKER: Gale McCoy, Director of Atlanta Passport Agency MODERATOR: John Crow, Georgia Lottery Host and Actor DATE: Sunday October 23 TIME: Noon to 4 PM PLACE: Historic Fourth Ward Park ADDRESS: 680 Dallas Street, NE, Atlanta Participating groups include: Alliance Francaise d'Atlanta American Turkish Friendship Council Armenian National Committee of America Ballet Folklorico "Dance_ando" Barbados Association of Atlanta Bosco Cole Caribbean Association of Georgia Center for Pan Asian Community Services City of Atlanta Bureau of Parks and Recreation Consulate General of Canada Consulate General of Germany and Goethe-Zentrum Consulate General of Honduras Consulate General of Israel Consulate General of Japan Filipino Youth Rock Group - Off the Grid Georgia Association of Latino Elected Officials Georgia Caribbean-American Heritage Coalition Georgia State University President's Office Georgia Tech Turkish Student Organization Goldberg's Deli Honorary Consul General for Turkey Honorary Consul General for The Republic of Liberia Indian Professionals Network Iranian American Community Istanbul Center Manga African Dance Newbreed Filmworks No Mas Cantina Portal Entertainment Publix Supermarkets RNB Consultants Taipei Economic & Cultural Office in Atlanta Thai and Sushi U.S. Passport Agency Walter's Express Whole Foods ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.19.2011	Washington, DC –Today, the Social Security Administration announced that it will finally grant a long-awaited 3.5 percent cost-of-living adjustment or COLA to beneficiaries of Social Security. The increase will take affect for 8 million people on December 30, 2011, and for another 55 million in January 2012. Rep. John Lewis, a senior member on the House Ways & Means Committee, made this statement upon hearing the news: “This COLA is a relief. There is nothing that seniors in my district want to know more than when they will finally see the cost-of-living increase that was promised to them. If working people are struggling to make ends meet, seniors on fixed incomes are making desperate sacrifices—choosing between rent and medication, food and doctor visits. The elderly have been driven to eating canned pet food to survive. This should not happen in the richest nation in the world." “That is why Social Security payments must keep pace with changes in our economy. Social Security is a necessary safety-net, an insurance program people have paid into to ensure that their most basic needs will be met in the last years of their lives. It is a promise, a sacred trust. And we must continue to make good on that promise.” ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.11.2011	Recently, Rep. John Lewis re-introduced a bill establishing a national initiative to make federal grants to community advocates, local, state, and tribal governments to teach the principles and discipline of non-violence to American youth. Lewis first heard about non-violent activism as a teenager when he was only 15 years old. He heard Martin Luther King Jr. talking about the non-violent struggle in the city of Montgomery, and that radio broadcast changed his life. He knew then that he wanted to participate in the work of non-violent change ensuing in America. To this day, he himself is still an adherent to the philosophy and discipline of non-violence. “Had it not been for Martin Luther King Jr., for Jim Lawson and people like Fred Shuttlesworth,” said Rep. Lewis, “great ministers who lived the philosophy they preached—I don’t know where I would be today. These men and women like Rosa Parks, Fannie Lou Hamer, and Ella Baker, served as examples for hundreds and thousands of people, demonstrating how to challenge the most serious forms of oppression without sacrificing one’s dignity. The lessons that arise out of service to non-violence demonstrate the immutable principles of life. The longer I live the more I have come to believe and more deeply understand the fullness and wisdom of this philosophy. I wish that young people knew this too. Then maybe just maybe, we would not be so quick to rush to war, so quick to clap when we talk about execution, so quick to defend torture and barbaric practices.” The Securing Americans by Educating and Training Youth (SAFETY) Through Non-violence Act, H.R. 3054: · Develops a national grants program administered by the Department of Justice that provides education, mentoring, and counseling to youth about how to apply non-violence and conflict resolution techniques and ideas in their own lives; · It also authorizes $5 million each fiscal year for the grant program from FY2012-FY2017 ####
10.11.2011	Yesterday, Rep. John Lewis introduced the Cost of War Act which requires the Department of Defense to post on a public website the cost to each taxpayer of the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. Also, Rep. John Lewis made this statement today in response to the tenth anniversary of the war in Afghanistan : “The war in Afghanistan has become the longest war in our history. According to a Brown University study that quantifies the Cost of War we have spent over $3.2 trillion dollars on the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. The study says there are 7.8 million refugees--a mass of people equaling the populations of Connecticut and Kentucky combined--who have been displaced from their homes. At least 137,000 civilians and 2700 of our soldiers have died. In 2011 alone, we have spent over $118.6 billion on the war in Afghanistan. “Our stated mission was to weaken the stronghold of the Taliban and free the country from its grip, but most reports suggest despite all the blood that has been spilled, the land that has been scarred, and the refugees who have been displaced, we have gained little ground in Afghanistan and have made little more than a dent in the Taliban’s control there. ”How many more people will have to die before we recognize that war does not work? It tends not just to hide the truth, but to sacrifice the truth. It was a general who became president who said, ‘Every gun that’s made, every warship launched, every rocket fired, signifies a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and not clothed. This world in arms…is spending the genius of its scientists [and] the sweat of its laborers..’ The remarks of Dwight Eisenhower were never more true than today when our nation is facing rising poverty, hunger, homelessness, decreased access to medical care and a middle class that is falling into desperation. We cannot afford the exorbitant expense of war or the human cost in blood and sacrifice, especially when we need those resources to manage crises our nation is facing today. “It is time to bring our young men and women home and begin the process of diplomacy that will pave the long road to peace in Iraq and Afghanistan.” ####
10.11.2011	To commemorate the birthday of Mohandas Gandhi on October 2, 2011, and in honor of the upcoming dedication of the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. National Memorial, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) introduced a bill recently that authorizes the Secretary of State to initiate a Gandhi-King Scholarly Exchange Program that will foster the ideals of non-violence and peaceful social transformation. Gandhi first developed tactics of non-violent resistance in public campaigns to end oppression in South Africa. Once he returned home to India, his work ultimately led to the end of British colonial rule in India. The Mahatma served as a source of inspiration and tactical guidance for King in the American Civil Rights Movement. Today, the accomplishments King and Gandhi have served as a template for non-violent transformation of tyrannical rule in many contemporary nations such as Serbia, Ireland, China, and Egypt to name a few. According to the Global Peace Index, ending violence in the world community would save $7.2 trillion and create $4.8 trillion in new business around the world. The Gandhi-King Scholarly Exchange program will: · Sponsor educational, scholarly and professional exchanges through an annual public diplomacy forum for scholars from the U.S. and India with a focus on the legacies of Martin Luther King Jr. and Mohandas Gandhi; · Hold these forums alternately in India and the U.S. and will focus on the study of King and Gandhi’s philosophies applied to current human problems such as poverty, conflict resolution, human rights, civil rights, peace, non-violence, and democracy; · Will implement a training initiative for government employees to develop solutions to international conflict based on the principles of non-violence in consultation with the White House, the U.S. Institute of Peace, and officers of the Department of State. · Produce curricula for teaching confliction resolution to government employees; · Provide an exchange student program for graduate and undergraduate students to study the history and legacy of Gandhi and King, visit historic sites in both countries relevant to the American Civil Rights Movement and the Indian independence movement; · And develop research on the importance of peace, nonviolence, and reconciliation in current conflict regions. The bill, H.R. 3056, has been referred to the Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
10.07.2011	Rep. John Lewis made this statement today in support of protests welling up around the country by American citizens in the Occupy Wall Street Movement. They have been sitting-in in New York City near Wall Street and other protests are springing up in more cities including Boston, Washington, DC, and Atlanta. Rep. John Lewis is a veteran of the Civil Rights Movement. He was former chairman of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, and during the 1960’s Lewis was arrested over 40 times in non-violent protests. Lewis made this statement as the Occupy Wall Street Movement continues to swell: “All Americans and citizens of the world community who want to see progressive change take shape in America need to pay special attention to the hundreds and thousands of non-violent protestors sitting in and sitting down near Wall Street and in cities around the country. They are standing up for all of us who want more justice in our land. “The American people have been telling us they want change. They have marched to the polls, hoping that drastic results would make a drastic difference, but their lives have not changed enough. In fact, unemployment, homelessness, hunger, and poverty are on the rise. They recognize our problems are big and that progress may be slow. But they are aggravated by the passionate advocacy they see and hear to protect the wealthiest few, with no regard for the rising plight of the homeless, the poor, the sick, the elderly and the hungry. Their tax payer dollars were used to bail out Wall Street, but as their desperation grows leaders are telling them there is no room at the inn. “Occupy Wall Street is saying, ‘We will not take it anymore.’ When the people have taken all they can take, they have to use their marching feet to say to corporate America and to those in power we must humanize corporate and government policy. They are saying we must not forget about those in need, about those who work for starvation sages, those who bear their burden in the heat of the day and in the darkness of the night. These people are important too, and they make a massive contribution to our society. Their voices must be heard. The Occupy Wall Street Movement represents a growing impatience among the people that has transformative power. It is a push for change to improve the economic conditions not just of this generation, but future generations. “Their activism is inspiring, and it reminds me of another period, during the 1960s when people decided they would not take it anymore. And change did come.” ###
10.06.2011	Today the House is scheduled to vote on two bills that setback America’s attempts to provide pure, clean natural resources for all of its citizens. The Clean Air Act had been one of the most effective pieces of environmental legislation ever passed, and its success demonstrated that environmental responsibility and economic progress could operate hand-in-hand. When Republicans have held the majority in Congress, however, they have continuously assaulted this bill to alleviate any environmental responsibility by private industry and allow abuses which have been widely condemned. The two bills, H.R. 2681, the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act and H.R. 2250, the EPA Regulatory Relief Act are similar. They both nullify EPA requirements for industrial boilers, incinerators, and cement plants to reduce their emissions of toxic air pollutants, including well-known extremely harmful chemicals like mercury. They both weaken EPA’s ability to issue standards that could revive a mandate for cleaner air, allow polluting plants to indefinitely delay reductions in toxic air pollution, and set no deadline for compliance. Altogether 9,100 lives are lost for every year these pollution reductions are delayed. Rep. John Lewis will vote against both of these bills. He made this statement: “People have a right to know what is in the air they breathe, the water they drink, and the food they eat. Clear air, pure water, and clean food are basic human rights. They are provisions offered freely by a power higher than any government or corporation. It is not fair, it is not right, it is not just for private industry to disturb access to those basic human needs. And it is the purpose of government to insure public access to these important resources. If we use air, water or land for our own private gain, then we have a responsibility to replenish those resources so that others can also use them. “Since the implementation of the Clean Air Act, our economy has experienced some of its greatest periods of productivity and prosperity. The idea that these requirements kill the ability of private industry to turn a profit are simply not true, especially when compliance has been delayed for decades. In some cases industries have had as long as 30 years to retool and gradually work in greater compliance to these regulations. They have made no progress. Now that it seems these industries might finally have to become compliant, they want to change the rules and gut the government agency responsible to regulate. However, changing the rules will not clean the hands or clear the conscience of a nation which allows thousands and millions of people to die from toxic poisons that could be controlled. I hope the President will keep his promise to veto these bills if they make it to his desk.” ###
10.05.2011	The Reverend Fred Shuttlesworth, the iconic leader of the Birmingham branch of the Civil Rights Movement died today. Rep. John Lewis made this statement upon hearing the news: "The Rev. Fred Shuttlesworth is the last of a kind. He was a fearless, determined, courageous leader for civil rights and social justice. When others did not have the courage to stand up, speak up and speak out, Fred Shuttlesworth put all he had on the line to end segregation in Birmingham and the state of Alabama. He was beaten with chains, his church was bombed, and he lived under constant threat of physical violence and murder. “On the Freedom Rides in May of 1961, he took action when others were stricken, immobilized by fear. When Bull Connor, Commissioner of Public Safety in Birmingham, put Freedom Riders out in the heart of danger near the lonely Alabama/Tennessee state line, people were afraid to help us after a bus had been burned in Anniston. It was a brave and daring Fred Shuttlesworth who did not hesitate to meet us at the Greyhound Bus station and then even entertained us at his home, along with 12 others, before we returned to the rides. “It was Fred Shuttlesworth who stood with Martin Luther King Jr. and Ralph Abernathy at the First Baptist Church on the night of May 21st to rally the audience in support of the rides. And it was Fred Shuttlesworth, along with Abernathy and King, who stayed with us all night while an angry mob surrounded the church and threatening to burn it down. Bombs were set off so frequently in Birmingham during the 1950s and 60’s that people called the city Bombingham. It did not matter. In the darkest hours, in the most deadly environments where others shook in fear, Fred Shuttlesworth took action. “He was an inspiring force. He was one of the bravest members of the Civil Rights Movement. He inspired countless people in the most resistant, dangerous areas of the South, and those around the nation, to stand up against injustice. All of us, each and every American as well as all those around the world who have used the Civil Rights movement as a template for their own struggles for change, owe Rev. Fred Shuttlesworth a heavy debt of gratitude for his willingness to give all he had to help build a more fair, more just society. ####
10.05.2011	Today the U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis came to Atlanta to announce that the federal government would grant $160 million to fund 36 public-private partnerships targeted at training, education and job placement assistance in "occupations and industries for which employers are using H1-B visas to hire foreign workers." One of those partners is Atlanta Technical College, which will receive $4,840,025. Another is the Urban League teaming up with Clark Atlanta University, to receive $4,821,715. Rep. John Lewis made this comment at these 5th Congressional District awards: "At a time when the state's agribusiness is being crippled by the harmful impact of Georgia's controversial immigration law, when the state's unemployment rate is soaring higher than the national average above 11 percent, this news is a welcome relief. I told Secretary Solis as much when we spoke about this opportunity for the 5th district earlier today. "In Atlanta, the unemployed and foreclosed upon have demonstrated without question their willingness to work. They have stood in unmovable lines hoping against hope to be hired. This grant is one step in the right direction. Much, much more needs to be done, but training opportunities help give focus to some of the dreams of the jobless, and education can enable them to plan their way out of a very difficult situation. "This funding also suggests that this administration does believe the federal government has a role in alleviating the suffering of the citizens of this nation. I want to congratulate the Atlanta Urban League, Clark Atlanta University, and Atlanta Technical College on these public-private partnership grants. These awards acknowledge the fine service 5th Congressional district non-profit institutions give everyday. They also demonstrate the capacity of Atlanta non-profits and educational institutions to play a powerful role in the economic recovery of the nation." ###
09.20.2011	"Today this nation has taken an important step toward inclusion by ending Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. It was a policy that left courageous men and women prepared to give their lives for their country trembling in fear, concerned that their sexual orientation might be discovered. And that discovery alone could end their military careers. They lived in terror on the battlefield during the day, and they wrestled with their consciences at night. That is too much for one human being to bear. "I am glad that the military command, under the leadership of President Obama, has ended these silent nights of terror and lifted the stain of indignity from those who are lesbian, gay and straight serving honorably in the armed forces. It is a moment of redemption for the military, which has shown leadership before in matters related to discrimination. And it is a moment of redemption for our entire society. It is always progress when a nation takes one more step toward the truth, that we are all one people, one human family. We are all a spark of one divine source, regardless of our differences. ###
09.20.2011	“This is a sad, grim day in Georgia. It was so encouraging that over one million people signed petitions, that law-and-order officials like former FBI Director Williams Sessions and former Rep. Bob Barr, a conservative Republican from Georgia, Pope Benedict XVI in the Vatican, President Jimmy Carter, even believers in the death penalty saw the error in executing a man who might be innocent. "But somehow those cries were not enough. Today we have confirmed that the administration of law in Georgia is more important than the search for justice, that the letter of the legal codes holds more power than the insistence of the truth, and that the outstretched hands of mercy, of leniency and forgiveness are not a viable part of the judicial system in our state. "We have come a great distance in Georgia, but today we have demonstrated we still have a great distance to go before we build a society based on simple justice that values the dignity and the worth of every human being. We are not there yet. I am deeply saddened and deeply disappointed by this decision, but in light of all I have seen through the years, it does not surprise me. "I send my deepest prayers and sympathy to Troy Davis and his family, especially his sister Martina Correia, his nephew, and his mother who passed not long ago. I thank them for their long-hard 20-year struggle to speak the truth and the chance they gave our state to bear witness to the truth. My prayers are also with the family of police officer Mark McPhail whose life was senselessly taken years ago. They too have suffered because justice was not done. I hope all those involved will find peace. I hope they will find true peace, a peace that humanity cannot give, but is only granted in the highest realms of heaven." ####
09.15.2011	Today the U.S. House of Representatives, under Republican leadership, passed H.J. Res 77, a resolution expressing its disapproval of giving President Obama additional authority to raise the debt limit. "It is hard to believe that after engaging in divisive debate that has cost this nation to have its credit rating downgraded, the Republican leadership would spend time on this issue again. Recently, even the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke, clearly described the damaging impact this political gamesmanship has had on our economic standing. While we fritter away legislative opportunities, poverty is soaring in America. Mothers and children are going to bed hungry. Millions of people are out of work, yet we waste precious congressional resources on antagonistic measures. I join with my Democratic colleagues today who came together to enlist the support of the American people to turn the attention of this Congress away from partisanship and empty measures to meaningful, bipartisan legislation that helps lift the economy and puts people back to work." Other resources: 1,: Deficit Reduction in Plain English; 2. The Great Austerity War: Who Caused the Deficit and Who Should Pay to Fix It; ###
09.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. John Lewis (GA-05) and Rep. Hank Johnson (GA-04) sent a letter today signed by more than 50 other members of Congress to the Georgia State Board of Pardons & Paroles, urging a stay of execution for death-row inmate Troy Anthony Davis and clemency in the form of a life sentence. Since the initial trial in 1991, seven of the nine state witnesses against Davis have recanted their testimony and another man has been implicated as the shooter. During an evidentiary hearing in 2010, an eyewitness testified that he saw the alleged suspect shoot off-duty police officer, Mark McPhail. At least ten individuals have implicated this new suspect in the murder, casting significant doubt on the Davis conviction. There is no physical evidence tying Davis to the murder. Both Lewis and Johnson along with thousands of concerned citizens--over 60,000 who have signed a recent petition--as well as many public figures, including Pope Benedict XVI, Archbishop of Atlanta Wilton Gregory, William Sessions, former head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, President Jimmy Carter, activist Harry Belafonte, the European Parliament, Archbishop Desmond Tutu and others agree there is too much reasonable doubt in the case to proceed with execution. Rep. Johnson, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, has introduced the Effective Death Penalty Appeals Act, co-sponsored by Rep. Lewis, which would ensure that death row inmates have the opportunity to present newly discovered evidence of innocence. "This is one of those exceptional instances where adhering to the letter of the law could lead the state of Georgia to commit a grave injustice," said Rep. John Lewis. "That is why it is important for people of goodwill to stand together and speak out in this case. The parole board has the power to intervene on the people's behalf to right a deplorable wrong, especially when there is so much room for doubt about this conviction. I believe the board seeks to do what is just and look forward prayerfully to the upcoming clemency hearing with the faith that justice will prevail." "As a criminal defense attorney, judge and member of the House Judiciary Committee," said Rep. Hank Johnson," it disturbs me to my core that an unnecessary and unjust killing may take place. If we execute a man despite new evidence that casts doubt on his guilt, it shakes the public's faith in the integrity of justice in Georgia." Lewis and Johnson have been fighting to stop Davis' execution since 2007. So convinced of the possibility of an unjust execution in this case, Rep. Lewis made a rare appearance before the Georgia Board of Pardons and Paroles in 2007 to speak on Davis's behalf. Also both members have visited Davis at the Georgia Diagnostic and Classification Prison in Savannah to speak to him personally about the case. September 21 has been set as the execution date. Prayer vigils in Atlanta have been planned for September 19th, the date of Davis's clemency hearing, as well as a march from Woodruff Park to Ebenezer Baptist Church during the same week. The clemency hearing is the final appeal remaining in the case. This is Davis's fourth death warrant, the second since 2007. In April of this year, Davis lost his mother. At the funeral, his sister, Martina Correia, a stalwart advocate for Davis, said "she died of a broken heart," unable to face another execution date. Correia, a miraculous survivor of breast cancer, has recently suffered a health setback as well, but she is determined to appear at the clemency hearing. ###
09.11.2011	It is hard to believe ten years have passed since Americans stood in horror witnessing the most violent attack on American soil since Pearl Harbor. We must never forget the thousands who lost their lives in this great tragedy—their faces, their gifts, and their hopes for the future. We take time to honor the first responders on the scene who risked their lives, their health, and their own futures to restore dignity and wholeness to a nation that was still in shock. We are forever indebted to them and salute their courage and bravery in the face of danger to rescue the injured and recover the lost citizens of a weary nation. As we look toward this 10th anniversary, we must use our commemoration of this great tragedy to motivate the efforts for unity and peace in America and around the world. ###
09.09.2011	Rep. John Lewis made these comments in response to President Obama’s speech tonight during a joint session of the U.S. Congress on jobs: “I think President Obama delivered a great speech tonight. He reached the soul of America and acknowledged the pain and struggles so many of us are facing. He let the American people know he has heard their cries for help. Tonight he offered credible, legislative action that Congress can implement to help resolve our problems. His speech was bold, thoughtful, and inspiring. "I know many will say the proposal is too expensive, but he said it can all be paid for if we are willing to insure that everyone pays their fair share and take steps to reform government where change is needed. Our problems are massive, and they will take massive intervention to resolve. We cannot do it on the cheap, and we cannot shrink in fear, as Chairman Bernanke warned against today. Cutting is not the only solution. We must take action, and the President offered us a plan of action tonight. "It was also important that the President reminded us not to use economic turmoil ‘as an excuse to wipe out basic protections' that have defined the American way of life for decades. We must rise to the occasion, challenge ourselves as a nation and challenge this Congress to make the hard choices and the critical compromises that create the climate and environment for growth. We must put partisanship aside and do what is right for the American people. "I was gratified to hear that the President will go on the road and reach out to every corner of America to enlist the support of the American people in this debate. The President cannot do it alone. He has the power to build the kind of consensus that can re-energize, reform, and rebuild our economy. But he needs the support of Congress, of the American people, and the business community to make a difference. And we should give him that support." ####
08.12.2011	Washington might not be working on trying to help Atlantans find jobs, but Reps. John Lewis and Hank Johnson are. In conjunction with the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), Lewis and Johnson joined forces to try to host the most comprehensive job fair this year. In response to skyrocketing unemployment in the African American community on top of high national averages, the CBC decided to launch the “For the People” Jobs Initiative to raise awareness and built support for H. Res. 348, which calls on Congress to pass more than 40 bills proposed by the CBC to help alleviate the crisis. According to the latest release by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, metro Atlanta, compared to other major cities, experienced the largest decline this year ever reported since they began collecting data. The unemployment rate among African Americans was nearly 16 percent, for Latinos it hovered around 11 percent, compared to a high national rate of 9.1 percent. The rate among teenagers was highest at nearly 30 percent. “This job fair is one way that we can help meet the needs of people in metro Atlanta,” said Lewis. “”We cannot wait for Congress to take action. We decided we had to do something. We decided we had to do what we could do to help people who are struggling in our districts.” V103 will be a radio partner at the event featuring a panel discussion with 13 members of Congress hosted by Frank Ski from 9 to 10 am the morning of the job fair. Participants will learn how to apply for open federal jobs, learn about Georgia’s Work Ready Program, how to benefit from the GI Bill, special job hunting tips for over-55 job hunters. Many federal government and private employers will be represented, and MSNBC has been following the progress of the job fair throughout the country to capture the people’s response. WHO: Rep. John Lewis, Rep. Hank Johnson and 10 members of the Congressional Black Caucus WHAT: Lewis/Johnson Job Fair and “For the People” Jobs Initiative WHEN: August 18, 9am to 5:30 pm. Registration begins at 8 AM WHERE: Atlanta Technical College, 1560 Metropolitan Parkway SW, Atlanta 30310 ####
08.05.2011	“Today the Bureau of Labor Statistics released the current job numbers. Though nationally there was a glimmer of hope because about 20,000 more jobs were added in the last period than expected, we are still miles away from anything that we could call recovery. “More than 200 days have passed since the Republicans took the leadership of the House, and they have made no mention of the greatest problem facing the American people--jobs. They adjourned for summer recess without introducing one bill that addresses the need for jobs. In fact they left Federal Aviation Administration employees furloughed due to congressional inaction to fend for themselves. “ According to the BLS report, the Atlanta area, compared to other major cities, experienced the largest decline this year ever reported since they began collecting those numbers. It said the unemployment rate among African Americans was nearly 16 percent, for Latinos it hovered around 11 percent, compared to a high national rate of 9.1 percent. The rate among teenagers was also extremely high at nearly 30 percent. “We do not have to read tables of numbers to know that people are suffering, and I am concerned that it may get worse. How could we spend months in Congress arguing over matters like the debt ceiling, which should be the ordinary business of the House and Senate, while millions of Americans are struggling to make ends meet? The American people should ask why their Republican leaders seem not to have the same passion to create jobs to help millions as they do for protecting the richest among us against tax increases? “Without more revenue to neutralize the impact of the tax cuts Republicans fought so hard to defend, the federal government will have limited resources to address the challenges of unemployment. But we must do all we can. We must be creative. We must be bold, and we must join forces in a bi-partisan way to help lift Americans out of joblessness.” ###
08.05.2011	“Today the Bureau of Labor Statistics released the current job numbers. Though nationally there was a glimmer of hope because about 20,000 more jobs were added in the last period than expected, we are still miles away from anything that we could call recovery. “More than 200 days have passed since the Republicans took the leadership of the House, and they have made no mention of the greatest problem facing the American people--jobs. They adjourned for summer recess without introducing one bill that addresses the need for jobs. In fact they left Federal Aviation Administration employees furloughed due to congressional inaction to fend for themselves. “ According to the BLS report, the Atlanta area, compared to other major cities, experienced the largest decline this year ever reported since they began collecting those numbers. It said the unemployment rate among African Americans was nearly 16 percent, for Latinos it hovered around 11 percent, compared to a high national rate of 9.1 percent. The rate among teenagers was also extremely high at nearly 30 percent. “We do not have to read tables of numbers to know that people are suffering, and I am concerned that it may get worse. How could we spend months in Congress arguing over matters like the debt ceiling, which should be the ordinary business of the House and Senate, while millions of Americans are struggling to make ends meet? The American people should ask why their Republican leaders seem not to have the same passion to create jobs to help millions as they do for protecting the richest among us against tax increases? “Without more revenue to neutralize the impact of the tax cuts Republicans fought so hard to defend, the federal government will have limited resources to address the challenges of unemployment. But we must do all we can. We must be creative. We must be bold, and we must join forces in a bi-partisan way to help lift Americans out of joblessness.” ###
08.05.2011	Today, Senate leaders announced that the Federal Aviation Administration would be able to re-open its doors. Through the leadership of Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) a deal has reportedly been struck that allows the Senate to pass the contentious House version of the bill. However, Senate leaders apparently have assurances from the White House that President Obama will take steps to neutralize some of the problematic aspects of the bill. One of those troubling features would have ended in the closure of 13 small airports around the country. Congressman Lewis called the shutdown of the FAA "a shame and a disgrace" in an interview earlier today on WCLK and an attempt to damage the credibility of labor unions in the FAA workplace. "I am glad to hear that cooler heads have finally prevailed and decisions have been made that allow the Federal Aviation Administration to re-open. Almost 74,000 workers nationwide have been waiting to be paid since the middle of July, and 334 of those people live in my congressional district. Also $67 million in business contracts hung in the balance in the Atlanta region, held hostage to the politics of resistance and indifference on the part of the Republican House leadership. "Members of Congress should not play games with the lives of the people they serve. The livelihood and well-being of the people should never be held hostage to the ideology of their leaders. I am looking forward to a solution in this debate which authorizes the FAA for the long-term, but I am pleased that a temporary fix that will send people back to work and allow business people to breathe a little easier." The federal government lost over $350 million in tax revenue at a time when federal budgets are being cut during this impasse. ####
08.03.2011	Rep. John Lewis is the first member of Congress out of the gate this election season to host a forum on the impact of legislative redistricting on voting access in the 2012 election and the continued significance of the Voting Rights Act. Voters in Georgia have already experienced questionable limits to their capacity to vote-- malfunctioning voting machines in certain strategic districts, while there are no problems in others; ample voting machines in some districts and inadequate amounts in others; long lines in some districts and easy flow in others; the mandate to show only a government-issued photo ID to vote, inordinate inquiries into the citizenship status of thousands of voters just before election day, misleading robo calls that discourage people from voting and other crafty mechanisms. “I believe there is a deliberate, systematic attempt,” said Rep. John Lewis, “to block access to the ballot box in Georgia and in communities across America. The only weapon we have against this kind of injustice is organization and information. People need to know their rights, find out what is happening and what tools are available to them if they believe they have been treated unfairly. It is still against the law to disenfranchise voters. We need to make sure it stays that way. That’s why I am hosting this forum.” WHO: § Sally Yates – United States Attorney Northern District of Georgia, Department of Justice, Moderator Speakers Include § GA Congressman John Lewis: Georgia’s Fifth District Representative § Julie Fernandes - United States Deputy Assistant Attorney General -Civil Rights Division, Department of Justice § GA Representative Stacey Abrams: Democratic House Minority Leader § Jerry Gonzalez: Director, Georgia Association of Latino Elected Officials § Judy Yi: Programs Director, Center for Pan Asian Community Services, Inc. § Bill Nigut: Southeast Regional Director of the Anti-Defamation League § Elisabeth MacNamara: President, League of Women Voters of the United States § Fred McBride: Redistricting Coordinator I Research Analyst, American Civil Liberties Union, Voting Rights Project § Marcia Johnson Blanco, Director, Voting Rights Division, Lawyers Committee on Civil Rights Under the Law WHAT: Redistricting and the Continued Relevance of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act WHEN: August 8th from 6 – 8 PM WHERE: Ebenezer Baptist Church, 407 Auburn Avenue, Atlanta ####
08.02.2011	Washington—Tonight Rep. John Lewis decided he could not support the debt limit bill offered by the Senate S.365 the Budget Control Act of 2011. The bill passed the House by a vote of 269 to 161. Rep. John Lewis made this statement about his decision to vote no. “My vote is not a rejection of the efforts of the President to find a solution to a monumental problem. This nation could not default on its debt. That would devastate our credibility and create negative economic implications for our international partners worldwide. Though I cannot support this bill, I applaud President Obama’s tireless attempts to find middle ground. “But I am reminded today of the words of Mohandas Gandhi who said, “All compromise is based on give and take, but there can be no give and take on fundamentals. All compromise on fundamentals is surrender. It is all give and no take.” The Democrats gave and gave and gave, but we received nothing in return. This is not a fair deal. It is not a good deal. It is not a balanced compromise. "We began with $30 billion in cuts on the table and reluctantly finally agreed to $2.4 trillion. Had these painful incisions into government lifelines for the most vulnerable also been offset by tax increases on the top 2 percent, they would have been tolerable. But we gave and gave and received nothing in return. This bill will bring a bitter harvest to millions of Americans who are already falling into debt, foreclosure, and poverty. "How can we sleep at night knowing we protected the fattest areas of the federal budget-defense, homeland security and other conservative favorites for two years, while we hack Medicare reimbursements for doctors and hospitals to the bone? Many are already closing their doors to Medicare patients because they cannot afford to treat them. These deeper cuts could end the Medicare as we know it. "The idea of a super committee of only twelve also does not sit well with me. A representative government of 435 members of the House and 100 senators allows for diverse citizens and communities to have their say in the development of legislation that affects them. This super committee puts in the hands of a few the decisions that should be considered by many. All in all, the price of this bill is too high. It asks too much of those who are left with almost nothing to give, and it requires the least of those who have the most surplus. In the end, I decided that is not right. That is not fair. That is not just. I could not in good conscience vote for this bill." ###
08.01.2011	Late last month the authorization for the Federal Aviation Administration expired, leaving hundreds in Atlanta without a paycheck and delayed millions of dollars in federal contracts. There has been no sense of urgency among House Republican leadership to rectify the shortfall in lost tax revenue of $300 million, despite its stated mandate for fiscal responsibility. To help save 334 Atlanta jobs and $67 million in construction contracts, Rep. John Lewis has urged a vote on this matter by House leadership before Congress ends its business in August: 1. He sent a letter today urging House and Senate leadership to confront its responsibility and reauthorize the FAA immediately; 2. He co-sponsored the Federal Aviation Employees Protection Act of 2011 which would provides back-pay and coverage to furloughed FAA employees; and 3. He cosponsored H.R. 2644, the "Aviation Jobs and Safety Act of 2011" (H.R. 2644), a clean FAA extension bill that would authorize aviation programs through the end of Fiscal Year 2011 (September 30, 2011). The clean extension, which is supported by the U.S. Department of Transportation and a wide variety of organizations, would take lives of employees and the business contracts out of the unwieldy balance of political posturing, help turn the lights back on at the FAA, and save the struggle over a long-term reauthorization to another session of Congress. "This lapse amounts to a money grab for airline interests. The tax dollars the air industry does not have to pay during the FAA's partial closure is not being passed on to consumers, by and large. Meanwhile, we have decided to cut funding to the poor, the sick, and the elderly to gain more revenue. In order for our society to work, everyone must pay their fair share. That also includes corporate citizens. The livelihood of federal workers and business people should not hang in the balance for the sake of politics. We need to turn the lights back on at the FAA and get back to the business of governing for the people." (more) The Republican-led FAA shutdown has caused the FAA to issue 217 stop-work orders on $11 billion worth of air traffic control and safety-related contracts and that number will continue to grow as long as Republicans refuse to move this process forward. Nearly 90,000 American jobs, furloughed 3,600 engineers, safety analysts, and aviation experts, and has cost nearly $300 million in lost revenue. ###
07.26.2011	Washington--On April 7, 2011, the Senate requested the House meet in a conference to resolve the differences between the House- and Senate-passed long-term FAA reauthorization bills. More than 100 days later, the House has taken no action to agree to a conference. Despite claims by Committee Chairman John Mica (R-FL) that such differences could be resolved “in 20 minutes,” the House Republican leadership is holding the negotiations hostage and has been unwilling to negotiate the differences between the bills in an open and transparent process. The inability of Republican leadership to resolve this issue has jeopardized $2.5 billion in construction projects, 87,000 American construction jobs, and caused the furlough of 3600 FAA aviation engineers, safety analysts and other professionals in 35 states. The shutdown will cost the federal government $200 million per week in lost revenue. “Atlanta is home to the busiest airport in the world,” said Rep. John Lewis. “This shut down means 334 employees are now on furlough, and $67 million in construction projects hang in the balance in our district. The American people must see that political gain has trumped a commitment to good public policy in this instance. There are members of Congress willing to jeopardize the livelihood of millions of Americans in order to see who blinks first. They are unwilling to reach the kind of compromise that has made this system of government an example to the rest of the world. This is not responsible leadership. Members who are truly concerned about the federal deficit, would never allow a lapse in revenue that amounts to $200 million a week. The inaction of House leadership on these and other matters suggests a reckless disregard for their own stated mandate for greater fiscal responsibility.” In a letter to House Speaker John Boehner on Tuesday, Rahall and U.S. Representative Jerry Costello (D-IL), top Democrat on the Aviation Subcommittee, called on the Speaker to appoint a conference committee to move the process forward in an open and transparent fashion. The Republican-led FAA shutdown that began at midnight last Friday will lead to construction jobs lost in every state and FAA aviation experts furloughed in 35 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. ####
07.25.2011	Fair access to the ballot box is under attack in America, and Rep. John Lewis wants to be sure Atlanta voters know about it. Lewis will host a forum on Monday August 8 at Ebenezer Baptist Church from 6-8 pm entitled “Redistricting and the Continued Relevance of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act.” Ebenezer is located at 407 Auburn Avenue in Atlanta. Georgia has seen its share of controversial voting changes, malfunctioning voting machines, disenfranchising photo ID laws, and inordinate citizenship checks of thousands of people in the 2010 election. In fact, the Georgia Secretary of State made so many citizenship inquiries that the Social Security Administration balked at the significant amount of additional work it created for the government agency disabling its attention to requests from other jurisdictions. The high number of inquiries also led the U.S. Department of Justice to declare the Georgia practice as a “seriously flawed” attempt to make an end-run around federal law. Already suggestions are whirling that the ground is being readied to circumvent the same federal law in the upcoming redistricting process by disregarding the federal requirement to submit voting changes to the U.S. Department of Justice. Some are saying the changes will be taken directly to court in an attempt to gut the most powerful section of the Voting Rights Act—Section 5. “The vote is the most powerful tool we have in a democratic society,” said Rep. John Lewis. “We should be widening access to the ballot box, making it easy and simple for all citizens to participate in the democratic process, instead of trying to stand in their way.” To date, concerned parties are tracking 37 bills in 15 other states which could impede the right to vote in the next election. The Advancement Project released a report in April of this year which quantifies the inequality in voting access that photo ID laws create. The report shows 18 percent of voters above 65 have no government issued photo ID, amounting to 6 million voters; 20 percent of voters aged 18-29 have no government issued photo ID, and the same is true for 15 percent of voters making $35,000 per year or less, as well as 25 percent of African American voters, amounting to 5.5 million people nationally. Recently, former President Bill Clinton compared the intent of these and other voting changes to the disenfranchisement engendered by Jim Crow. (more) Clinton said, “"There has never been in my lifetime, since we got rid of the poll tax and all the Jim Crow burdens on voting, the determined effort to limit a franchise that we see today….” Though some took issue with that comparison, a federal judge in Georgia has compared its photo ID law to a poll tax because of the costs of purchasing an ID. Since the state has decided to defray the cost of the ID, however, some politicians are arguing that footing the bill to ensure eligible voters have photo IDs is too expensive a responsibility for the state to undertake. More information on the forum to come. ###
07.20.2011	Washington--Rep. John Lewis was asked to testify before the Senate Judiciary committee today by its Chairman, Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) as the committee assessed the impact of the Defense of Marriage Act. The Senate is considering repealing the act through a new Senate bill introduced by Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) called the Respect for Marriage Act. The bill would restore the rights of all legally married couples along with any benefits that would lawfully accrue to them. Rep. Lewis made the following statement before the committee today: "Chairman Leahy and Ranking Member Grassley, Members of the Committee, I thank you for inviting me to testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee today. It is an honor to be here. I am very happy to see the Judiciary Committee holding hearings to address the issue of marriage equality. But at the same time, Mr. Chairman, I must admit I find it unbelievable that in the year 2011 there is still a need to hold hearings and debate whether or not a human being should be able to marry the one they love. I grew up in southern Alabama, outside of a little city called Troy. Throughout my entire childhood, I saw those signs that said "white restroom," "colored restroom," "white water fountain," "colored water fountain." I tasted the bitter fruits of racism and discrimination, and I did not like it. And in 1996 when Congress passed the Defense of Marriage Act, the taste of that old bitter fruit filled my mouth once again. The Defense of Marriage Act is a stain on our democracy. We must do away with this unjust, discriminatory law once and for all. It reminds me of another dark time in our nation's history, the many years when states passed laws banning blacks and whites from marrying. We look back at that time now with disbelief, and one day we will look back on this period with that same sense of disbelief. When people used to ask Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. about interracial marriage, he would say, "Races do not fall in love and get married. Individuals fall in love and get married." Marriage is a basic human right. No government, federal or state, should tell people they cannot be married. We should encourage people to love and not hate. (more) Human rights, civil rights, these are issues of dignity. Every human being walking this Earth, man or woman, gay or straight, is entitled to the same rights. It is in keeping with the American promise of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. These words mean as much now as they did at the signing of the Declaration of Independence. That is why Congress must not only repeal the Defense of Marriage Act, but work to ensure full marriage equality for all citizens, together with the privileges and benefits marriage provides. All across this nation, same-sex couples are denied the very rights you and I enjoy. They are denied hospital visitation rights, and they are denied equal rights and benefits in health insurance and pensions, simply because the person they love happens to be of the same sex. Even in states where they have achieved marriage equality, these unjust barriers remain, all because of the Defense of Marriage Act. Unfortunately, too many of us are comfortable sitting on the sidelines while the federal government and state governments trample on the rights of our gay brothers and sisters. As elected officials, we are called to lead. We are called to be a headlight, and not a taillight. So I applaud the work of Congressman Nadler and Senator Feinstein, and I applaud the Senate Judiciary Committee for holding this hearing. I urge this Committee, the Senate as a body, and the United States Congress as a whole to pass the Respect for Marriage Act as soon as possible. Justice delayed is justice denied, and passing this bill is simply the right thing to do. More than just our constituents, these are our brothers and sisters. We cannot turn our backs on them. We must join hands and work together to create a more perfect union. We are one people, one family, the American family, and we all live together in this one house, the American House. Mr. Chairman, I thank you again for inviting me to testify." ####
07.19.2011	Washington-This evening House Republicans are expected to pass a bill (H.R. 2560) that would cut, cap and end Medicare. The bill is not expected to pass the Senate, so it is unlikely it would become law. However, it demonstrates the resolve of many House Republicans to end Medicare as we know it, regardless of the fact that it is one of the most effective and popular government programs ever enacted. Also, the bill disregards many remedies previously offered by numerous economists as well as House Democrats which repair any fiscal shortfall to Medicare that could occur in coming years. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said this about the bill: "The "Cut, Cap, and Balance Act" that the House of Representatives will vote on next week stands out as one of the most ideologically extreme pieces of major budget legislation to come before Congress in years, if not decades." [07/16/11] The bill uses the rejected Paul Ryan Budget as its template, a plan repudiated by economists and average citizens alike, and if passed, would enact immediate, steep federal spending cuts that would harm economic growth and make unemployment rise even higher. It caps total government spending at levels this nation has rarely achieved in its entire history, and it forces a "balanced budget amendment" to be ratified by the House and Senate before the debt ceiling could be raised. The bill ignores grave warnings against defaulting on America's debt which all the credit agencies report would lead to a significant downgrading of America's credit rating. This is irresponsible leadership and political gamesmanship that could cost the lives and livelihoods of millions of Americans. Rep. John Lewis spoke on the House floor today demanding the GOP stop playing with people's lives. He made this statement : "Mr. Speaker, the American people are sick and tired of Washington playing petty games. People's lives, their homes, their retirement, their health care are hanging in the balance. The American people are good, strong, resilient people. They are willing to sacrifice to get our country back on track. But they will not be played as fools. Middle class Americans know they are not getting a fair shake. "This bill protects taxes for the wealthiest Americans, while the middle class pay more than their fair share and watch their retirement savings disappear. The American people know there is a deliberate, systematic attempt to destroy Medicare and threaten Social Security. This is ducking, dodging and destroying. If it looks like a duck, quacks like a duck, it must be a duck. (more) "The American people want one thing. They want jobs, good jobs, jobs that pay the bills. Give people back their dignity and get people back on track with the American dream. Our nation deserves nothing less. But this bill would destroy those hopes and dreams. It will plunge our economy into a deep recession. It will mean more lost jobs, more lost homes, and seniors living in poverty without health care and basic necessities. It will mean children going hungry, and it will keep smart young people from going off to college. "This bill will sell the very soul of our nation. We, as Americans, are better than this. We are more compassionate than this. We know better. It is easier to destroy than to build. Another generation of leaders did more with less; they built people up. We cannot turn back." ####
07.19.2011	Charges of voter suppression, especially through the use of draconian voter photo ID laws and other measures, have been rising in several states including Ohio, South Carolina, Florida, Wisconsin, Illinois. Recently members of the U.S. House of Representatives to spoke out against what many view as GOP votes of Democratic voters, including minorities, rural voters, seniors and others groups. This notion is not foreign to the people of Georgia who have struggled against the imposition of voter photo ID laws, unusual use of Social Security checks in the last election by the Georgia Secretary of State, and the convenient malfunctioning of voting machines in certain jurisdictions. In Maryland prosecutors are investigating whether robo-calls were used to suppress the black vote in the 2010 election. President Bill Clinton recently compared efforts to suppress the vote to Jim Crow in a speech given to young voters. Rep.John Lewis made this statement on the House floor today to discuss these issues. "Mr. Speaker, voting rights are under attack in America. There is a deliberate and systematic attempt to prevent millions of elderly voters, young voters, students, minorities, and low-income voters from exercising their constitutional right to engage in the democratic process. Voter ID laws are becoming all too common. But make no mistake, Voter ID laws are a poll tax. People who struggle to pay for basic necessities cannot afford a voter ID. The right to vote is precious and almost sacred, and one of the most important blessings of our democracy. Today we must be vigilant in protecting that blessing. We should be making it easy, simple, and convenient to vote. Before the passage of the Voting Rights Act in 1965, many people were jailed, beaten, and some were even killed for trying to register and vote. We must not step backward toward another dark time in our history. The vote is the most powerful, non-violent tool we have in a democratic society. We must fight back. We must never go back. We will not stand idly by, while millions of Americans are denied their right to participate in the democratic process." ####
07.15.2011	I think it is very clear to the American people that President Obama has made every effort to extend the olive branch of peace, to develop a viable compromise, and that he has been persistent in his efforts try to bridge this impasse, but there are at least two sides to every debate. In order to compromise, both sides must be determined to work together and concede to areas of reform they may not necessarily agree with. Democrats have offered more than their fair share in order to prevent a crisis. We are waiting for our Republican partners to do the same. The longer we are unable to come up with a viable compromise, the more we erode the faith that international markets and even the citizens of this nation have in the credibility of our government. We have delayed so long that at this juncture, even if we can reach an agreement, we may still risk the possibility that credit agencies will downgrade the rating of this nation. To court financial calamity for the sake of ideology is not responsible leadership. We need to move forward and raise the debt ceiling as we did seven times during the Bush Administration when this debt was created and 70 times since the presidency of John F. Kennedy. There is no reasonable explanation why we cannot agree to take the same action now. We must find a way to move forward together for the good of the people of this nation. The United States must not be permitted to default on its debt. ####
07.13.2011	Washington--"Today I heard from Secretary Ray LaHood's office at the U.S. Department of Transportation that later today it will obligate nearly $47.7 million for the Atlanta Streetcar Project from the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery grant also known as TIGER II. If these funds are utilized expeditiously and effectively by the city and by MARTA, this grant has the power to create jobs, open up ancillary opportunities, create greater connectivity for people who want to travel to the center city and make it easier to circulate through downtown for residents and citizens of the metro area. I am in favor of any transportation initiative that helps alleviate some of the stress and strains of traveling in and around Atlanta and have been a strong supporter of this project from the very beginning. "I am very glad that the city has met all the standards and benchmarks necessary to finalize this granting process. Building a productive relationship with the federal government is important to resolving Atlanta's transportation problems. Success in the streetcar project can pave the way to even larger projects, including a comprehensive regional approach to light rail. I remain convinced that a dynamic comprehensive plan for the city and the state of Georgia must be advanced in order for this metro area to attract big business and compete with the services offered in growing metropolitan areas like Charlotte, NC and Orlando, FL. This grant is a good first step. It is good news for the people of the Atlanta metro area." The Atlanta Streetcar Project is a cooperative effort launched by MARTA, the Atlanta Downtown Improvement District and the City of Atlanta to link the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historic Site on the east side of downtown to Centennial Park on the west side using historic Auburn Avenue . The exact amount of the grant is $47,667,777. ##
07.13.2011	Today the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced it would give a grant of up to $300,000 to the Center for Working Families in Atlanta to recruit, train, and place unemployed residents in five targeted Atlanta communities struggling with environmental issues. EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson said that $6.2 million in total grants would be given to 21 governmental agencies and non-profit organizations in 20 states to train people in the cleanup of contaminated sites and in health and safety. The money also helps train individuals in other environment-related skills, such as recycling center operator training, green building design, energy efficiency, weatherization, solar installation, construction and demolition debris recycling, emergency response, and native plant revegetation. "I am very proud of the Center for Working Families," said Rep. John Lewis, "for positioning itself to receive a federal grant. The federal government has some very strenuous standards that must be met in order to receive federal money. The center must have submitted a very impressive application to receive federal support and the money will help the city work on two important issues-jobs and environmental clean-up. I hope this is just the beginning of the Obama Administration's commitment to funding opportunities in alternative energy." ###
07.10.2011	Rep. John Lewis made this statement regarding the abandoment of debt ceiling efforts by Republican leaders:"This is not responsible leadership. The American people need to understand that some of their leaders may not have their best interests at heart. The Democrats have put everything on the table. We have even been willing to cut to the bone to resolve this problem, and the Republicans have still walked away. In another period in our own country great leaders faced their responsibilities. They did not run away from the tough issues. It is time to demonstrate the courage to lead. It is time to put the games of politics aside because defaulting on the credit of this nation would threaten people's jobs, their retirements, their mortgages, their savings and send the economic stability of this nation, as well as that of many others, into a tail spin.Leaders must lead. We must come together and do the necessary hard, nitty gritty work to resolve this crisis and do our best to restore the faith of the American people in our government." ####
07.07.2011	Washington-Today Rep. John Lewis, a long time advocate for peace and an opponent of war, will offer an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, Fiscal Year 2012 (H.R. 2219) when it comes up for a vote. His amendment proposes that "the Secretary of Defense shall post on the public website of the Department of Defense the cost to each American taxpayer of each of the wars in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Libya." "I have said on the House floor on many occasions," said Rep. John Lewis, "that I would not vote for another dime or another penny of funding for war. How much blood must be shed before we recognize that war does not work? It is not an effective tool of our foreign policy, and Americans are growing tired of supporting it. The government has not been clear about how much it spends for war, leaving skyrocketing costs outside the computations of the federal budget. "At least President Obama has attempted to be more honest about the cost of war, but when people are saying that there is not enough in our federal Treasury to pay for the unemployed, the elderly, the homeless, and the orphaned, they have a right to know how much is being spent on the excesses of war. If we stopped waging war and began to use the tools of diplomacy, we would have enough to fund Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. The truth is there are some leaders who see the interests of defense as a higher priority than supporting the citizens who voted for them." In addition to the amendment, Rep. Lewis has also reintroduced H.R. 1191, the Religious Freedom Peace Tax Fund Act. This bill would also allow citizens to declare themselves conscientious objectors (under the same terms that apply in the event of a draft) and direct the government to place their tax dollars into a separate fund in the United States Treasury. This legislation ensures that First Amendment rights are upheld so that conscientious objectors may adhere to their nonviolent religious beliefs and comply with their duty to pay taxes as American. ####
07.04.2011	“As we prepare to celebrate this nation’s birth, I wish all the people of the 5th Congressional District a happy and safe Independence Day. I hope you will all spend some time with family and friends this long weekend enjoying barbecues, cook outs and fireworks. I also hope you will take a little the time to look back at the distance we have come and the progress we have made as a nation.”“Even though many of us have struggled in recent years to save our homes, our jobs, our marriages, our savings, and even our belief in the future of this nation, we cannot allow the difficulties we face to darken our faith that the dream of prosperity and peace in America is still within reach. Maybe, just maybe our troubles have taught us to build our hopes on a more sure foundation and to conform ourselves to the most fundamental truths upon which this nation was founded.“Through our trials, we have all had a chance to see that the American dream is more than living large. The American dream is the power to create one out of many and the goodness that flows from the unity of all human kind. Our foremothers and fathers may have come here on different ships, but we are all in the same boat now. As we struggle to meet the difficulties of today, we must affirm that we still have a dream. We still have a mission and a mandate to create one nation, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. And each and every one of us must do our part to help humanity reach its high calling to build one nation and world community that is finally at peace with itself.”###
06.30.2011	Atlanta—Rep. John Lewis will be celebrating the 45th anniversary of the launching of Medicare with senior citizens of the Briarcliff Haven Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center, 1000 Briarcliffe Road, Atlanta 30306 on Friday July 1st at 10:00 AM. AARP representatives will also be there to share in a discussion about the current state of Medicare. President Lyndon Johnson signed Medicare into law on July 30, 1965, and then on July 1, 1966, the first enrollees entered the program. The program which has recently been under attack by House Republicans, including chairman of the House Budget Committee Rep. Paul Ryan, who created a budget ending Medicare and Medicaid as we know it. The American people have been vocal and adamant in their expectation that Medicare not be cut, especially in light of their understanding that there is a great deal of fat in the defense budget and that tax breaks for the rich have been vigorously defended by Republicans, while they have put the elderly on the chopping block “Too many people have forgotten what life was like in the United States before Medicare existed,” said Rep. John Lewis. “In 1964, only 51 percent of Americans over 65 had health care coverage – whereas today, simply because of Medicare, health coverage is virtually universal. Nearly 30 percent of seniors lived below the poverty line in 1964 – and today that number has dropped to 7.5 percent. Medicare lifted seniors out of grinding poverty into lives of greater independence and greater life expectancy. It has been a dramatically successful program which helped expand the middle class freeing families to buy homes, pay for private schools, go on vacation, and buy second homes who, without Medicare, would be responsible to pay their parents’ medical bills.” Unfortunately, on April 15, 2011, House Republicans passed a budget that would end Medicare and replace it with a voucher system requiring Americans now under the age of 55 to go out and buy private insurance, reducing health benefits and raising seniors’ individual costs. Republicans argue that the Medicare program cannot be maintained and must be completely replaced. “That is not true,” said Rep. John Lewis. “Republicans want to protect tax cuts for the rich, which even the richest among them have said they do not need and only scratch the surface of our biggest costs to fund war and defense. On the 45th anniversary of the launching of Medicare, I reject the Republican perspective which favors the rich over the poor and unemployed, the health over the sick and disabled, and the young over the old. “Over the last 45 years, through the success of Medicare, we have seen what government can do to raise the standard of living of seniors and allow them access to an affordable standard of medical care. They have given their service to society. Medicare is a powerful way that we as a nation can honor our word to them and demonstrate our appreciation for their contribution. The people of the 5th district can be sure that I will continue to protect and strengthen Medicare. Most recently the Affordable Care Act extended Medicare solvency for an additional eight years. We need to do more to ensure that Medicare will continue to support seniors in future generations.” ###
06.29.2011	Rep. John Lewis made the following statement after learning about the unanimous decision of a three-judge panel in the water rights struggle between Georgia, Alabama and Florida. “I am relieved that this decision may have the power to take politics out of the struggle for water between the states of Georgia, Alabama and Florida and place it back in the hands of scientists and engineers. They will be more inclined to use facts as their basis, rather than the concerns of competing interests. “I have not had the opportunity to read the entire decision. My staff is currently analyzing its impact. However, I can say that Congress has long taken the position that these matters should be handled by the states because any decision we make has federal authority and national impact. A federal change in our region could alter long-standing water agreements in other parts of the country, which have been agreed upon for decades. “What remains to be seen is whether Congress will still have to act to reallocate the water use of Buford Dam. If so, politics may still be a driving force in this issue. I hope that the judges have decided in such a way that the experts, the engineers, and the scientists will have the final say. At the very least we know that the July 2012 deadline set by Judge Magnuson, which had the power to end the use of Buford Dam for Atlanta drinking water, has been overturned. In that way we can rest easy tonight. The hard deadline is gone.” ####
06.28.2011	Rep. John Lewis made this statement upon hearing that U.S. District Court Judge Thomas Thrash blocked some of the most “pernicious” provisions of H.R. 87: “When this law was passed, I was deeply disappointed in the leadership of this state. It seemed we were willing to turn a blind eye to the worst and most bitter lessons of our discriminatory past to embrace tactics that took us backwards and jeopardized our chances to move forward economically, socially, and politically. As H.R. 87 is written, police have the power to hold people—immigrants and citizens alike—to investigate their status. It reminded me of the notorious passbook system of the by-gone days of South African apartheid. It seemed like a license for modern-day racial profiling and an invitation to violate an individual’s civil rights. I am very glad to hear that a federal judge intervened in this matter to block the most heavy-handed measures of this law. “I also agree with the judge’s analysis that aspects of H.R. 87 seemed to be an “end-run around federal law” and an attempt by the state to manage areas of immigration that are actually under federal mandate. I have a great sense of gratitude and respect for the lawyers of the ACLU who pursued this matter on behalf of all the citizens of this country to protect and defend the principles of equality and justice in our democracy.” ####
06.23.2011	I, like many other citizens of Atlanta, am waiting very expectantly to hear the decision of city leaders regarding the pensions of city employees. I was relieved to hear that those who were lobbying for different approaches to the pension problem have decided to work together with labor leaders to come to a more equitable, more fair compromise. As you know, we in the federal government are also wrestling with similar issues which cause us to balance fairness with the need for more fiscal restraint. As we work through these issues it is important for all of us to remember that the credibility of government is at stake. Though government likes to use the efficiency of business as an example in its management, we must never forget that the goals of business and government are different. The first objective of business is to make a profit, and the first mandate of government is to serve the people. Government has financial obligations, but we have also promised government employees that we would help provide for them during their most vulnerable years. This was an incentive we used to encourage their employment, and many accepted less pay than they would have received in the private sector for their work so that they could gain the greater security we promised in retirement. It is very important that we, as elected officials, do everything in our power to honor our commitments to the people who have given faithful service to the government. I am glad to see that city leaders are working to develop a compromise that is mindful of government's original guarantee in these matters and seeks to honor its promises as much as it possibly can in this new fiscal environment. Because I do not have direct responsibility in these negotiations, I am like every other citizen of the city waiting to see what will transpire. It is my hope that the outcome will be fair and just in keeping with our charge to serve the people of this great city. ###
06.23.2011	Washington--Rep. John Lewis made this statement in response to President Barak Obama’s announcement tonight of a drawdown of troops in Afghanistan: “I was glad to hear that President Barack Obama is trying to keep his promise and begin the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan this summer. I am also glad to hear that at least 10,000 of our men and women are coming home, but we need to do more. We need to do much, much more. The American people are sick and tired of war. They have been calling on their leadership to bring all of our young men and women home, to end our commitment to on-going conflict and find a way toward peace. "Today millions of Americans are struggling to find jobs, to hold on to their homes, to pay the rising costs of gasoline and air conditioning. They are struggling to pay for their children's education, put food on the table and clothes on their children's backs. People right here at home are facing the aftermath of floods, fires, tornados and hurricanes. Our infrastructure is crumbling, and our government is confronting mounting debt. At this time of challenge for America, we need to expend our resources here at home. "In the six months of this year alone, we have already spent $100 billion on war. Those billions of dollars of the American people's money could be used to rebuild our schools and our roads, to fulfill the promises we have made to seniors to pay pensions, to help preserve Medicare and Medicaid, and relieve some of the suffering we are facing on American shores. We cannot afford to continue this conflict-economically, socially or morally. We must bring all of our young men and women home. And we must bring them home now." ####
06.22.2011	Washington--Today, the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on The Election Support Consolidation and Efficiency Act (H.R. 672) a bill crafted by the Republican leadership aimed at abolishing the Elections Assistance Commission. The commission was established after the fabled “hanging chads” episode in Florida turned the Presidential election of the year 2000 into a nightmare. There were questions about how exit polls taken by news organizations covering the elections drastically differed from the final results in Florida, and serious questions about the malfunctioning of electronic voting machines. For the first time in year a recount was called in a national election, and the U.S. Supreme Court intervened in an unprecedented and controversial way to stop the recount mandated by Florida courts. The Election Assistance Commission was established to help resolve these problems by ensuring voting equipment security and to address the malfunctioning of electronic voting machines, which caused the debacle in Florida and in other states. Under the guise of fiscal constraint, Republicans are characterizing the termination of this institution as a cost-saving measure, but it s real impact will be to damage the credibility of elections in the U.S. and impede access to the ballot box by certain groups. "Voting rights are under attack in America," said Rep. John Lewis. "Quietly, yet persistently some of the rights that many people died for are being taken away. Yesterday, June 21st was the anniversary of the disappearance of Andrew Goodman, Mickey Schwerner and James Chaney. They were three, young civil rights workers who came to Mississippi in the summer of 1963 to ensure that American citizens could exercise their right to vote. These young voting rights activists were arrested by the sheriff, turned over to the Klan, beaten, shot, and killed trying to make sure Americans could participate freely in the democratic process. "On the anniversary of their disappearance, the U.S. House of Representatives led by a Republican majority is not debating the needs for jobs in America. They are not discussing our crumbling roads, bridges and infrastructure. They are not fighting to preserve the pensions of working Americans or trying to protect Medicaid, Medicare or Social Security. They are striking down the Election Assistance Commission, which helped certify and test faulty voting machines and made machine manufacturers accountable. The EAC has also streamlined voting for men and women on military bases, provided voting materials for non-English speaking citizens, and made it easier for citizens traveling abroad during an election to vote. "The American people should be asking why the House is spending its valuable legislative time on this kind of bill. They say the purpose is to save money, but if we separate citizens from their right to vote, then what will our savings preserve? What kind of democracy will we have left? The vote is the most powerful tool we have in a democratic society. If we as citizens allow its power to be neutralized, we will be facing the need for a new movement and a new non-violent revolution in America to retake the same ground we won 50 years ago." Republican leadership across the country has given rise to attempts to weaken voting rights across the country through photo ID legislation, now also the law in Georgia. In this legislative year, 37 states across America are considering photo ID legislation, which the Brennan Center for Justice says could raise the costs of elections in some states as much as 50 percent. Several court cases have been launched angling for a hearing in the Supreme Court in an attempt to gut the Voting Rights Act. There have been widespread felon disenfranchisement efforts and citizenship checks, which encumbered the 2010 vote in Georgia. This bill has been condemned by voter protection groups including the League of Women Voters, the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, and the NAACP, as well as numerous local and state election officials from across the country. Other pertinent links are: E.J. Dionne Article, New York Times on Voting Restrictions. ####
06.20.2011	Washington, DC—One of the primary goals of U.S. foreign policy has been to promote the expansion of democracy abroad, yet there are seven United Nations conventions and six International Labor Organization conventions that the U.S. has never ratified. These have been accepted by most nations, and many are already fundamental aspects of American common law. Rep. John Lewis has introduced legislation in honor of the celebration of Juneteenth encouraging the U.S. Senate to combat discrimination, xenophobia, slavery, torture, racism, human and civil rights abuses in domestic and foreign policy by ratifying key international human and civil rights conventions. Juneteenth, June 19th, also known as Freedom Day, occurred in 1865 when slaves in Galveston, Tx finally received the news that they had been emancipated by President Lincoln two years earlier. It is relatively considered the day when the "As a nation who has had to suffer the stain of human rights abuses within our own history," said Rep. Lewis, "it behooves us to adopt a standard of foreign policy which suggests we have a commitment to insure that these kinds of abuses never happen again on our watch. The outstanding conventions, still in need of ratification are: · UN Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights · UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women and its Optional Protocol · UN Convention on the Rights of the Child · UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its Optional Protocol · UN Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance · The First Optional Protocol to the UN Covenant on Civil and Political Rights · The Optional Protocol to the UN Convention Against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment · The ILO Convention on Forced or Compulsory Labour · The ILO Convention on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise · The ILO Convention on the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining · The ILO Convention on Equal Remuneration · The ILO Convention on Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation · The ILO Convention on the Minimum Age for Admission to Employment • Certain OAS Agreements that the U.S. has not ratified ###
05.19.2011	WASHINGTON – Democratic Ways and Means Committee Members today joined with 147 other House colleagues in a letter to President Obama calling for a five-year reauthorization of the expanded Trade Adjustment Assistance program, which expired in February. The letter, signed by all 15 Ways and Means Democrats, was spearheaded by Committee Members Jim McDermott (D-WA), John Lewis (D-GA) and Xavier Becerra (D-CA), in addition to Reps. Mike Michaud (D-ME) and Adam Smith (D-WA). A copy of the letter, signed by 162 members overall, can be found here and is printed below: May 19, 2011 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to express our strong support for the immediate enactment of a five year reauthorization of the 2009 Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) reforms. The Trade Expansion Act of 1962 created the Trade Adjustment Assistance program to assist workers laid off as a result of international trade by helping them retrain and acquire skills needed to compete in the global environment. In 2009, Congress enacted the Trade and Globalization Adjustment Assistance Act of 2009, making significant improvements to the TAA for Workers program as well as the other TAA programs – Firms, Farmers, and Communities. The 2009 reforms had the full support of the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Finance Committee. Underscoring the bipartisanship, bicameral support for the 2009 reforms, Congressman Camp, who was then the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Ways and Means stated, “[t]his important package provides a coherent, rational, accountable, and cost-effective system for training trade-affected workers and putting them back to work quickly and at better jobs”. Similarly, Senator Grassley, the Ranking Member on the Senate Finance Committee stated, “today's achievement…is the culmination of years of effort, and I am confident that the result will serve to benefit American workers in Iowa and across the United States for years to come”. The 2009 TAA reforms dramatically improved the TAA for Workers program. Specifically, the legislation made service sector workers eligible for the program, expanded access for manufacturing workers, significantly increased training funding and promoted on-the-job, part-time and longer-term training. Critically, it also increased the TAA for Workers Health Coverage Tax Credit subsidy to 80 percent and made several important changes to the existing credit. These changes were designed to minimize gaps in coverage and assure access to insurance policies that meet the health and medical needs of eligible individuals and their families. The 2009 legislation also made important reforms to the TAA for Firms program and tripled its authorization, improved the TAA for Farmers program, and created the TAA for Communities program. Since the reforms were implemented in May 2009, more than 185,000 additional trade-impacted workers who may not have been certified under the “old” 2002 TAA for Workers program have become eligible for training opportunities and benefits. In total, more than 435,000 workers were certified as eligible for TAA support in that timeframe. In FY2010 alone, more than 227,000 workers took advantage of TAA and participated in the program, receiving case management, training and/or income support. The 2009 TAA reforms expired on February 12, 2011, and just last week, the Department of Labor denied the first three petitions filed by groups of workers seeking TAA assistance under pre-2009 TAA rules. The reason for the denial: they were service workers, and now that the 2009 reforms have lapsed, service workers are not eligible for TAA. Inevitably, the inability of these laid off workers to obtain TAA support and training, as well as the more limited benefits available to those workers whose TAA petitions are approved, will impede their efforts to obtain new jobs in growth sectors like health, information technology and precision manufacturing and contribute to the economic recovery. The denial of these service workers’ petitions for TAA assistance demonstrates the real consequences for working families associated with the failure to reauthorize TAA. The 2009 program should never have been allowed to lapse, and it is imperative that it is re-started immediately before additional workers are harmed. We therefore support the immediate passage of a five-year reauthorization of the 2009 TAA reforms and look forward to working with the Administration to accomplish this goal. Sincerely, # # # https://democrats.waysandmeans.house.gov/
05.05.2011	OPENING STATEMENT OF RANKING MEMBER JOHN LEWIS (D-GA) COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS SUBCOMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT HEARING ON TRANSPARENCY AND FUNDING OF STATE AND LOCAL PENSION PLANS: Thank you, Chairman Boustany, for holding this hearing. Last month, this Subcommittee held a hearing to attack an organization that represents millions of seniors. At that hearing, I asked the Chairman, "Who is next?” “Who else is on your list?" Now, I have an answer. This week is Teacher Appreciation Week 2011. Today, Republicans have set their sights on the teachers who educate our children, police officers who keep our communities safe, and first responders in moments of crisis. They paint teachers, firefighters, librarians, and nurses as villains in their quest to widen the gap between the rich and the poor. Our neighbors are not the villains. They are not the cause of the current economic situation. They are simply hard-working Americans trying to retire with dignity and escape poverty as they age. The Republicans have made many arguments to support today’s attack. The Republicans blame pension plans for state budget shortfalls. This is not true. States spend less than four percent (4%) of their budgets on pension contributions. The Republicans claim that pension benefits are too high. This is not true. The average state pension benefit is modest, about $20,000/year. The Republicans claim a Federal bailout may be needed. This is not true. The losses in the plans are related to the market and the recent recession. The Republicans claim that their solution would create “transparency.” It would not. It would create confusion and lead to unnecessary cuts in vital state services. Given the facts, I ask myself, “why are we here today?” We both know that there is no immediate need for the Federal government to take action. This Committee has been looking at this issue since the 1970’s. I also am mindful that, under the Committee Rules of this Congress, this Subcommittee’s jurisdiction is limited to “oversight” of existing law. Our jurisdiction does not extend to select revenue measures. The Subcommittee does not report out legislation. Therefore, any consideration of H.R. 567 would need to take place elsewhere under the regular order of the Committee. Based on all this, I believe today’s hearing is simply a distraction from the Republican’s failure to create jobs. While the American people continue to wait for jobs, the Republicans are playing a dangerous game with the welfare of women, seniors, and now teachers. It is time for the American people to take notice, stand up, and speak out. Today, I stand for America’s middle class and state and local workers across the nation. I thank the teachers for all they do. Thank you. ###
05.02.2011	Published at 12:32 AM After hearing about the death of Al Qaeda leader and the architect of the September 11th tragedy, Rep. John Lewis made this statement: "I am not one to rejoice in the death of any person, but Osama bin Laden took the lives of thousands of innocent people in this country and around the world. He committed heinous crimes that ended the hopes and dreams of many courageous public servants as well as a group of excited young children and dedicated teachers on a field trip to California. Many people left home for work that day never to return. Today thousands of families are missing their fathers and mothers, sons and daughters due to the violence this man fomented and supported. "His terrorism changed not only individual lives, but it promoted an environment of fear and the need for ever-ready security to assure the defense of this nation and others around the world. Even though there is still a great deal of work left to win the struggle against terrorism, I am hopeful that this important moment will create the willingness to open the door to peace and build a pathway to resolve international differences based on an understanding of the unity of all humankind." ######
04.22.2011	“It is a fitting coincidence that this Earth Day falls near the first anniversary of the tragic oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. There is nothing that underscores our need to honor the generosity and the bounty of nature more the natural disasters we witnessed here and around the world in the past two years. They help make it clearer than ever before that the resources of this little planet are not ours to hoard or ours to waste.” “We must develop tools and mechanisms to preserve its wealth for future generations and leave the land unscorched and unharmed when we take what we may need. It is strange to me that we could learn to swim in the sea like fish, fly in the air like birds, and shoot a rocket to the moon, but we have not learned to live in harmony with each other and in union with this beautiful planet. “What Martin Luther King Jr. and Mahatma Gandhi once said is as appropriate on this celebration of Earth Day as they are on Human Rights Day. “We must learn to live as brothers and sisters or we will perish as fools,” King said. And Gandhi put it another way: “It is either non-violence or non-existence.” “If we do not use our power, our great intellect, and the vast resources of this country to find sustainable ways to provide energy and to collaborate, instead of dominate over nations who are willing to share their resources with us, then the fate these two humanitarians suggested could be our end. We are one people, one family, and we are the Earth. When we save the planet, we are saving ourselves.” ####
04.15.2011	Bill in Honor of the late Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones Today Rep. John Lewis will introduce a bill recognizing Financial Literacy Month, which commemorates the legacy of a champion of the cause, the late Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones, a member of the Congressional Black Caucus. The Stephanie Tubbs Jones Assets for Independence Reauthorization Act reauthorizes and makes updates to a tool administered by the Department of Health and Human Services called Individual development accounts or IDAs. IDAs have successfully helped low-income families save, build wealth, and emerge from poverty. The Assets for Independence Act (AFIA) is a public-private partnership which has helped 85,000 families save, buy, and sustain an appreciating asset like a home, education or a business start-up. As a Member of Ways and Means Income Security Family Support Subcommittee, Rep. Lewis believes IDAs are a key to the long-term process of relief and recovery from the Great Recession. The Stephanie Tubbs Jones Assets for Independence Act will – • Expand and modernize the eligibility standards so that more low-income Americans, especially victims of domestic violence, former foster care youth, recently unemployed, and formerly incarcerated individuals, are eligible to participate the program; • Promote strategic partnerships and expand opportunities for tribes, governments, credit unions, and other community development foundations to apply for an Assets for Independence grant; • Increase the federal to non-federal match from 1:1 to 2:1; • Simplify the administrative burden on grantees and provide more flexibility for training and counseling services; • Grant equal treatment to Native American tribal governments so that like States, they may use federal funds to administer IDA programs; • Update eligible IDA uses for modern needs like education-related purchases and mobile home repairs; and • Increase the authorization from $25 million to $75 million. ###
04.15.2011	The Budget Alternative of the Congressional Progressive Caucus Rep. John Lewis made this statement on the House floor today encouraging members to vote for an alternative to the President’s budget and Rep. Paul Ryan’s budget. It is a budget created by the Congressional Progressive Caucus, the largest caucus in the Congress of 80 members. The caucus tried to incorporate much of what Americans say are their budgetary priorities, including eliminating the deficit by 2021, bringing the troops home, creating a fair tax system, and real competition in health care. The People’s Budget offers a striking contrast to Republican plans, like the Ryan budget, which require the middle class and the poor to bear the cost of federal government, while allowing the most prosperous Americans and businesses more tax cuts, subsidies, and breaks. Rep. Lewis made this statement during the limited time provided by the Republican leadership to discuss this viable proposal: Mr. Speaker, I have never been one to stand silent in the face of injustice. Today, I see before us one of the greatest betrayals in American history – the betrayal of our seniors and the disabled, who rely on Medicare for their healthcare. We have made a social compact with our seniors, and the Republican budget breaks that compact. It is a disgrace. Where is our sense of fairness? Where is our outrage? I am outraged. We can and we must do better. The Republicans headed down a very dangerous path. We cannot, we must not, and we will not balance our budget on the backs of people who can least afford it. Our seniors, the disabled, the poor, the hungry—they have done nothing wrong! They do not deserve to bear the burden of these budget cuts. Support the People’s Budget. Vote no on the Republican Budget. ####
04.09.2011	Washington, DC -- “I am pleased that the President and the leadership of the House and the Senate have finally been able to avert a shutdown of the federal government. We were elected to serve the American people to run the federal government, not to shut it down. I am glad that hundreds of thousands of federal workers can rest easier tonight and that millions of people, especially military families, will receive their government checks on time. I look forward to reviewing the details of the compromise in the coming days. We still have a great deal of work to do to meet the needs of the American people to get our house in order.”####
04.07.2011	Lewis Position on Shutdown: "Democrats are fighting to protect the American way of life as we know it. Before Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare existed, millions of seniors, orphans and the disabled either depended on their relatives or lived in poverty trying to get by. They could not afford to visit the doctor regularly. They could not afford the surgeries and medications they needed. "Before Pell Grants and federal support for education, students like me who grew up on a farm in rural Alabama or in the ghettos of urban cities had very little opportunity to attend the best schools in the country. If our families could not afford college, we could not go. There were no programs for gifted and talented children, no Head Start programs to level the playing field for all students, no food stamps for hungry children and families, no federal support to help first-time home buyers, no support for seniors in nursing homes, no support for homeless. All of these programs helped create independence for the seniors and the disabled, and they helped lift people out of poverty into the middle class." "Republicans want to cut all of these programs before they cut everyone across the board. They want to cut the poor, but give more subsidies to big oil companies and to companies that send American jobs overseas. They want to end health care support for senior programs, while they give the wealthiest Americans huge tax breaks. They want to cut so much federal support for working Americans and the poor, but leave one of the largest expenditures in the federal government almost untouched-the Department of Defense. We have a deficit. There will be cuts, but the Republicans want to change the way Americans live. That is a betrayal of Americans' trust. That is not what we have been elected to do. Democrats will not stand for it. That is what we are fighting for." Democrats do not want a shutdown. This is not about partisan politics or ideology. Democrats are fighting for fairness in budget cuts, not those that rob from the middle class and the poor and require no sacrifice from the rich. https://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=2761 https://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=3451 https://johnlewis.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=807&Itemid=72 REFUSAL TO COMPROMISE The cause for the threat to shutdown the federal government is due to House and Senate Republicans refusing to negotiate federal funding. Democrats have already agreed to historic levels of cuts (roughly around $33 billion) to programs not seen in many decades. https://blogs.abcnews.com/thenote/2011/04/the-numbers-game-democrats-embrace-33-billion-in-budget-cuts-republicans-say-no-deal.html The Republican response to these compromises was to continue to up the ante by asking for more cuts, adding riders to the compromise bills that defund NPR and Planned Parenthood.And to top that off they have released Rep. Paul Ryan's $6.2 trillion in cuts as their proposal for budget cuts next year. https://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/harry-reid-we-cant-pass-troop-funding-bill-because-it-bans-taxpayer-funding-abortion-dc_556919.htmlhttps://abcnews.go.com/Politics/shutdown-budget-policy-riders-major-sticking-points-democrats/story?id=13317598 UNWILLINGNESS TO PASS A LONG-TERM BUDGET This struggle began last year, when Republicans maximized their position in the minority to block movement of the annual spending bills. For the past three months, Republicans have pushed short-term, funding bills to keep the government operating. Despite consistent Democratic requests, there has been minimal progress on a long-term bill just to keep the federal government up and running through September. https://www.ombwatch.org/node/11580 https://www.boston.com/news/nation/washington/articles/2010/02/03/presidents_budget_gets_rocky_reception/ Now that Republicans are being guided by newly-elected Tea Party Members, there is even less willingness and concern about good governance and the potential of a government shutdown.https://www.nationaljournal.com/budget/van-hollen-giuliani-tea-party-to-blame-for-lack-of-compromise-on-cuts-20110405 WHY ARE DEMOCRATS OPPOSING A ONE-WEEK CONTINUING RESOLUTION?• Funding the federal government week-to-week is completely irresponsible leadership and it prolongs doubt and uncertainty for thousands of Americans whose jobs and support are left hanging in the balance. Many students are trying to decide where they'll go to school next year, but can't because Pell Grant decisions and FASFA applications are on hold. What State, local, or international government funds their governments week-by-week? What family creates a budget day-by-day? Just this morning, as a concession to Republicans, Rep. Steny Hoyer offered a "clean" continuing resolution to keep the government operating for another week at the existing levels of funding. A fair compromise right? That would allow negotiations to continue. Republicans passed a bill that cuts the existing budget by $12 billion,. This is not a "clean" bill but a backdoor attempt to cut programming without compromise.Every time Democrats try to negotiate, House Republicans change what they want. It is clear that are not interested in "good faith" debate or compromise. They only want to have their way despite the fact that they represent only one view of what is good for America. https://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/154631-pass-a-clean-continuing-resolution The House Republicans passed a "futile one-week spending measure" which has no chance of passing the Senate and the President has said he would veto it. https://nationaljournal.com/congress/gop-passes-futile-one-week-spending-measure-20110407 WHY CAN'T DEMOCRATS JUST ACCEPT THE CUTS AND MOVE ON? It's a one-sided approach. The cuts actually increase the deficit in some cases and give the rich a break and make changes that would drive the middle class into the poor house. Millions of Americas would be affected if Democrats do not stand strong, students, families, firefighters, small business leaders, the elderly, the sick, the unemployed. People who are struggling the most will bear the brunt of a fiscal crisis that Republicans and President Bush created. Also, Republicans continue to move their tax cut goal post. Democrats agreed to $33 billion in cuts. Now Republicans want $40 billion. We give, they ask for more. WHAT WILL THE SHUTDOWN MEAN FOR CONSTITUENTS? (SEE CRS REPORT BELOW) If you're a federal employees, you should begin to review the OPM website and your respective agency guidelines. Congressman Lewis is 100% committed to federal employees being paid retroactively after the government resumes. This is what happened in 1995 and 1996. We keep asking the Republican Leadership to pledge to not further punish federal employees - they refuse to commit. If you're a contractor, you should discuss with your management how their contract is structured. Unfortunately in the 1995 and 1996 shutdowns, contractors were not compensated. If you are worried about accessing federal services, every agency is developing individual plans. There are certain things we know - The impact depends on the length of the shutdown, but in the short term unemployment benefits will continue; Social Security checks will continue to be processed and mailed, but new claims may not be processed; o VA hospitals will probably remain open, but there may be service or benefit cuts; Other key defense and security services will continue, but it will be a case-by-case basis. We've posted more information on our website and will continue to do so as information becomes available. If you don't have access to the Internet, call us back so we can try and help you find answers. Congressional Research Service Report on Shutdown Shutdown of Federal Government Reporter Links: Click here for a new Families USA report on House Republicans Slashing Funding for Medicaid, Medicare & Other Health Coverage Programs, which includes state-by-state information Click here for an analysis by the Ways and Means Democratic staff on the GOP plan to end Medicare Chronicle of Higher Education on Cuts to Education in GOP Budget https://chronicle.com/article/Government-Shutdown-Would-Mean/127039/?sid=at&utm_source=at&utm_medium=en Goldman Sachs Confidential Report Say GOP Budget Cuts Will Hurt Economy https://www.latimes.com/news/nationworld/nation/la-na-gop-cuts-20110224,0,2687045.story https://blogs.abcnews.com/thenote/2011/02/goldman-sachs-house-spending-cuts-will-hurt-economic-growth.html GiveAways to Big Oil https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/04/energy_budget.html Path to Prosperity https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/04/ryan_supplyside.html
04.06.2011	“The American people must understand what Democrats are fighting for,” said Rep. John Lewis. “Cutting spending is the only way to rein in the deficit, but those cuts need to be fair, and they need to be consistent with the values and priorities of the people who elected us. “If the American people really understood that Republicans want to strip away nearly all federal support for the sick and the elderly, the poor and the hungry, if they understood unemployment insurance, food stamps, veterans assistance, and federal support for education would be gutted, I think they would be protesting in the streets. If they understood that Rep. Ryan’s cuts would effectively terminate Medicaid, Medicare and Social Security, they would be up in arms. Making Medicaid a block grant and replacing Medicare’s guaranteed health insurance for seniors with inadequate vouchers to pay health insurance premiums will leave seniors and the poor without the care they need. And it will line the pockets of health insurance companies with federal money, while doing very little to knockdown the skyrocketing costs of health care that Americans are already facing." “Ryan suggests that “market forces” will help bring down prices, but our experience shows this rarely happens. “Market forces” and “more competition” in the telecommunications industry were supposed to lower the costs of telephone services, but we pay more for the telephone now than ever before. “Market forces” and “more competition” were supposed to create lower energy and fuel costs, but Americans are paying more for energy and fuel now than ever before. Those costs continue to rise. They are not stabilizing or decreasing. “Market forces” never produced a health insurance market for seniors, because there is no money to be made. That is why Medicare was created in the first place." “Our founders meant for government to act as a check on big business, not to simply do its bidding. Democrats are willing to make cuts, even to Medicaid and Medicare. In fact, the Affordable Care Act already makes more than half a trillion dollars of responsible cuts to Medicare by reducing waste, fraud, and abuse, but we refuse to drive the poor, the elderly, the sick, the veterans and the disabled out into the cold to fend for themselves." “How can the Republicans ask the middle class and the poor to shoulder the entire fiscal burden of our government while you are giving corporations and the richest citizens a tax break? Ryan’s budget makes no appreciable cuts to the largest beneficiary of American tax dollars, the defense budget. It extends the Bush tax cuts to the rich, a fiscally irresponsible act when we are in a deficit, and provides yet another ten percent tax cut for corporations and the richest Americans. The Bush tax cuts to the rich did not create one job, and Ryan’s approach will not produce a single job either. This is irresponsible when we are facing record unemployment, and it is patently unfair." “Democrats are trying to stand in the gap to protect millions of Americans who will be dramatically affected if Rep. Ryan and others have their way. The American people need to speak up and speak out against this drastic ideological rejection of the way we live. If you wait in silence and these cuts pass, you will quickly discover you are live in an America where the rich continue to get richer, the middle class will be driven into the ranks of the poor, and the poor will have very little opportunity to pull out of grinding poverty.“ ####
04.06.2011	“The American people must understand what Democrats are fighting for,” said Rep. John Lewis. “Cutting spending is the only way to rein in the deficit, but those cuts need to be fair, and they need to be consistent with the values and priorities of the people who elected us. “If the American people really understood that Republicans want to strip away nearly all federal support for the sick and the elderly, the poor and the hungry, if they understood unemployment insurance, food stamps, veterans assistance, and federal support for education would be gutted, I think they would be protesting in the streets. If they understood that Rep. Ryan’s cuts would effectively terminate Medicaid, Medicare and Social Security, they would be up in arms. Making Medicaid a block grant and replacing Medicare’s guaranteed health insurance for seniors with inadequate vouchers to pay health insurance premiums will leave seniors and the poor without the care they need. And it will line the pockets of health insurance companies with federal money, while doing very little to knockdown the skyrocketing costs of health care that Americans are already facing." “Ryan suggests that “market forces” will help bring down prices, but our experience shows this rarely happens. “Market forces” and “more competition” in the telecommunications industry were supposed to lower the costs of telephone services, but we pay more for the telephone now than ever before. “Market forces” and “more competition” were supposed to create lower energy and fuel costs, but Americans are paying more for energy and fuel now than ever before. Those costs continue to rise. They are not stabilizing or decreasing. “Market forces” never produced a health insurance market for seniors, because there is no money to be made. That is why Medicare was created in the first place." “Our founders meant for government to act as a check on big business, not to simply do its bidding. Democrats are willing to make cuts, even to Medicaid and Medicare. In fact, the Affordable Care Act already makes more than half a trillion dollars of responsible cuts to Medicare by reducing waste, fraud, and abuse, but we refuse to drive the poor, the elderly, the sick, the veterans and the disabled out into the cold to fend for themselves." “How can the Republicans ask the middle class and the poor to shoulder the entire fiscal burden of our government while you are giving corporations and the richest citizens a tax break? Ryan’s budget makes no appreciable cuts to the largest beneficiary of American tax dollars, the defense budget. It extends the Bush tax cuts to the rich, a fiscally irresponsible act when we are in a deficit, and provides yet another ten percent tax cut for corporations and the richest Americans. The Bush tax cuts to the rich did not create one job, and Ryan’s approach will not produce a single job either. This is irresponsible when we are facing record unemployment, and it is patently unfair." “Democrats are trying to stand in the gap to protect millions of Americans who will be dramatically affected if Rep. Ryan and others have their way. The American people need to speak up and speak out against this drastic ideological rejection of the way we live. If you wait in silence and these cuts pass, you will quickly discover you are live in an America where the rich continue to get richer, the middle class will be driven into the ranks of the poor, and the poor will have very little opportunity to pull out of grinding poverty.“ ####
04.05.2011	WASHINGTON DC – Today, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Pete Stark (D-CA) are criticizing the House Republican Budget that would destroy Medicare and replace it with a voucher program. Ranking Member Levin: “The Republicans are being dishonest about what they’re up to with this reckless budget. They are aiming to destroy Medicare for future generations – not save it. Future seniors would be given a voucher and then told they’re on their own. Republicans’ message to Americans is clear: Forget how much you’ve paid into a Medicare system that ensures you can get the medical care you deserve during retirement. Under this Republican plan, if you develop a major medical problem and your voucher runs out, so be it.” Ranking Member Stark: “Today, House Republicans reneged on their commitment to Medicare. They don't believe that senior citizens and people with disabilities have a right to guaranteed health benefits. Instead, they will turn the health of seniors and people with disabilities over to private insurers. Say goodbye to secure health care when you need it most. That's what this budget means to anyone in America who hopes to grow old." Additional background information below: HOUSE GOP BUDGET: A PATH TO POVERTY Destroys Medicare as We Know It April 5, 2011 Destroys Medicare and Converts Program to a Voucher. The Republican budget destroys Medicare for everyone under age 55, instead providing individuals with an under-funded voucher to purchase coverage in a new undefined marketplace where there is no guarantee that insurance companies will even participate. Voucher is under-funded. Despite the dramatic strides made in the Affordable Care Act to strengthen Medicare’s financial footing and slow its spending growth, the Republican budget waxes on about the need for further cuts to Medicare. While details on the voucher plan are scarce, the only way to achieve additional savings is to deliberately set the voucher below expected costs. And individuals who are healthy or earn higher incomes (e.g., above $85,000) receive a far smaller voucher, perhaps up to 70 percent lower. No guarantee that insurers will want to serve this population. The vouchers can be used to shop for private insurance plans in a new - but undefined – Medicare “marketplace” or “exchange.” In general, insurance plans historically have always wanted to be paid more than Medicare’s costs to serve this sick and vulnerable population. Under the House Republican budget insurers would be paid far less and will offer fewer benefits than Medicare or restrict access to care. Even more alarming, insurers could continue to charge much higher premiums based on age, gender and health status, or fail to offer insurance altogether. It is important to remember that Medicare was created because private insurers had stopped serving these populations. The Ryan proposal ignores the past. No guarantee that plans will take all beneficiaries. Despite platitudes about structuring the market so that plans are required to take all applicants, we know too well from experience with Medicare Advantage and Part D that there are many creative ways plans can avoid sicker, higher-cost beneficiaries. The Ryan plan does not protect against – and may well inadvertently encourage -- this more insidious discrimination. Ends Medicare’s entitlement of guaranteed benefits. Even if seniors can find an insurer to cover them at a price they can afford, the plan is not required to cover a set benefit package, as Medicare currently does. The whole goal of moving to a voucher is to fundamentally change Medicare by converting it from a defined benefit program to a defined contribution program. Divorcing the voucher from a benefit package all but guarantees it won’t have the same purchasing power. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office’s independent analysis of the Ryan-Rivlin voucher plan, upon which Ryan’s Medicare budget proposal is based, “voucher recipients would probably have to purchase less extensive coverage or pay higher premiums…” Promotes rationing by private insurance companies. With declining dollars and an expensive population, private insurers that do choose to participate will have every incentive and motive to deny care. While Republicans accuse the government of rationing, nothing could be further from the truth. With transparency laws and accountability of federal agencies and lawmakers, policy decisions that have adverse effects are public and may be taken up for debate and changed. This is not the case for private insurance companies and their black box “decision making” when it comes to approving or disapproving treatments. They are accountable to shareholders and executives, not their patients. Sends the existing Medicare program into a “death spiral”. Although Ryan claims that people age 55 and above would be able to remain or enroll in Medicare as we know it today, that may be a hollow promise. By restricting the current program to an ever-aging and more costly population, it will go into a so-called “death spiral” (an insurance term that describes a dwindling pool of increasingly expensive enrollees), which will raise both government spending and beneficiary premiums for this group. It appears that the Republican budget may shield beneficiaries from the increases resulting from segmenting the older and sick into one pool, but is not clear how that is done. And the fact remains that doing so will further increase government spending beyond the increase already resulting from the “death spiral.” Fails to control overall health spending. Turning Medicare into a voucher isn’t reform; it doesn’t change the level of need or reform how care is delivered. While it might slow government spending, it will result in a massive cost shift to individuals and families and is thus unlikely to materially slow overall expenditures. Conversely, if it is shown to slow overall expenditures, it will be because people fail to get needed or timely care and, in extreme cases, may die earlier than otherwise expected. Increases waste, fraud and abuse. By eliminating the underlying Medicare program and its efforts to combat waste, fraud and abuse, the Ryan budget will turn billions of dollars over to private insurers with virtually no accountability. Efforts to track and eliminate waste, fraud and abuse will become exponentially more difficult when hidden behind the veil of corporate secrets. To the extent the plans themselves ferret it out, there will be no return to taxpayers. Ends Medicare’s role as a leader in quality and payment innovations. Medicare will no longer play the role of driving delivery reforms that reward efficient, high-quality care. A voucher plan also ends Medicare’s incentives for health information technology. Ends Medicare payments to teaching hospitals and rural providers. The Republican budget will end Medicare payments for graduate medical education and that help cover the cost of the uninsured, as well as the numerous extra payments that go to rural providers and to promote primary care. Imposes automatic Medicare cuts. The House Republican budget creates two new triggers to impose automatic across-the-board cuts to Medicare, which are arbitrary and will further shrink the voucher for new beneficiaries. Repeals coverage expansions in health reform but embraces Medicare savings. After scaring senior citizens during the last election by running against Medicare provisions of the Affordable Care Act, Republicans now appear to be doing an about face by formally embracing the ACA’s Medicare savings and dramatically increasing cuts in the out-years. (It is unclear whether they are retaining or repealing the ACA’s benefit improvements for Medicare beneficiaries; however, even if they have retained them, they will disappear for those who receive only the new voucher.) Furthermore, because the Republican budget repeals the tax credits to help individuals and families purchase health insurance under the Affordable Care Act, hospitals and other providers will be stuck with Medicare payment reductions that were premised on increased payments resulting from the increased coverage under the ACA. ###
04.01.2011	WASHINGTON DC – Reps. Pete Stark (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee and John Lewis (D-GA), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee, delivered the following statements today at joint Subcommittee hearing on Republicans’ so-called “investigative expose” of AARP: Ranking Member Stark: “Thanks to Chairmen Herger and Boustany for holding this hearing. There may be legitimate questions to ask about AARP, but those same questions could be asked of any number of nonprofit organizations with complex structures. We could ask those questions of the Chamber of Commerce, which outranks AARP as the top spender on lobbying over the last 12 years, spending nearly $740 million on lobbying over that period. We could ask those questions of American Crossroads GPS , which was founded by Karl Rove and spent millions with its sister organization trying to defeat Democratic candidates in the last election. We could ask questions about whether there is a broader problem with the tax code in this area. But, the Republicans do not want to ask those questions today. Why? That’s easy. Those groups opposed the Affordable Care Act and AARP supported it. This is nothing more than a political witch hunt to punish an organization that spoke out in favor of health reform. An organization that could stand in the way of their goal to privatize Social Security and end Medicare and turn senior citizens over to the mercy of the private health insurance industry. Now, I too have raised questions about AARP. It is true that in addition to the work they do advocating for people age 50 and over, they also make a tremendous amount of money off of businesses they market to that same population. Frankly though, that is no surprise to America’s seniors. AARP’s co-branded products make them the biggest player in the Medigap, Medicare Advantage and Part D drug plan markets, and that is obvious to any senior who shops in that market. It’s not exactly ‘under the veil’ as my Republican colleagues would have you believe. Indeed, many new AARP members look forward to joining specifically for the discounts and other deals offered by AARP. Let’s be clear about what we have before us today. Our Majority has told us they’ve spent well over a year investigating the financial affairs of AARP. In that time, all the Republicans have done is compiled publicly available information and found that ARRP is a large, complex organization with lots of members, all of which is perfectly legal. AARP has cooperated with this investigation. In fact, here is a notebook of all the materials AARP has presented to the Ways and Means Committee Republican staff. Let’s contrast this fact pattern with a recent exchange we had with Doug Holz-Eakin, President of the American Action Forum and former CBO Director, when he testified before the Ways and Committee. He testified – at the Majority’s request – on January 26, 2011 at a hearing regarding health reform’s impact on the economy. At that hearing, our Ranking Member Sandy Levin asked Mr. Holz-Eakin to disclose the American Action Forum’s funding sources so that we could ascertain who was paying him to deliver his views to Congress. Mr. Holz-Eakin refused to disclose that information at the hearing. In a letter exchange with Ranking Member Levin, Holz-Eakin stated: "we are in full compliance with all relevant disclosure obligations’ and the letter concludes ‘For these reasons, I am unable to provide you the information you request." I’d like to make Mr. Holz-Eakin’s letter part of the hearing record. I have to compliment our Republicans. When they say they are for transparency, they mean it. It is transparent to everyone that AARP is sitting before us today – rather than the American Action Nework, 60 Plus, American Crossroads GPS, the Chamber of Commerce, or any host of other non-profits -- because Republicans desperately want to discredit AARP in the minds of seniors. Republicans know that senior citizens trust AARP. That’s why they lauded AARP’s endorsement of the Republican Medicare prescription drug bill in 2003. None of them were questioning the motives of AARP then. Eight years later, Republicans are desperate to try to break the trust that America’s seniors have in AARP. They need to do so before they announce their budget that will devastate Medicare, Social Security and Medicaid. Republicans plan to privatize Social Security, block grant Medicaid, and end Medicare altogether -- replacing it with a voucher. A voucher would shift major costs to senior citizens and people with disabilities and would leave at the mercy of the insurance industry to try to obtain affordable health care. That’s why we’re here today. We should all see this for what it is -- a waste of government time and an abuse of government resources in a vindictive attempt to settle a political score and silence a voice that represents seniors. With that, I yield back my time and look forward to hearing the testimony of our witnesses.” Ranking Member Lewis: “I thank my colleagues for holding a hearing on tax-exempt organizations; however, I do not think we should single out just one organization. While I agree that organizations that enjoy a special tax status should justify the reasons for their exemptions, I know that there are about 140,000 other organizations that share the same tax status. Mr. Chairman, while it is our duty to provide oversight of the nonprofit sector, I am saddened that you have chosen to fulfill your duty in the manner displayed today. You and I both know that this hearing is politically motivated and driven by AARP's support of the Affordable Care Act. Your report admits that all the information contained in it came from publicly available documents, filed in accordance with the law. There is nothing new here today. Nothing that is not already public. Nothing that sets AARP apart. No ‘unveiling’ that I can see. I am mindful that the Majority wants to cut Social Security. They want to cut Medicare. They want to cut programs that help the poor. I can only surmise that true intent of this hearing is to harm the reputation of AARP or to silence their voice as we move closer to this debate. If there was a plan to provide real oversight today, we would have before us other organizations who share the same tax status as AARP, like Sixty Plus. We would have more organizations like Tea Party Patriots, American Crossroads GPS, and American Action Network. They all share the same tax status as AARP and played a major role in the elections. If there was a real plan today, we would have before us a $2.2 billion a year race track and casino operating in Iowa under the same tax-exempt status as AARP. I find this unreal. It is unbelievable. If oversight was the true goal, we would look at the compensation paid by other tax-exempt organizations, including those that opposed health reform, like the Chamber of Commerce, AHIP, and NFIB. All pay their executives well, and more than AARP. Based on all of this, I believe that there is no plan for oversight today. We have before us a single witness, a biased report, and the use of Committee resources to settle a score. This is nothing other than a political witch hunt. The Ways and Means Committee is better than this. I ask my colleagues who is next? Who else is on your list? My college? Your church? This is a dangerous game. In closing, I am pleased to have before us today a nationally recognized, expert in the law of tax-exempt organizations, Professor Frances Hill. She wrote one of the leading treatises in this area, and I look forward to her testimony. Thank you, and I yield back.” # # #
03.31.2011	This is a warning for American workers and their families – your retirement security is at risk! Majority Leader Eric Cantor made it clear that the Republican House majority does not see Social Security as a viable part of America’s future. He made this comment yesterday on a National Public Radio program: “I mean, just from the very notion that it said that 50 percent of beneficiaries under the Social Security program use those moneys as their sole source of income. So we've got to protect today's seniors. But for the rest of us? For - you know, listen." “We're going to have to come to grips with the fact that these programs cannot exist if we want America to be what we want America to be.” [NPR, 3/29] Americans overwhelmingly oppose cuts to Social Security and Medicare and want to protect guaranteed benefits from Wall Street. Democrats are committed to protecting Social Security for generations to come, with benefits as a guaranteed right not a gamble. Instead of continuing to blame Social Security as the cause of our deficit, Republicans should join with Democrats to create jobs, strengthen the middle class, and reduce the deficit in a responsible way. “Social Security is a sacred trust,” said Rep. John Lewis. “It is an insurance program that Americans pay into through payroll deductions to secure their future. Those payments are like a promise the U.S. government is making to help secure elder Americans against poverty and offer them a small margin of independence in their old age. It is a safety net which should be defended and protected. For decades, it represented the greatest success of government intervention in the lives of our citizens. “I was born just as Social Security was coming into affect. I remember what it was like for seniors. The program literally saved millions of elderly Americans from abject poverty. It preserves the dignity and self-respect of those who have already contributed their best years to our society. Privatization would unloose market forces on the elderly making them vulnerable to the marketing of salesmen and the volatility of the stock market in the time of their lives when they need stability the most. For the market savvy, this may work, but for the average American who chooses not to play the stock market and for the poor who cannot afford to this is a recipe for disaster.” ####
03.30.2011	WASHINGTON DC –Ways and Means Committee Republicans today released a so-called “investigative expose” of AARP summarizing publicly-available information about the organization’s structure and finances. The report, which culminates a year-long effort by Republicans to punish the organization for its support of the Affordable Care Act, illustrates a dramatic change of heart from 2003, when Republicans praised AARP for its support for the GOP-sponsored Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) and pointed to the organization’s support as a reason to pass the measure. Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander M. Levin (D-MI), Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Pete Stark (D-CA), and Oversight Subcommittee Ranking Member John Lewis (D-GA), responded to the report: Ranking Member Levin: “What a difference eight years makes. Republicans are proving that not only are they a fair weather friend to organizations that support their legislation; they are a fair weather friend to America’s seniors. Today’s report is nothing more than the continuation of a witch hunt to seek out and punish proponents of the Affordable Care Act, making it abundantly clear that Republicans will stop at nothing to advance their reckless repeal agenda to gut reforms that improve senior benefits and provide relief from high drug costs.” Ranking Member Stark: "My Republican friends didn't question AARP's motives when the organization endorsed the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 -- legislation that created a private Medicare drug benefit. Instead, they lauded AARP's endorsement as proving their bill was good for senior citizens. But now, since AARP worked to help enact health reform and will surely oppose Republican plans to convert Medicare to a voucher, privatize Social Security and block grant Medicaid, Republicans want to bring them down. " Ranking Member Lewis: “I find it deeply troubling that Republicans seem to be using congressional resources to silence people and organizations who will disagree with their policy decisions. We have seen them target labor unions, NPR and now AARP. This is no more than a veiled attempt to discredit an organization which can provide significant opposition to the upcoming GOP attempts to privatize Medicare and Social Security. Demonizing opposing views is not in keeping with the democratic ideals set down by our founders and has no place in the people’s House.” All the Republican Members of Ways and Means in Congress at the time of MMA’s passage voted for the law and their leadership embraced AARP at that time, singing a different tune: President Bush “But the groups that speak for the elderly did fantastic work on this legislation. See, there was a lot of pressure not to get something done—for the wrong reasons, I might add. But Bill Novelli, the CEO of AARP, stood strong in representing the people he was supposed to represent and he worked hard to get this legislation passed. And, Bill, I want to thank you for your leadership. You were joined by Jim Parkel, who is the President of the AARP. Jim, I want to thank you, as well, for doing what was right, for focusing on the needs of the seniors of our country.” - Remarks by the President at the Signing of the MMA, December 8, 2003, pg. 4 https://www.cms.gov/History/Downloads/BushSignMMA2003.pdf Rep. Dennis Hastert (then Speaker of the House) “AARP gives you the ‘Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval’ when it comes to seniors’ issues,” said House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Illinois Republican. “They care deeply about the future of Medicare, and they wouldn’t endorse something that would lead to the end of that program as some critics contend.” - Washington Times, November 17, 2003 https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2003/nov/17/20031117-115810-3771r/ “Let me be the first to admit that this conference report is not perfect. The far left does not like it. And some of our friends on the far right do not like it. But let me tell you who does like it. The AARP has endorsed it. So has the American Hospital Association and the American Medical Association and almost every other major seniors organization and doctor and patient group.” - Congressional Record, November 21, 2003, H12271 Rep. Bill Thomas (then-Chairman of the Ways & Means Committee) “Tonight, the Republican majority is going to add prescription drugs to Medicare. We earnestly seek our friends across the aisle help in doing this. The conference report before us is bipartisan. It is bipartisan because of the House and the Senate structure. Tonight our friends across the aisle have a chance to make it bipartisan in the House. Our friends say that we are trying to destroy Medicare; but if we are trying to destroy Medicare, why is the American Association of Retired People supporting this proposal? Why is the AARP in favor of this bill? You have heard some very harsh rhetoric from my friends across the aisle describing their abandonment by the AARP. My friends, the AARP has not abandoned you. You have abandoned seniors. AARP has chosen to be with seniors, and they have chosen to be with us.” - Congressional Record, November 21, 2003, H12248 Rep. Nancy Johnson (then-Chair of the W&M Health Subcommittee) “I do not consider the AARP a special interest group, or the Coalition to Ensure Patient Access a special interest group, or the Alzheimer’s Association a special interest group, or the Kidney Cancer Association a special interest group.” - Congressional Record, November 21, 2003, H12251-52 “This is a milestone. That is why AARP describes it as a historic breakthrough in the Nation’s commitment to strengthen and expand health security for its citizens.” - Congressional Record, November 21, 2003, H12260 Rep. JD Hayworth (then Member of the W&M Committee)“Now, we have heard a lot of wailing and gnashing of teeth about the endorsement of this plan by the AARP. I think rather than tearing up cards or engaging in personal attacks on those who may serve very competently in that association, it might be good to actually listen to the words of our seniors who belong, the millions of seniors who depend on prescription drugs and believe in the AARP. And they readily admit, as all of us would admit, this legislation may not be perfect, but it is a good place to start. We all know, on both sides of the aisle, change comes incrementally. Let us adopt this legislation for America’s seniors and for future seniors.” - Congressional Record, November 21, 2003, H12251 Rep. Weller (then Member of the W&M Committee) “This legislation that came out of bipartisan work, it is endorsed by the AARP, a trusted organization that represents millions of American seniors.” - Congressional Record, November 21, 2003, H12255 Rep. Rob Portman (then Ways and Means Member, now Senator) “This is why the AARP supports this. This is why the AARP is standing up for their seniors.” - Congressional Record, November 21, 2003, H12257 Rep. Billy Tauzin (then Chairman of the Energy & Commerce Committee) “And I think that is why AARP has endorsed our bill, because they know we have gotten a great generous coverage for the low-income American seniors who want to stay in Medicare or who want to choose something else.” - Congressional Record, November 21, 2003, H12260 Rep. Phil Gingrey (now Energy and Commerce Member) “Mr. Speaker, 35 million senior Members of AARP, 330,000 physician members of the American Medical Association who are providing care to hundreds of millions of Americans and 40 million Medicare beneficiaries, the American Hospital Association, the Rural Hospital Association, the United States Chamber of Commerce; Mr. Speaker, with so many for a prescription drug and Medicare modernization for our beloved seniors, who could be against it, and why?” - Congressional Record, November 21, 2003, H12262 # # #
03.30.2011	In 1971, 13 members of Congress decided to band together to form the Congressional Black Caucus. Its founding members were Rep. Shirley Chisholm (NY), William Clay (MO) George Collins (IL), John Conyers Jr. (MI), Ronald Dellums (CA), Charles Diggs (MI), Augustus Hawkins (CA), Ralph Metcalfe (IL), Parren Mitchell (MD), Robert Nix (PA), Charles Rangel (NY), Louis Stokes (OH), and Delegate Walter Fauntroy (DC). Rep. Diggs served as the CBC’s first chairman. The vision of the founding members of the Congressional Black Caucus – to “promote the public welfare through legislation designed to meet the needs of millions of neglected citizens” – continues to be a beacon for the legislative work and political activities of the Congressional Black Caucus today. “I am a very proud member of the Congressional Black Caucus,” said Rep. John Lewis. “Throughout my quarter century in Congress, the CBC has been a tireless, consistently progressive voice, always advocating for and insisting upon inclusion as a mandate of our democracy. The CBC is a powerful and seasoned advocate for African-Americans and all people who have been left out and left behind in this country." “ I am fortunate to have lived to see a pinnacle in the CBC’s history in the 111th Congress, when CBC members held five committee chairmanships, the position of Majority Whip and now one of our own is President of the United States. People see these successes as a sign that the most challenging, divisive issues the CBC has faced around the issues of race and class are no longer factors in our society. There is no question that we have made progress, but we still have a great distance to go before we can say we live in a truly just and fair society." “Until that day, I look forward to standing shoulder-to-shoulder with my colleagues to fight the good fight for justice and equality for all people in our society. Congratulations to the Congressional Black Caucus on 40 powerful and important years.” ####
03.22.2011	Atlanta--Yesterday, Rep. John Lewis was proud to confer the highest honor bestowed upon America's young people on David Fernandez, a senior at Riverwood International Charter School in Atlanta. The Congressional Award Bronze Medal acknowledges young Americans for their work to better the community and for the goals they set to better themselves. "It was a great pleasure," said Rep. John Lewis, " to be able to deliver this award to a very deserving young man. It is so important for all of us to acknowledge the good work of young people in our community who are making a contribution to our society. David is very young, but he in a short period of time, he was able to gain skills, such as financial literacy and physical fitness, that can put him ahead of in life. I commend David, his family for their support and the Congressional Award Foundation for its work to help develop our nation's youth. I wish others would follow in the footsteps of this young man." The Congressional Award was established in 1979 byThe Congressional Award Act, Public Law 94-114. More than 6,500 Congressional Awards have been earned, representing well over 1.5 million volunteer hours performed in community service across America. The Congressional Award is non-competitive. Recipients do not win the award; they earn it. Bronze, Silver and Gold Medals are presented to all young people who meet the requirements, regardless of physical, mental or socioeconomic circumstances. They must set challenging goals for the betterment of themselves and their communities. It is one of only two awards conferred by the United States Congress. The Congressional Award Foundation is an IRS-designated 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that receives no federal funding. In order to achieve this great honor, Fernandez had to complete 100 hours of community service, 50 hours of personal development, 50 hours of physical fitness as well as experience take an expedition or go on an exploration. He had to complete all of this within seven months to receive the award. David used his physical fitness hours to train for a triathalon, lifting weights and running 40 miles per week. He volunteered in after-school and summer camp programs to help Hispanic children and also helped raise funds for the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. To develop himself personally, he researched the field of nanotechnology, attended workshops on investing, and set up informational meetings with financial advisors. Fernandez' expedition included a camping trip to Standing Indian Mountain in North Carolina and several other outdoor hikes. "David's work exemplifies the cornerstones of the Congressional Award," said award program director Eliot Williamson, "service to others; initiative; and achievement. The Congressional Award is very beneficial to young people because it challenges them to set goals and motivates them to engage with their community. By doing this they come to know themselves in ways they may never have otherwise. There are young people in our program who changed their career paths totally after setting up informational interviews in the personal development portion of this service. And meeting a member of Congress, especially one as esteemed as Congressman Lewis is a tremendous highlight for many of them. They have told me that later, once they start looking for jobs, many interviews begin with questions about the Congressional Award and what they did to earn it." The Congressional Award is open to all young people in America ages 14-23. To register to earn the Congressional Award, call 1-888-80-AWARD, or visit the web site at: https://www.congressionalaward.org/ ####
03.22.2011	During every campaign season, we hear feisty candidates railing against the recess of the U.S. Congress. Actually recess does not mean that members of Congress and their staff do not work. It just means that there is a recess on voting in Washington, so members go home to their districts and spend time with their constituents. Though Democrats were lambasted, even at Christmas and Easter time when they went home for recess, actually this Republican-led House has scheduled more recesses than the last Democratic Congress ever did. But for Rep. John Lewis more recess means more time to spend talking to citizens in Atlanta, and he is using his time wisely. Today he had a busy schedule paying his respects to Japanese victims of the tsunami at the Japanese Consulate in Atlanta, visiting the Old Fourth Ward Urban Farm near Grady Hospital, talking to urban farmer Rashid Nuri and Councilman Kwanzaa Hall, and discussing transportation issues with Erik Steavens of GDOT Intermodal Programs and Emory McClinton of the GDOT Board. ####
03.11.2011	Washington D.C. -Yesterday Rep. John Lewis spoke out on the floor to help save the American Dream for millions of families. Rep. John Lewis made this impassioned statement on the floor of the House yesterday in an effort to defeat this termination of support for people who need it the most. The U.S. House of Representatives was preparing to vote on the Emergency Mortgage Relief Program Termination Act (H.R. 836) and the FHA Refinance Program Termination Act (H.R. 830). The two bills were authored by the Obama Administration to help main street homeowners in danger of foreclosure to stay in their houses. Mr. Speaker, I rise today for each and every person who owns a home. I rise today for every American, who has struggled to pay their mortgage each month. I rise for every person who has watched their home, their piece of the American Dream, slip away because they lost their job through no fault of their own, or because they got cancer and are no longer able to work and pay their medical bills. I rise to condemn what these bills are trying to do today. Make no mistake, repealing these programs will close the door on the American Dream for more and more Americans. Mr. Speaker, when I was a young boy, my family did not own a home. My father was a sharecropper. My mother and father had to “go without” for years. They saved and they saved. They prayed. They waited. My father could never get a mortgage. Mortgages were not available where we lived. They were not available for families like mine. It’s just the way it was. In 1944, my parents bought a house with three rooms and 110 acres outside a small town called Troy, in rural Alabama. It cost us $300. I couldn’t imagine that much money changing hands at once. I look around this chamber and I see some suits in this room that cost much more then what my father paid. Up until the time she died, my mother spoke about the day we moved in. How proud she was. It was a huge achievement for us. It changed everything. That house – that land- it was ours. Ours. Looking back, I can’t imagine what it would have been like to have lost it all – for reasons beyond my father’s control. The harvest, or the weather or because it would fix someone else’s bottom line. Mr. Speaker, I know that buying a house is the biggest decision most people will ever make and it is their greatest source of pride. For most people, their dream is their house. It was for me. When I bought my house I thought of my mother and my father. His house made it possible for me to buy mine. This American dream. It’s built from hard work. But that dream is also made of bricks and mortar. It’s a house, Mr. Speaker! It is a home! And this chamber is shutting the door on that house. (more) They are locking the door on the American Dream. These two bills today would end two new programs that are helping struggling homeowners, who have lost their job through no fault of their own. To me, it is unthinkable. Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose H.R. 836 and H.R 830. We must stand up for the American homeowner. We must stand in their corner. We must not walk away from them, in their time of need. I urge my colleagues to stand with me and defeat these bills. Don’t lock the door on the American dream. The Emergency Mortgage Relief Program was projected to assist 30,000 to 50,000 distressed homeowners. The bill made $1 billion availably by HUD as loans to homeowners who have defaulted on mortgage debt due to no actions of their own. Many of those eligible were unemployed and in debt due to medical bills. The loan would assist with mortgage payments until the homeowner could find a job or resume paying. H.R. 836 authored by the House Republican leadership would end that program. The FHA Refinance Program, also developed by the Obama Administration to help homeowners who are “underwater,” meaning the mortgage on their homes are now more than the home is worth. This program allows FHA to write-down mortgage principal, refinance loans, reduce monthly payments with the goal of preventing foreclosure. H.R. 830 developed by the House Republican leadership would end this program. The FHA Refinance Program Termination Act passed the House last night, and by a vote of 256 to 171, split down party lines with Democrats supporting the continuation of this financial support for families. The Emergency Mortgage Relief Program Termination Act is scheduled to be voted on today and is expected to pass the House by the same margin. ####
03.08.2011	Washington, D.C.– Today we celebrate the 100th anniversary of International Women’s Day . Begun in 1908, it emerged out of the struggles of women in the labor movement and is used today as a way to raise awareness about the struggles and historic contributions of women. It was devised by a German public servant who wanted to find a way to make the voices of women heard worldwide on the issues of voting rights, workers rights and political representation. The day was first celebrated in 1911 with rallies in Germany, Denmark, Austria, and Switzerland and more than one million men and women in attendance. It also occurred just days before the infamous Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire in New York that drew attention to the inhumane working conditions women, children and immigrants had to endure in the industrialized West. Rep. John Lewis issued the following statement to commemorate this day: "International Women's Day emerged out of struggle, out of the need for women to speak up and speak out about the social problems that affect them the most. We have made a great deal of progress worldwide. In many nations today, women have the right to vote. They can lead the pack as corporate CEO's, prime ministers, members of parliament, judges, and secretaries of state. But the struggle for the true equality for women is still not done. " Too often today women are still left out and left behind when it comes to equal pay, equal opportunity and simple human dignity. They are still being left out of board meetings and passed over for raises. They are still living in fear of violent husbands, strangers, and friends. Women are still sold into slavery even today, shipped like cargo in secret, and traded like commodities on the black market. Women are still more likely to be hungry and poor. We have come a great distance as a human family, but we still have a lot more work to do before we build a world where women are safe, are valued for their contributions and where the sky is their only limit." To commemorate International Women's Day, Congressman Lewis also co-sponsored H. RES 194, supporting the goals of International Women's Day and recognizing the 100th Anniversary, introduced by Rep. Jan Shakowsky (D-IL).
03.04.2011	Washington, DC—Today marks the beginning of the 11th Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage to Alabama led by civil rights icon, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA). Ever since the fateful events of Bloody Sunday on March 7, 1965, Rep. Lewis has returned to Selma, Alabama nearly every year to pay homage. On that day 46 years ago, Lewis and Hosea Williams led several hundred peaceful protestors across the Edmund Pettus Bridge headed to the state capitol in Montgomery to demonstrate the need for voting rights. Lewis himself was hit in the head, left bloody and unconscious. Several weeks later, on the third attempt marchers, accompanied by Martin Luther King Jr., his wife Coretta, Andrew Young and others, did march all the way to Montgomery. Ultimately those events led to the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which banned discriminatory voting practices, such as literacy tests and grandfather clauses, and which still provides voting access for millions of Americans from Eskimos in Alaska, to Latino and Asian voters in urban cities to African Americans, disabled and elderly voters in rural jurisdictions. Recently, conservative activists have sought to challenge the constitutionality of the Voting Rights Act by mounting legal cases pointed toward the U.S. Supreme Court . Their hope is to strike down certain sections of the act that help guard against contemporary efforts to deny voting access to minorities. One such case is scheduled to be heard and perhaps decided this month by the court. "It is very important," said Rep. John Lewis, " to sensitize members of Congress to the price that was paid by African Americans and others for the right to vote. When they visit Birmingham. Montgomery and Selma, they get a feeling for the perilous struggle we had to undertake to guarantee a right that had already been granted to us by law. If we are not careful, if we are not fully informed of our history, we as a nation can repeat the mistakes of the past by passing laws that disenfranchise citizens of this country today. We have made too much progress to turn back now. This pilgrimage helps to educate lawmakers about the damaging impact of unjust law and the trials and tribulations ordinary people face when they have to right that kind of wrong." MEDIA AVAILABILITY BIRMINGHAM - TODAY 4:45 PM Kelly Ingram Park (following visit to 16th Street Baptist Church SATURDAY MARCH 5 - MONTGOMERY 10:30 AM Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church 1:00 PM First Baptist Church (photo opportunity) SUNDAY MARCH 6 9:45 AM Photo Opportunity at Edmund Pettus Bridge AVAILABLE FOR COMMENT: Senate Majority Leader, Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) House Democratic Whip, Rep. Steny Hoyer (D-MD) House Asst. Democratic Leader, Rep. Jim Clyburn (D-SC) Rep. Terri Sewell (D-AL) Rep. Spencer Bacchus (R-AL) Rep. John Lewis (D-GA), Pilgrimage Leader Also press can follow The Virtual Pilgrimage at www.faithandpolitics.org/virtualpilgrimage2011. For more details or to arrange interviews, please contact Burns Strider and/or David Tenbrook. ####
03.02.2011	Washington, D.C.– Four years ago today a bus plunged off an I-75 highway ramp in Atlanta killing seven people and injuring 28 others. The passengers were all members of the Bluffton University baseball team. The accident highlighted on-going safety issues confronting all riders on America’s buses, which still have not been remedied. Today, Rep. John Lewis, House sponsor of the bill, will introduce the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act (MESA). Senate sponsors Sen.Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Sen.Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) will introduce the Senate version today as well. Last year, aspects of MESA were including in the discussions surrounding the Surface Transportation Reauthorization bill, which was not acted on by the House in 2010. Congressman Lewis looks forward to working Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Rep. Henry Waxman (D-CA) and Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Rahall (R-WV) of the Natural Resource Committee, Rep. Nick Rahall (D-WV) as the bill is considered by the House. “Four years ago,” said Rep. John Lewis, “the families, teammates, and community of Bluffton University lost their loved ones in a terrible crash on I-75 in Atlanta. Since that day our thoughts and prayers have not ceased for the victims of this tragedy and for others who are suffering through the loss of their family members in bus accidents,” said U.S. Representative John Lewis (D-GA). “We need these regulations so that all passengers can ride buses and other motorcoaches in comfort and complete safety. Last year, we came so close to passing this common-sense, bipartisan legislation. This year, I hope the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act will become law.” John Betts, of Bryan, Ohio, whose son was one of the seven killed in the 2007 Bluffton University motorcoach crash stated: “The Betts family is grateful for the leadership of Senators Brown and Hutchison and Representative John Lewis in proposing this essential lifesaving legislation. Passage is long overdue. Since my son died there have been hundreds of motorcoach crashes and fires, thousands of injuries and far too many deaths. Families continue to bury their loved ones and passengers suffer permanent disabling injuries in motorcoach crashes that could be prevented if this bill were passed and implemented.” Yen-Chi Le, of Houston, Texas, whose mother, Catherine Tuong Lam, was killed with 16 others in a motorcoach crash in Sherman, Texas on August 8, 2008 that also seriously injured 38 people, said: “It saddens my heart that we have reached the fourth anniversary of the Bluffton University crash and basic safety protections are still not available as standard equipment on every motorcoach. How many more crashes must occur or lives be ruined? (more) “As motorcoach travel becomes more common due to rising fuel costs, the safety for traveling passengers is of paramount importance. Families of those killed in motorcoach crashes fully support the sponsors of the bill and implore other Members to get on board with MESA.” Each year, more than 750 million passenger trips are made on motorcoaches, exceeding the number of trips taken on commercial airlines. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration more than 7,800 people are injured and about 20 are killed in motorcoach crashes each year (1999 to 2008). In rollover crashes, nearly three-quarters of the passengers who are killed are ejected. “This legislation ensures action to install critically important safety technologies throughout the motorcoach fleet that NTSB investigations have found lacking and contributing to the death and injury toll in crash after crash,” said Jackie Gillan, Vice President of Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety. “This bill sets a reasonable timetable for U.S. DOT to implement NTSB recommendations to provide maximum safety benefits to motorcoach passengers for decades to come.” The bipartisan legislation is strongly supported by a broad range of consumer, health and safety organizations including Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety (Advocates), the American Association of Classified School Employees, Consumer Federation of America, KIDS AND CARS.ORG, as well as by parents and family members from across the country that have needlessly lost their children and relatives in motorcoach crashes. ###
02.17.2011	According to a new analysis by the nonpartisan Economic Policy Institute, the GOP continuing resolution will cost more than 800,000 private and public jobs. Rep. John Lewis released this statement today on the bill: “Since it has taken the helm, the new Republican leadership has done nothing to put Americans back to work. In fact, in this Continuing Resolution Republicans propose to actually cut jobs and services across the country. It strikes down over $25 million in direct funding for my district and places the Savannah Harbor, a boon to districts all over Georgia, in question. It will derail the Atlanta Street car program and high-speed rail projects in a district that is sorely in need of traffic congestion relief." “This bill is not a serious attempt at fiscal responsibility and accountability. As my colleague said earlier today, these are not tough cuts. It is easy to cut programs for working people and the poor because they are the silent majority who depends on our aid. Tough cuts would involve reining in the billions, even trillions of dollars we spend on military operations, repealing tax breaks for hedge fund managers who have more than their share of recapturing the royalties from oil companies that the taxpayers deserve. These are the truly tough cuts because these corporations can fight back, but we need to take on these challenges as a Congress because the people expect their representatives to defend them against injustice." “We need to put all the cards on the table in this process, not balance the budget on the backs of struggling families who have already taken so many hits in our economy. They are already wrestling with foreclosure, energy hikes, skyrocketing education costs, joblessness, limited access to health care, tax increases, and even impediments to filing for bankruptcy. Entitlement programs need trimming, especially in areas where there is waste and redundancy. But this resolution addresses none of these issues. It seems like a thinly-veiled political move to widen the gap between rich and poor, penalize the dedication of many federal employees, and cut programs that keep States barely struggling above water.” KEY PROGRAMS ON THE CHOPPING BLOCK DUE TO REPUBLICAN CONTINUING RESOLUTION Attacking Labor & Civil Rights Efforts •· Merit Systems Protection Board •· Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board •· National Labor Relations Board •· Loan Repayment for Civil and Legal Assistance Attorneys •· Specific GA-05 cuts include: • Morehouse College Martin Luther King, Jr. Research and Education Initiative: $500,000 • Atlanta Center for Civil and Human Rights - Economic Development Initiative: $500,000 Slashing Worker Assistance and Job Creation and Retention Programs Key program cuts include: •· ETA Grants to States •· YouthBuild •· Green Jobs Innovation Fund •· Dislocated Workers Assistance •· Community Service for Older Americans •· Office of Job Corps •· Corporation for National and Community Service Shutting Down Opportunities for America's Youth Key program cuts include: •· Head Start •· Mentoring Children of Prisoners •· Teen Pregnancy Prevention Community Grants •· Fund for the Improvement of Education •· Teach for America •· State Grants for Incarcerated Youth Pell Grants •· Strengthening Historically Black Colleges and Universities •· Strengthening Predominantly Black Institutions •· Juvenile Justice •· Specific GA-05 Cuts include: Spelman College Women in Science and Engineering Program: $100,000 Transitionz for Youth, CHRIS Kids: $300,000 The Georgia Meth Project: $300,000 College Park's Law Enforcement Video Patrol: $500,000 Morehouse College John H. Hopps Defense Research Scholars Program: $2,000,000 Morehouse College Minority Energy Science Research and Education Initiative: $400,000 Putting Women, Families, Children, and Seniors on the Back-Burner Key program cuts include: •· Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants & Children •· Community Health Centers •· Maternal and Child Health Block Grant •· Family Planning •· CDC Buildings and Facilities •· CDC Immunization and Respiratory Disease •· Program Efficiency Reduction due to ACA (aka ObamaCare) •· LIHEAP Contingency Fund (more) •· Community Services Block Grant (Grants to States) •· Community Services Block Grant (Economic Development) •· Social Security Administration •· Corporation for Public Broadcasting •· Tenant Based Rental Assistance •· HOME Investment Partnerships Program •· OST, Tiger 2 from FY10 •· Housing Counseling Assistance •· Public Housing Operating and Capital Expenses •· Defense Health Programs •· SIGTARP •· Community Development Financial Institutions Fund •· Specific GA-05 cuts include: Georgia State University's Center for Vaccine Scale-Up/Process Research, Phase II: $1,360,000 Clark Atlanta University's Nanoscience and Biotechnology Laboratories and Research Program: $1,600,000 Georgia State University's Center for the Diagnosis of Pathogens: $2,000,000 Georgia State University's Child Maltreatment Prevention in Georgia: $100,000 Morehouse School of Medicine Center for Healthy Communities: $300,000 Clark Atlanta University's Research Facility Improvement for Biomedical Research: $450,000 The Elevator Modernization Project at Grady Health System: $550,000 Marcus Autism Center's Development of Statewide Autism Disease State Management Model: $200,000 Fulton County Integrated Health Center Expansion: $700,000 Discourages Efforts of Local Law Enforcement Key program cuts include: •· State & Local Law Enforcement Assistance •· COPS (Hiring) and COPS programs (Community Oriented Policing Services) •· Legal Services Corporation •· National Drug Court Institute •· Specific GA-05 cuts include: • Atlanta Safety Partnerships and Community Policing: $200,000 • Atlanta-Fulton County Emergency Operation Center Technology Enhancement (Phase 2): $300,000 Taking our Nation's Transportation in the Wrong Direction Key program cuts include: •· FAA Operations •· FTA Capital Investment Grants •· Intercity Passenger Rail Grants •· FRA, High Speed Rail •· FTA Energy Efficiency Grants •· Specific GA-05 cuts include: Environmental Infrastructure, City of Atlanta: $2,000,000 Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, Chatham County, Georgia and Jasper County, South Carolina, US Army Corps of Engineers: $5,000,000 Metropolitan North Georgia Water Planning District: $1,100,000 Atlanta BeltLine, Inc. Tier 2 Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) / Preliminary Engineering: $1,350,000 MARTA Bus, Bus Facilities and Security Improvements: $4,000,000 Undermining National Export Initiative and Efforts to Create Jobs through Trade Key program cuts include: •· International Trade Administration •· Economic Development Assistance Programs •· Minority Business Development Agency •· TAA Insurance Tax Credit Administration Closing the Door on the International Community Key program cuts include: •· McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Grants •· CDC Global Health •· Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs •· Contributions to International Organizations •· Contributions to International Peacekeeping Activities •· Global Health and Child Survival •· International Disaster Assistance •· Economic Support Fund •· Peace Corps ###
02.15.2011	Washington, DC—Today Rep. John Lewis was bestowed with the highest honor any civilian can attain. He was granted the 2010 Medal of Freedom in a ceremony at the White House hosted by President Barack Obama and the First Lady Michelle Obama. The award is “presented to individuals who have made especially meritorious contributions to the security or national interests of the United States, to world peace, or to cultural or other significant public or private endeavors.” Among today’s other honorees were former President George H.W. Bush, billionaire philanthropist Warren Buffet, world famous cellist Yo-Yo Ma, poet and author Maya Angelou, basketball great Bill Russell, civil rights activist Sylvia Mendez, artist Jasper Johns, former head of the AFL-CIO John Sweeney, and the sister of the late President John Kennedy, Jean Kennedy Smith.Rep. John Lewis made the following comment about receiving this award: “I accept this great honor on behalf of the countless individuals who decided to stand up, speak up, and speak out, for those who stood in unmovable lines trying to register to vote all across the South, for all of the Freedom Riders who were beaten and jailed, for all the participants of the modern-day Civil Rights Movement who helped transform America forever, and those who could not be here today. “For me this is a very long journey that began in a rural Alabama sharecropping town so remote, and so distant from the realms of power. To have grown up the way I did, to attend segregated schools in a one-room schoolhouse and end up standing before the President today is a testament to the capacity of this nation to empower even the least among us to play a fundamental role in this country’s evolution. I am so grateful to everyone who helped me along the way—my two loving and devoted parents, my sisters and brothers, my colleagues and friends and my son John Miles, with special appreciation to my wife, Lillian, for her decades of support and sustenance. Last but not least I will be eternally grateful to Martin Luther King Jr. who showed me how to speak truth to power and to Rev. Jim Lawson for imbuing me with the discipline and philosophy of non-violent action that changed my life forever.” ###
02.11.2011	Washington- Rep. John Lewis, an icon of the Civil Rights Movement, and a member of Congress (D-GA) made this statement today after hearing news of the resignation of President Hosni Mubarak in Egypt. "What we have witnessed in Egypt today is nothing short of a non-violent revolution. The peacefulness of this transition on the streets of Cairo is a testament to the people of Egypt--to the discipline of the protestors and the military--who resisted any temptation to descend into brutality. They demonstrated so eloquently the power of peace to persistently broadcast their message of change. "As a nation and as a people, especially this nation which found its own beginnings in a revolutionary movement, we must always try to find ourselves on the just side of budding movements of non-violent change. We must always give credence to any effort that leads to a more truly democratic world society that values the dignity and the worth of every human being. We must always nurture and empower movements which respect freedom of the press, freedom of worship, freedom of assembly, and the inalienable right to dissent." ####
02.11.2011	WASHINGTON,DC - On Tuesday, February 15th, President Obama will honorrecipients of the 2010 Medal of Freedom in a ceremony at the White House. The Medal of Freedom, America's highest civilian honor, is awarded to individuals who make an especially meritorious contributionto the security or national interests of the United States, world peace,cultural or other significant public or private endeavors. The fifteenrecipients of the 2010 Medal of Freedom were announced in November; the fulllist can be found here.Theceremony will take place at the White House at 1:30pm on Tuesday, February 15thand will be open to the press. The event will also be live streamed at www.WhiteHouse.gov/Live WHAT: President Obamahonors recipients of the 2010 Medal of Freedom WHEN: Tuesday, February 15th 1:30pm ET Final Gather at 1:00pm ET in the Brady Press Briefing Room WHERE: The East Room The White House NOTE: If you are not ahard pass holder, you must send your date of birth, social security number,country of origin and full name to pressrsvp@who.eop.govby 6:00pm on Friday, February 11th.
02.10.2011	This morning, the Ways and MeansCommittee held a hearing with U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Ron Kirk ontrade policy. For over 40 years, there has been a consistent bipartisan,bicameral effort to make sure that workers, businesses, and farmers who havebeen impacted by trade agreements which result in the loss of jobs are givenassistance. This Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) providesdisplaced workers with unemployment compensation, educational and job trainingresources, health care, benefits, relocation assistance, if moving increasestheir job opportunities, and other benefits. TAA helps to ensure theviability of the American work force and offers a way for workers to grow withthe flow of advancing economic trends, instead of being sidelined by“progress”. In2009, Congressman Lewis led a group of 36 congressional members in successfullyrequesting that the bipartisan, new and improved TAA program be included in theAmerican Recovery and Reinvestment Act. In Georgia alone, 39 companiesand 4,559 workers benefited from the improved TAA program last year.When the program was set to expirelast December, Rep. Lewis led 75 Members in the request for a long-termextension of TAA programs. The House responded by passing ChairmanLevin’s fiscally responsible, 18-month extension of TAA, which did not add acent to the federal deficit. The Senate responded with a 6-weekextension. The program is set to expire this weekend. Yesterday,nearly 70 Members joined Congressman Lewis in requesting that House and Senateleadership immediately approve a long-term extension of TAA. Time isticking, and American workers are waiting. “It is unacceptable that a long-termextension of Trade Adjustment Assistance is not at the top of our legislative agenda,”said Rep. John Lewis. “Two years ago, Democrats and Republicans cametogether to make the program better, more efficient, more effective. Now,with the House under new Republican leadership, Members are saying this is awaste of our time and money. I ask you: when did American workers,businesses, and farmers become a waste of our time? How can we defend taxcuts for the rich, tax exemptions of corporations, trade agreements thatdisplace American jobs, and forsake the American worker? They are ourconstituents. They are the people who elected us. They are the backboneof this nation. We need to pass a long-term extension and pass it now.” ####
02.08.2011	On Thursday February 10, 2011, from noon to 1:30 PM,Rep. John Lewis will co-host a Teen Dating Violence Prevention Panel to discuss“Why Middle School Matters” in the issues surrounding teen date violence. The discussion will convene in the U.S. Capitol in Room H137. The Centers for Disease Control, animportant constituent of the 5th District of Georgia, reportsthat every year 1 out of 4 adolescents is verbally, physically,emotionally or sexually abused by a dating partner. These teens are morelikely to experience clinical depression, are at greater risk to drop out ofschool and subject themselves to drug and alcohol abuse or eating disorders. These teens also are more likely to think about or attempt suicide and are morepredisposed to be victimized by abuse in college.“If we can reach young people inmiddle school,” said Rep. Lewis, “to make them aware of the nature of abuse andshow them how they can prevent it, we may be able to stop this spiraling cycleof pain before middle school students get involved in it. Teen datingviolence can happen to any young person. It knows no socioeconomicboundaries; that is why it is so insidious. It endangers the well beingof any young person who is victimized by abuse and spreads the psychologicaldamage young people experience within their families to innocent,impressionable teenagers who are not equipped to handle the consequences.” Following a 2008conversation with Fulton County District Attorney Paul Howard regarding thealarming rise in abusive youth relationships in Metro Atlanta, Rep. Lewisintroduced the Teen Dating Violence Prevention and Awareness Act. This is thethird year that the Congressman has served as the House sponsor of thiscongressional briefing. Breaking the cycle of violence at the earliestpossible opportunity is a cornerstone of the Congressman’s legislative agenda. FirstPanel: •Kevin Jennings, Assistant Deputy Secretary, Office of Safe and Drug-FreeSchools, Department of Education •James Mercy, Ph.D., Special Advisor for Strategic Directions in theNational Center for Injury Prevention and Control at the Centers for DiseaseControl and Prevention who will speak on a new initiative entitled “DatingMatters: Strategies to Promote Healthy Teen Relationships,” a comprehensivecommunity-wide Teen Dating Violence Prevention Initiative •Sue Carbon, Director, Office on Violence Against Women, Department ofJustice SecondPanel: •Laura Hampikian, Boise State University student and a teen survivor whocan speak on the need for supporting building healthy teen relationships •Abigail Baird, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Vassar College who has doneresearch on what influences teens’ behavior •Kelly Miller, Executive Director, Idaho Coalition Against Sexual &Domestic Violence and Start Strong: Building Healthy Teen Relationships ProjectLeader •Dr. Lori Vollandt, Ed D., Coordinator for Health Education Programs, LosAngeles Unified School District •Deborah Jacobson, teacher of healthy relationships curriculum in middleschool and Cantor at Temple Ahavat Shalom, Palm Beach, Florida •Neil Irvin, Executive Director, Men Can Stop Rape who has expanded theirprimary prevention program focused on male youth to middleschools. Moderator: Kiersten Stewart, Directorof Public Policy, Family Violence Prevention Fund. TheFamily Violence Prevention Fund is the national program office for StartStrong: Building Healthy Teen Relationships, an $18 million initiative ofthe Robert Wood Johnson Foundation in collaboration with the Blue Shield ofCalifornia Foundation. The Fund also spearheads “That’s Not Cool,” a nationalpublic education campaign to prevent teen dating abuse sponsored by the DOJ’sOffice on Violence Against Women, in partnership with the Advertising Council. Otherpanel co-hosts are Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID), Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), theFamily Violence Prevention Fund, Jewish Women International, Break the Cycle,MTV, Liz Claiborne, Inc.####
01.31.2011	Supports New Initiative to Recruit 80,000 African American Male Teachers by 2015 Atlanta-TODAY Rep. John Lews joins U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan, joined by film director, producer, writer and actor Spike Lee, will host a TEACH town hall meeting at Morehouse College on Monday, Jan. 31, to encourage students to choose teaching careers. The visit is part of a national teacher recruitment campaign launched by the Department earlier this year to recruit more diverse, highly qualified teachers. Nationwide, more than 35 percent of public school students are African American or Hispanic, but less than 15 percent of teachers are Black or Latino. Less than 2 percent of our nation's teachers are African American males.Following the town hall meeting with Secretary Duncan, MSNBC contributor Jeff Johnson will announce his own five-year national initiative to recruit, train, place and develop 80,000 African American male teachers by 2015. Leaders from around the country will speak to a small group of young men about the need for them to become ambassadors for this movement. The "5 by 2015" task force," led by Johnson, took seriously the call made by Secretary Duncan to recruit new teachers and decided to focus on African American men. The Task Force consists of individuals and organizations that have been dedicated to teacher development and African American male mentorship."With more than 1 million teachers expected to retire in the coming years, we have a historic opportunity to transform public education in America by calling on a new generation to join those already in the classroom," Secretary Duncan said. "We are working with the broader education community to strengthen and elevate the entire teaching profession so that every teacher has the support and training they need to succeed. Education is the great equalizer in America and the civil rights issue of our generation. If you care about promoting opportunity and reducing inequality, the classroom is the place to start."“Studies show that books, curricula, school buildings, and supplies are all important, but in the academic setting the teacher has the greatest influence on young people's lives,” Rep. Lewis said. “So many boys and girls grow up today without experiencing the impact of any significant adult male in their lives. This void can lead to tragic consequences in our communities, contributing to gang participation and teen pregnancy. Teaching is a powerful way to make a difference and turn this decline in male support into a rich, rewarding learning environment that can transform a young person's life.” WHO:Rep. John Lewis U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan Spike Lee, film director, producer, writer and actor Robert M. Franklin, president, Morehouse College MSNBC Contributor Jeff JohnsonWHEN: Noon EST Monday, Jan. 31Media avail follows WHERE: Morehouse College Ray Charles Performing Arts Center830 Westview Dr. SW (Corner of Joseph E. Lowery Boulevard and West End Boulevard), Atlanta
01.26.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—“Tonight President Barack Obama painted a powerful picture for all Americans to see. He outlined a vision that every American can rally around to help build a pathway to a stronger future for our nation. He acknowledged the bitter struggles that have battered families and individuals in the last ten years of economic downturn and near depression. But he reminded us that, in spite of all we have suffered, we are a nation of dreamers and a nation of doers who face our challenges with the power of education, innovation, hard work, and responsibility. He reminded us that when we are at our best we have made differences that have changed human history. “ “President Obama made it clear that we will face some tough realities as we try to rein in federal spending, to reform government, to surpass to the advances in research and investments in education that other nations have already made. But he suggested, and I agree, that it is time to put partisanship aside and face the shared responsibilities of governing as one nation. It means representatives on both sides of the aisle have to put all our cards on the table face up and make the hard decisions that will win a lasting future for all American people, regardless of race, creed, color, religion, class or sexual orientation.” “Someone once said that great leaders inspire others to see the greatness in themselves. Tonight the President reminded America of its legacy of achievement, a legacy that has made us an inspiration to people all over the world. He said this new age we face does not require us to forsake the values and the heritage that have made us great. He emphasized that even in times of hardship, we must not allow the call to sacrifice to rob us of our integrity, our dignity, and our identity as a nation. I thought the President delivered a very important and effective message tonight.” ####
01.26.2011	WASHINGTON, DC—“Tonight President Barack Obama painted a powerful picture for all Americans to see. He outlined a vision that every American can rally around to help build a pathway to a stronger future for our nation. He acknowledged the bitter struggles that have battered families and individuals in the last ten years of economic downturn and near depression. But he reminded us that, in spite of all we have suffered, we are a nation of dreamers and a nation of doers who face our challenges with the power of education, innovation, hard work, and responsibility. He reminded us that when we are at our best we have made differences that have changed human history. “ “President Obama made it clear that we will face some tough realities as we try to rein in federal spending, to reform government, to surpass to the advances in research and investments in education that other nations have already made. But he suggested, and I agree, that it is time to put partisanship aside and face the shared responsibilities of governing as one nation. It means representatives on both sides of the aisle have to put all our cards on the table face up and make the hard decisions that will win a lasting future for all American people, regardless of race, creed, color, religion, class or sexual orientation.” “Someone once said that great leaders inspire others to see the greatness in themselves. Tonight the President reminded America of its legacy of achievement, a legacy that has made us an inspiration to people all over the world. He said this new age we face does not require us to forsake the values and the heritage that have made us great. He emphasized that even in times of hardship, we must not allow the call to sacrifice to rob us of our integrity, our dignity, and our identity as a nation. I thought the President delivered a very important and effective message tonight.” ####
01.13.2011	ATLANTA— GSA to Unveil Cutting Edge Renovations to First Federal Building Named for Dr. King: In commemoration of the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, GSA Administrator Martha Johnson will join Rep. John Lewis, the Reverend Joseph E. Lowery, and members of the King family for a rededication ceremony and tour of the recently renovated Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal Building. The building was the first federal building in the United States named after Atlanta-native Dr. King and was the result of the first legislation Rep. Lewis introduced and guided through passage in Congress. Once a post office, it is quite likely one that Dr. King used himself on many occasions because it was located fairly close to his home in Atlanta. GSA has undertaken a complete renovation of the 1933 federal building. The renovation, which employed more than 800 people, preserves the historic features of the building while incorporating green technologies to ensure that the building continues to honor Dr. King's legacy long into the future. WHAT: Rededication ceremony for the Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal Building Followed by a press tour of the renovated building. WHEN: Friday, January 14 at 1:00 p.m. WHERE: 77 Forsyth Street, S.W., Atlanta, Georgia INTERVIEWS: To schedule interviews with any GSA official or RSVP for the ceremony, please contact Sara Merriam at Sara.Merriam@gsa.gov ####
01.10.2011	This senseless act of violence against Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, federal judge John Roll, and 16 other people, including an innocent nine-year-old child, must be condemned by us all. There is not any room in our society for these acts of violence against our fellow citizens. The question we must ask as a people is not only who, but also what has created the atmosphere and climate that makes it almost impossible for us as Americans to reason together. I pray for my colleague Rep. Giffords and her family, for Judge Roll and his family and for all the victims who were injured and slain. To see Rep. Lewis's published opinion on this, please click here . ####
01.07.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, January 11 at 11:00 a.m. EDT, Congressman John Lewis and Patrick Corvington, CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCF), will hold a conference call with reporters to discuss the 2011 Martin Luther King, Jr. National Day of Service, and announce a national initiative to mark the 25th anniversary of the King Holiday. Thousands of Americans will honor Dr. King’s life and legacy by participating in service projects across the country on MLK National Day of Service that meet the needs in their local community and move the needle on our nation’s toughest challenges. WHAT: Congressman John Lewis and Patrick Corvington, CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service, will discuss MLK Day of Service activities, a national initiative to mark the 25th anniversary of the King Holiday, and ways national service is strengthening communities. WHEN: Tuesday, January 11 at 11:00 a.m. EDT RSVP: Members of the media who wish to participate should RSVP to media_affairs@who.eop.gov. ###
12.21.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Lewis, 5th District, GA, issued the following statement expressing concern over Senate Republicans lack of compassion for the American worker:“It is a shame and a disgrace that Senate Republicans are once again holding the American worker hostage by not passing H.R. 6517, the Omnibus Trade Act of 2010 which includes the extension of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA). It is unconscionable that Americans have been displaced because their jobs have relocated overseas. These same workers will also have benefits cut because of a few Senators. House and Senate Republicans ruined the Thanksgiving Holiday by refusing to renew Unemployment Insurance unless the wealthiest of Americans, including the dead ones, continued to receive their tax cuts. Now right before Christmas, they are doing the same thing,” said Congressman Lewis.Recently, Congressman Lewis led 75 House Members in requesting prompt action of House and Senate leaders to extend TAA before it expires on December 31, 2010. The House responded with unanimous approval. Unfortunately, the Scrooges in the Senate have seen fit to block the much needed assistance that would benefit thousands of American workers this holiday season.The Trade Adjustment Assistance program provides key services and assistance to workers, businesses, and farmers who have been negatively impacted by trade. When Congress updated the program in 2009, TAA was improved to include not just manufacturing, but also service-sector jobs. As a result of the bipartisan improvements to the bill, more than 4,600 Georgians have benefited from TAA and certain Metro-Atlanta service-workers many who are just beginning to reap the benefits of the new program. The U.S. Department of Labor estimates that failure to move this extension will cost states more than $260 million impacting thousands of workers. ###
12.16.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman John Lewis, 5th District Georgia, is calling tonight’s vote on the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010 one of the toughest votes he’s had to take in his entire political career. The measure passed the House with a vote of 277-148.“It is with a heavy heart that I took this vote tonight. This was a bad deal, rotten to the core. This bill does nothing to create jobs while at the same time providing tax cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans. Additionally, it further burdens an already strained Social Security Trust Fund,” said Congressman Lewis.“Though this legislation passed the House, I in good conscience, could not vote for this bill because those same hardworking families who will be helped in the short term, will be harmed in the long run. Those very same families will be forced to pay back this debt. Extending middle class tax cuts and unemployment benefits is the right thing to do, particularly for families who are struggling to make ends meet during this Holiday Season but I could not support a bill that was so terribly tilted in favor of the wealthy and that also undermines the solvency of the Social Security Trust fund. It is with a heavy heart that I took this vote tonight. This bill is not good for the future of Social Security. It is not good for our children and grandchildren. It sets America on the road to more debt, greater deficits, and extensive borrowing from China. This bill is tampering with the soul of our nation. Some place along the way we must say enough is enough,” remarked Congressman Lewis.
11.23.2010	Washington, DC - Insurance companies are making more profits than ever but people are finding that it's at their expense. Premiums are higher but fewer services are covered and out-of-pocket costs are higher. Because of the "Affordable Care Act" passed by Congress and signed into law by President Obama this year, insurance companies must now spend more of your premium dollars on paying your medical bills and less money on things like marketing, executive compensation, and administrative costs. Congressman Lewis praised the new Health and Human Services regulation which will require companies for the first time, to publicly report how they spend your health care premiums. "Today's HHS announcement restores some fairness to health insurance - more of your premium dollars will be spent on you and your family's medical care, instead of on insurance company profits, marketing and administrative costs," said Rep. Lewis.These "medical loss ratio" provisions require health insurers to spend 80 to 85 percent of consumers' premiums on direct care for patients and efforts to improve care quality. If they don't, the insurance companies will be required to provide a rebate to their customers starting in 2012. These regulations also provide consumers more transparency.Today, many insurance companies spend a substantial portion of consumers' premium dollars on administrative costs and profits, including executive salaries, overhead, and marketing. Specifically, currently in the individual market, more than 20 percent of consumers are in plans that spend more than 30 cents of every premium dollar on administrative costs and an additional 25 percent of consumers are in plans that spend between 25 and 30 cents of every premium dollar on administrative costs. Under these new protections, millions of Americans will begin getting better value for their premium dollar.The implementation of these new consumer protections will begin on January 1, 2011 - with rebates beginning in 2012.These important consumer protections are another example of how health reform is helping Americans even before full implementation of the law in 2014. Since health reform was enacted in March, numerous provisions have taken effect, including:· More than 1.8 million seniors who have fallen into the Medicare prescription drug ‘donut hole' coverage gap have received a $250 rebate check to help pay for their prescription drugs.· This year, up to 4 million small businesses are eligible for small business tax credits to help pay for health insurance premiums for their employees if they choose to offer coverage.· Nearly 3,600 employers are now participating in the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program, which is designed to retain early retiree health plans until full reform is implemented in 2014 by providing financial assistance for employer health plans offered to early retirees.· Many Americans with pre-existing conditions now have access to federally-subsidized Pre-Existing Condition Plans, which exist in every state.· Millions of Americans are now receiving the benefits of the Patient's Bill of Rights, which went into effect for plan years beginning on or after September 23, 2010. Among its many provisions, the Patient's Bill of Rights:o Prohibits insurers from dropping people when they get sick.o Requires insurers to allow parents to keep their young adult children up to age 26 on their health plan as their children work to launch their careers.o Bans insurers from putting lifetime limits on coverage.o Bans insurers from denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions; ando Requires insurers to cover key preventive services, such as mammograms and immunizations, without deductibles or co-payments."This new rule helps the American people take control of their health care, which has long been in the hands of insurance companies, who were working for their shareholders, not their policyholders," said Rep. Lewis. "If the House Republicans follow through on their pledge to repeal health reform, they would end these new consumer protections and would allow insurance companies to continue unlimited spending on CEO bonuses and profits -- and less on patients' health care. Democrats will continue to fight to protect the progress we have made for our nation, especially health care reform."
11.17.2010	Washington, DC - President Barack Obama has named Congressman John Lewis, 5th District,Georgia, as one of the 15 recipients of the Presidential Medal of Freedom. This is the nation's highest civilian award that is presented to individuals who have made especially meritorious contributions to the security or national interests of the United States, to world peace, or to cultural or other significant public or private endeavors."I am deeply moved and gratified by the President's announcement that he will be awarding to me the Presidential Medal of Freedom in a February 2011 ceremony. I feel more than lucky and very blessed that I have had an opportunity to play a small role in helping create a more perfect union. Whatever I've been able to do or accomplish, I have done so with the support and encouragement of my family and many friends in the Civil Rights Movement and colleagues in the Congress," said Congressman Lewis.The White House issued the following statement in its acknowledgementof Congressman John Lewis:"John Lewis is an American hero and a giant of the Civil Rights Movement. He served as chairman of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), helped organize the first lunch-counter sit-in in 1959 at the age of 19, and was the youngest speaker at the 1963 March on Washington. In May 1961, he participated in the initial Freedom Ride, during which he endured violent attacks in Rock Hill, South Carolina, and Montgomery, Alabama. In 1964, he helped to coordinate the Mississippi Freedom Project, and, in 1965, he led the Selma-to-Montgomery march to petition for voting rights where marchers were brutally confronted in an incident that became known as "Bloody Sunday." Eight days later, President Johnson addressed a joint session of Congress, condemned the violence in Selma, and called for passage of the Voting Rights Act, which was enacted within months. Since 1987, John Lewis has continued his service to the nation as the U.S. Representative for Georgia's 5th District, which encompasses most of Atlanta." The medal was established by President Truman in 1945 to recognizenotable service in the war. In 1963, President John F. Kennedy reintroduced it as an honor for distinguished civilian service in peacetime. ###
10.20.2010	Atlanta, GA - Today Congressman John Lewis, 5th Congressional District Georgia, and Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed received a large check in the sum of $47,667,777 for the construction of the Georgia Transit Connector; Atlanta Streetcar Project from U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood. The official announcement came during an early morning press conference that included Secretary LaHood, Congressman Lewis, Mayor Reed, Congressmen Hank Johnson, and David Scott, Dr. Beverly Scott, General Manager and CEO of MARTA, and A.J. Robinson, President of Central Atlanta, Atlanta Downtown Improvement District. "I am so proud to once again welcome my good friend and former colleague, Secretary LaHood to the 5th Congressional District of Georgia. The Secretary truly knows that transportation means everything. Just more than a year ago, the Secretary visited Atlanta to announce a $10.8 million grant for MARTA, and today he presents a big, big check to the City of Atlanta," said Congressman Lewis. The funding received today will be used to develop a 2.6 mile, in street modern streetcar in downtown Atlanta. The Georgia Transit Connector will provide new service from Centennial Olympic Park to the Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historic Site, Grady Memorial Hospital, Children's Health Care of Atlanta, Georgia State University, and other key community, tourism and business districts. The streetcar will also connect the previously mentioned locations with the Metro Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (MARTA), this region's bus and rail system. This grant is the direct result of countless meetings, conference calls, and written correspondence between U.S. Rep. John Lewis and Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, in close coordination with Mayor Kasim Reed and the City of Atlanta. In a letter sent to Secretary LaHood in August of this year, Rep. Lewis expressed his strong support for the Georgia Transit Connector Project citing such benefits as providing much-needed services connecting the Auburn Historic District to downtown Atlanta and to MARTA. In addition to the current transportation project that was acknowledged today, Congressman John Lewis has introduced legislation on motor coach safety, Highway Transit Fund fairness, and protecting transit agencies and other local public entities from the domino effect of the economic crisis. ###
10.18.2010	Atlanta, GA - Congressman John Lewis, 5th Congressional District Georgia, is pleased to announce the funding from the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) of more than $47 million to construct the Georgia Transit Connector; Atlanta Streetcar Project designed to provide a transportation link for the downtown Atlanta area. This grant is the direct result of countless meetings, conference calls, and written correspondence between U.S. Rep. John Lewis and Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, in close coordination with Mayor Kasim Reed and the City of Atlanta. In a letter sent to Secretary LaHood in August of this year, Rep. Lewis expressed his strong support for the Georgia Transit Connector Project citing such benefits as providing much-needed services connecting the Auburn Historic District to downtown Atlanta and MARTA. "I'd like to thank my good friend and former colleague Secretary Ray LaHood for his continued support in this effort. In my conversation with Secretary LaHood this morning he reiterated his belief that it was a good and necessary project and one that deserved federal funding. Not only does this project offer citizens and visitors to the downtown area another option for transportation, it will also provide green jobs and support economic development," stated Congressman Lewis. Located in the heart of Downtown Atlanta, the Georgia Transit Connector Project which will run a span of approximately 2.6 miles will connect Peachtree Street with Sweet Auburn Avenue shuttling more than 4.7 million tourists each year and a large mass of local residents through the area. Currently, Congressman John Lewis is working with Secretary LaHood as well as local representatives for a joint official announcement next week. ###
09.30.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Denise Tolliver September 30, 2010 (202) 225-3801 Representative Lewis Introduces Legislation Named for CBC Icon Washington, DC - Congressman John Lewis, 5th Congressional District of Georgia, introduced the "Stephanie Tubbs Jones Assets for Independence Reauthorization Act of 2010." H.R. 6354, named after Cleveland, Ohio native former Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs-Jones, establishes a program that will assist struggling residents chart a path to economic recovery and financial independence. This measure updates as well as closes many of the loopholes that are prevalent in the Assets for Independence Act (AFIA). "The revamping of the Assets for Independence Act is a much needed measure and for this legislation to be named for my good, kind, caring, and generous friend Stephanie Tubbs-Jones is fitting of her and something I know that she would welcome with open arms," said Congressman Lewis. The Assets for Independence Act (AFIA) is an asset-building program that combines financial literacy education with training programs to help low- income communities. AFIA consists of a public-private partnership with a proven record of helping more than 85 thousand families save, buy, and sustain appreciating assets such as homes and businesses. The program which is administered by the Department of Health and Human Services, sets up individual development accounts (IDAs) to help low-income families save and build wealth as well as emerge from poverty. IDAs also assist struggling Americans in saving for home purchases, home repairs, continuing their education or starting a business. The Stephanie Tubbs-Jones Assets for Independence Act of 2010 will do the following: Expand and modernize eligibility standards so that more low-income Americans, primarily victims of domestic violence, children in foster care, the recently unemployed and formerly incarcerated individuals qualify for the program; Promote strategic partnerships and expand opportunities for Tribal, Local, and State governments, credit unions and other community development foundations to apply for an Assets for Independence Act grant; Simplify the administrative burden on grantees and provide more flexibility for training and counseling services; Grant equal treatment to Native American Tribal governments so they may use federal funds to administer IDA programs; Update eligible IDA uses for modern needs like education-related purchases and mobile home repairs; Increase the authorization from $25 million to $75 million. Some of the original co-sponsors of the bill include Marcia Fudge (OH), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX), Carolyn Kilpatrick (MI), Pete Stark (CA), and Niki Tsongas (MA). ###
09.22.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Denise Tolliver September 22, 2010 (202) 225-3801 Washington, DC - Congressman John Lewis, 5th Congressional District, Georgia has been at the forefront fighting Medicare fraud and abuse. On Wednesday, September 22nd that fight took another step forward. The U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 6130 the "Strengthening Medicare Anti-Fraud Measures Act." "Each time someone steals money from Medicare, it weakens the public trust," said Congressman Lewis. "It hurts our seniors and threatens the future of Medicare. We will not allow criminals to rob Medicare. If you defraud Medicare once, you will never, ever do it again," added Congressman Lewis. This legislation came out of the Ways and Means joint Health and Oversight Subcommittee's, which Congressman Lewis chairs, June hearing on reducing fraud, waste, and abuse in Medicare. The bill had bipartisan support with 20 original co-sponsors. H.R. 6130 enhances Medicare's ability to keep criminals out of the Medicare program by adding two particular fraud-fighting tools. The first one expands the discretionary authority of the HHS Office of the Inspector General (OIG) to ban corporate executives from doing business with Medicare if their companies were convicted of fraud. The second expands the OIG's permissive authority to exclude affiliates of corporations convicted of fraud, including parent companies hiding behind convicted corporate shells. "CEO's who defraud Medicare should not be able to simply move to a different company and continue to bill Medicare. This legislation will stop these practices," stated Congressman Lewis. ###
08.14.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Denise Tolliver August 14, 2010 (202) 225-3801 Representative John Lewis Celebrates the Anniversary of Social Security Atlanta, GA - Congressman John Lewis, 5th District Georgia, issued the following statement on the anniversary of Social Security: "Today marks the 75th anniversary of Social Security, a program created during the depths of the Great Depression, signed into law by President Roosevelt on August 14, 1935, when hundreds of thousands of older Americans were living in poverty. Since then, Social Security has been credited with keeping millions of Americans out of poverty and continues to be the boat that is keeping our senior citizens afloat. Social Security is a sacred trust between generations, a trust that must not be broken. I am committed and will continue to fight to keep Social Security strong and solvent, that safety net for all Americans who may need it." ###
08.10.2010	Washington, DC-Today, Congressman John Lewis, 5th District, GA, voted to save and create nearly 320,000 jobs across the country. This vote helped states prevent the layoffs of teachers, police officers, firefighters, and nurses. H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act, which passed the House with a vote of to 247 to 161, also reduces the national debt by $1.4 billion over a period of 10 years. "Passage of this legislation sends more than $300 million to the State of Georgia keeping at least 5,700 police officers, firefighters, teachers, and nurses employed," said Congressman Lewis. "It is only right that we offer the states assistance in these troubled times and help to lift their financial burdens," added the Congressman. The funds are needed immediately in Georgia since most of the public schools are opening this week. Now school districts will be able to rehire teachers and stop planned layoffs. By saving jobs, this bill improves the quality of our children's education. This bill prevents the state from making deep cuts in the Medicaid reimbursements to medical professionals who serve Medicaid patients and preserves the medical safety net that is so desperately needed as more people lose their jobs and rely on Medicaid. Under current law, the federal Medicaid matching rate is increased by 6.2 percentage points for all States, and by additional percentage points for states with high unemployment. These temporary increases were enacted in the Recovery Act in February 2009 in response to the increased Medicaid caseloads and decreasing state revenues resulting from the recession. The increase is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010. The bill continues the additional federal assistance for six months, but would phase the level of assistance down. For January - March, 2011, the federal Medicaid matching rate would be increased by 3.2 percentage points for all states, and for April - June, 2011, the federal Medicaid matching rate would be increased by 1.2 percentage points for all states. For the same six-month period, states with high unemployment will continue to receive the additional percentage points, as they do under current law. This will ensure that states continue to receive increases throughout state Fiscal-Year 2011. Earlier this year, 42 governors wrote to the Congress asking for assistance. The funding in the bill is supported by a majority of the nation's Governors, including Georgia Governor Sonny Purdue, and by numerous organizations, including the bipartisan National Conference of State Legislatures, National Association of Counties, and the Leadership Council of Aging Organizations. In addition to providing funding for states the bill closes loopholes that encourage corporations to ship jobs overseas. American companies have devised schemes that shift the burden of their foreign income tax to the U.S. Federal government. These transactions enable companies to operate offshore with essentially little or no tax liability to either the U.S. or the foreign government. This loophole will be closed in 2011. The fund will be administered by the Department of Education. After reviewing state applications, the Department will make formula allocations to states based on total population and school age population. The states will then distribute the funds to school districts. In the event that the Governor does not submit an approval application for funds to the Department of Education, the bill directs Secretary of Education Arne Duncan to bypass the state government and make awards directly to other entities within the state. ###
08.06.2010	Atlanta, GA - Congressman John Lewis, 5th Congressional District of Georgia, is honored to recognize the 45th Anniversary of the signing of the Voting Rights Act. In lieu of this historic event, Congressman Lewis issued the following statement:"On Friday, August 6, 1965, 45 years ago, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law the historic Voting Rights Act. The passage of this Act by the Congress and the signing of the bill by the President has transformed American politics and made it possible for the first African-American to be elected to the office of President of the United States. With the passage and implementation of this Act we have witnessed a nonviolent revolution in America."Congressman John Lewis played an integral part in the movement that led to the passage of the Voting Rights Act. He was on the front lines registering hundreds of black Americans in Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississippi to vote. He also led that fateful march across the Edmund Pettis Bridge on what became known to us all as "Bloody Sunday." For the first time, America saw the brutal images of the unwarranted beatings, police dogs, and fire hoses that were unleashed on black citizens who had gathered for a peaceful march and had not broken any laws. That was a major turning point in America. ###
08.03.2010	Atlanta, GA- Congressman John Lewis, 5th Congressional District of Georgia in keeping with his schedule, was on hand to greet President Barack Obama as he arrived in Atlanta, Georgia today. It was always the Congressman's intention to greet President Obama.Following the President'sappearance at the Disabled American Veterans' Convention, Congressman Lewiswill deliver welcoming remarks at the DNC luncheon prior to the President'sspeech.Congressman John Lewis continuesto respect and support President Barack Obama in his efforts to do what isright for the American people."Today I thanked the Presidentfor the direction in which he is taking our country, for what he is doing toget this country moving again, and for his vision," said Congressman Lewis. ###
07.29.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Lewis, 5th District Georgia, has introduced House Resolution 1566 recognizing the 50th anniversary of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). It was the work of the young people involved in SNCC who forced businesses in the south to integrate their lunch counters and public accommodations. "All of the young people who were members of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee were people of courage and conviction," said Congressman Lewis. We were well trained, well-dressed, and well-behaved young black men and women, something that no one at that time had seen before," stated the Congressman. In early February of 1960, four students, Joseph McNeil, Ezell Blair, Franklin McCain, and David Richmond, all students of North Carolina Agricultural and Technical College in Greensboro, North Carolina walked into a Woolworth's Department Store to purchase school supplies. They then sat down at the store's lunch counter for coffee. They were refused service but stayed seated there until the store closed. These same students recruited students from other schools and after a few days of sit-ins, the lunch counter demonstrators filled nearly all 66 spaces at the Greensboro Woolworth's lunch counter. By the end of that month, there were non-violent sit-ins at more than 30 communities in seven states. "SNCC did the hard nitty-gritty work of organizing and mobilizing people in the heart of the deep South to attempt to register blacks to vote," remarked Congressman Lewis. "From the sit-ins to the Freedom Rides, from Freedom Summer voter registration drives to the March on Washington, SNCC was there," the Congressman added. By 1963, Congressman Lewis had been arrested 24 times. That was the year he also became the Chairman of SNCC. ### CONTACT: Denise Tolliver (202) 226 - 4673
07.26.2010	Atlanta, GA - Congressmen John Lewis, David Scott, and Hank Johnson are proud to announce their upcoming event to assist Atlanta area homeowners who may be struggling with their mortgages. The three members are joining forces with the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, The Hope Now Alliance and NeighborWorks America for the "Help for Homeowners" project scheduled for Friday, July 30th 1:00PM to 7:30PM and Saturday, July 31st from 8:30AM to 3:00PM, at the Atlanta Marriott Marquis, 265 Peachtree Center Avenue. HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan will also be in attendance on Saturday, July 31st. "Like the rest of the country, our constituents are hurting. We have high unemployment leading to a high number of foreclosures," stated Congressman John Lewis. "Something must be done to help our residents and it is my hope that our event will allow people to keep their homes," added Congressman Lewis. Metropolitan Atlanta is experiencing a foreclosure boom with the number of failed mortgages more than doubling in recent years. The rate of foreclosures has been steadily rising with the area having a foreclosure rate of 3.18 percent which is slightly higher than the national average of 3.15 percent. Foreclosures not only impact the homeowners and the lenders but also impose significant costs on municipal governments and neighboring homeowners. "High foreclosure rates have plague us for years, tearing at the fabric of our neighborhoods and communities," said Congressman Johnson, who has been fighting foreclosures since he was a county commissioner in 2001. "I'm encouraged that we'll have mortgage lenders on hand to begin the process of helping homeowners, who no fault of their own, have fallen behind on their mortgages," he said. "One of the steps needed to improve the regional economy is to stabilize the foreclosure rate," Congressman Scott said. "Metro Atlanta is one of the worst areas in the country for mortgage problems. Even folks with good jobs are anxious about their homes. As a member of the Financial Services Committee, I have fought to stop predatory lending and extend mortgage relief. Hopefully, this event will help thousands of Georgians find some stability in their finances." Nearly 20 of the area's top lenders will be available at the "Help for Homeowners" event. These lenders have agreed to meet one-on-one with area residents who have mortgages with their companies and make a conscientious effort to help them stay in their homes. Lenders who have confirmed their attendance are: •· Bank of America/Countrywide American Home Mortgage Services •· Citi Aurora Loan Services •· Chase LBPS •· Wells/Wachovia GMAC •· Suntrust HSBC •· U.S. Bank Litton •· State Home Mortgage Ocwen •· PNC Bank OneWest (IndyMac) •· Saxon Mortgage Select Portfolio Servicing Also on hand will be HUD-approved counselors who will help homeowners avoid mortgage modification scams and discuss whether they qualify for the Obama Administration's "Making Home Affordable" program. Interested homeowners should bring the following documents to be considered for assistance: •· Monthly mortgage statement; •· Information about other mortgages on the home, if applicable; •· Two most recent pay stubs, documentation of income you receive from other sources or most recent quarterly profit and lost statement if you are self-employed; •· Two most recent bank statements; •· Account balances and monthly payments for credit cards and other debts; •· Estimates of other monthly expenditures (utilities, insurance, medical bills). The request for Modification and Affidavit Form and the IRS Form 4506T-EZ will be available on site. The forms may also be downloaded from the website MakingHomeAffordable.gov. https://www.makinghomeaffordable.com/docs/100405%20-%20mha%20atlanta%20bilingual%20flyer_v2.pdf ### HELP FOR HOMEOWNERS - Event Flyer
06.29.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman John Lewis, 5th District Georgia, who voted in favor of the Restoration of Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act, H.R. 5618 is extremely disheartened that his colleagues on the other side of the aisle failed to support the bill. The legislation that would have extended unemployment insurance (UI) benefits for hundreds of Georgia residents through the month of November was defeated with the House’s failure to pass the measure by a two-thirds vote."I voted in favor of this extension because this is an emergency," said Congressman Lewis. "There are tens of thousands Americans who are facing the threat of being unable to not only meet their financial obligations but having to choose between their mortgages and food because some in this Congress lacked the compassion to support this measure.""I find it unconscionable that the same Republicans who refuse to give the nearly 2 million out of work Americans the assistance that they need citing reasons of fiscal responsibility were not fiscally responsible in approving the supplemental legislation that funded the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan," stated Congressman Lewis. "I also find it morally reprehensible that these same Republicans are not fiscal conservative when it comes to tax cuts for the wealthiest 10 percent of Americans. It was a Republican Administration that took us from a major surplus to an unprecedented massive deficit. At that time we heard no calls for fiscal responsibility," added Congressman Lewis."This Congress has a moral obligation to offer its citizens help in their time of need. Today we failed in that task. It is cruel and insensitive to inflict this burden and add to the suffering and pain that America's unemployed citizens are feeling because of the loss of their jobs through no fault of their own," remarked Congressman Lewis. ### CONTACT:Denise Tolliver(202) 225 - 3801
06.15.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman John Lewis who has fought for those enslaved African-Americans who built the United States Capitol to receive recognition for their hard work, will participate in an unveiling ceremony of the plaques will do just that. The ceremony is scheduled for Wednesday, June 16, 2010 in the Rayburn Room of the Capitol at 3:00PM."Thisphysical and permanent marker will pay tribute to the blood, sweat and tears ofthe African-American slaves who helped build this magnificent building andensure that their story is told and never, never, ever forgotten," saidRep. John Lewis.EnslavedAfrican-Americans played an integral part in the construction of the U.S.Capitol working as carpenters, masons, rafters, roofers, plasterers, painters,and glazers working in quarries, in addition to many other occupations. Slavewomen and children were used to mold clay in kilns. All of the slaves worked 12-hour days, sixdays a week and were paid five dollars a month which was given to their owners.There were more than 400 slaves involved in the construction of the Capitol whowere rented from area plantations. One placewhere the handiwork of slaves is visible is in the Capitol's Statuary Hallwhich is a former meeting place for the House of Representatives that has beenturned into an art gallery. Smooth,polished marble columns soar three stories high.In addition to Congressman John Lewis, theDemocratic Leadership including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority LeaderHarry Reid, House Republican Leader John Boehner, Senate Republican LeaderMitch McConnell and Senator Blanche Lincoln who introduced the companionlegislation in the Senate are also schedule to participate in the ceremony. ###
05.17.2010	Congressman Lewis would like to remind all nonprofits and other tax-exempt organizations that today, May 17th, is the filing deadline for their annual IRS Form 990. All tax-exempt organizations, regardless of size or amount of annual revenue, are required each year to file IRS Form 990 with the Internal Revenue Service. Failure to file IRS Form 990 this year could cause some organizations to lose their tax-exempt status. By law, a tax-exempt organization that fails to file their IRS Form 990 for three consecutive years automatically loses its tax-exempt status. Prior to 2007, tax-exempt organizations generating less than $25,000 in revenue did not have to file IRS Form 990. Since 2007, however, all organizations have been required to file, and this is the third year since this requirement went into effect. Loss of tax-exempt status could affect both the organization and any prospective donors who might donate or make gifts after the date of revocation. Tax-exempt organizations whose annual gross receipts are normally $25,000 or less can find instructions as to how to electronically file their IRS Form 990 at: https://www.irs.gov/charities/article/0,,id=169250,00.html. For further information, please see the following IRS press release regarding the filing deadline at: https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=222668,00.html?portlet=7.
05.10.2010	Rep. John Lewis made this statement upon hearing of the death of famed singer, actress, and a voice of social consciousness, Lena Horne:"Lena Horne had it all-talent, beauty, and intelligence. She was more than a legendary actress and talented singer. Despite the personal sacrifices she had to make, she was a committed social activist who used her power and influence to make a difference in our society. I first came to know Lena Horne during the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960's. She had already been on the front lines of social justice throughout her life. She was one of the youngest members of the NAACP, had demanded equal treatment as a Hollywood actress, and had been blacklisted for her involvement with the work of another actor-activist, Paul Robeson.“During the Movement, Lena Horne did not hold back. She spoke up and spoke out against injustice. She marched on Washington in 1963. She visited the heart of the Deep South and appeared at a rally with Medgar Evers in Mississippi just days before he was killed. She spent some time in Macon, Georgia and in Atlanta because she had a cousin who lived there, but who also died recently. “I have several photographs with her that I cherish. One was taken when I went to see her perform on Broadway in Lady Sings the Blues. She was always so friendly and gracious. Lena Horne achieved fame and fortune, but she never forgot the plight of her people. She used her gifts, not only to accomplish goals for herself, but to win some victory for humanity. Her stand for the cause of equal rights helped to break down barriers and pave the way to new progress in our society. She will be deeply missed.” ### Contact: Brenda Jones(202) 226 - 4673
04.20.2010	Today the eminent head of the National Council of Negro Women (NCNW), the successor to its esteemed founder, educator Mary McLeod Bethune, died in a Washington, DC hospital. Dr. Dorothy Height remained at the forefront of the struggle for social justice for over 60 years. Rep. John Lewis made this statement, when he learned about her passing: “Today we have lost a great American, a brave and courageous woman who worked tirelessly for the cause of civil rights and social justice. Dr. Dorothy Height was a counselor to every White House from the time of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, offering her wisdom and guidance to help make this world a better place. “Dorothy Height was a pioneer. She was leader in the YWCA, a leader in her sorority—Delta Sigma Theta--as well as the head of NCNW. Long before some of the younger activists in the movement came to the forefront, like Dr. King and I, she was out there educating and empowering women, children and families in the South. Dorothy Height was also a feminist, and long before there was a women’s movement, she was a major spokesperson for women’s rights affirming the equality of women. “I will never forget the Wednesdays in Mississippi program that she developed during the Civil Rights Movement to bring women of different races and faiths to the Deep South. She helped build bridges and form relationships that sensitized women in the North to the problems in the South. She also saw the need for economic empowerment and created the cooperative pig bank program, which offered rural families a chance to build greater financial security and independence. These and many other programs she develop for the last 60 years helped to change the shape of America. “Dorothy Height dedicated her entire life to the service of all human kind. She was an inspiration to so many people, especially young people and women. Her stylish presence and her unyielding commitment to do what is right, what is good, and what is in the best interest of all human kind will be deeply missed.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.21.2010	Washington--Tonight by a vote of 219 to 212 the U.S. House of Representatives walked into history by passing H.R. 3490, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the first federal legislative victory in the cause of health care reform after nearly 100 years of efforts. The House also passed H.R. 4872, the Health Care & Education Affordability Reconciliation Act , by a vote of 220 to 33, which amends the H.R. 3490, the Senate version of the health care bill and reconciles differences between the House and Senate bills. Despite rancor, name-calling, and diversionary tactics, the Democratic majority was able to win the fight to end some of the punishing practices that can leave, even those with health insurance, financially debilitated when they become ill. Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) made this statement tonight during debate in favor of the bill: “Mr. Speaker, this may be the most important vote that we cast as members of this body. We have a moral obligation today to make health care a right, and not a privilege. There are those who have told us to start over. There are those who have told us to wait. They have told us to be patient. We cannot wait, we cannot be patient. The American people need health care, and they need it now. On this day, at this hour, stand with the American people and not with the big insurance companies. On this day, at this moment, in this chamber, answer the call of history and pass health care. Give the American people a victory.” Largest deficit reduction measure passed in years Contrary to other reports, the bill is fully paid for and does not add one dime to the federal debt. In fact, a recent Congressional Budget Office estimate projects the bill will reduce the federal deficit by $1.3 trillion over 20 years-- $128 billion in the first ten years and $1.2 trillion in the second ten years. It is the most significant deficit reduction measure passed in more than a decade. Major Provisions of the Bill · Makes health insurance affordable for the middle class and small businesses—the largest tax cut for health care in history – reducing premiums and out-of-pocket costs. · Gives millions of Americans the same private insurance choices that members of Congress will have — through a new competitive health insurance market that keeps costs down. · Holds insurance companies accountable to keep premiums down, prevent denials of care and coverage, including for pre-existing conditions. · Improves Medicare benefits with lower prescription drug costs for those in the ‘donut hole,’ better chronic care, free preventive care, and nearly a decade more of solvency for Medicare. · Ends overpayments to insurance companies, reining in waste, fraud and abuse, paying for quality over quantity of care. Immediate Benefits of the Bill The American people will see the benefits of this legislation as soon as the President signs it into law and in the months following. · Insurance companies will also be prohibited from dropping people when they get sick and placing restrictive lifetime or annual limits on coverage. · Small businesses that provide coverage to their employees will be eligible for a tax credit of up to 35% of premiums; · Americans who are uninsured because of a pre-existing condition will be able to buy affordable coverage through a temporary high-risk pool; · Insurers will be banned from denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions; · Young adults will be able to remain on their parents’ insurance policy until their 26th birthday; Benefits to the Fifth District See link to learn more about specific gains for 5th District residents. https://johnlewis.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=742&Itemid=1 Biggest Misconceptions · Nothing in the bill reduces Medicare benefits for seniors. Rather than undermining Medicare, this bill strengthens it. It is estimated that up to 20 percent of Medicare spending, as well as private health care spending, goes to waste, inefficiency, fraud, and unnecessary procedures. It is this spending that is targeted for elimination in this bill. The Medicare savings in the bill are simply a 5 percent reduction overall in what Medicare is expected to spend over the next 10 years. Much of the cost savings achieved are reinvested into Medicare – improving benefits and extending the life of the Medicare Trust Fund by nine years. This bill strengthens and helps to stabilize Medicare. · This legislation expands private health insurance in America, and is based on increasing choice and competition -- providing for new marketplaces where the uninsured, small business employees, and the self-employed will be able to choose among a variety of private insurance plans. Many will receive tax credits to help them afford the health plan they choose. It is not a government takeover of the health care system. · There is nothing in the bill that enables federal dollars to be utilized for abortions. Once anti-abortion proponents had the opportunity to closely examine the bill, they realized that criticisms related to abortion were unfounded. The bill has been endorsed by the Catholic Health Association, Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, Faithful America, and Evangelicals for Social Action, and 360 other organizations. The author of the Stupak Amendment voted for the passage of the bill. · The bill does not create more expenses for small businesses, but it helps to relieve the burden of health care costs for those businesses. The status quo is unsustainable for the small business community – 60 percent of America’s uninsured, or 28 million people – are small business owners, workers, and their families. Insurance costs for small businesses have increased 129 percent since 2000. The bill provides $40 billion in tax credits for small businesses to help them offer coverage to their employees and exempts 96 percent of all businesses from the shared responsibility requirement. · The shared responsibility requirement in the health reform legislation is designed to be fair to all Americans. Under the House health reform bill, the shared responsibility requirement is: only for those who do not already have health insurance but can afford it. The vast majority of Americans, more than 85 percent, already have health insurance, and therefore would not be affected by this requirement. Secondly, the bill is designed to ensure that the shared responsibility requirement is never imposed on those who cannot afford to purchase health insurance · This bill does not violate the Supremacy Clause of the Constitution. Once Congress enacts an individual mandate – in the form of a fee on persons who can afford to buy health insurance but refuse to do so -- no state law can override that mandate. Next Steps The Reconciliation bill will now go to the Senate where it will debate reconciliation for 20 hours. However the process often takes much longer, as motions and amendments may be offered and considered without debate after the 20 hours has expired. Since this bill cannot be filibustered, the minority’s only way to influence the outcome of the bill is to offer amendment after amendment in a process that has become known as “vote-a-rama.” After the bill is passed by the Senate, it must be signed into law by the President. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.18.2010	The U.S. House of Representatives will soon vote on health care reform legislation. This legislation will make health care affordable for the middle class, provide security for seniors, and guarantee access to health insurance for the uninsured – while reducing the federal deficit by over $100 billion over the next decade. This analysis , developed by the House Energy and Commerce Committee examines the benefits of the legislation in the 5th Congressional District of Georgia, represented by Rep. John Lewis. · Improve coverage for 381,000 residents with health insurance. · Give tax credits and other assistance to up to 160,000 families and 22,000 small businesses to help them afford coverage. · Improve Medicare for 66,000 beneficiaries, including closing the donut hole. · Extend coverage to 95,500 uninsured residents. · Guarantee that 17,200 residents with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage. · Protect 1,900 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. · Allow 63,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents’ insurance plans. · Provide millions of dollars in new funding for 20 community health centers. · Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and other health care providers by $304 million annually. Affordable High-Quality Health Care for the Middle Class Essential health insurance reforms. Approximately 57% of the district (381,000 residents) receives health care coverage from an employer or through policies purchased on the individual market. Under the legislation, individuals with insurance can keep the coverage they have now, and it will get better. The insurance reforms in the bill prohibit annual and lifetime limits, eliminate rescissions for individuals who become ill while insured, ban coverage denials for pre-existing conditions, and reduce the cost of preventive care. To rein in soaring insurance costs, the reforms also limit the amount insurance companies can spend on administrative expenses, profits, and other overhead. Historic health care tax cuts. Those who do not receive health care coverage through their employer will be able to purchase coverage at group rates through the new health insurance exchange. To make this insurance affordable, the legislation contains the largest middle-class tax cut for health care in history, providing middle class families with incomes up to $88,000 for a family of four with tax credits to help pay for coverage in the exchange. For a family of four making $50,000, the average tax credit will be approximately $5,800. There are 160,000 households in the district that could qualify for these credits if they purchase health insurance through the exchange or, in the case of households with incomes below 133% of poverty, receive coverage through Medicaid. Coverage for individuals with pre-existing conditions. There are 17,200 uninsured individuals in the district who have pre-existing medical conditions like cancer, heart disease, and diabetes. Under the bill’s insurance reforms, they cannot be denied affordable coverage. Financial security for families. There were 1,900 health care-related bankruptcies in the district in 2008, caused primarily by the health care costs not covered by insurance. The bill caps annual out-of-pocket costs at $6,200 for individuals and $12,400 for families who purchase insurance through the exchange or who are insured by small businesses. It also eliminates annual and lifetime limits on all insurance coverage. These reforms ensure that no family will have to face financial ruin because of high health care costs. Security for Seniors Improving Medicare. There are 66,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the district. The legislation improves their benefits by providing free preventive and wellness care, improving primary and coordinated care, and enhancing nursing home care. The bill also strengthens the Medicare Trust Fund, extending its solvency from 2017 to 2026. Closing the Part D donut hole. Each year, 5,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the district enter the Part D donut hole and are forced to pay the full cost of their prescription drugs. Under the bill, these beneficiaries will receive a $250 rebate in 2010, 50% discounts on brand name drugs beginning in 2011, and complete closure of the donut hole within a decade. A typical beneficiary who enters the donut hole will see savings of over $700 in 2011 and over $3,000 by 2020. New Coverage Options for Young Adults New lower-cost health care options for young adults. The legislation will allow young adults to remain on their parents’ policies until they turn 26. There are 63,000 young adults in the district who could benefit from this option. For individuals under age 30, the bill creates new, inexpensive policies that allow them to obtain protection from catastrophic health care costs. Helping Small Businesses Helping small businesses obtain health insurance. Under the legislation, small businesses with 100 employees or less will be able to join the health insurance exchange, benefiting from group rates and a greater choice of insurers. There are 24,500 small businesses in the district that could benefit from this provision. Tax credits for small businesses. Small businesses with 25 employees or less and average wages of less than $50,000 will qualify for tax credits of up to 50% of the costs of providing health insurance. There are up to 22,000 small businesses in the district that could qualify for these credits. Covering the Uninsured Coverage of the uninsured. The legislation would extend coverage to 95% of all Americans. If this level of coverage is reached in the district, 95,500 residents who currently do not have health insurance will receive coverage. Relieving the burden of uncompensated care. In 2008, health care providers in the district provided uncompensated care to individuals who lacked insurance coverage and were unable to pay their bills. Under the legislation, these costs of uncompensated care will be reduced by $304 million. Supporting community health centers. There are 20 community health centers in the district that provide health care to the poor and medically underserved. Nationwide, the legislation would provide $11 billion in new funding for these centers. If the community health centers in the district receive the average level of support, the 20 centers will receive $26.0 million in new assistance. Deficit Responsibility No deficit spending. The cost of health care reform under the legislation is fully paid for, in large part by eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and excessive profits for private insurers. The legislation will reduce the deficit by over $100 billion over the next ten years and by about $1 trillion over the second decade. For the Full Report: https://energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1924:benefits-of-health-care-reform-district-by-district-impact&catid=169:legislation&Itemid=55 ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.16.2010	Washington--Rep. John Lewis made this one-minute statement today on the House floor today during debate about the need for health care reform: "Madam Speaker, The time is always right to do what is right. And that time is now. The spirit of history is upon us. We must pass health care. There are those who have told us to wait. They have told us to be patient. We cannot wait, we cannot be patient. The American people need health care, and they need it now. Will we stand with the American people? Or will we stand with the big insurance companies? We have a moral obligation to make health care a right and not a privilege. We cannot wait a moment longer. We must pass health care and we must pass it now." #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.10.2010	Washington, DC—During debate today of a bill introduced by Dennis Kucinich (D-OH) H.Con.Res. 248, the Afghanistan War Powers Resolution, Rep. John Lewis made this statement against the war in Afghanistan: Madame Speaker, I rise today to join my colleagues and speak out against the war in Afghanistan. How much death must we bear, how much pain must we suffer, how much blood must we spill to say enough is enough? Can we lay down the burden of war and lift up the power of peace? Now is time for the elected representatives of the people to give peace a chance. Now is the time for those of us who believe in peace and not war to find a way to get in the way. Madame Speaker, war is bloody, war is messy. It tends not just to hide the truth, but to sacrifice the truth, to bury the truth. It destroys the hopes, the dreams, and the aspirations of a people. As one great general and President of the United States Dwight D. Eisenhower once said, "Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired, signifies in the final sense a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not clothed." As I said sometime ago, I urge you to heed the words of the spiritual: "I'm going to lay my burden down. Down by the riverside. I ain't gonna study war no more." We should follow the wisdom of that song. Madame Speaker, this war has gone on long enough. Enough is enough. It is time to bring this war to an end. I urge all of my colleagues to vote for this resolution. ##### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.10.2010	Washington, DC—Today Rep. John Lewis introduced a resolution establishing February as Teen Dating Violence Prevention Month, a bill that was delayed because of the shutdowns in Washington due to the blizzard. Because March is Women’s History Month, the Congressman felt it was still important to introduce the bill to call attention to the plight of young women who are victimized by teen dating violence. This resolution is a companion to the Teen Dating Violence Prevention Act of 2009 which establishes a national teen dating violence prevention initiative. This legislation authorizes the Department of Justice to develop targeted grants that: • Provide rehabilitative services and counseling to both victims and abusers; • Assist youth relationship abuse victims who are runaway, homeless, foster care, or youth offenders; • Offer legal services for victims to learn more about protections and resources available to them; • Develop and implement prevention programs that provide education, counseling, and identify best Practices about the traits and ways to prevent abusive relationships; • Encourage collaborative prevention and reduction strategies; and • Enhance relationship abuse prevention programs and reduction services through community-based solutions. Lewis made the following statement today in support of the resolution: Mr. Speaker, let me begin by thanking Chairman Conyers, Chairman Scott, Chairman Cohen, Ranking Member Poe and all of their staff for their support and work on this issue. I am proud to sponsor this resolution and hope that all of my colleagues will support this simple but important effort. Youth dating violence is spreading across our country. In my congressional district, the Center for Disease Control, the Fulton County District Attorney, the Partnership Against Domestic Violence, colleges, high schools, and yes, even middle schools have seen an increase in abusive teen relationships. Fear, stalking, bullying, violence, and abuse are unacceptable and always shocking. But it is tragic that the domestic abuse is a very real part of our children's relationships. We see it in the headlines; we see it on the streets; we see it with our children. I believe that nonviolence is the way of the world; we must teach this principle to our children. Mr. Speaker, we must break this chain; we must stop this cycle from being repeated over and over again. The CDC worked with Liz Claiborne, Inc. to develop Dating Matters: Understanding Teen Dating Violence Prevention. This is a free, online training course for teachers, youth leaders, and family members. I encourage all those watching this debate to research this issue, take the course, and watch for the signs. Last month, I know that many across the country recognized Teen Dating Violence Prevention Month - I hope they continue through Women's History Month and really the entire year. We used to think a week was enough time, but it's just not enough. Mr. Speaker, our communities must have the information and training to stop teen dating violence. I urge all of my colleagues to support this common-sense resolution. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.10.2010	Washington, DC—Today Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) sponsored a resolution today leading Congress to pay tribute to the 600 peaceful, non-violent workers who attempted to March from Selma to Montgomery on March 7, 1965, to demonstrate the need for voting rights in Alabama. The group met Alabama state troopers in a brutal confrontation known as Bloody Sunday. Lewis recently celebrated the 45th anniversary of the event in Selma by leading his 10th Congressional Pilgrimage to Alabama. Bi-annually he takes members of Congress to Birmingham, Montgomery, and Selma to expose them to the struggle and sacrifice that was made for some Americans to gain full and free access to the ballot box. This year Lewis was accompanied by actor Terence Howard and his wife. The pilgrimage was co-led by Sen. Sam Brownback (R-KS). Brownback and Lewis were joined by Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Mike Pence (R-IN), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Bob Filner (D-CA), Joseph Cao (R-LA), John Barrow (D-GA), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Spencer Bacchus (R-AL), Artur Davis (D-AL), Bobby Bright (D-AL) and the first African American Clerk of the House, Lorraine Miller. The pilgrimage is managed by The Faith and Politics Institute, whose mission is to “advance reflective leadership among members of Congress and congressional staff to bridge the divides that arise in a thriving democracy.” Congressman Lewis introduced this resolution today in the U.S. House of Representatives and made the following statement, as written: Mr. Speaker, 45 years ago on March 7, 1965, Hosea Williams and I led 600 peaceful, non-violent protestors attempting to march from Selma, Alabama to the state capitol in Montgomery to dramatize to the world that people of color wanted to register to vote. We left Brown Chapel AME Church that morning on a sacred mission, prepared to defy the dictates of man to demonstrate the truth of a higher law. Ordinary citizens with extraordinary vision walked shoulder-to-shoulder, two by two in a silent, peaceful protest against injustice in the American South. We were met on the Edmund Pettus Bridge by a sea of blue—Alabama state troopers. Some were mounted on horseback, but all of them were armed with guns, tear gas and billy clubs and beyond them were deputized citizens who were waving any weapon they could find. (more)Then we heard, “I am Major John Cloud. This is an unlawful march. You cannot continue. You have three minutes to go home or return to your church.” We were preparing to kneel and pray when the major said, “Troopers advance.” And the troopers came toward us, beating us and spraying tear gas. I was hit on the head by a state trooper and fell unconscious on the bridge. That day I thought I was going to die. I thought I saw death. The most brutal confrontation of the modern-day Civil Rights Movement became known as Bloody Sunday. It produced a sense of righteous indignation in the country and around the world that led this Congress to pass the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Eight days after Bloody Sunday, President Lyndon Johnson addressed a joint session of Congress and made what I believe is the greatest statement any president has ever made on the importance of voting rights in America. He began by saying: “I speak tonight for the dignity of man and for the destiny of democracy.” He said, “At times, history and fate meet at a single time, in a single place to shape a turning point in man's unending search for freedom. So it was at Lexington and Concord. So it was a century ago at Appomattox. So it was last week in Selma, Alabama.” And during that speech, President Johnson condemned the violence in Selma, and called on Congress to enact the Voting Rights Act. He closed his speech by echoing the words of the civil rights movement saying over and over “And we shall overcome….And we shall overcome.” Congress did pass the Voting Rights Act, and on August 6, 1965, it was signed into law. This past weekend marked the 45th Anniversary of Bloody Sunday. I joined with my colleagues, the Majority Leader, Mr. Cohen and Mr. Cao, and Sen. Brownback this weekend with the Faith and Politics Institute on a Pilgrimage. During this Pilgrimage, we brought our fellow members of Congress on tour of the civil rights sites in Selma, Montgomery and Birmingham, Alabama. We ended our time together in Selma by crossing the Edmund Pettus Bridge. During a time when this Congress is so bitterly divided by partisanship, we are able to come together. We see ourselves not as Democrats or Republicans, or adversaries, but we see ourselves as Americans on a journey to discover our history. We all come away from this pilgrimage with a deeper appreciation of our democracy and the power of people to make a difference in our society. Mr. Speaker, with this resolution we honor the sacrifice and courage of those brave and courageous souls who used the power of peace to redeem the soul of our democracy. We remind ourselves that freedom is not free. On this 45th Anniversary of Bloody Sunday, we must use this occasion to renew our pledge to protect the right to vote for every American citizen. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.10.2010	The House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight today announced that it will hold a hearing on the National Taxpayer Advocate’s 2009 Report to Congress on the most serious problems encountered by taxpayers. The hearing will take place on Tuesday, March 16, 2010, in the main Committee hearing room, 1100 Longworth House Office Building, beginning at 2:00 p.m. The National Taxpayer Advocate, Nina E. Olson, will be the only witness at the hearing. Any individual or organization not scheduled for an oral appearance may submit a written statement for consideration by the Committee and for inclusion in the printed record of the hearing. BACKGROUND: The Office of the Taxpayer Advocate was established by the 1996 Taxpayer Bill of Rights (P.L. 104-168). The purpose of the office is to provide an independent system to assist taxpayers in resolving problems with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), to propose changes in the administrative practices of the IRS, and to identify potential legislative changes to resolve problems affecting groups of taxpayers. The office is under the supervision of the National Taxpayer Advocate (Taxpayer Advocate) and operates independently from the IRS. The Taxpayer Advocate must submit a report each year to the House Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Committee on Finance. FOCUS OF THE HEARING: The Taxpayer Advocate will highlight key issues and recommendations from her December 2009 Report to Congress. The Taxpayer Advocate's report contains sections on the most serious problems encountered by taxpayers; legislative recommendations; the most litigated tax issues; and certain research and related studies. The hearing will focus on issues raised by the Taxpayer Advocate that relate to services provided to taxpayers and fairness in the administration of our tax laws. Specifically, the hearing will review her concerns related to: the IRS's proposed tax return preparer initiative; the unmet needs of low-income taxpayers; the decline in IRS toll-free telephone assistance; and certain IRS collection policies that unnecessarily harm taxpayers. The hearing will explore legislative and administrative solutions to the problems identified. Finally, the Taxpayer Advocate will update the Subcommittee on issues included in previous annual reports. DETAILS FOR SUBMISSION OF WRITTEN COMMENTS: Please Note: Any person(s) and/or organization(s) wishing to submit for the hearing record must follow the appropriate link on the hearing page of the Committee website and complete the informational forms. From the Committee homepage, https://waysandmeans.house.gov, select "Hearings". Select the hearing for which you would like to submit, and click on the link entitled, "Click here to provide a submission for the record." Once you have followed the online instructions, submit all requested information. ATTACH your submission as a Word or WordPerfect document, in compliance with the formatting requirements listed below, by close of business Tuesday, March 30, 2010. Finally, please note that due to the change in House mail policy, the U.S. Capitol Police will refuse sealed-package deliveries to all House Office Buildings. For questions, or if you encounter technical problems, please call (202) 225-1721 or (202) 225-3625. FORMATTING REQUIREMENTS: The Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. As always, submissions will be included in the record according to the discretion of the Committee. The Committee will not alter the content of your submission, but we reserve the right to format it according to our guidelines. Any submission provided to the Committee by a witness, any supplementary materials submitted for the printed record, and any written comments in response to a request for written comments must conform to the guidelines listed below. Any submission or supplementary item not in compliance with these guidelines will not be printed, but will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee. 1. All submissions and supplementary materials must be provided in Word or WordPerfect format and MUST NOT exceed a total of 10 pages, including attachments. Witnesses and submitters are advised that the Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. 2. Copies of whole documents submitted as exhibit material will not be accepted for printing. Instead, exhibit material should be referenced and quoted or paraphrased. All exhibit material not meeting these specifications will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee. 3. All submissions must include a list of all clients, persons, and/or organizations on whose behalf the witness appears. A supplemental sheet must accompany each submission listing the name, company, address, telephone, and fax numbers of each witness. Note: All Committee advisories and news releases are available on the World Wide Web at https://waysandmeans.house.gov/. *** CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.03.2010	WASHINGTON --- Rep. John Lewis will be hosting the 10th Congressional Pilgrimage to Alabama with Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) on March 5 - 7. The pilgrimage will include events, meetings and tours in Birmingham, Selma and Montgomery, Alabama. This year marks the 45th Anniversary of Bloody Sunday, one of the most pivotal events of the Civil Rights Movement. "During this pilgrimage," said Rep. John Lewis, "there are times when the walls between us come down. We begin to see ourselves, not as Democrats or Republicans, not as members of the House or Senate, not as advocates of differing views, but we see ourselves as Americans on a journey to discover our roots. In Alabama, we move through American history. The air is filled with the story of ordinary people with extraordinary vision willing to give all they had to redeem the soul of a nation. We come away with a deeper appreciation of our democracy, of the importance of our role as legislators, and the power of a determined people to make a difference in our society. Rep. Lewis will also be joined by noted Civil Rights leaders and Americans such as Dr. Douglas Brinkley, Peter Yarrow (of Peter, Paul and Mary), Dr. Bob Zellner, Bernard Lafayette, Bettie Mae Fikes, Carolyn McKinstry and Dorothy Cotton on this year's pilgrimage. This three-day passage through living history demonstrates the powerful role that spirituality and courage have played in shaping our nation's history. Since 1998, The Faith & Politics Institute has led nine bipartisan, interfaith Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimages to Alabama. These journeys have afforded over 100 members of the U.S. House and Senate an experiential journey through the history of the American civil rights movement. Described by many participants as one of the most valuable experiences they have had while in Congress, the pilgrimages bring people together across political, religious and racial lines, offering opportunities for engaged and reflective dialogue on the value of the civil rights movement and its meaning for us today. MEDIA AVAILABILITIES: Friday, March 5 in Birmingham - 11:45 am at the offices of Alabama Power with Pilgrimage leadership (prior to opening luncheon) - 4:30 pm in Kelly Ingram Park (following visit to 16th Street Baptist Church) (more) Saturday, March 6 in Montgomery - 11:45 am on steps of First Baptist Church (following Rosa Parks Museum, Dexter Street Baptist Church and First Baptist Church) Sunday, March 7 in Selma - 9:30 AM Photo Opportunity at Edmund Pettus Bridge and late march across bridge commemorating 45th anniversary of Bloody Sunday CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.25.2010	Washington, DC - Today, Rep.John Lewis voted to ensure that American consumers get a real choice and a fair deal when purchasing health insurance. The Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act will take away the anti-trust exemption for health insurance companies, requiring them to compete fairly and adhere to the same anti-trust laws as other companies. Despite a heated floor debate the bill passed by a vote of 406 to 19. No member of the Republican delegation of Georgia voted in favor of this legislation. “The cost of health care has gone through the roof. I meet so many people in my district who are struggling with health insurance debt. The problem not only faces the uninsured, but families with health insurance are going bankrupt when someone in the family is stricken with a major illness. Middle-class families are facing higher premiums, lower quality of coverage, and their choices are more limited everyday. While Americans are struggling, insurance companies are enjoying record profits. This injustice must come to an end.” For 65 years, the health insurance industry has been legally exempt from anti-trust laws, and the federal government was banned from even investigating evidence of possible collusion. In the last 14 years alone, there have been 400 mergers among health insurers and now 94% of all insurance markets are “highly concentrated” – meaning consumers have little or no choice between insurance providers. “There are only two industries that are exempt from anti-trust laws – health insurance companies and major league baseball,” said Rep. Lewis. “It is time we repealed that exemption for health insurers so that Americans can get a fair deal when shopping around for something as crucial as health insurance.” Health insurers that were previously exempt from anti-trust laws will now bear legal responsibility for price fixing, dividing up territories among themselves and sabotaging their competitors in order to gain a monopoly in the marketplace. Such practices have been outlawed in other industries for decades. “Competition is the core principle of our economy,” said Rep. Lewis. “And for consumers, it’s a guarantee of two things: more choices and lower costs. It is the engine that drives economic growth, spurs American innovation and ensures that consumers are getting a fair deal. This bill creates a fair health insurance marketplace and helps put our economy on sound footing for the future.”The legislation is supported by numerous groups including the American Hospital Association, American Nurses Association, American Academy of Pediatrics, Consumers Union, Consumer Federation of America, Center for Justice and Democracy, and U.S. PIRG. Following is Rep. Lewis's statement made on the House Floor today made during debate of this bill: Madam Speaker, I still believe that health care is a right and not a privilege. And this Congress must not rest until we make health care a reality for all Americans. I know we will get this job done for the American people. But until that day comes, we must do what we can to make health insurance work for people who depend on it. This bill is long overdue. The health insurance industry has been treated differently for over 50 years, and they’ve abused that privilege. In too many states, there is no competition and no choice for consumers. Insurance companies are raising rates, denying care and dropping people when they get sick. All the while, making record profits. We need to put people first, not profits. For too long, insurance companies have had the upper hand. It’s not fair. It’s not just and today we say "no more." It is time to repeal this antitrust exemption and put people first. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.03.2010	Today Rep. John Lewis introduced the Cash Back Reward Act of 2010 that will permit families to claim a tax deduction for interest paid on their credit cards for the next two years. "As families fight their out way through this recession," said Rep. Lewis, "They are using every financial means at their disposal to pay their bills and keep food on the table. Mothers and fathers are losing their jobs. The cost of everything has skyrocketed from health insurance to fuel. Wages have been flat, and families are reaching for any tool to keep their heads above water. This bill acknowledges that struggle. Instead of penalizing Americans who are in trouble, we need to help them back to stability." The Cash Back Reward Act would offer a temporary tax break to American families by permitting a tax deduction of up to $10,000 for interest payments made on their credit cards in 2010 and 2011. The bill was introduced today and will be sent to the Ways & Means Committee for review. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.02.2010	Proposals would modernize rules, help taxpayers and improve efficiency WASHINGTON DC –Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) is today applauding many proposals in the Administration’s budget that would make critical improvements to the tax system. “The Oversight Subcommittee looks forward to examining the Administration’s budget for the IRS in the upcoming months,” said Subcommittee Chairman Lewis. “I am pleased that the President’s budget includes proposals I have worked on with my colleagues—making it easier for citizens who are struggling to pay their taxes to make payment agreements with the IRS, modernizing current rules applied to employer-provided cell phones, and expanding a State’s ability to collect delinquent taxes.” Modernizes Employer-Provided Cell Phone Requirements The Administration proposes to remove the strict substantiation rules on cell phones, which only allow employers deductions for employer-provided cell phones if employees keep detailed, written records about the use of the phone. Any usage not substantiated by written records, and any personal use, are taxable to the employee. Given the modern use of cell phones (and similar devices), the Administration proposes to remove the strict substantiation requirements, which would allow employers to deduct, and employees to exclude from income, the use of cell phones (and similar devices) provided primarily for business purposes. This proposal passed the House in the 110th Congress, in H.R. 5719 (Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act of 2008). A bipartisan bill also was introduced in the 111th Congress, in H.R. 690 (Modernize Our Bookkeeping In the Law for Employee's Cell Phone Act of 2009). On June 17, 2009, Chairman Lewis and Rep. Earl Pomeroy (D-ND), a senior Member of the Ways and Means Committee, applauded Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner Douglas H. Shulman for his efforts to address a law. Click here for additional information Revises Offer-in-Compromise Application Rules to Assist Struggling Taxpayers The Administration proposes to remove the nonrefundable, down payment requirement for taxpayers offering to settle their unpaid taxes by submitting an offer-in-compromise (OIC) application. OIC agreements are an important collection alternative for the IRS and taxpayers. In this economy, many taxpayers seeking to enter into OIC agreements have recently lost jobs or are experiencing financial difficulties. On May 12, 2009, Chairman Lewis and Oversight Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles W. Boustany, Jr. (R-LA), introduced H.R. 2343, the Tax Compromise Improvement Act of 2009, which would remove this requirement. Click here for additional information. Expands States' Ability to Collect Delinquent Taxes The Administration proposes to remove the restriction that allows offsets to Federal tax refunds for delinquent State income tax only if the taxpayer resides in the State seeking the offset. On May 7, 2009, Chairman Lewis introduced H.R. 2303, the State Tax Administration Assistance Act of 2009, to remove this same-State restriction, which would allow States to collect unpaid State income taxes from nonresidents under the program. Click here for additional information. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.29.2010	"It is a shame and a disgrace that someone in Governor Sonny Perdue's office would take a cheap partisan shot on an issue that means so much to the people of Georgia. Transportation should be at the top of every elected official's agenda in Atlanta, and it has been a major focus for me throughout my entire tenure in Congress. "I have brought back hundreds of millions of dollars in federal funding to help solve Georgia's transportation problems over the years, only to have millions left unused by the state. I secured tens of millions for the Multi-Modal Terminal, the Georgia Commuter Rail, and the Lovejoy to Griffin line. For ten years, over $100 million of that money has been left waiting to be used. Even in the face of this poor management, I have used my influence to add language to a House bill which extends the deadline for this funding, so the people of Georgia will not lose this federal support. That bill has passed in the House and is waiting for action by the Senate. “More recently, partly due to my influence and the power of the Democratic majority, the Georgia Department of Transportation was a top recipient of stimulus dollars. GDOT alone received nearly $572 million in stimulus funding, without any Republican support from our delegation and in spite of criticism by the governor. Yet the state only allocates $2 million in its upcoming budget to MARTA, a vital transportation resource which is $160 million in debt. Last year, I did my part. MARTA received more than $60 million in federal funds. “I have said for years that Georgia needs a comprehensive, regional transportation plan to solve our problems. That is not the responsibility of any federal authority, but it rests squarely on the shoulders of the governor. While Georgia dawdles, other states like Florida and North Carolina are seizing opportunities to use transportation as a means to draw big business, opportunity, and jobs to their states. Georgia is not in the running because it does not have a plan. “I have done my part and will continue to bring federal money home to the people of Atlanta. Now it is time for other responsible officials to do theirs.” ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.29.2010	"It is a shame and a disgrace that someone in Governor Sonny Perdue's office would take a cheap partisan shot on an issue that means so much to the people of Georgia. Transportation should be at the top of every elected official's agenda in Atlanta, and it has been a major focus for me throughout my entire tenure in Congress. "I have brought back hundreds of millions of dollars in federal funding to help solve Georgia's transportation problems over the years, only to have millions left unused by the state. I secured tens of millions for the Multi-Modal Terminal, the Georgia Commuter Rail, and the Lovejoy to Griffin line. For ten years, over $100 million of that money has been left waiting to be used. Even in the face of this poor management, I have used my influence to add language to a House bill which extends the deadline for this funding, so the people of Georgia will not lose this federal support. That bill has passed in the House and is waiting for action by the Senate. “More recently, partly due to my influence and the power of the Democratic majority, the Georgia Department of Transportation was a top recipient of stimulus dollars. GDOT alone received nearly $572 million in stimulus funding, without any Republican support from our delegation and in spite of criticism by the governor. Yet the state only allocates $2 million in its upcoming budget to MARTA, a vital transportation resource which is $160 million in debt. Last year, I did my part. MARTA received more than $60 million in federal funds. “I have said for years that Georgia needs a comprehensive, regional transportation plan to solve our problems. That is not the responsibility of any federal authority, but it rests squarely on the shoulders of the governor. While Georgia dawdles, other states like Florida and North Carolina are seizing opportunities to use transportation as a means to draw big business, opportunity, and jobs to their states. Georgia is not in the running because it does not have a plan. “I have done my part and will continue to bring federal money home to the people of Atlanta. Now it is time for other responsible officials to do theirs.” ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.28.2010	"Howard Zinn was a wonderful historian, who not only wrote history but lived and made history. As a faculty member at Spelman College, he became actively involved in the local civil rights movement and later became a major advisor and supporter of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). He wrote the definitive book on the contributions of SNCC. And it was his voice crying out, speaking out, organizing teach-ins against the war in Vietnam that had a major impact on mobilizing people all across America in the work to end our involvement in South East Asia. The death of Howard Zinn is a tremendous loss to a generation of young people who came to know him and love him as a teacher, but also as a friend." ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.28.2010	"Howard Zinn was a wonderful historian, who not only wrote history but lived and made history. As a faculty member at Spelman College, he became actively involved in the local civil rights movement and later became a major advisor and supporter of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). He wrote the definitive book on the contributions of SNCC. And it was his voice crying out, speaking out, organizing teach-ins against the war in Vietnam that had a major impact on mobilizing people all across America in the work to end our involvement in South East Asia. The death of Howard Zinn is a tremendous loss to a generation of young people who came to know him and love him as a teacher, but also as a friend." ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.28.2010	"Tonight I think the President set a high mark, and it is up to us, the members of the House and the Senate, to meet that mark. I have been to all the state of the union addresses given by all the presidents of the last 22 years. I think this is one of the best I have ever witnessed. President Barack Obama spoke in an inspiring, uplifting, and powerful way. He reached beyond the walls of Congress and spoke directly to the American people. "He acknowledged their frustrations with government and their struggles to make ends meet in a difficult economy. He let them know he sees their character and their courage. He asked that this Congress use the people they represent as their example. He asked us to sacrifice as they have sacrificed, to put aside petty differences and politics to accomplish the hard tasks ahead of us on their behalf. "He said we have to be more than concerned about the next election. We have to look out for the next generation. This is not the time for campaigning and rhetoric; it is time to get down to the business of governing. I was glad that he had strong words for the Senate, which has not been able to move on good opportunities to bring the kind of change Americans are seeking. The House has done its part by responding to many of the people's needs with legislative action. We are hoping the Senate can finish the job. "President Obama issued a mandate on jobs, education, the middle class, small business, war and nuclear disarmament, fiscal responsibility, as well as health care. He affirmed that members of Congress must come together and get the work of the people done. And I believe his words and his proposals give us a platform to unify and begin to work on and pass some of the legislative ideas the President presented tonight." #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.15.2010	Rep. John Lewis, (D-GA) made this statement today in tribute to Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and the national Day of Service on Monday January 18th: "As we pause to recognize the life and contributions of a son of Atlanta, the residents of his hometown and state must bear witness that the work of Martin Luther King Jr., his sacrifice, and his preaching made, not just America, but the world a better place. To honor the legacy of this great man-- a man who proclaimed the power of non-violent action founded in love to solve all human problems--we must find ways to do all we can in keeping with his spirit. "The action of peace is not only demonstrated in reaching out to others, but it is also searching one's own heart and discovering the inner resources to walk in stillness in one's own life. On this day of service, why don't we try to be a little more kind, a little more loving, and a little more peaceful in our personal, community, and professional affairs? Why don't we find a way to stop the yelling and the mean words, the disrespect and self-centeredness? Why don't we bring an end to the bitterness and hatred, the anger and conflict? Why don't we use this King holiday to find a way to forgive, to find a way toward love and the perfect peace within? "And when our souls have been satisfied and love is overflowing, why don't we reach out to heal and help one another. As a National Ambassador for the Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service, I encourage everyone to discover the fulfillment of giving to someone in need on this holiday. It would be better if the tragedy in Haiti had never occurred. Haiti has needed our help for over two hundred years, but since it has come to this terrible disaster, let us use this opportunity to serve the people of Haiti like we have never served them before, to meet their crisis with the power of love and discover the beautiful island, its history, people and culture, we have too long overlooked. "And if we take up this spirit of non-violent action, even for one day, we will be advancing the dream of Martin Luther King Jr. further than it has ever gone before. We will be extending the revolution of ideas that helped transformed this nation in the last half of the 20th century, taking it away from the streets, the bull horns, and marches and bringing it into our homes, our communities, and our hearts." #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.14.2010	"First let me say, that the love and prayers of all the people of the 5th District of Georgia go out to the victims and their families in Haiti, in the Atlanta metro area, throughout America, and abroad as they respond to the worst earthquake in Haiti's recorded history. "I have been deeply moved by the utter despair we are witnessing through news coverage of this event. There seems to have been so little the people could have done to protect against this disaster. This crisis reminds us all that as a human family and as a community of nations what affects one of us affects all of us. Neither in good times nor in the bad, should we stand by and allow suffering and poverty to fester in the world anywhere we find it. An outpouring of international goodwill has been long-overdue to our neighbor in the Caribbean Sea. I hope we will use this tragic opportunity to build bridges of hope across borders and boundaries to assist the poorest nation in the western hemisphere. We must do all we can. "My office has been in touch with the State Department, USAID, the City of Atlanta, Port of Savannah, the Chambers of Commerce, CARE, MedShare, and other Metro Atlanta humanitarian NGOs to determine what kind of effort we can coordinate inside the 5th District to help. We will keep citizens advised about any means we develop to transport the care packages of local citizens who want to help. I ask that until that process is organized, citizens adhere to the State Department recommendation to send monetary donations to non-profit relief organizations with a proven track record of success in Haiti, instead of dry goods. "The Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) also held a series of meetings today to assess what can be done on a federal level to help. We held an emergency meeting with State Department officials, will manage a special order on the floor tonight to express the condolences of the U.S. Congress toward the people of Haiti, and are considering other federal and legislative steps to take. "In this disaster there is so much need. The country is not used to this kind of earthquake, so there is very little earth-moving equipment available to clear the debris. Money for relief organizations to supply water, food and clothing are among the most desperate concerns, but any efforts should be coordinated and effective. Sending supplies at this time is not viable because so much of the infrastructure of Port-au-Prince has been destroyed, and government and relief workers themselves are missing. A lot will have to be sorted out to ensure that shipments sent by citizens will actually reach the hands of those who need it. Until that time donations that can be used by effective relief organizations to fill the most urgent needs will help the most. "I call upon all the State of Georgia and the people of the 5th district to reach out and do what they can to extend their hands and offer hope to the people of Haiti in this time of crisis. " Following is a list of links and the names of agencies known to be effective relief partners in Haiti. If you want to help, please contact one of these well-known organizations who may be able to direct you to the most effective assistance you can offer at this time. Continue to check the Rep. Lewis's website for continuous updates - www.house.gov/johnlewis . Please visit https://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1134.html, for updated travel alert and situation information: U.S. Citizen Inquiries The U.S. Embassy in Port Au Prince has set up a task force at the Embassy which is taking calls as conditions permit. The Embassy is working to identify U.S. citizens in Haiti who need urgent assistance and to identify sources of emergency help. U.S. citizens are urged to contact the Embassy via email to request assistance. U.S. citizens in Haiti can call the Embassy's Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322, or 509-2229-8672. The State Department has also created a task force to monitor the emergency. People in the U.S. or Canada with information or inquiries about U.S. citizens in Haiti may reach the Haiti Task Force at 1-888-407-4747. Outside of the U.S. and Canada, call 202-501-4444. For further information and updates, please see the State Department's Consular Affairs website. If you are inquiring about specific friends or family members who are missing, please contact my office and provide the following information - constituent(s) full name; date of birth; citizenship; time, date, and place of last known location; any contact information, such as a cell phone number or hotel/church, etc. number, where the person could be reached; constituent e-mail address. Contributions/Donations U.S. citizens who wish to contribute to the relief effort for Haiti after the earthquake, either online or by text message, can visit https://www.whitehouse.gov/. Below you will find the links to the Center for International Disaster Information's (CIDI) Guidelines and FAQ, which will be helpful in answering questions from constituents around the country. That website also has the Guidelines available in French and Kreyol, if you should need them. https://www.cidi.org/guidelines/guide_ln.htm https://www.cidi.org/media/faq.htm Haitian Citizens in the U.S. Haitian citizens in the U.S. should call the Haitian Embassy in Washington, D.C., 202-332-4090, or the Haitian Consulate in New York City, 305-859-2003. Volunteer Opportunities Additionally, persons who wish to provide assistance or expertise in Haiti are asked to contact the Center for International Disaster Information. The Center, operated under a grant from the United States Agency for International Development's Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance, has established a dedicated page to coordinate Haiti support at: https://www.cidi.org/incident/haiti-10a/. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.14.2010	Today Rep. John Lewis sponsored a House resolution honoring Martin Luther King Jr. and commemorating the Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service this year on January 18 th. Martin Luther King Jr. was born and raised in Atlanta. His father was the long-time pastor of the historic Ebenezer Baptist Church, still located in the heart of the 5th Congressional District. Rep. Lewis came to know King well when Lewis headed the student wing of the Civil Rights Movement as the chairman the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee in the early 1960's. This year he will serve as an Ambassador of the King Day of Service, underscoring the need for volunteerism and public responsibility of citizens to each other, especially in the hardest times to hit American families in the last 40 years. Rep. Lewis made this statement on the House floor today: Madam Speaker, I rise in tribute to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Dr. King was a man I knew personally and regarded as a brother, friend, colleague, prophet, and my hero. He was a simple human being filled with love, peace, and compassion for all human kind. He was a ray of hope, who preached a doctrine of nonviolence and civil disobedience to combat segregation, discrimination, and racial injustice. Dr. King's speech at the March on Washington transformed the steps of the Lincoln Memorial to a modern day pulpit. On that day he shared his dream of the Beloved Community, a truly interracial democracy. I can still hear him say "I have a dream today, deeply rooted in the American Dream." It is fitting and appropriate that we pause, as a nation and as a people, to remember the life of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. He inspired a nation and changed America forever. It is also fitting the while remembering his life and his contributions, that we commit ourselves to serving our communities - to becoming the change that we all wish to see in the world. Madam Speaker, today we encourage all citizens, especially our young people, to take time to reflect on the teachings and the leadership of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. We encourage all people to do something today for your neighbor, for your community, for your country that will move us closer to Dr. King's dream of creating the Beloved Community. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
11.04.2009	"Effective Death Penalty Appeals Act" would provide critical options for death row inmates with new evidence of innocence WASHINGTON - Rep. Hank Johnson (D-GA), along with Constitution Subcommittee Chairman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers [D-MI], Crime Subcommittee Chairman Bobby Scott [D-VA], Rep. Anthony Weiner [D-NY] , Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee [D-TX], and Ways and Means Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis [D-GA] today introduced the Effective Death Penalty Appeals Act (H.R. 3986), which would ensure that death row inmates have the opportunity to present newly discovered evidence of innocence. Under current law, an inmate on death row can be stranded with no procedural options to appeal a conviction, even if there is compelling new evidence that he or she is innocent. The Effective Death Penalty Appeals Act would: (1) empower federal courts to grant habeas corpus relief for a prisoner on death row who presents newly discovered evidence that demonstrates probable innocence; and (2) allow prisoners on death row to file successive federal habeas petitions if, and only if, they present newly discovered evidence that a panel of federal judges rules may be reasonably expected to demonstrate innocence. If a federal court were to grant such a habeas corpus petition, the case would likely return to its original jurisdiction for retrial. "We've got folks on death row with no opportunity to show compelling new evidence of innocence," said Johnson, Chairman of the Court and Competition Policy Subcommittee. "The status quo is inhumane and unconstitutional." "The Effective Death Penalty Appeals Act would prevent the execution of possibly innocent people where there is new evidence of innocence," said Constitution Subcommittee Chairman Nadler. "If the death penalty remains the law of the land, then, at the very least, our legal system must never ignore evidence that could exonerate the accused. Death is different from all other penalties; it is irreversible. Those on death row must have the opportunity to bring forward all of the available evidence." "Unfortunately, errors in death penalty cases are not discovered until after the defendant is already incarcerated," said Judiciary Committee Chairman Conyers. "In some terrible cases, the system may well be allowing some innocent defendants to be executed. This bill must become law if we are truly sincere about justice for all." "We have learned in Georgia," said Rep. Lewis, "from the injustice of cases like that of Troy Anthony Davis, where legal technicalities prohibit new, important evidence from being heard. The value of a human life overrides any inconvenience of law. We have a duty and an obligation to ensure that those who may be innocent have every opportunity to be heard." "When it comes to a human life, the courts must always be able to take a closer look at evidence that supports claims of innocence," said Johnson. "We should never put someone to death if there are innumerable doubts or omissions." The Effective Death Penalty Appeals Act has been endorsed by Amnesty International and the NAACP.Why this bill matters Two cases - one present, one past - demonstrate the necessity of this legislation. Today, Troy Anthony Davis sits on death row in Georgia. He was convicted of murder in 1991, but nine of eleven eyewitnesses have subsequently recanted their testimony. Because Davis has exhausted his appeals at the state level and federal law offers him no path to relief, he is unable to present the new evidence that might exonerate him. The Supreme Court has relied upon its original jurisdiction to order the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia to grant Mr. Davis an evidentiary hearing. However, the law in its current form does not necessarily give the District Court authority to grant Mr. Davis' habeas petition, even if they find that the new evidence supports his innocence claim. In his opinion "In Re Troy Davis" (No. 09-1443; August 17, 2009), Supreme Court Justice Stevens wrote that the section of law to be amended by the Rep. Johnson's bill is in its present form "arguably unconstitutional to the extent it bars relief for a death row inmate who has established his innocence." Rep. Johnson's bill would amend that section to allow a prisoner on death row to present newly discovered evidence of their innocence. In 2004, Cameron Willingham was executed by the State of Texas for the murder of his children by arson. After Willingham's conviction, a widely-respected forensics expert reviewed the case and concluded in a report that there was "no evidence of arson." The report was sent to Governor Rick Perry and the Texas Board of Pardons and Paroles with Willingham's appeal for clemency. Willingham was executed anyway. Subsequent investigations have cast even more doubt upon the conviction. Newly discovered evidence never got the full hearing it deserved. # # # CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
11.04.2009	"Effective Death Penalty Appeals Act" would provide critical options for death row inmates with new evidence of innocence WASHINGTON - Rep. Hank Johnson (D-GA), along with Constitution Subcommittee Chairman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers [D-MI], Crime Subcommittee Chairman Bobby Scott [D-VA], Rep. Anthony Weiner [D-NY] , Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee [D-TX], and Ways and Means Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis [D-GA] today introduced the Effective Death Penalty Appeals Act (H.R. 3986), which would ensure that death row inmates have the opportunity to present newly discovered evidence of innocence. Under current law, an inmate on death row can be stranded with no procedural options to appeal a conviction, even if there is compelling new evidence that he or she is innocent. The Effective Death Penalty Appeals Act would: (1) empower federal courts to grant habeas corpus relief for a prisoner on death row who presents newly discovered evidence that demonstrates probable innocence; and (2) allow prisoners on death row to file successive federal habeas petitions if, and only if, they present newly discovered evidence that a panel of federal judges rules may be reasonably expected to demonstrate innocence. If a federal court were to grant such a habeas corpus petition, the case would likely return to its original jurisdiction for retrial. "We've got folks on death row with no opportunity to show compelling new evidence of innocence," said Johnson, Chairman of the Court and Competition Policy Subcommittee. "The status quo is inhumane and unconstitutional." "The Effective Death Penalty Appeals Act would prevent the execution of possibly innocent people where there is new evidence of innocence," said Constitution Subcommittee Chairman Nadler. "If the death penalty remains the law of the land, then, at the very least, our legal system must never ignore evidence that could exonerate the accused. Death is different from all other penalties; it is irreversible. Those on death row must have the opportunity to bring forward all of the available evidence." "Unfortunately, errors in death penalty cases are not discovered until after the defendant is already incarcerated," said Judiciary Committee Chairman Conyers. "In some terrible cases, the system may well be allowing some innocent defendants to be executed. This bill must become law if we are truly sincere about justice for all." "We have learned in Georgia," said Rep. Lewis, "from the injustice of cases like that of Troy Anthony Davis, where legal technicalities prohibit new, important evidence from being heard. The value of a human life overrides any inconvenience of law. We have a duty and an obligation to ensure that those who may be innocent have every opportunity to be heard." "When it comes to a human life, the courts must always be able to take a closer look at evidence that supports claims of innocence," said Johnson. "We should never put someone to death if there are innumerable doubts or omissions." The Effective Death Penalty Appeals Act has been endorsed by Amnesty International and the NAACP.Why this bill matters Two cases - one present, one past - demonstrate the necessity of this legislation. Today, Troy Anthony Davis sits on death row in Georgia. He was convicted of murder in 1991, but nine of eleven eyewitnesses have subsequently recanted their testimony. Because Davis has exhausted his appeals at the state level and federal law offers him no path to relief, he is unable to present the new evidence that might exonerate him. The Supreme Court has relied upon its original jurisdiction to order the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia to grant Mr. Davis an evidentiary hearing. However, the law in its current form does not necessarily give the District Court authority to grant Mr. Davis' habeas petition, even if they find that the new evidence supports his innocence claim. In his opinion "In Re Troy Davis" (No. 09-1443; August 17, 2009), Supreme Court Justice Stevens wrote that the section of law to be amended by the Rep. Johnson's bill is in its present form "arguably unconstitutional to the extent it bars relief for a death row inmate who has established his innocence." Rep. Johnson's bill would amend that section to allow a prisoner on death row to present newly discovered evidence of their innocence. In 2004, Cameron Willingham was executed by the State of Texas for the murder of his children by arson. After Willingham's conviction, a widely-respected forensics expert reviewed the case and concluded in a report that there was "no evidence of arson." The report was sent to Governor Rick Perry and the Texas Board of Pardons and Paroles with Willingham's appeal for clemency. Willingham was executed anyway. Subsequent investigations have cast even more doubt upon the conviction. Newly discovered evidence never got the full hearing it deserved. # # # CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
11.03.2009	WASHINGTON - As a result of the meeting last week between the Tri-State Delegation, the 51 members of the Georgia, Alabama, and Florida House and Senate delegations signed a letter today urging the three governors to meet expeditiously and develop a plan to resolve the water dispute. "I want to thank the congressional delegations from Alabama, Florida, and Georgia," said Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) and the dean of the Georgia delegation, "for coming together to express their ideas regarding the tri-state water conflict. Communication is the key to resolving our differences. We hope the governors will be inspired by the collaboration of 51 members of Congress and meet expeditiously to bring this conflict to a sensible resolution." U.S. Congressman Nathan Deal, R-Ga., made the following statement... "As members of the Alabama, Florida and Georgia Congressional Delegations, we understand our responsibility and that of the governors. It is my hope that we can work together towards an agreeable solution, assist the governors in their negotiations and ultimately pass legislation that fairly authorizes Lake Lanier." In response to a federal judge's ruling in July, Georgia congressmen John Lewis and Nathan Deal invited all members of the Alabama and Florida Delegations to an open discussion about the water issues confronting the three states. An agreement to send a letter to the governors urging them to act emerged from that meeting. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
11.03.2009	Rep. John Lewis made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today on the need for health care reform: "Madam Speaker, we are at an historic moment in our nation's history. After a half a century of debate, the time has come to make health care a reality for every single American. We must make health care a right, and not a privilege. People are dying without health care. This week we say "no more!" People are losing their homes because they are without health insurance. This week we say "no more!" The American people cannot wait a moment longer. Every day that we wait, 14,000 Americans lose their health insurance. We have a good bill before us. We have resolved our differences. But lately, we have been stuck in the paralysis of analysis. And it must end now. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. once said, "Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane." We must not perpetuate this injustice. The spirit of history is upon us. We have been called to lead. Now is the time for Congress to do what is right. Now is the time for action. We must pass health reform now." #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.27.2009	On Thursday evening October 29, 2009, Rep. John Lewis and Elwin Wilson, the man who attacked him at a bus depot in Rock Hill, SC will receive the Common Ground award at the Canadian Embassy in Washington, DC. This honor, given by Search for Common Ground, is awarded to people who have made significant contributions to bridging divides between people, finding solutions to seemly intractable problems, and providing inspiration and hope to many. Former honorees include Nobel Peace Prize winner Martti Ahtisaari, President Jimmy Carter, former Senator George Mitchell, Muhammad Ali, the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, broadcaster Charlie Rose, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, and the Daniel Pearl Foundation. In May 1961 Elwin Wilson was part of a mob that attacked John Lewis and other Freedom Riders for entering the waiting area of a bus station in Rock Hill, SC marked "Whites Only." Forty-eight years later, in January 2009, the men met again, this time in John Lewis's congressional office. Wilson expressed remorse for his life-long racial hatred and for having participated in beating Lewis. Congressman Lewis accepted the apology and offered his forgiveness without hesitation. The two men hope that their reconciliation will inspire others who took part in Civil Rights-era violence to come forward, and that others will work to heal wounds of racism in the United States. John Lewis has served as U.S. Representative of Georgia's Fifth Congressional District since 1986. He was a member of the Freedom Riders and was a national leader of the Civil Rights Movement. Elwin Hope Wilson has lived in Rock Hill, South Carolina for most of his life. He served in the U.S. Army, and worked as a welder and heavy equipment officer for many years. Wilson, who once took part in KKK activities, now speaks out against racial bigotry and intolerance. "Reconciliation was the overriding purpose of the Civil Rights Movement," said Rep. John Lewis. "It was our goal not only to attain civil rights, equal rights, and voting rights for African Americans and others who were disenfranchised, but to usher in a new day. We wanted to help build a nation based on simple justice that respected the dignity and the worth of every individual. In order to do that we realized we had to find a way to live with each other, find a way to make peace with each other. Forgiveness and reconciliation go hand in hand with this concept. "I was gratified when Elwin Wilson said he wanted to meet me and apologize. In all my years, no one who has ever attacked me has offered an olive branch. What he did took courage, and I respect his continued efforts to try to heal the divide caused by racial hatred and violence." #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.23.2009	Today the Atlanta Journal Constitution ran a correction to a story published on Monday October 19, 2009. The front-page story, entitled, "Opponents don't turn down cash: Lawmakers opposed to plan say it's their duty to look out for districts," included a chart which listed the amount of stimulus dollars granted to each congressional district in Georgia. They listed the 5th and the 4th Districts, represented by Congressmen John Lewis and Hank Johnson respectively, among the lowest dollars granted any district. And the article said, "In fact, combined spending for Georgia's seven GOP congressional districts totals $502.8 million, compared with $319.8 million for the state's six Democratic districts." After discussions with the AJC and White House representatives, it was discovered that this information is grossly inaccurate. And the AJC issued a correction today on A2 of the paper. It says: A chart accompanied a front-page article Monday about federal stimulus spending included some incorrect figures. Rep. John Lewis' congressional district has received $5.9 billion in such funding. And Rep. Hank Johnson's congressional district has received $82 million. In all, Georgia's six Democratic congressional districts have received $6.3 billion of the $6.8 billion. In federal contracts, grants and loans that have been approved for the states so far. Federal officials say those numbers could change at the end of this month, when they publicly report more details on where the money is going. Discussions with White House officials and those in the Vice President's office responsible for tracking recovery act dollars indicated that premature attempts have been made to analyze stimulus spending before all of the reports are in. The executive branch is checking and verifying all reports on spending and is expected to release a comprehensive description by October 30th of how recovery act monies were spent and how many jobs have been and will be created using that funding. Reports made before that time reflect analysis of incomplete data. "I am very glad," said Rep. John Lewis, "that the AJC corrected this error. It is important that the people of the 5th District know that I have been making their voices heard, even though times are very hard. The Recovery Act represented a powerful opportunity to try to save jobs, help create new jobs and jumpstart the economy in metro Atlanta. I, as well as other members of the Democratic delegation, wanted to take advantage of every chance we had to help the people of Georgia weather this difficult time. In this instance our work paid some big dividends, and it is very important that our constituents know that. We are not finished yet. There are still many more problems to address, including rising unemployment, but this was a good first effort to try to stop the slide into a depression." #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.23.2009	Today the Atlanta Journal Constitution ran a correction to a story published on Monday October 19, 2009. The front-page story, entitled, "Opponents don't turn down cash: Lawmakers opposed to plan say it's their duty to look out for districts," included a chart which listed the amount of stimulus dollars granted to each congressional district in Georgia. They listed the 5th and the 4th Districts, represented by Congressmen John Lewis and Hank Johnson respectively, among the lowest dollars granted any district. And the article said, "In fact, combined spending for Georgia's seven GOP congressional districts totals $502.8 million, compared with $319.8 million for the state's six Democratic districts." After discussions with the AJC and White House representatives, it was discovered that this information is grossly inaccurate. And the AJC issued a correction today on A2 of the paper. It says: A chart accompanied a front-page article Monday about federal stimulus spending included some incorrect figures. Rep. John Lewis' congressional district has received $5.9 billion in such funding. And Rep. Hank Johnson's congressional district has received $82 million. In all, Georgia's six Democratic congressional districts have received $6.3 billion of the $6.8 billion. In federal contracts, grants and loans that have been approved for the states so far. Federal officials say those numbers could change at the end of this month, when they publicly report more details on where the money is going. Discussions with White House officials and those in the Vice President's office responsible for tracking recovery act dollars indicated that premature attempts have been made to analyze stimulus spending before all of the reports are in. The executive branch is checking and verifying all reports on spending and is expected to release a comprehensive description by October 30th of how recovery act monies were spent and how many jobs have been and will be created using that funding. Reports made before that time reflect analysis of incomplete data. "I am very glad," said Rep. John Lewis, "that the AJC corrected this error. It is important that the people of the 5th District know that I have been making their voices heard, even though times are very hard. The Recovery Act represented a powerful opportunity to try to save jobs, help create new jobs and jumpstart the economy in metro Atlanta. I, as well as other members of the Democratic delegation, wanted to take advantage of every chance we had to help the people of Georgia weather this difficult time. In this instance our work paid some big dividends, and it is very important that our constituents know that. We are not finished yet. There are still many more problems to address, including rising unemployment, but this was a good first effort to try to stop the slide into a depression." #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.22.2009	Bill would provide IRS with tools to stop abuses and improve administration of credit WASHINGTON, D.C. - Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) today introduced the Homebuyer Tax Credit Improvement Act to improve the Internal Revenue Service's (IRS) administration of the first-time homebuyer tax credit. The bill is in direct response to testimony presented before the subcommittee today during a hearing to discuss administration of the credit and examine potential abuses uncovered by the IRS and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration. "This legislation will help ensure that the IRS has the tools and authority it needs to prevent abuse of this credit," said Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis. "This tax credit is an important resource for families seeking to purchase a home and a vital part of our economic recovery efforts. We must ensure that we are administering the credit accurately and strike a balance between issuing timely refunds of the credit and protecting federal resources. I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this legislation forward." The Homebuyer Tax Credit Improvement Act would improve administration of the credit and prevent abuse by: Requiring a minimum age of 18 to claim the credit Requiring that taxpayers attach a copy of documentation to prove that they purchased a home Providing IRS with authority to look at prior year returns and determine if a taxpayer is eligible for the credit Improving tax administration by increasing the number of electronic returns filed by return preparers The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, the U.S. General Accountability, and the IRS are in agreement that additional tools are needed to better administer this credit. Please click here to view testimony outlining potential abuses of the credit as presented at today's subcommittee hearing. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.22.2009	Subcommittee will work with IRS to stop abuses and improve administration of credit WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee held a hearing today to examine the administration of the first-time homebuyer tax credit. Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) issued the following opening statement: "Today, the Subcommittee will examine the first-time homebuyer credit. We need answers to two basic questions. Are people claiming the credit who should not? What can be done to stop this abuse? "The tax credit was created to stimulate the economy and home sales. It was estimated that at least 2.2 million households would claim about $18 billion of tax credits. To date, about 1.4 million households have claimed nearly $10 billion. The majority of these households-60 percent of them-have incomes below $50,000. "To ensure the credit achieved its goals, the Internal Revenue Service developed a program to timely process returns, and issue refunds, for those claiming the credit. I salute this effort. "I am mindful, however, that this quick response came at a cost. The Service processed over one million returns claiming the credit before new fraud filters were in place. The result, so far, is that more than 100,000 exams have been opened involving the credit. "We will hear today that taxpayers claiming the credit include those: who already owned a home, who had not yet bought a home, and who are children-some as young as four years old. There are possibly hundreds of millions of dollars that have been paid to taxpayers who are not entitled to the credit. We want to, and we need to, stop this fraud and abuse. I look forward to the recommendations of our witnesses. "At this time, I would like to take a moment to thank the Deputy Commissioner Linda Stiff, previously Acting Commissioner, for her outstanding service as a public official. I understand that you plan to retire in December after 30 years with the Service, and this is your last appearance before the Subcommittee. We have enjoyed working with you over the years, and your retirement will be a great loss. It goes without saying that you will be missed. We wish you the best. "Thank you." ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.21.2009	Last week the Senate passed the conference report associated with H.R. 3183, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2010. The report had been passed by the House earlier this month. Included in that bill is $7.4 million in funding for the following 5th District projects requested by Rep. John Lewis: Environmental Infrastructure, City of Atlanta: $1,429,000 These funds will be utilized by the City of Atlanta to rebuild its water and sewer infrastructure. They will help defray costs to the taxpayer to refurbish the system. Consortium on Plant Biotechnology Research, Georgia Institute of Technology: $3,000,000 GA Tech is a member of the Consortium for Plant Biotechnology Research (CPBR), which speeds the transfer of new innovations in biotechnology from the research laboratory to the marketplace, using a rigorously competitive project selection process that includes an industry review for relevance and peer review for scientific merit. These funds help speed movement toward a green economy. Morehouse College Energy Science Research and Education Initiative, Morehouse College: $2,000,000 This funding will contribute to the Morehouse College Minority Energy Science Research and Education Initiative, a comprehensive program for high achieving students, preparing them for careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. The program immerses participants into a 4-year program, beginning before college, and involves a program of mentored research, tuition support, seminars, and summer research experiences at research laboratories. This appropriation will help increase research scientists in the field of nuclear science security. Southern Pine Based Biorefinery Center, Georgia Institute of Technology: $1,000,000 The Georgia Institute of Technology will use the funding to create a biomass processing facility that integrates our ability to tailor biomass productivity and processability with conversion processes and the equipment to produce biofuels and bioenergy. As highlighted by the National Commission on Energy Policy and other sources, the technologies needed to generate cellulosic ethanol and 3rd generation biofuels is one of the highest national challenges this nation currently faces. At the cornerstone of this green industrial revolution is the integrated biorefinery. Funding for this project seeks to put Georgia ahead in innovation in green technology. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.20.2009	House Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (Dâ€‘GA) today announced that the Subcommittee on Oversight will hold a hearing on administration of the firstâ€‘time homebuyer tax credit. The hearing will take place on Thursday, October 22, 2009, at 10:00 a.m., in the main Committee hearing room, 1100 Longworth House Office Building. In view of the limited time available to hear witnesses, oral testimony at this hearing will be from invited witnesses only. Any individual or organization not scheduled for an oral appearance may submit a written statement for consideration by the Subcommittee and for inclusion in the printed record of the hearing. BACKGROUND: In 2008, the "Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008" (Public Law 110â€‘289) established a firstâ€‘time homebuyer tax credit for lowâ€‘ and moderateâ€‘income taxpayers of up to $7,500. The tax credit applies to homes purchased after April 8, 2008, and before July 1, 2009. The credit must be repaid over a 15â€‘year period, and repayment is accelerated if the home is sold within such period. In 2009, the "American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009" (Public Law 111â€‘5) extended and expanded the 2008 firstâ€‘time homebuyer tax credit for homes purchased between January 1, 2009, and December 1, 2009. The Act increased the maximum tax credit to $8,000. It also waived the repayment requirement unless the home ceases to be the taxpayer's principal residence within a 36â€‘month period following purchase. The firstâ€‘time homebuyer credit is fully refundable, which means that the credit will be paid out to eligible taxpayers even if they have no tax liability or the credit exceeds the amount of tax due. For homes purchased in 2008, the credit may be claimed on the 2008 income tax return. For homes purchased in 2009, the credit may be claimed on the 2008 income tax return (original or amended) or the 2009 income tax return. On July 29, 2009, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced its first successful prosecution related to fraud involving the firstâ€‘time homebuyer credit and warned taxpayers to beware of schemes. As of September 30, 2009, the IRS has identified 167 criminal schemes involving the credit and opened nearly 107,000 civil examinations involving the credit. In announcing the hearing, Chairman Lewis said, "I am pleased that more than one million taxpayers claimed the firstâ€‘time homebuyer credit. However, I am concerned about recent reports that there have been fraudulent schemes involving the credit. This hearing will allow the Subcommittee to hear what, if any, additional steps should be taken to allow the IRS to strike a balance between issuing timely refunds of the homebuyer tax credit and protecting federal revenue." FOCUS OF THE HEARING: The focus of the hearing is to review the IRS's administration of the firstâ€‘time homebuyer tax credit. The Subcommittee will examine recent allegations of fraud involving the tax credit and consider opportunities to enhance administration during the 2010 filing season. ####
10.09.2009	With this award, I think the members of the Nobel Committee are sending a powerful message to the rest of the world. They are saying, in effect, that the very presence of Barack Obama as President of the United States moves us one step closer to a world at peace with itself. In a nation like ours, with its majestic story of freedom rooted in slavery and a history of racial violence, the very existence of an African American as President declares to many in the world community the immutable universality of all humankind. Here, in the United States, we may be too distracted by the politics of the day to recognize that the world sees the emergence of this man as a sign of hope. In this very dangerous period in our world’s history he symbolizes the possibility of peace and tranquility, despite centuries of turmoil. He stands for a different kind of world leadership that is not so quick to use bombs and missiles and guns but wants to find ways to peacefully coexist with the rest of the international community. Perhaps, this Nobel Prize will give him an even greater commitment to build bridges toward nuclear disarmament and world peace. I congratulate President Obama on this great honor. ##### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.25.2009	Today, President Barack Obama declared DeKalb, Fulton, Gwinnett, Newton, Rockdale and Catoosa counties Federal Disaster Areas and residents are now eligible to receive federal assistance. Residents and business owners in these counties who sustained losses can begin applying for Individual Assistance by registering online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (local time) Monday through Sunday. Individual assistance can include grants to help pay for temporary housing, home repairs and other serious disaster-related expenses. Low-interest loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration also will be available to cover residential and business losses not fully compensated by insurance. The total number of counties designated under this disaster declaration now stands at 14. The list includes: Carroll, Catoosa, Chattooga, Cherokee, Cobb, DeKalb, Douglas, Fulton, Gwinnett, Newton, Paulding, Rockdale, Stephens and Walker counties. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.25.2009	This morning, the Federal Emergency Management Agency declared four counties in Georgia disaster areas—Cherokee, Paulding, Cobb and Douglas counties—which may not apply for individual assistance to the federal government. And all counties in Georgia are eligible to apply for hazard mitigation assistance to reduce life-threatening risk and damage to property. fema_1858-dr-ga #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.24.2009	Washington, DC — Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) today is applauding Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner Douglas H. Shulman for his decision to suspend collection of certain penalties which disproportionately impact small businesses, while Congress works on bipartisan, bicameral legislation to modify the law. The letter comes in response to a June 15, 2009 letter from bipartisan lawmakers of the Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Finance Committee. “I have heard from many taxpayers who are worried that the IRS would begin collection activities next week, and I am pleased that the IRS has halted collections,” said Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA). “I know that the Commissioner shares my concern and the concern of the members of this Congress that these penalties were never intended to shut down small businesses and that legislation must be passed to address this problem. We have been working to ensure that legislation is introduced soon to remedy the disproportionate nature of this penalty, and we appreciate the Commissioner’s consideration of our efforts.” Under current law, small businesses that invested in listed tax shelter transactions that generated modest tax benefits resulted in tax penalties significantly larger than the tax benefits received. Such disproportionate consequences were unexpected at the time the penalty was enacted. Congress expects to introduce legislation that would result in penalty amounts in better proportion to the tax benefits. While the penalty has helped the IRS end many abusive deals, the current penalty levels may be excessive in some circumstances. The existing suspension is set to expire on September 30, 2009. Commissioner Shulman has agreed to suspend collection of these penalties until December 31, 2009, which will give the Congress additional time to remedy issues related to this penalty. Click here to read the letter ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.23.2009	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution drafted by Rep. John Lewis which documents the devastation Georgia has experienced and makes it a part of the federal record. It also acknowledges the work of the Georgia Emergency Management Agency (GEMA) and other first responders. The resolution expresses the condolences and sympathies of the entire House, but it can serve a larger purpose. “Resolutions are important,” said Rep. John Lewis, “because they raise local events to a national level and they offer an opportunity for the Congress to recognize the impact this disaster has had on the entire nation. They say, in effect, what happens to one of us, happens to all of us. “But they also serve to inform members of Congress about the serious impacts of this disaster and how it has affected the citizens of Georgia. GEMA and FEMA and other agencies will be involved in most of the front line work in our response to this disaster, but if it is determined that a federal legislative remedy is required, then members will have become acquainted with the issue through a resolution. Or if at a later date, the lessons we learn through our response to this disaster and others requires some change to federal regulations, this resolution can benefit that process. “My office has been in continuous contact with Governor Perdue’s office, GEMA and FEMA, the House Committee on Homeland Security, as well as the office of the Speaker to get regular updates on damage and recovery and to keep congressional agencies fully informed on the extent of the damage and the need for assistance. Speaker Nancy Pelosi has been very concerned and sensitive to the needs of people in Georgia. She spoke on the floor during the resolution and is working with us to urge the White House to declare our region a state of emergency. “Also, I have written a letter to the IRS Commissioner today asking him to provide all possible assistance to the victims of the severe storms, including acting quickly to postpone certain tax filing and payment deadlines and waive certain deposit penalties for taxpayers who reside or have businesses in the disaster area. This will particularly benefit affected taxpayers who may have payroll tax deposits due this week and in the next few weeks or income tax returns due October 15, 2009, because they filed an automatic 6-month extension of their income tax returns. I also requested that the IRS provide guidance to taxpayers who have a casualty loss for property that was damaged or destroyed. “Yesterday, the entire delegation sent a letter to President Obama requesting that the area be declared a national disaster, and my office has been in close contact with transportation and power authorities, like MARTA and Georgia Power to track the ability of vital resources to maintain service during this emergency. We have also made specific inquiries about resources that can help citizens who have been displaced by the storm. My entire staff and I will remain active steadfast in our support of the people of Georgia during this difficult time.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.23.2009	Today Rep. John Lewis is working on a House resolution that would extend the sympathies of the U.S. House of Representatives to those struck by tragedy in the wake of extensive flooding in Georgia. Georgia governor Sonny Perdue has declared a state of emergency in 17 counties. Eight people have died and hundreds of people have lost their homes. Officials in the congressman’s office have been in touch with the Georgia Emergency Management Agency and the governor’s office in response to the tragedy. The entire delegation also wrote a letter to the President requesting that he declare the region a disaster area. Tomorrow Rep. Lewis will offer a resolution for passage by the House to raise national awareness of the extent of the tragedy. “I am deeply concerned,” said Rep. John Lewis, “about the damage this flooding has caused to homes and businesses. Children have already lost one day of school, and we hear that another rainy spell is on the way. I am encouraging all the citizens in affected areas to stay inside, and only travel if it is absolutely necessary. “People should also be aware that floodwaters can also be a breeding ground for snakes and other vermin. That is why it is very important that citizens stay away from these flooded areas and remain indoors where it is dry and safe, if at all possible, until the water subsides. . If you must drive in flooded areas, be careful to stay away from standing waters. They can be impossible to navigate, even for automobiles. “Finally, and perhaps most importantly, my heart goes out to the eight families who lost their loved ones. I understand that some family members were speaking to them on cell phones as they were being swept away. You have my deepest condolences and sympathy in this difficult hour. Please rest assured that I will be doing all I can—working with state, city, and county officials as well as making petitions to the federal government--to offer as much assistance as is available in this tragic situation.” Last year about this time, when a tornado struck in Atlanta, Rep. Lewis worked on legislation that prevented earmarking for disaster relief and established a set of fair rules so that states would receive the same kinds and proportions of federal disaster relief during emergencies. #### Georgia Delegation Letter to President Obama CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.18.2009	Washington, DC -- Yesterday Rep. John Lewis voted to make the single largest investment in student aid in American history-- and at no additional cost to taxpayers. The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA--H.R. 3221) will expand access to an affordable college education to more Americans, transform early education opportunities, and build a world-class community college system. The bill is an extension of President Obama’s commitment to ensure that America leads the world in college graduates by 2020. "In the job market today," said Rep. Lewis, "Young people are competing, not just with well trained Americans in highly academic programs. They are competing with professionals from around the world. Our educational system has to prepare students to lead, not just in Washington or Atlanta, but in Paris, Beijing, Johannesburg or Brasilia." The SAFRA reforms will save the taxpayers $87 billion and direct $10 billion back to the Treasury to help reduce costs in other areas of the federal budget. It offers significant increases to government grant and loan assistance for college tuition. Pell Grants, already distributed to more than 7 million students, will increase to $6,900 by 2019 from $5,350 today. SAFRA also keeps interest rates low on government-subsidized loans, makes substantial investments in early childhood education, expands the Perkins low-cost loan program to every U.S. college, and simplifies the process of applying for student financial aid. SAFRA will also change the origination of student loans, so that new loans will be made through the government's Direct Loan program. This new origination process helps guard against the fraud that occurred in the past. Rep. Lewis did, however, offer an amendment to strengthen the bill. In his discussion with state non-profit agencies, like the Georgia Student Finance Commission, he discovered without changes the bill would disenfranchise organizations which have been providing critical loan education programs that show students how to manage the responsibilities of debt. The amendment would authorize the Secretary of Education to contract directly with guaranty agencies to provide counseling services. It would also clarify that borrower services, including delinquency prevention, default aversion, and loan counseling, are eligible to be funded through grants provided in this bill. The amendment ensures that Georgia Student Finance Commission and other state not-for-profit guaranty agencies around the county can apply for grant money in the bill. "This Amendment is important for several reasons", said Rep. Lewis. "In this time of economic crisis, it is important to preserve and protect jobs in every sector. In places where the government can directly ensure that opportunities are not cut off, it must do it. Also, as access to credit tightens, it is important for young people to fully understand the gravity of their responsibilities as they take on student loans. Some young people will be in debt for hundreds of thousands of dollars before their education is complete. It is very important that they understand how to manage this debt so that they are freed by the educational opportunity student loans provide, and not saddled with debts they can never recover from. " Rep. Lewis co-sponsored this amendment with Rep. Bob Etheridge (D-NC) and the amendment has become part of the bill. Tim Connell, President of the Georgia Student Finance Commission had these comments. "I want to thank Congressman John Lewis," said Connell, "for authoring this amendment which ensures that borrowers in Georgia will continue to receive default prevention, default aversion and other outreach services provided by GHEAC. These services not only help students avoid financial ruin, but also help schools avoid sanctions by the Department of Education, and protect taxpayers dollars. Default prevention and aversion services are needed more now than ever before due to the current economic environment." #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.10.2009	“Tonight President Obama did what he had to do. He had to knock the ball out of the park, and I think he did that. He gave a strong, passionate message that touched on the major problems we are facing in this health care crisis and told us where he stands. “He wants to make it against the law to deny coverage to people with pre-existing conditions, stop insurance companies from dropping sick patients from their rolls, eliminate extra charges for preventive care, and protect Medicare for seniors. He wants to create a marketplace for coverage that encourages competition to keep health care costs low, and he has said he will not sign a bill that increases the federal deficit. These are important reforms that will change the shape of health care in America. “But more than that, he asked members of Congress to lead. He called upon us to rise above “bickering” and planting seeds of distrust. He asked us to let conscience be our guide. He reminded us that the lives of thousands of people are hanging in the balance, like those he mentioned at the beginning of his speech, who died waiting for care. The survival of too many Americans depends on the ability of this Congress to find a way to reform healthcare in this country. The stakes are too high to fail. I agree with the President; we must make this the last Congress that debates this issue without passing meaningful legislation. “Finally, I have seen every President address a joint session of Congress in the past 23 years, in good times and bad. I have never heard any member of Congress yell out during a speech and call the President a liar. This kind of disrespect should not be tolerated, and I am hoping that the Republican Conference will take some action. If they do not act, then I think the Democratic Caucus should respond to this kind of disregard for the office of the President.” ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.08.2009	"President Obama’s address today was a much needed speech,” said Rep. John Lewis. “Students must know what is possible for them, what is needed of them, and that the promise of our nation, indeed our future, rests with them. “It is disappointing that there are those who would keep their children home from school or try and stop them from listening. Presidents Reagan and George W. Bush both gave nationwide welcoming addresses to students and Members of Congress talk to students all the time.” “It is my hope that the President’s words take hold with our nation’s students, that they realize that what they make of their education is what will decide their own future and the future of this country. They need to know that if they stay in school, that if they work hard, that if they hold onto their dreams they will be free to be whoever they want to be.” #### CONTACT: Michael Collins (202) 225 - 3801
09.01.2009	I am deeply saddened to learn of the death of Senator Edward Kennedy. As a nation and as a people, we have lost one of the finest, most dedicated, and committed political leaders of our time. Senator Kennedy was a champion for equal justice for every American, but especially for those who have been left out and left behind. I have known Ted Kennedy for more than 47 years. In that time, it has been my greatest pleasure to work with him in the Congress to try to tackle many human problems, but I am especially gratified by his contributions to the cause of civil rights and voting rights. At some of the most tragic and difficult moments in this nation’s history, Ted Kennedy gathered his strength and led us toward a more hopeful future. As a nation and as a people, he encouraged us to build upon the inspirational leadership of his two brothers and use it to leave a legacy of social transformation that has left its mark on history. But more than history can convey, Senator Edward Kennedy held an enduring place in all of our hearts. He was one of the warmest, most considerate, and understanding individuals you might ever meet. He was a wonderful, devoted friend—so caring, so sharing, so giving. I loved him like a brother. My heart goes out to his wife Vicky, his children, and the entire Kennedy family. He will be deeply missed. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
08.11.2009	I was deeply saddened to hear about the death of Eunice Kennedy Shriver this morning in Cape Cod, Massachusetts. Over the years I had had the opportunity to come to know her, but there was one experience I will always remember. When Mother Theresa died, in September of 1997, I was invited by then First Lady Hilary Clinton to fly to India with her and others to attend the funeral. On that trip, Eunice Kennedy Shriver was my seat mate, and we spent many hours on the plane reflecting on our lives. We talked about her brothers, Bobby and Jack Kennedy. We talked about the Civil Rights Movement, we talked about her husband, Sargent Shriver who had headed the Peace Corps, and we talked about the contemporary politics of that time. I will never forget those moments. Eunice Kennedy Shriver was a humanitarian. She is known throughout America and around the world as the organizer of the Special Olympics. She was committed and dedicated in her service to the most vulnerable people in our society. I mourn with all her family and friends. She will be deeply missed. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
08.11.2009	I was deeply saddened to hear about the death of Eunice Kennedy Shriver this morning in Cape Cod, Massachusetts. Over the years I had had the opportunity to come to know her, but there was one experience I will always remember. When Mother Theresa died, in September of 1997, I was invited by then First Lady Hilary Clinton to fly to India with her and others to attend the funeral. On that trip, Eunice Kennedy Shriver was my seat mate, and we spent many hours on the plane reflecting on our lives. We talked about her brothers, Bobby and Jack Kennedy. We talked about the Civil Rights Movement, we talked about her husband, Sargent Shriver who had headed the Peace Corps, and we talked about the contemporary politics of that time. I will never forget those moments. Eunice Kennedy Shriver was a humanitarian. She is known throughout America and around the world as the organizer of the Special Olympics. She was committed and dedicated in her service to the most vulnerable people in our society. I mourn with all her family and friends. She will be deeply missed. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
08.06.2009	“Today, on the 44th anniversary of the signing of the Voting Rights Act, this nation has taken another step to affirm its commitment to equal access in our democracy. The Senate made history today when it confirmed Judge Sonia Sotomayor as the first Latina Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. Judge Sotomayor is highly qualified to serve in this capacity. Her judicial record reveals a brilliant legal mind, an abiding respect for the law, and a balanced, fair approach to making decisions on the bench. I believe she will serve with great distinction to defend the principle of equal justice under the law. “Also, Judge Sotomayor’s background, not only as an Ivy-League educated attorney, but also as a young Puerto Rican girl who grew up in the South Bronx and used the power of her intellect and the faithful support of her family and community to realize the American dream. Judge Sotomayor is living proof that it is still possible for the brightest and the best in this society to rise above any circumstance, any challenge to serve in the highest offices of the land. Judge Sotomayor is an inspiration to us all. I applaud the 44th President, Barack Obama, for this nomination and the Senate for this historic confirmation.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
08.06.2009	The downfall of insurance company giant AIG could not only cause Atlanta businesses to close, it could bring public transportation to a grinding halt, if something is not done. That is why Rep. John Lewis introduced a bill, H.R. 3439 the Close the SILO/LILO Loophole Act of 2009. "Public agencies provide essential services to our communities that make people's lives easier," said Rep. John Lewis. "These are difficult times, and we cannot allow banks and other financial institutions to profit ruthlessly in ways that cut off public services and change our way of life. We also cannot afford the impact of these costs which would be passed on to consumers. This is not fair, and it is not right." When transportation companies, like MARTA , first start-up, they incur huge expenses required to build and equip a mass transit system. In order to raise capital during the initial phases of development, large transportation systems often entered into leaseback agreements that freed up working capital. When they purchased rail cars or lines they would use in that system, they would sell that equipment to banks who would then lease the equipment back to the transportation companies. Banks benefitted by writing off the equipment depreciation on their tax returns, and the transport agencies gained liquid assets that helped them run their rail systems. Other utility businesses, like electric companies, also used this leaseback mechanism. AIG and other such insurances companies then underwrote these agreements to insure that banks would be paid. When AIG and comparable agencies went under, it meant MARTA and 30 other large transportation companies in other regions throughout America, were in default because their loans were no longer properly insured. The banks then had the right to charge penalties to MARTA and others affected by these events which could amount to $2 billion in liability altogether. Last year MARTA estimated it would have to raise up to $391 million, equal to its entire operating budget, to meet these obligations. Add that to the fact that most of these systems, like MARTA, are already running in the red, and these defaults are a recipe for disaster. If these agreements were allowed to stand, mass transportation in many large urban areas would cease to operate. "We cannot allow transit systems," said Sen. Robert Menendez (D-NJ) "to be forced to pay out billions when agencies are cash strapped and ridership is at an all time high. Mass transit can be a key part of our economic recovery and part of the foundation for economic security in the 21st Century. We need to ensure that we can keep mass transit running at full capacity to create jobs, cut energy costs, clean the air breathe and save commuters time and money." H.R. 3439 would levy a 100 percent excise tax on these termination payments. This tax is a powerful disincentive to banks and would deter them from aggressively collecting on these loans. Sen. Menendez has introduced a similar bill in the Senate, and the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs committee held a hearing this week on these and other transportation issues. In recent years the IRS has banned these leaseback arrangements in new contracts, but has allowed those already on the books to stand. This bill will supplement IRS and Congressional attempts to eliminate the tax incentives existing under SILO and LILO transactions. H.R. 3439 - Bill Text ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.31.2009	“I want to congratulate all the recipients of the 2009 Presidential Medal of Freedom. They have all made contributions that have led to the betterment of our society. These individuals serve as a source of inspiration for all of us, but especially for young people, who study the lives of these men and women and learn a great deal. “All of Atlanta will be very proud when Rev. Dr. Joseph Lowery receives this award. As a leader of the Alabama Civic Association and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, Rev. Lowery has helped free this nation from some of its most persistent limitations and so has helped create a more perfect union. “Sen. Edward Kenney is one of a kind. For almost 50 years, he has given his heart and soul to improving the lot of the most vulnerable in our society. He has been the voice for those who had no voice. He has lit the path for those who could not find their way. Teddy Kennedy has been a leader during some of the darkest hours in our history. He serves as a constant reminder that our freedom is not free and is always reflected in the way we treat the least among us. “Rep. Jack Kemp was a distinguished public servant who exemplified the bi-partisan spirit and the need and importance of reaching across all boundaries to find common ground. “Archbishop Desmond Tutu is known around the world as someone who helped bring an end to the bondage of apartheid. He risked his life for the freedom of his people, and he is a symbol of the power and importance of forgiveness and reconciliation in any path to freedom. “Sidney Poitier is a classic man. His voice, his demeanor, and his excellence as an actor command respect. He made us stand a little taller and a little straighter, especially when he said, ‘They call me, Mr. Tibbs.’ But I also remember that in January 1966 when members of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee were arrested at the Southern Africa Information Center in New York City, Sidney Poitier and Harry Belafonte came down to the jail to help bail us out. I knew a Sidney Poitier who portrayed a free man on the screen, but who also committed his life and risked his career to help build a more fair, more free society. Again, I offer my congratulations to all the recipients who represent the very best in our society and the world community.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.31.2009	Rep. John Lewis introduced a bill that authorizes the Secretary of State to initiate a Gandhi-King Scholarly Exchange Program that will foster the ideals of non-violence and peaceful social transformation. The program will: · Sponsor educational, scholarly and professional exchanges through an annual public diplomacy forum for scholars from the U.S. and India with a focus on the legacies of Martin Luther King Jr. and Mohandas Gandhi; · Hold these forums alternately in India and the U.S. and will focus on the study of King and Gandhi’s philosophies applied to current human problems such as poverty, conflict resolution, human rights, civil rights, peace, non-violence, and democracy; · Will implement a training initiative for government employees to develop solutions to international conflict based on the principles of non-violence in consultation with the White House, the U.S. Institute of Peace, and officers of the Department of State. · Produce curricula for teaching confliction resolution to government employees. · Provide an exchange student program for graduate and undergraduate students to study the history and legacy of Gandhi and King, visit historic sites in both countries relevant to the American Civil Rights Movement and the Indian independence movement. · And develop research on the importance of peace, nonviolence, and reconciliation in current conflict regions. The bill, H.R. 3328, has been referred to the Foreign Affairs Committee and to date has nine cosponsors. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.29.2009	Rep. John Lewis will be managing time on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives some time this afternoon. The “Safe, Accountable,Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: a Legacy for Users” (SAFETEA-LU), originally meant to provide a fund to support highway infrastructure projects throughout the country is scheduled to expire in September with a shortfall of funding. To avert the imminent crisis, H.R. 3357 will authorize the transfer of $7 billion from the general fund of the Treasury to the Highway Trust Fund’s Highway Account. Rep. Lewis, a senior member of the House Ways & Means committee, will be managing debate on this topic when debate takes place. Floor Statement H.R. 3357 ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.29.2009	Today Rep. John Lewis received an announcement from Vice President Joseph Biden and Attorney General Eric Holder saying that $31.4 million in federal grants would be devoted to fund the new hiring and rehiring of 184 law enforcement officers under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) commonly known as the stimulus package. The grants will provide 100 percent of the approved salary and benefits for entry level officer positions over a three year period in 48 jurisdictions in Georgia. Some of the most notable additions in the 5th Congressional District include, funding for 50 officers in the city of Atlanta, seven in Fulton County, 15 in DeKalb County, and five in Clayton County. After three years, police departments receiving the grants will be required to retain the officers independently for a fourth year. Attached you will find a detailed description of the disbursement of officers and funds within Georgia. Altogether the White House and the DOJ will release $1 billion to hire 4699 officers throughout the U.S., including the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Northern Mariana Islands and Guam. The grants will be administered by the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) through the federal agency’s COPS Hiring Recovery Program. This announcement reflects just one way that taxpayer dollars provided through ARRA or the stimulus package are being used to help stabilize the economy, put people back to work while at the same time offering added value to communities that receive the funding. ### Announcement For Georgia CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.24.2009	Every day there are 14,000 Americans who lose their health insurance. In 1993, 61 percent of small businesses offered their employees some form of health insurance; today only 38 percent do. For those who still have coverage, their health insurance premiums are rising three times faster than their wages. Most people who declare bankruptcy carry an average medical debt of $12,000, and problems paying medical bills contribute to 60 percent of the bankruptcies in Georgia. There is no question that one key to getting our nation back on track financially and finding ways to sustain the spending power of America’s families is to fix the health care system. The question is how. Right now the U.S. Congress is working on some solutions to this problem that begin what will be a long-term process to make health care more affordable and accessible to all Americans. "This bill is a beginning. It is not an ending," says, "Rep. John Lewis, "It is a first step toward the transformation of health care delivery in America. There are still challenges that members of Congress are working to resolve, but we have also come up with some solutions to some of the pressing needs of most Americans. We need to discuss this process with citizens so they are well-informed about what we are thinking and where this movement toward reform is headed." If you have questions about health care reform proposals in Congress and want some answers, come to the Health Care Town Hall Meeting Rep. Lewis is sponsoring to get more information. WHO: Rep. John Lewis David Williams, Executive Director, Southside Medical Center Charity Woods, Georgia Coordinator, Health Care for America Now Dr. Carlos del Rio, Emory University, Rollins School of Public Health and Attending Physician, Grady Health System Ken Williams, Georgia State Director, American Association of Retired People Jimmy Hyde, Regional Representative, AFL-CIO Dr. Virginia Floyd, Morehouse School of Medicine The Reverend Raphael Warnock, Pastor, Ebenezer Baptist Church WHAT: HEALTH CARE REFORM TOWN HALL MEETING WHEN: Monday July 27, 2009 from 9:00 AM to 11:00 AM - PRESS AVAILABILITY AT 8:45 AM WHERE: Ebenezer Baptist Church, 407 Auburn Ave., Atlanta For more information about the town hall, please call 404-659-0116 or check the Congressman's website at www.house.gov/johnlewis . DOWNLOAD MEDIA PACKET ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.18.2009	Today Judge Magnuson ruled on the authorization of water usage and storage in Lake Lanier. Once negotiations between the three governors collapsed months ago, it was then up to the courts to adjudicate the matter. Rep. John Lewis made this statement upon hearing the judge’s decision: “I hope that this ruling will be a call to action for the governors of Georgia, Florida, and Alabama, to restart their discussions on a tri-state water agreement. If the states cannot agree, then Congressional action is needed to expand the authorized uses of Lake Lanier’s water. The members of the entire Georgia delegation on both sides of the aisle have worked very effectively together in the past to meet any challenge to water rights in Georgia. I have no doubt we will all continue to work diligently and effectively toward that goal.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.18.2009	PRESS BACKGROUNDER ON THE HOUSE BILL In the wee hours of the morning, America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, H.R. 3200 was passed out of the Ways and Means Committee by a vote of 23-18. Rep. John Lewis, a senior member of the committee said this about the bill, “The rising cost of healthcare is one of the greatest strains on the family budget. Because no one can predict when he or she will get sick, there is no way to really prepare if major illness suddenly strikes. Even people with health insurance and a savings account, can still end up bankrupt simply because of the high cost of medical care. The poor have no chance, under the current system, to get the kind of care and follow-up they need. This House bill will begin to change this picture. It is a historic step toward a new approach to health care in America that can quiet the fear associated with healthcare costs. It can relieve the significant financial stress on families, especially during this period where money is very tight, and provide coverage for millions of Americans who are currently uninsured or may have lost their jobs.” According to the National Coalition on Health Care, in 2008 Americans spent $2.4 trillion on health care-four times the amount this nation spends on defense. The Kaiser Family Foundation says that premiums for employer-sponsored health care are rising four times faster than workers' salaries since 1999. And a Harvard University study shows that the average medical debt for people who have ended up in bankruptcy is $12,000. In fact, every 30 seconds someone files for bankruptcy after experiencing a serious medical problem. Health care reform is a vital part of economic recovery for the 46 million people without any health insurance at all, as well as for those who are already covered. America's Affordable Health Choices Act will help tackle many of these problems. The Congressional Budget Office estimates 97 percent of Americans will be covered by the bill, and it will cost $1 trillion over ten years. These reforms will be fully paid for through changes in the Medicare and Medicaid payment and delivery system reform that will result in substantial cost savings, as well as a surcharge that will affect only the wealthiest one percent of households, and only four percent of small businesses. These are the key principles of the Ways & Means bill: It will increase patient choice and use competition to drive down prices. If people like their current plan, they can keep it. People who have no health insurance now or want to find a new plan will be able to participate in a health care exchange. There they can choose from a menu of affordable, quality health care options: either a new public health insurance option or a plan offered by private insurers. This new variety will reduce costs through competition that leads to better care for every American. Patients and doctors will have control over health care decisions, instead of insurance companies. It will restore peace of mind. This legislation makes health care plans portable and secure- so people can keep the same plans and the same doctors even, if they lose their jobs or their employers decide to drop their plans. Every American who receives coverage through the exchange will have a plan that includes standardized, comprehensive health care benefits. It will end increases in premiums and no one can be denied care based on pre-existing conditions, race, gender, or age rating. It will eliminate co-pays for preventive care, put a cap on out-of-pocket expenses, and guarantee catastrophic coverage that protects every American from bankruptcy. It will improve quality of care for every American. The legislation will ensure that Americans of all ages, from young children to retirees, have access to a higher quality of care by focusing on prevention, wellness, and strengthening programs that work. It guarantees that every child in America will have health care coverage that includes dental and vision benefits. Every health care plan offered through the exchange will cover preventative care. By growing the health care workforce, the proposal will ensure that more doctors and nurses are available to provide quality care as more Americans get coverage. The proposal strengthens Medicare and Medicaid so that seniors, people with disabilities and low-income Americans receive better quality of care and see lower prescription drug costs and out-of-pocket expenses. Patients, employers and the federal government all share responsibility for a good, affordable health care system. Employers who currently offer coverage will be able to continue offering coverage to workers. Employers who don't currently offer coverage would choose to cover their workers or pay a penalty. Everyone will be required to get coverage, either through their employer or the exchange, or pay a penalty. The federal government will provide affordability credits, available on a sliding scale for low- and middle-income individuals and families to make premiums affordable and reduce cost-sharing. It will put the interests of consumers first and reduce waste, fraud, and abuse. The proposal provides complete transparency within the health exchange plans so that patients have all the information they need to select the plan that suits them best. It establishes Consumer Advocacy Offices as part of the exchange to protect patients, answer questions, and assist with any problems related to their plans. The proposal will identify and eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse by simplifying paperwork and other administrative burdens. Patients, doctors, nurses, insurance companies, providers, and employers will all encounter a streamlined, less confusing, more consumer friendly system. There has been some misinformation disseminated about the impact of this legislation. One of the major misconceptions is that health reform will cost families more than they are already paying to cover the uninsured. What most people do not realize is that they already pay nearly $1100 per year to help pay for the costs of uninsured and underinsured patients who need to use the health care system. One major reason insurance premiums and hospital costs have risen is the need to cover the cost of caring for people who have little or no coverage. Those costs are shifted to those who have insurance through premium hikes so that hospitals can make ends meet. Containing these kinds of costs is vital to the economic stability of American families. The Ways & Means bill has been crafted to take care of some of these concerns. There are several hurdles the bill still must go through before it reaches the House floor and is signed into law. The bill must still pass out of the Energy and Commerce and Education and Labor Committees. Then the three committees will have to reconcile their versions of the bill. The final version will pass to the Rules Committee, amendments will be proposed and voted on and then the same kind of process is also taking place in the Senate. The Democratic leadership is projecting that both the House and Senate will bring their bills to the floor this summer for a vote. (more) Then reconciliation of the House and Senate bills will occur in the fall. Both houses of Congress will vote again on the reconciled bill and once that bill passes, it will be signed into law by the President. As the bill progresses, Rep. Lewis will be fighting for provisions to protect public hospitals, community health centers, and to deal with issues related to health care disparities. Health Care For America Now (HCAN) which released a report today on health care disparities in Georgia. says this about the bill, "In Georgia 1,660,156 people were uninsured in 2007 and that number has only increased," said Charity Woods, state coordinator. " Additionally, a recent report estimated that 62 percent of bank­ruptcies were directly related to medical bills. We also know that our broken health care system has not addressed the countless disparities that minorities, women and rural communities face. It is imperative that we support the public plan put forth by Congress as we believe, among other improvements, it would guarantee affordable, quality medical care for all; provide subsidies to help people in need pay for insurance coverage; and cap out-of-pocket costs. We should support this bill as well as those who are fighting diligently for the people of Georgia." This bill is also supported by the American Medical Association, the Consumers Union, YMCA, the National Women's Law Center, the Service Employees Industry Union, and many others. Click on this link for more comprehensive information about the bill-text, summary, and related materials: https://waysandmeans.house.gov/MoreInfo.asp?section=52 #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.10.2009	Resolution would authorize marker in Capitol Visitor Center Washington - U.S. Representative John Lewis (D-Ga.) and U.S. Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) today announced that the House of Representatives and Senate have passed their resolution to recognize the role enslaved African Americans played in the construction of the United States Capitol. In May, Congressman Lewis and Senator Lincoln introduced companion bills in the House of Representatives and Senate, respectively, which would direct the placing of a marker in the Capitol Visitor Center's Emancipation Hall commemorating these African Americans' place in history. The House passed the resolution Tuesday, while the Senate approved the measure today. "I am so glad," said Rep. Lewis, "this Congress is finding ways to honor the contributions of slaves to the building of the Capitol campus. Our knowledge of our history is incomplete without an understanding of what African Americans gave to make this country great. African slaves were willing to build a monument to freedom, even though they were still in chains. As a nation, we are deeply indebted to their ingenuity and skill, their dignity and their sacrifice. This is marker is one method the task force and the Congress have developed to show our appreciation." "The mission of the Capitol Visitor Center is to educate guests about Congress and the legislative process, as well as the history and development of the U.S. Capitol," Lincoln said. "This marker will help tell the story of all slaves who worked to build the Capitol. This is our opportunity to help Americans, for generations to come, to know and understand the sacrifices that have been made for the many blessings that we enjoy today." Congressman Lewis and Senator Lincoln lead the Slave Labor Task Force established by Congress to study the role that enslaved African Americans played in constructing the Capitol with the end result of recommending appropriate designations in the Capitol in their honor, as well as creating teaching tools to better inform the public about this issue. In 2007, the Task Force presented the Congressional leadership with recommendations on how to best recognize the contributions of these enslaved workers. The placement of a marker would implement one of the Task Force's recommendations. The Task Force recommended that the marker be made of stones quarried by slaves that are part of an existing stockpile of historic 1820s sandstone remaining from a 1960s Capitol expansion. Earlier this year, Congressman Lewis and Senator Lincoln were successful in their efforts to order the placement of plaques in the House and Senate wings of the U.S. Capitol to honor these African Americans. The plaques are expected to be placed in the Capitol later this year. Enslaved African Americans played an integral part in the building of the Capitol, working as carpenters, masons, rafters, roofers, plasterers, painters, and glazers, as well as many other occupations. However, these efforts went unrecognized for many years. In 2000, Congress sought to remedy this omission by authorizing the appointment of a bicameral, bipartisan task force. In 1999, pay stubs dating from the 1790s were discovered, which authorized the Treasury Department to pay slave owners for the hire of their slaves to work at the Capitol. According to additional documents kept by the Architect of the Capitol, 400 or more slaves helped construct the Capitol building from 1792 to 1800. It is likely that even more slaves worked on the building after 1800, until emancipation in 1865. Original Senate cosponsors of the marker bill are Senate Rules Committee Chairman Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.). House Administration Committee Chairman Robert Brady (D-PA) and Ranking Member Dan Lundgren (R-CA) are co-sponsors of the House resolution. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.08.2009	Yesterday Rep. John Lewis won passage of a House resolution to honor the contributions of slave laborers who helped build the U.S. Capitol. The bill authorizes a marker to be placed in the Capitol Visitors Center commemorating their work. Enslaved African Americans played an integral part in the building of the Capitol, working as carpenters, masons, rafters, roofers, plasterers, painters, and glazers, even artists and sculptors, as well as many other occupations. However, these efforts went unrecognized for many years. In 2000, Congress sought to remedy this omission by authorizing the appointment of a bicameral, bipartisan task force. Congressman Lewis along with Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-AK) were asked to lead the Slave Labor Task Force established by Congress to study the role that enslaved African Americans played in constructing the Capitol with the end result of recommending appropriate designations in the Capitol in their honor, as well as creating teaching tools to better inform the public about this issue. In 2007, the Task Force presented the Congressional leadership with recommendations on how to best recognize the contributions of these enslaved workers. The passage of this bill today would authorize the placement of a marker, one of the Task Force's recommendations. The Task Force recommended that the marker be made of stones quarried by slaves that are part of an existing stockpile of historic 1820s sandstone remaining from a 1960s Capitol expansion. Sen. Lincoln has introduced a companion bill in the Senate which is expected to be on the floor this week. Rep. Lewis made these comments on the House floor yesterday: Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleague and friend from Georgia for yielding the time. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to tell the full story of our Nation's Capitol Building. We must recognize all of the hands that helped to construct this "Temple of Freedom." We must continue to teach the full history of this country, and to do that, we must recognize the role that African-American slaves played in the construction of our nation's Capitol. I would like to thank Chairman Brady and Ranking Member Lungren for all their efforts to bring this bill to the floor, and also the staff of the House Administration Committee, and Jesse Uman of my own staff, for their work and perseverance to pass this bill. Additionally, Mr. Speaker, I'm going to thank and recognize Senator Blanche Lincoln who has championed the work of the Slave Labor Task Force in the Senate. Mr. Speaker, for too long the use of slave labor in the construction of the United States Capitol has gone untold. We look back today, not to open old wounds, but to ensure that we tell the story of those slaves, so their toils are never forgotten. Slavery is part of our Nation's history of which we are not proud. However, we should not run or hide from it. The history of the Capitol, like the history of our Nation, should be complete. As thousands of visitors walk through our Nation's Capitol, they leave without knowing the full history of its construction. Today, there is nothing, not one thing, not one note, that tells the story of the African-American slaves who helped build this magnificent building: no drawings, no murals, no statues, nothing but nothing. Mr. Speaker, with this resolution, this untold story will now be told. Thanks to the work of the Slave Labor Task Force, we will now honor those slaves who built our "Temple of Freedom." We need something that visitors can see, that visitors can feel, and which communicates the back-breaking labor that slaves completed to help construct our Capitol. Passage of this resolution will create a historical marker in the Capitol Visitors Center, made of stones quarried by the hands of slave laborers, to stand testament to their sacrifices. This physical and permanent marker will pay tribute to the blood, sweat, and toils of the African-American slaves who helped build this magnificent building and ensure that their story is told, and never forgotten. I urge all of my colleagues to support the passage of this resolution. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.07.2009	Rep. John Lewis, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight sent a joint letter with his Senate counterparts requesting suspension of tax collection related to certain penalties on Small Businesses to help alleviate financial stresses during this economic downturn. That letter is included. Washington, DC - Bipartisan lawmakers from the House Committee on Ways and Means are applauding the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) today for suspending the collection of certain penalties on small businesses. On June 13, 2009, bipartisan lawmakers from the House Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Finance Committee sent a letter to IRS Commissioner Douglas H. Shulman, requesting assistance while Congress works on legislation to help small businesses that invested in listed tax shelter transactions that generated modest tax benefits, but resulted in tax penalties significantly larger than the tax benefits received. These disproportionate consequences were unexpected at the time the penalty was enacted. The Members expect to introduce bipartisan, bicameral legislation to modify the law and make the penalties more proportional to the tax savings. "I am glad that the IRS has decided to do what is fair and allow Congress to correct the unintentional consequences of a law intended to target big corporations," said Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman Lewis (D-GA). "This penalty has unfairly punished far too many small businesses, many of whom are feeling the crunch of this economic downturn more acutely than other sectors of the economy. These issues require tax law changes that Ranking Member Boustany and I support, and I am eager to move forward with legislation." "As our economy continues to recover, small businesses lead the way, and today's announcement by the IRS ensures those same small businesses are not disproportionately penalized," Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles Boustany (R-LA) said. "I appreciate Commissioner Shulman's quick action, and I look forward to working with Chairman Lewis and the Senate to develop sensible rules moving forward." Click here to read the letter #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
06.22.2009	“I am glad to say that even after a significant constitutional challenge, the Voting Rights Act still stands. Section 5 remains a powerful tool for voters who believe their voting rights are being violated, and pre-clearance continues to be the most effective legal means voters have today to protect themselves from present-day discriminatory voting laws and practices. "In 2008--not in 1968 but during last year's election-the state of Georgia implemented a practice that would have rendered over 200 thousand American-born or naturalized citizens ineligible to vote. These citizens were mainly African Americans, but many were Hispanic and Asian Americans as well. Without the power of Section 5, without the pre-clearance provision, those voters would have been barred from voting in last year's election, and could have only defended their voting rights through a lawsuit, which would have taken years to resolve. Meanwhile, a practice the Justice Department subsequently determined was discriminatory would have remained in place in Georgia, keeping lawful citizens from participating in the electoral process. "Before the Voting Rights Act was reauthorized in 2006, Congress developed a 16,000 page record that documented contemporary instances of voting discrimination in states throughout the country-not just Southern states but other states as well, like South Dakota and Arizona. Though we have made significant steps forward, this record proves that there are still many reasons today to maintain the protections offered by Section 5 of the VRA. We have come a great distance, but the struggle for voting rights in America is not over, and we should not rest until the voting process is fair, easy, and equally available to all citizens of this nation. "It should also be noted that bail-out or exemption from the requirements of the Voting Rights Act is available to any jurisdiction that can show it no longer discriminates against eligible voters. The provisions for exemption are described in the act and any jurisdiction that can prove it no longer practices voting discrimination can be relieved from the pre-clearance provision." #### Link to Dept. Of Justice objection to Georgia’s Voting Changes CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
06.21.2009	This Father's Day, June 21, marks the anniversary of a tragic moment in American history, when the sons of three fathers lost their lives in the struggle for voting rights in America. 45 years ago, three young civil rights workers-two whites and one black man--Andy Goodman, Mickey Schwerner, and James Chaney were working in Neshoba County near Philadelphia, Mississippi trying to register people to vote. That day they set out to investigate the burning of an African American church nearby that had been used to educate citizens about their civil rights. Those three young men were detained by the sheriff, arrested and taken to jail. That evening, the sheriff released them into the hands of the Ku Klux Klan, and then they were beaten, shot, and killed. These three brave and courageous young men gave their very lives for the cause of voting rights in Mississippi and throughout the American South. Today, as the U.S. Supreme Court considers ruling on the validity and current relevance of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, this anniversary serves as a reminder that hate can kill, and it can be used as an excuse to disenfranchise any American. Powerful evidence has been placed in the record for judicial review that makes it plain, eligible voters who are American citizens are still obstructed from equal participation in the voting process because of their race, national origin, language, disability, and distance from polling sites. Just a few short years ago, people were beaten, arrested, shot, and killed trying to overcome those barriers to their full participation in the voting process. If we are not vigilant, if we turn a blind eye to the compelling evidence, it is still possible for us to return to that dark past. The tension of recent days only proves that the Voting Rights Act was necessary yesterday, and it is still necessary today. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
06.18.2009	Bills would authorize marker in Capitol Visitor Center Washington - U.S. Representative John Lewis (D-Ga.) and U.S. Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) are continuing their work to recognize the role enslaved African Americans played in the construction of the United States Capitol. Congressman Lewis and Senator Lincoln have introduced companion bills in the House of Representatives and Senate, respectively, which would direct the placing of a marker in the Capitol Visitor Center's Emancipation Hall commemorating these African Americans' place in history. "I am so glad," said Rep. Lewis, "this Congress is finding ways to honor the contributions of slaves to the building of the Capitol campus. Our knowledge of our history is incomplete without an understanding of what African Americans gave to make this country great. African slaves were willing to build a monument to freedom, even though they were still in chains. As a nation, we are deeply indebted to their ingenuity and skill, their dignity and their sacrifice. This is marker is one method the task force and the Congress have developed to show our appreciation." "The mission of the Capitol Visitor Center is to educate guests about Congress and the legislative process, as well as the history and development of the U.S. Capitol," Lincoln said. "This marker will help tell the story of all slaves who worked to build the Capitol. This is our opportunity to help Americans, for generations to come, to know and understand the sacrifices that have been made for the many blessings that we enjoy today." Congressman Lewis and Senator Lincoln lead the Slave Labor Task Force established by Congress to study the role that enslaved African Americans played in constructing the Capitol with the end result of recommending appropriate designations in the Capitol in their honor, as well as creating teaching tools to better inform the public about this issue. In 2007, the Task Force presented the Congressional leadership with recommendations on how to best recognize the contributions of these enslaved workers. The placement of a marker would implement one of the Task Force's recommendations. The Task Force recommended that the marker be made of stones quarried by slaves that are part of an existing stockpile of historic 1820s sandstone remaining from a 1960s Capitol expansion. Earlier this year, Congressman Lewis and Senator Lincoln were successful in their efforts to order the placement of plaques in the House and Senate wings of the U.S. Capitol to honor these African Americans. The plaques are expected to be placed in the Capitol later this year. Enslaved African Americans played an integral part in the building of the Capitol, working as carpenters, masons, rafters, roofers, plasterers, painters, and glazers, as well as many other occupations. However, these efforts went unrecognized for many years. In 2000, Congress sought to remedy this omission by authorizing the appointment of a bicameral, bipartisan task force. In 1999, pay stubs dating from the 1790s were discovered, which authorized the Treasury Department to pay slave owners for the hire of their slaves to work at the Capitol. According to additional documents kept by the Architect of the Capitol, 400 or more slaves helped construct the Capitol building from 1792 to 1800. It is likely that even more slaves worked on the building after 1800, until emancipation in 1865. Original Senate cosponsors of the marker bill are Senators Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.). House Administration Committee Chairman Robert Brady (D-PA) and Ranking Member Dan Lungren (R-CA) are co-sponsors of the House resolution. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
06.11.2009	"Janet Langhart Cohen and her husband, Bill, are dear friends of mine. I do plan to see her play about a meeting between Anne Frank and Emmett Till, which serves as a reminder that hate is dangerous. It can kill. “I was deeply saddened to hear today that while young children were rehearsing their lines and visitors were coming to witness the painful legacy of racial violence, hate struck again, and it did kill. “My heart goes out to the security guard and his family who lost his life defending hundreds of innocent bystanders who would have been in the line of fire, if he had not acted with courage and decisiveness. “The Holocaust Memorial Museum is supposed to be a living testament to the despair and destruction that is the only outcome of racism and hate. This act of violence today must be condemned. And it is a message to us all that the struggle to unite humankind is not over. There is still much more work to do." ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
06.08.2009	Today the Department of Labor sent Rep. Lewis this notification regarding the release of stimulus funds to Georgia: "We wanted to give you notice of your state's qualification for unemployment insurance (UI) modernization funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). DOL is certifying the release of $220,286,144 in UI modernization funds to your state. Georgia qualified for the funds available under ARRA by providing for a variety of provisions that assist entrants to the workforce, part-time workers and people who are upgrading their skills. The Georgia Department of Labor can use the funds to pay unemployment benefits or, if appropriated by the legislature, for administering its unemployment insurance program or delivering employment services."
06.04.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA), delivered the following statement today at a Subcommittee hearing reviewing IRS operations and budget proposals for Fiscal Year 2010 with IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman. "Again this year, the Subcommittee is holding an oversight review of the Internal Revenue Service. We intend to examine the operations of the agency, its budget, and its service to taxpayers. "This is the first time the Commissioner has been before the Subcommittee this Congress. We welcome him. This is also the first time many of the Members of this Subcommittee will have the opportunity to review the agency. I look forward to their participation. "Today's hearing is a chance for the IRS to assure this Subcommittee and the public that it is acting fairly-- fair in how it treats taxpayers and fair in how it treats its employees. Overall, I think the agency has done a good job. However, there is always room for improvement. "I do not think it is fair that five million taxpayers received busy signals when they called this year for help and almost 18 million taxpayers hung up before getting through. If the agency needs additional resources to meet its customer service mission, we need to know that. "I am also concerned that low-income taxpayers are having their Social Security payments levied by the agency. And, it is a shame that victims of identity theft do not have their cases resolved with more urgency. "Where this Subcommittee can help the agency improve, we will. Taxpayers wanting to settle their tax debts should not be required to make a down payment with their offer. Small businesses should not be run out of business by tax shelter penalties aimed at big corporations. These issues require tax law changes that the Ranking Member and I support. "Finally, I want to be sure that the agency is being fair to its employees. Each year, the agency's employees collect about $2.7 trillion and process 250 million returns. As fewer paper returns are filed, the agency has started to consolidate. In these difficult times, I ask the agency to take every reasonable step to ensure that employees at these locations, such as Atlanta and Andover, are not without jobs. "Thank you." ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
06.01.2009	On May 29, the Department of Justice rendered a decision on the controversial Georgia citizenship verification process that the state employed in the 2008 election. After a comprehensive evaluation, the DOJ determined that the Georgia system of voter verification was “seriously flawed” because the process too often targeted (over 60 percent of the time) American born or legal citizens whose right to vote should not have been questioned. And the DOJ discovered that the state had disproportionately targeted minority voters—mainly African-Americans, but also Asian and Hispanic voters--suggesting the process has a discriminatory effect on minorities. Rep. John Lewis made these comments when he heard this news: "I agree with the Department of Justice," said Rep. John Lewis. "The citizenship verification process of the state of Georgia violates both the spirit and the letter of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. This was an attempt to take us back to another dark period in our history when people were denied access to the ballot box simply because of their race or nationality. It seemed to me then and it is clear to me now that this was a "modern-day" poll tax as one judge put it, designed to harass and intimidate minority voters. The DOJ has made a fair and accurate decision. "I hope that this decision helps the Supreme Court Justices see the importance of Section 5 in protecting the right to vote for some citizens. Without the ability to challenge this process through the Voting Rights Act, tens of thousands of Georgia voters would be denied the right to vote. The burden would be placed on average working citizens to file a lawsuit and prove that the Georgia system is discriminatory. This could take years. In the meantime, injustice would be the law of the land." The Supreme Court is expected to decide in on the constitutionality of the Section 5 remedy when it returns to session this month. The DOJ letter refutes the state contention that the citizenship verification process was employed to comply with federal law mandated by the Help America Vote Act (HAVA). The DOJ found that federal requirements in HAVA pertain to proper identification of voters and are not meant as measures which help determine whether a person is eligible to vote. These findings invalidate the state's reason for using this citizenship verification system. Further, the letter says, "Our analysis shows that the state's [citizenship verification] process does not produce accurate and reliable information and that thousands of citizens who are in fact eligible to vote under Georgia law have been flagged." It mentions litigation in the case of Jose Morales where the transposition of one digit in his driver's license led to the erroneous conclusion that he was ineligible to vote, even though he is a U.S. citizen. Further the DOJ said the state employed an "error-laden" system," and that it may have made "improper use of the system, thereby increasing the potential for unreliable results." It found that one in seven of the people the state had identified as non-citizens produced birth certificates proving they were born in this country, and another 46 percent were legally naturalized American citizens. This means that nearly 61 percent of Georgia's findings were completely inaccurate. If left unchallenged, tens of thousands of American citizens living in Georgia would be unable to vote and would have the burden, despite their U.S. citizenship, of proving their eligibility to vote. Finally, the DOJ letters says that the majority of citizens who are flagged in the process are African Americans. More than 60 percent more African Americans who registered between May 2008 to March 2009 were flagged as opposed to white citizens. Also Asian and Hispanic voters were also disproportionately flagged through Georgia's process. As of March 2009, over 200,000 individuals had been flagged in Georgia's process. The DOJ determined "the state's proposed procedures for verifying voter registration information are seriously flawed. This flawed system frequently subjects a disproportionate number of African-America, Asian and/or Hispanic voters to additional, and more importantly erroneous burdens on the right to register to vote. These burdens are real, substantial, and are retrogressive for minority voters." Georgia_Signed_Objection_letter #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
05.29.2009	Today Rep. Lewis organized a delegation to visit death row inmate Troy Anthony Davis incarercated at the Georgia Diagnostic and Classification Prison in Jackson. At a news conference following the visit, he released these letters he authored to send to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and and Larry Chisolm, the Chatham County District Attorney. Rep. Hank Johnson was also a member of the delegation and is a signatory on the letter along with other members of the Georgia delegation. Details of the news conference are in subsequent releases. troy davis chisolm signed troy davis holder signed #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
05.29.2009	A delegation organized by Rep. John Lewis will meet today with an inmate on death row, Mr. Troy Anthony Davis. The delegation includes Rep. Lewis, Rep. Hank Johnson, President of the NAACP Ben Jealous, Martina Correia, Sister and advocate for Mr. Davis, and Edward DuBose, President of the Georgia State Conference, NAACP. Mr. Davis is incarcerated at the Georgia Diagnostic and Classification Prison in Jackson. The news conference will immediately follow the visit across the street from the front of the prison at the Hess/Wilco Travel Plaza. Estimated start time of the news conference will be between 1:00 and 1:30 PM. This is Rep. Lewis's first visit to death row, though during the Freedom Rides in the 1960's he was jailed at the maximum security prison in Mississippi. Rep. Lewis has been involved with the Davis case for the last two years, testifying at this parole board hearing and making appeals on his behalf. Recently, he hosted a meeting for members of the Congressional Black Caucus with Mr. Davis's attorneys to engage CBC action on this case, and he has written letters to the U.S.Attorney General and the Chatham County District Attorney, signed by CBC members. Reps. Lewis and Johnson will release that letter to the press at the news conference. The letter will be distributed electronically to your stations around 1 PM. Below please find the statement Rep. Lewis made at the Georgia Board of Pardons and Paroles in July of 2007 on Mr. Davis's behalf. The Georgia board made a rare decision at that time to stay Mr. Davis's execution in anticipation of a decision by the U.S. Supreme Court. Troy Anthony Davis has had three execution dates and three stays of execution. Good morning, Chairperson Hunt and members of the State Board of Pardons and Paroles. It is a privilege to address you today, and I want to thank you for hearing me. I will not speak long, because what I have to say is very simple. I do not know Troy Anthony Davis. I do not know if he is guilty of the charges of which he has been convicted. But I do know that nobody should be put to death based on the evidence we now have in this case. Evidence that is dramatically different from what the jury heard. Evidence that I understand no court has ever considered, for technical reasons that have nothing to do with the truth. We sometimes hear that a guilty person has gone free because of some legal technicality, and we understandably feel frustrated when that happens. Now we have the opposite situation. A man who may well be innocent may die tomorrow -- all because of those technicalities. This is much more than frustrating; it is tragic. It is unjust. And at a time when we are trying to convince the whole world that our way is best, it does not speak well of us. I will say only a little about the facts of the case, because you have other witnesses that know them better than I. But here is what I understand to be true. I understand that there is no physical evidence. No murder weapon. No fingerprints. No DNA. Just the testimony of a few frightened and confused people who were taken completely by surprise when a tragedy suddenly erupted -- without warning -- for just a few seconds -- in the middle of the night. And now, the case against Mr. Davis, that rested on that testimony, is a shambles. I understand that there were nine key witnesses, seven of whom have recanted their testimony. The eighth witness has left the state and refuses to talk about the case. And the ninth cannot recant without confessing that he committed the murder. Indeed, some of the other recanting witnesses have now implicated him. You must surely know the evidence better than I. And you know the law better than I. But I know, with what we have learned since the original jury heard this case, that a reasonable jury today should have doubts -- grave doubts -- since we now know so much more than the original jury. I am sure the members of the original jury are fine people. And I am sure they tried to do the best they could with the tools they were given. But nobody ever gave them the tools to do the job right. Those tools were offered to the courts years later, but they said it was too late to use them. So now the tools are in your hands. Hands that are not bound by technicalities. And it is not too late to use the tools you have been given. As you know, I have never spoken to you before. I am here now, because I could not stay away. If executing Troy Davis on the evidence we now have is the best our justice system can do, then that system is not worthy of the word justice. People of good faith can and do disagree about the death penalty. But all of us must certainly agree that before we carry out the ultimate penalty, we must be sure. The only thing I am sure of is that nobody can even come close to being sure that Troy Davis committed this crime. I am, frankly, shocked to think that we could execute anyone under these circumstances. And I ask you not to let that happen. Before I sit down, let me say a few words about a man who cannot be here today. I speak, of course, of the victim of this terrible crime, Officer Mark MacPhail. And I hope you will think of him too as you make your decision. Officer MacPhail's death was a senseless tragedy, and I am sure his loved ones still feel the pain of his loss. I pray for them and for Officer MacPhail today. And I ask you to do the same. For it is a terrible thing to be a victim of a violent crime. I know, because I am one. I was beaten senseless by a Coca-Cola crate when I arrived at the Greyhound bus station in Montgomery, Alabama as a Freedom Rider in 1961. I could easily have died. I was clubbed nearly to death a few years later on Bloody Sunday at the Edmund Pettis Bridge, and for awhile I looked death in the face, sure that I was about to see God. Indeed, of all the people in this room, I suspect that I am the only one who has any real idea of what Officer MacPhail felt in the last moments of his life. And I also think I know what he would say if he could speak to us today. He would tell us not to compound one tragedy with another. He would tell us not to make another man's family feel the pain that his family felt. He would tell us that his killer may still be at large. And he would tell us that, as an officer of the law, he wants our legal system to do what is right. That winning cases does not matter. That only justice matters. And that he does not want his legacy to be the death of an innocent man. As a fellow public servant, I believe I know what you should do. And as a man of faith, I am sure I know what God wants you to do. Do justice. Commute the sentence of Troy Anthony Davis. Thank you very much. Mr. Davis's attorneys have made another final plea to the Supreme Court requesting that a federal court hear the evidence in his case. A decision is expected soon, perhaps as early as June, when the court returns to session. A variety of people have come to Mr. Davis's aid, including former FBI Director William Sessions, former President Jimmy Carter, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Pope Benedict XVI and Rep. Bob Barr and others. Amnesty International has amassed over 500,000 signatures on petitions to authorities.
05.29.2009	Tomorrow Reps. John Lewis (D-GA) and Hank Johnson (D-GA) will visit Mr. Troy Anthony Davis, a death row inmate incarcerated at the Georgia Diagnostic and Classification Prison in Jackson, Georgia. Rep. Lewis has been involved with the Davis case for the last two years, testifying at this parole board hearing and making appeals on his behalf. Recently, he hosted a meeting for members of the Congressional Black Caucus with Mr. Davis’s attorneys to engage CBC action on this case, and he wrote a letter to the Attorney General, signed by Rep. Johnson and others. Reps. Lewis and Johnson will release that letter to the press at the news conference. Mr. Davis was convicted of murdering a police officer in Savannah in 1989. Since the time of his original trial, seven of the nine witnesses have recanted or contradicted their testimony surrounding the conviction with considerable questions. Mr. Davis has maintained his innocence from the beginning. Because of technicalities, Georgia state and federal appeals, courts have not heard this new evidence. Appeals have been made all the way up to the U.S. Supreme Court which have been denied. In a rare action, the Georgia Board of Pardons and Paroles granted a stay of Mr. Davis's execution to make allowance for these appeals. He has had three execution dates and three stays of execution. Mr. Davis's attorneys have made another final plea to the Supreme Court requesting that a federal court hear the evidence in his case. A decision is expected soon, perhaps as early as June, when the court returns to session. A variety of people have come to Mr. Davis's aid, including former FBI Director William Sessions, former President Jimmy Carter, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Pope Benedict XVI and others. Amnesty International has amassed over 500,000 signatures on petitions to authorities. WHO: Rep. John Lewis Rep. Hank Johnson Ben Jealous, President , NAACP Martina Correia, advocate and sister of Troy Anthony Davis Laura Moye, Deputy Director, Amnesty International USA, Facilitator WHAT: Visit with Mr. Troy Anthony Davis on Death Row WHEN: Friday May 29, 2009, at 10:30 AM WHERE: Georgia Diagnostics and Classification Prison, Prison Boulevard, Jackson, Ga The news conference will take place immediately following the visit in front of the prison. Estimated start time of the news conference is between 1:00 and 1:30 PM. ####
05.26.2009	After hearing about President Obama’s Supreme Court nomination, Rep. John Lewis made this statement: “The President made an outstanding nomination by advancing Judge Sonia Sotomayor of the 2nd Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals to the U.S. Supreme Court. Because of her background, Judge Sotomayor will be able to defend the rule of law, but she will also be able to understand the needs and concerns of all of the citizens of America. She will be a justice of the people. The President has made a wise and capable choice. “
05.21.2009	Today’s young people are exposed to violence in many forms—in the news, entertainment, in their communities, and in our society at large. Rep. John Lewis wants to try to counteract this exposure by introducing a bill that awards federal grants to community organizations and local, state, and tribal governments who teach the tools of non-violence as a means of conflict resolution. The bill, entitled the Securing American Families by Educating and Training Youth (SAFETY) Through Non-Violence Act of 2009, develops a grant program administered by the Department of Justice to groups which provide education, mentoring, and counseling to teach the application of non-violent principles to real-life problems. It authorizes up to $5 million each fiscal year for the program through FY2015. "Non-violence is more than a philosophy or an idea," said Rep. John Lewis. "It is a discipline and a way of life. If we say that peace is our goal, our ideal, then we must teach the tools and methods of peace before we can create a society at peace with itself. Perhaps more than any other generation, today's youth have benefitted from the results of effective non-violent action through a transformative movement that ended the oppression of legalized segregation and racial discrimination. "But the struggle is not over. There is still too much violence, too much war, too much hate. We must continue to move down this road toward a better world, and each generation must do its part to help build this Beloved Community. This bill will encourage young people to use the tools of peace, harmony, diplomacy, and negotiation in their efforts to make a difference in our society." ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
05.20.2009	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. John Lewis voted to protect consumers from the excessive practices of the credit card industry. The Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act, H.R. 627, passed the House today by an overwhelming bipartisan majority and passed the Senate yesterday. It is expected that it will be signed by the President and soon become law. “We want businesses to prosper in our economy,” said Rep. John Lewis, “but not because they have an unfair advantage. Before Congress passed this legislation, credit cardholders had no protection against unwarranted fee and interest rate hikes that drive them deeper into debt. This legislation levels the playing field so that consumers can still use the benefits of credit, but they also have a reasonable chance to pay off their bills and get out of debt.” A comprehensive summary of the bill follows this release, but some of the major provisions are that it: · Prohibits arbitrary interest rate increases on existing balances, unless the consumer is 60 days late on a payment or fails to comply with a workout agreement. · Eliminates “universal default,” where card issuers raise interest rates because of lateness or default with other creditors — even if the cardholder is in good standing with the card in question; · Requires a credit card issuer who increases a cardholder’s interest rate to periodically review and decrease the rate if indicated by the review; · Prohibits issuers from increasing rates on a cardholder in the first year a credit card account is opened; · Requires promotional rates to last at least 6 months. “In our efforts to rebuild this economy,” said Rep. Lewis, “American families are being forced to tighten their belts. Through this bill, we are also mandating that the credit card industry do the same. We are trying to put an end to unchecked financial growth that puts our entire economy at risk. We want to encourage real growth that puts resources back in people’s pockets and represents solid financial growth in the corporate sector.” BILL SUMMARY #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
05.14.2009	Last week, Rep. John Lewis reintroduced a House resolution calling on the United States to ratify and implement human and civil rights conventions agreed to by a majority of nations. There are seven key United Nations conventions and six International Labor Organization conventions that the United States has never adopted, even though the principles espoused in many of these standards emanated from international respect for the US Constitution and Bill of Rights. The resolution calls for the United States to fully support the Inter-American human rights system, especially hemispheric conventions regarding the rights of all persons, women, children, the disabled, marginalized communities, and the right to freedom of expression. It also affirms that it is the policy of the United States to oppose slavery, torture, racism, discrimination, and xenophobia in all forms. "We must be consistent." said Rep. Lewis. "If we as a nation and as a people truly believe in the causes of human rights, and if we want to have the moral authority to lead the world to justice, then we cannot abandon these ideals when it is convenient. We must stand for justice at home so we can fight for justice around the world." The conventions the U.S. has not ratified include: UNITED NATIONS CONVENTIONS International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women and its Optional Protocol UN Convention on the Rights of the Child UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its Optional Protocol UN Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance First Optional Protocol to the UN Covenant on Civil and Political Rightsate 0ct 09 2002 13:04 May 05, Optional Protocol to the UN Convention Against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION CONVENTIONS ILO Convention on Forced or Compulsory Labour ILO Convention on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise ILO Convention on the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining ILO Convention on Equal Remuneration ILO Convention on Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation ILO Convention on the Minimum Age for Admission to Employment ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
05.14.2009	Today May 13, 2009, Rep. John Lewis introduced the Highway Trust Fund Fairness Act of 2009, H.R. 2391, during National Transportation Week (May 10-16, 2009). This legislation would more fairly administer the fund to respond to current fiscal concerns. The Highway Trust Fund was first established in 1956 to dedicate federal resources to the maintenance and construction of state, local and national highway projects. For many years the fund operated at a surplus, and some of its monies were diverted to meet other federal budgetary challenges. Last year in an emergency move Congress was forced to replace the $8 billion that had been previously diverted. This bill offers additional ways to help preserve the integrity of the trust fund to meet transportation needs, as recommended by the Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission. The thrust of the national surface transportation reauthorization process is to preserve the integrity of the Highway Trust Fund. Under current law, any interest trust fund monies accrue do not benefit the fund. This bill would change that and allow any interest the trust fund surplus gain to be retained by the fund. The bill also shifts credits for certain exemptions and repayments away from the responsibility of the trust fund into the General Fund. “Our nation’s roads are the heart of our system of transportation,” said Rep. John Lewis. “And we have one of the best highway systems in the world. We need to do all we can to protect the resources we have set aside to strengthen and maintain that system.” lewiga_030_xml #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
05.12.2009	WASHINGTON D.C.—On Tuesday, May 12, 2009, President Barack Obama signed into law a bill that would catalogue and preserve the stories and experiences of Americans who were involved with the Civil Rights Movement. The bill, H. R. 586, the Civil Rights Oral History Project, will create a joint effort between the National Museum of African American History and Culture and the Library of Congress to collect oral histories of the people that were involved in the movement and preserve their stories for future generations. “Because of the hundreds and thousands of ordinary people with extraordinary vision,” said Rep. John Lewis, “ who participated in the Civil Rights Movement, we witnessed a non-violent revolution under the rule of law, a revolution of values and ideas that changed this nation forever. It is fitting and appropriate that President Obama signed a bill today designed to preserve and protect the story of this great movement and this great people for future generations to learn about and understand. “ Lewis was an original co-sponsor of the bill authored by Rep. Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY). “The fight for civil rights was one of the most significant social and cultural movements in our nation’s history. I am honored that President Obama has signed this bill into law to help future generations understand the struggle to make the dream of equality and freedom a reality for all Americans.,” said Rep. McCarthy. The goal of the Civil Rights Oral History Project is to collect video and audio recordings of those who participated in the civil rights movement, providing a historic catalogue of this historic period. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
05.07.2009	GAO reports that States were unable to collect over $150 million last year under current Federal program WASHINGTON, DC — Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA), today introduced the State Tax Administration Assistance Act of 2009, to assist States in the collection of delinquent income taxes. Currently, a Federal program allows States to offset Federal income tax refunds for delinquent State income taxes only if a taxpayer resides in the State seeking the offset. The bill would remove the same-State requirement and allow States to collect unpaid State income taxes from nonresidents under the program. Due to the current economic downturn and State budget deficits, interest has grown for expansion of the Federal refund offset program. Today, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report describing recent proposals to expand this program and the challenges presented by the differing proposals. The report highlights the estimated loss of revenue due to the residency requirement and notes that the Internal Revenue Service supports removing the current restriction. “The Committee has been asked over and over again to expand the Federal refund offset program in a variety of ways,” said Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis. “Any expansion of the program must be balanced against taxpayer privacy concerns, administrative burdens, and the effect on voluntary taxpayer compliance. In response to today’s report and the current state of the economy, I have introduced a bill that expands the refund offset program to assist States in collecting delinquent income taxes.” Currently, 40 states and the District of Columbia participate in the refund offset program. In fiscal year 2008, States collected more than $380 million in delinquent state income tax debt through the program. Click here to view a copy of the GAO Report Click here to view a copy of the legislation. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
05.06.2009	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Rep. John Lewis announced that the economic recovery payments for Social Security recipients will begin to go out on May 7 – with the goal of complete disbursement by the end of May. These payments were provided by the American Economic Recovery and Investment Act. In mid-May, additional Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits will also begin to go out. "Almost 1.2 million people in Georgia who need this money the most-widows, the elderly, the disabled, retirees, and some veterans--will receive a $250 boost this month," said Rep. Lewis. "Their tax dollars will be used to help give them a hand during this difficult time. Because of this legislation, all over the nation more than $13 billion will be put in the hands of 50 million Americans taking one more step to help fuel our economic recovery." Social Security is the only source of income for nearly one-third of all non-married seniors who receive Social Security benefits. Nearly 30 percent of those recipients are women over age 65 and are poor or near-poor . About 17.4 percent of them live below the federal poverty line and another 10.8 percent live dangerously close to poverty line. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
05.03.2009	Rep. John Lewis made the following statement upon learning of the death of Rep. Jack Kemp: “We have lost an outstanding American. Jack Kemp was a statesman who, especially in his later years, tried to reach across the aisle to solve some of our nation’s problems. He was deeply concerned about the struggles of urban America, especially those of inner city youth. His voice will be deeply missed.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –Yesterday the House voted to pass the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009, H.R. 1913 by a vote of 249 to 175. The bill expands the definition of hate crimes and provides law enforcement officers with the tools they need to prosecute these crimes. Rep. John Lewis made the following statement on the bill: “Madame Speaker, while it is an honor to be able to participate in today’s debate, I must say that it gives me feelings of both joy and sorrow. Sorrow because. in the year 2009, I would hope that we should not have a need for such a bill. I find it most ironic that some of the very same voices in the community who speak out against this bill are the very same voices that question whether racism and prejudice no longer exist simply because a person of color has been elected President. Racism, prejudice, and hate did not disappear on November 4th, 2008. Nor did they disappear on January 20th, 2009. “Yet it gives me joy that we are able to do something about it. I grew up in the Deep South and faced vile hatred up close, and it gives me joy to vote “yes” on the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act. Today we proclaim that our country will not stand for, and will not tolerate hate crimes. “This bill is the right thing to do. It protects our citizens, our nation; our principles and our values. We are all Americans – Black Americans, White Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, Native American, Christian Americans, Jewish Americans, Muslim Americans, Gay Americans, Straight Americans – all Americans. We are one people and one nation, the American nation. This bill will bring us one step closer to the Beloved Community, a nation at peace with itself. “A constituent came by my office just yesterday and spoke about her son who fought in Iraq. Her son completed two tours in Iraq. Her son has said that he was indeed concerned about his safety. But her son said that he was even more concerned about the safety of his father – a transgender woman, walking the streets of the United States of America every day. President Obama has talked repeatedly about renewing America’s promise. Today, I urge my fellow Members to vote “yes,” and keep America’s promise. This legislation was inspired in part by the brutal 1998 murder of a gay teenager named Matthew Shepard near Laramie, Wyoming. Since then, Shepard’s mother and supporters have lobbied Congress to expand the 1968 federal hate crimes law in honor of her son. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.28.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –On Wednesday April 29, Rep. John Lewis will attend the arguments of a Supreme Court case for the first time in his congressional tenure. Arguments will begin at 10 AM at the U.S. Supreme Court. Rep. Lewis will walk from his office to the court at about 9:15 AM. He has visited the court, but he has never sat to hear a case in the almost 23 years since he’s been in office. That speaks to the importance of the case the Supreme Court will hear tomorrow, one of the seminal voting rights trials of our time-Northwest Austin Municipal Utility District Number One v. Holder. Mounted in 2006 just days after the expiring sections of the Voting Rights Act were reauthorized for 25 more years, if decided negatively, the case would undo decades of influential and effective voting rights law. At issue is the constitutionality of Section 5, the heart of the act, which requires that jurisdictions with a proven history of voting discrimination have all voting changes reviewed by the U.S. Justice Department before they can take effect. If decided negatively, this case would make it unconstitutional for Congress to legislate federal pre-clearance intervention in voting matters. "The record of present day voting rights violations, "said Rep. John Lewis, " that Congress amassed during the reauthorization period makes it very clear. People are still struggling in America today. American citizens are still struggling today for free and fair access to the ballot box. Right here in Georgia we had our own problems, not just in 1968, but in 2008. Citizens and the federal government raised questions about voting procedures in Georgia. Without Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, there would have been no legal means to insure some measure of justice for the voters in Georgia. This constitutional challenge is very important. It is like a dagger in the heart of the Voting Rights Act." Rep. Lewis is a symbol of this nation's struggle for voting rights. He was one of the leaders of a voting rights march in Selma, Alabama. 600 peaceful marchers were met by Alabama state troopers at the foot of the Edmund Pettus Bridge. The marchers were attacked, and Lewis was hit with a unconscious and left unconscious on the bridge. That day became known as Bloody Sunday, but it helped create the climate and the condition to pass the Voting Rights Act, at issue in the court tomorrow. Lewis submitted an amicus curiae brief to the court in support of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. "Some people want to argue that because we have elected the first African American president," said Lewis, "we no longer need to protect ourselves from voting discrimination. That is like saying once you have built a path that gets you halfway to your destination, you don't need that road any more. As long as there is evidence of voting discrimination in states which have historically and systematically denied citizens of the right to vote, as there is in Georgia, there will be a persistent and continuous need for voting rights protection. Section 5 was necessary in 1965, and it is still necessary today." #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.27.2009	Today, Rep. John Lewis joined protests at the Sudanese Embassy sponsored by the Save Darfur Coalition. Rep. John Lewis Statement to the Press Previously, Rep. Lewis was arrested at a Congressional Black Caucus protest at the Sudanese Embassy in 2006. CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.24.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –On Wednesday April 29, the Supreme Court will hear one of the most important voting rights cases of our time—Northwest Austin Municipal Utility District Number One v. Holder. Mounted in 2006 just days after the expiring sections of the Voting Rights Act were reauthorized for 25 more years, if decided negatively, the case would undo decades of influential and effective voting rights law. At issue is the constitutionality of Section 5, the heart of the act, which requires that jurisdictions with a proven history of voting discrimination have all voting changes cleared before they take effect by the U.S. Justice Department or a three-judge panel. If decided negatively, the federal intervention that has protected so many citizens would be gone. Three other cases will also be heard by the court which would affect the government’s ability to intervene in certain areas of discrimination in mortgage lending, employment and education. “The record of present day voting rights violations, “said Rep. John Lewis, “ that Congress amassed during the reauthorization period makes it very clear. People are still struggling in America today. American citizens are still struggling today for free and fair access to the ballot box. Right here in Georgia we had our own problems, not just in 1968, but in 2008. Citizens and the federal government raised questions about voting procedures in Georgia. Without Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, there would have been no legal means to insure some measure of justice for the voters in Georgia. This constitutional challenge is very important. It strikes at the very heart of the progress we have made in this country since Bloody Sunday and the death of Martin Luther King Jr.” Because of his central involvement in the modern-day voting rights struggle in America, Rep. John Lewis will attend the Supreme Court arguments on Wednesday, and he has submitted an amicus curiae brief to the court in support of the appellees in the case. Proponents of the abolition of Section 5, like Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue, often like to misrepresent the words of Rep. Lewis to support their arguments, as Perdue did in his brief sustaining the eradication of Section 5. The Lewis brief responds to some of these erroneous claims in concert with the entire spectrum of arguments that will be presented in the Supreme Court case. “Some people want to argue that because we have elected the first African American president,” said Lewis, “we no longer need to protect ourselves from voter discrimination. That is like saying once you have built a path that gets you halfway to your destination, you don’t need that road any more. As long as there is evidence of voting discrimination in states which have historically and systematically denied citizens of the right to vote, as there is in Georgia, there will be a persistent and continuous need for voting rights protection. Section 5 was necessary in 1965, and it is still necessary today.” Attachment – Brief of the Honorable Congressman John Lewis as Amicus Curae in Support of Appellees and Intervenor Appellees #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.22.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. John Lewis made this comment today in celebration of Earth Day: “I join with all the members of the world community today who are concerned about our stewardship of the Earth. I have often said that it is strange to me that we could learn to fly in the air like birds and swim in the ocean like fish, but we cannot find a way to make peace with each other and live in harmony with our environment. This little planet we call Earth is the only home we have. It is not ours to hoard. It is not ours to waste. We have a responsibility to future generations to leave this Earth a little cleaner and a little greener for generations yet unborn. “That is why I am glad we have a Congress and a White House that is finally committed to finding ways to end our dependence on foreign oil. We want to engage American ingenuity to utilize the power of the sun, wind, water, electricity, and renewable sources to build a green energy economy that puts Americans back to work. It will take commitment, time, and research, but we are a can-do country, and together we can craft a new future for our nation.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.14.2009	Today the Smithsonian Institution named the architectural firm that will design the National Museum of African American History and Culture on the National Mall in Washington, DC. Rep. John Lewis was delighted by the news. Shortly after he came to Congress in the late 80’s, Congressman Lewis became aware of an effort first launched by black Civil War veterans to appropriately honor the service of black soldiers in the war. They had petitioned Congress decades earlier to build a museum to pay tribute to veterans whose service was all but forgotten. For years the legislative progress of this idea had stopped and started, until Rep. John Lewis took up the charge. In every session of Congress for 15 years, Rep. Lewis introduced a bill authorizing the building of a national museum which would recount the contributions of African Americans to the American story. Finally in 2003, the bill was passed by both sessions of Congress and signed into law in 2004. “Today we moved one step closer,” said Rep. John Lewis, “to making the dream of a national museum a reality. For too long the legacy of black men and women who poured out their gifts in a world that denied their humanity has been left silent. Finally, the work of these awesome and talented Americans will find a home. And I believe that when citizens of the world see what this people has accomplished, they will be inspired and amazed. I only wish those Civil War veterans could see what their dreams, their actions, and their enduring tenacity has created.” The Smithsonian chose a team of four architectural firms to manage the building of the structure. They are the Freelon Group, Adjaye Associates, Davis Brody Bond, and SmithGroup. The Freelon Group will be the architect of record, and Phil Freelon will serve as the design guarantor— making sure that the design reflects the values and priorities of the museum and the Smithsonian. The Freelon Group designed the Museum of the African Diaspora in San Francisco and the Reginald F. Lewis Museum of African American History and Culture in Baltimore. David Adjaye will be the lead designer. He designed the Nobel Peace Centre in Oslo, Norway, and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Denver. Davis Brody Bond is involved in the planning, design and execution of the National September 11 Memorial and Museum at the World Trade Center in New York. The firm also led the restoration and expansion of the New York Public Library. The SmithGroup is an international architectural and engineering firm with offices in Washington, D.C., that designed the Normandy American Cemetery Interpretive Center in France. The building design will take up to three years, with construction to begin in 2012. Set to open in 2015, the museum’s total cost, including design, is estimated to be $500 million. Although it does not have a building yet, the museum is collecting artifacts; conducting seminars and symposia, including a recent two-day program on Black Power; gathering African American oral histories for StoryCorps, a joint program with National Public Radio and the Library of Congress; and creating traveling exhibitions such as “Let Your Motto Be Resistance.” In addition, the museum has its own gallery in the National Museum of American History, which currently is exhibiting “The Scurlock Studio and Black Washington: Picturing the Promise.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.03.2009	Today, Rep. John Lewis voted for passage of H.Con.Res. 85, the fiscal year 2010 budget resolution, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 233 to 196, down party lines. This budget, assembled by House Leaders after much debate, reflects President Obama’s priorities for returning our economy to prosperity by investing in healthcare, education and energy security. Following passage of H.Con.Res. 85, Rep. John Lewis remarked, “This budget is more than numbers on a page; this budget will improve lives.” This budget is projected to reduce the federal deficit by more than half over the next four years, while offering middle class families $1.5 trillion in tax relief. For the first time, this budget also takes makes the plain what the expenses of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan really are. The escalating costs of those wars were omitted from federal budgets by President Bush, to obscure the financial impact of those conflicts. “When President Clinton left office,” said Rep. Lewis, “we had a surplus of $5 trillion. But President Bush left office left us with the highest debt in American history. Hopefully this budget will help undo some of that damage and put us back on the path towards prosperity.” The alternative budget proposed by House Republicans would have cut over $1.6 billion federal dollars for Georgia by repealing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Pell grants, Child Care and Development Block grants as well as Transportation funding and elderly nutrition services are just a few of the areas that would have faced significant reductions. The funding cuts in the House Republican’s proposal would have also stopped the creation of over 100,000 new jobs. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.03.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. John Lewis made the following statement yesterday encouraging the House to pass the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act: Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of the Family Smoking Prevention Act. We all know that tobacco is a killer. We all know that it causes cancer and respiratory problems. We all know that smoking is addictive, and that most people who are hooked began smoking as children. We cannot wait a moment longer to protect our children from this killer. We must break the cycle. This bill is the right approach. Children should not see cigarette advertisements from their school playground and at sporting events. Children should not be able to buy cigarettes in a vending machine. And children should not be the target of advertisements designed to get them hooked on smoking. We should know what it in the cigarettes that people smoke. With the passage of this bill, for the first time, the FDA will know the ingredients in a cigarette, and they will be able to reduce or eliminate harmful ingredients. We cannot let another child get hooked on cigarettes. We must pass this bill today.
04.02.2009	Tomorrow, the U.S. House of Representatives will consider H.Con.Res. 85, the fiscal year 2010 budget resolution. Congressional leaders and the Obama Administration have been working together to craft a package that will return our economy to prosperity by investing in healthcare, education and energy security. Rep. John Lewis made these comments in anticipation of the debate: “If the House is able to pass this budget, we will be moving one step at a time in the right direction. No budget is perfect, but this budget is a blueprint for making our economy strong once more. President Obama has shown great courage in his proposals which address the skyrocketing cost of healthcare, work to ensure that every child receives the best possible education, and help provide secure sources of energy in the future. I am hoping for a vigorous, but productive debate tomorrow.” Resources are available from the White House and the Office of the Majority Leader to provide the latest details on the FY2010 budget proposal: Office of the Majority Leader: FY2010 Budget Clearinghouse or https://majorityleader.gov/members/budget_fy10.cfm White House: White House Office of Management and Budget or https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/ #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.26.2009	The nation’s greatest historian of black America, John Hope Franklin, died today in a Duke University Hospital in Durham, NC. He was 94 years old. Best known as the author of From Slavery to Freedom: A History of African Americans, which was published 8 times and sold over 3 million copies, he was the author of many books that helped to document the African American experience. He was also a recipient of more than 100 honorary degrees. Rep. John Lewis made this statement upon hearing of Franklin’s death. “We have lost one of the most distinguished historians of our time. No one—no scholar, no social scientist, no other historian—knew more about the plight, the struggle, and the contributions of African Americans than John Hope Franklin. “When John Hope Franklin spoke, we listened because we knew he was telling us the truth about our history. I remember as a student, during the late 50s and 60s, I would attend a conference where many Southern historians would gather, and on so many occasions John Hope Franklin was the only historian of color there. But he was deeply respected by his colleagues in the academic community. “John Hope Franklin was a gentleman and a supreme scholar. America has lost one of its most honorable and capable sons. He will be deeply missed.” ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.19.2009	In his opening statement today, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) said it was “shameful” and “a disgrace” that a number of private corporations who received a portion of the billions in capital infusion through the controversial Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) owe back taxes. Two of the firms owe over $100 million each. The Oversight Subcommittee researched 23 of the top TARP recipients out of the 470 companies that received federal support. Chairman Lewis suggested a complete review of the tax status of these companies might be very revealing. Neil Barofsky, Special Inspector General of the Troubled Asset Relief Program, and Gene Dodaro, Acting U.S. Comptroller General did testify. During testimony, Barofsky indicated that more investigation would have to be done, but that within TARP contracts corporations did have to affirm that they were current on their taxes, and that if they accepted TARP money knowing that taxes were owed, it could be a federal crime. The subcommittee will continue to work on this matter. Press is advised that the names of private companies that owe back taxes cannot be revealed by law. Following is the Chairman Lewis’s opening statement made earlier today: “To date, the Troubled Asset Relief Program has given more than $300 billion to private companies and there are plans to give billions more. “Taxpayers have no sense that there is any control over this money. They have no idea what, if anything, they will get in return. This entire program is based on trust – trust in the givers and trust in the takers. At this point, there is no trust. “To get money from Treasury, banks and others must sign a contract that states they have no material unpaid Federal taxes. Treasury did not ask these banks and companies to turn over their tax records. Treasury relied on the signed statements when it agreed to invest billions of taxpayer dollars. When you or I go to the bank to take out a mortgage to buy a house, we are asked for our tax returns. They’re not going to just take our word for it, and we are not asking for millions of dollars. “The Subcommittee looked at the top 23 TARP recipients. We found that thirteen of them owed more than $220 million in unpaid Federal taxes. Two companies owe over $100 million each. How can this be? If we looked at all 470 recipients, how much would they owe? “Are they signing contracts knowing that they owe taxes but thinking they will not get caught? Did then-Secretary Paulson turn a blind eye? Either way, this is shameful. It is a disgrace. The American people are fed up, they are fired up, and they’re not going to take it anymore. As Members of Congress, we shouldn’t take it anymore either. “We want to get to the bottom of what is going on here. The taxpayers deserve nothing less than the truth. The oversight work that our witnesses are doing is so important. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses on their oversight efforts, and, most importantly, what Treasury needs to do to restore the public trust in this program. “Thank you.” [attached chart] ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.18.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, as the U.S. House of Representatives engages in a bi-partisan effort to launch a new era of American service and volunteerism, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) will speak this morning in support of the Generations Invigorating Volunteerism and Education (GIVE) Act, H.R. 1388, and he will introduce an additional measure to gain tax relief for volunteers. The GIVE Act would more than triple the number of volunteers, from the current 75,000 to 250,000, and increase the education reward they receive to $5,350 for next year, the same as the maximum Pell Grant scholarship award. The education award would also be linked to match future boosts in the Pell Grant scholarship in order to keep up with rising college costs. The legislation would also provide new incentives for middle and high school students to volunteer in their communities and create a Summer of Service program to engage students in service, which allows them to earn a $500 education award to be used for college costs. “In this time of economic turmoil,” said Rep. John Lewis, “volunteerism and community service will be a powerful support to neighbors, families and friends who are struggling. The government must do what it can, but we cannot do it all. We need to encourage people to reach out to each other, to help each other as our economy recovers, not weaken their efforts by taxing humanitarian service.” Volunteers are often students who are frequently given an annual stipend as a way to help them meet their basic needs for food, clothing, transportation, and other expenses while they serve. These stipends are small, about $3000-$4000 per year. Passage of the GIVE Act would increase the stipend to $5350 per year. However, unlike over government grants to students, such as Pell or G.I. Grant awards, this stipend is subject to taxes, lessening the value of this financial support for students already living on a subsistence income. The Segal Americorps Award Education Act, to be introduced today by Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) and Jon Porter (R-NV) would provide tax relief for volunteers, like that of Pell or G.I. Grant awardees. Rep. Lewis will speak on the floor about the bill about approximately 11:30 AM today and encourage his colleagues to support this measure. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.13.2009	House Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) today announced that the Subcommittee on Oversight will hold a hearing on the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and oversight of Federal borrowing and the use of Federal monies. The hearing will take place on Thursday, March 19, 2009, at 10:00 a.m. in the main Committee hearing room, 1100 Longworth House Office Building. In view of the limited time available to hear witnesses, oral testimony at this hearing will be from invited witnesses only. The Special Inspector General for TARP, the Honorable Neil Barofsky, and the Acting Comptroller General of the United States, Mr. Gene Dodaro, have been invited to testify. Any individual or organization not scheduled for an oral appearance may submit a written statement for consideration by the Subcommittee and for inclusion in the printed record of the hearing. BACKGROUND: Public Law 110-343, the “Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008” (the Act), was enacted to provide authorities and facilities that the Secretary of Treasury (Secretary) can use to restore liquidity and stability to the financial system of the United States. The Act authorizes the Secretary to establish TARP to purchase, and to make and fund commitments to purchase, troubled assets from any financial institution. The Act provides that the Secretary shall establish a program to guarantee certain troubled assets. The Act authorizes the Secretary to purchase and hold up to $700 billion in troubled assets at a time. Further, the Act increased the statutory limit on the public debt to $11.3 trillion (which is now $12.1 trillion). The Act included numerous provisions with respect to TARP oversight. The Act established the Office of the Special Inspector General for the TARP (SIGTARP) to conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations of the purchase, management, and sale of assets under the program. The Act created the Congressional Oversight Panel. The Act mandated that the Comptroller General of the United States conduct ongoing oversight of the activities and performance of TARP. Further, the Secretary is required under the Act to provide reports to the appropriate committees of the Congress, including the Committee on Ways and Means, detailing monthly activities and each $50 billion in commitments to purchase troubled assets. The first oversight reports to the Congress by SIGTARP and the Comptroller General both noted that Treasury has utilized TARP funds differently than had been envisioned at inception of the Act. TARP’s primary focus was expected to be the purchase of troubled assets, such as mortgages and mortgage-backed securities. However, within two weeks of enactment, then-Secretary Henry M. Paulson changed the strategy and decided to make capital investments of approximately $290 billion directly in financial institutions and other eligible recipients. This changed strategy resulted in an extraordinary use of public monies. In announcing the hearing, Chairman Lewis said, “In the face of this economic crisis, we must restore public confidence in the use of Federal funds. As a starting point, taxpayers need to be certain that TARP funds are being spent for their intended purposes. The questions are simple. How much has been spent, and what have the recipients done with the money? We need answers.” FOCUS OF THE HEARING: The focus of the hearing is to review TARP, its operations, and oversight. Specifically, the Subcommittee will focus on the role of Federal borrowing, the impact on the national debt, and the protection of public monies. The Subcommittee also will consider the role of Federal tax compliance under this program. DETAILS FOR SUBMISSION OF WRITTEN COMMENTS: Please Note: Any person(s) and/or organization(s) wishing to submit for the hearing record must follow the appropriate link on the hearing page of the Committee website and complete the informational forms. From the Committee homepage, https://waysandmeans.house.gov, select “Committee Hearings”. Select the hearing for which you would like to submit, and click on the link entitled, “Click here to provide a submission for the record.” Once you have followed the online instructions, complete all informational forms and click “submit” on the final page. ATTACH your submission as a Word or WordPerfect document, in compliance with the formatting requirements listed below, by close of business Thursday, April 2, 2009. Finally, please note that due to the change in House mail policy, the U.S. Capitol Police will refuse sealed-package deliveries to all House Office Buildings. For questions, or if you encounter technical problems, please call (202) 225-1721. FORMATTING REQUIREMENTS: The Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. As always, submissions will be included in the record according to the discretion of the Committee. The Committee will not alter the content of your submission, but we reserve the right to format it according to our guidelines. Any submission provided to the Committee by a witness, any supplementary materials submitted for the printed record, and any written comments in response to a request for written comments must conform to the guidelines listed below. Any submission or supplementary item not in compliance with these guidelines will not be printed, but will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee. 1. All submissions and supplementary materials must be provided in Word or WordPerfect format and MUST NOT exceed a total of 10 pages, including attachments. Witnesses and submitters are advised that the Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. 2. Copies of whole documents submitted as exhibit material will not be accepted for printing. Instead, exhibit material should be referenced and quoted or paraphrased. All exhibit material not meeting these specifications will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee. 3. All submissions must include a list of all clients, persons, and/or organizations on whose behalf the witness appears. A supplemental sheet must accompany each submission listing the name, company, address, telephone, and fax numbers of each witness. Note: All Committee advisories and news releases are available on the World Wide Web at https://waysandmeans.house.gov. #### CONTACT: (202) 225-5522
03.07.2009	Today Rep. Lewis reintroduced the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act, a bill he developed in 2007 in response to a tragic Atlanta crash. On March 2, 2007, the Bluffton University baseball team was traveling from Ohio to Florida for a tournament. Early in the morning, on Interstate 75 in Atlanta, its chartered bus, attempting to exit the highway, fell off an overpass and landed on its side on the road below. The crash resulted in the deaths of five members of the baseball team, the driver and his wife, and injuries for many of the other 33 passengers on-board. Since that incident two other major bus accidents have occurred. In Arkansas, three people died when a bus crossed the median on a rain-slicked highway in 2007, and last year a bus headed to Missouri from Texas fell down a slope on an interstate highway. Seventeen people died. After the Bluffton accident, Rep. Lewis investigated why safety belts are not offered in passenger and school buses. The bill requires the DOT to upgrade federal safety standards applicable to motorcoaches and take action to improve the operational requirements of drivers and companies. The legislation would lead to the adoption of available safety technologies, result in stronger oversight and compliance with federal safety rules, and encourage better training of motorcoach operators to protect passengers from death and injury due to ejection, rollover, roof crush, and fires. Specifically, the bipartisan legislation would require: Safety belts and stronger seating systems to ensure occupants stay in their seats in a crash; Improved commercial driver training. Currently, no training is required by federal regulation; Anti-ejection glazing on the body of the bus to prevent passengers from being easily thrown outside the motorcoach; Strong, crush-resistant roofs that can withstand rollovers; Improved protection against fires by reducing flammability of the motorcoach interior, and better training for operators in the case of fire; A National Commercial Motor Vehicle Medical Registry to ensure that only medically qualified examiners conduct physical examinations of drivers and a medical certificate process to ensure that all certificates are valid and no unqualified operator is allowed to drive; Strengthened motorcoach vehicle safety inspections including roadside inspections, safety audits, and state and motor carrier programs for identifying vehicle defects; Electronic On-Board Recorders (EOBRs) with real-time capabilities to track precise vehicle location, and recorded data not accessible to manipulation by a driver or motor carrier; and Tax credits and small business grants to assist motorcoach operators in managing the cost of adhering to these new safety standards. Other bills have been developed on this issue, but the Bluffton team families and advocates of motorcoach safety agree that the Lewis bill is the most comprehensive motorcoach safety legislative proposal available. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.05.2009	On March 6-8, 2009, Congressman John Lewis will lead The Faith & Politics Institute's 9th Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage to Alabama. This year, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) and Representative Roy Blunt (R-MO) will serve as Honorary Co-Leaders of the pilgrimage. Over 40 members of Congress will be attending, including Reps. Spencer Bacchus (R-AL), Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Richard Neal (D-MA), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (D-FL), among others. The 2009 Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage to Alabama is an invitation to members of Congress and their guests to gather across lines of race, party and religion for a unique experiential journey to historic sites in Alabama with those who shaped the Civil Rights Movement. This three-day passage through living history demonstrates the powerful role that spirituality and courage have played in shaping our nation’s history. The pilgrimage, which passes through Birmingham, Montgomery and Selma, includes visits to notable museums such as the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute, the Rosa Parks Library and Museum, the National Voting Rights Museum and Institute, and the Southern Poverty Law Center's Civil Rights Memorial Center. In addition, the group spends time visiting, reflecting, and worshipping in churches such as the 16th Street Baptist Church, Brown Chapel AME Church and the Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church, all of which played a vital role in the Civil Rights Movement. Finally, the group celebrates the anniversary of the Voting Rights March across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama. Along the way, participants explore the implications of their experience for their leadership toward racial reconciliation and healing. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.05.2009	Today the Federal Transit Administration announced that it would release $143.6 million dollars to Georgia for transportation projects in the state as a part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan, also known as the stimulus package. Rep. Lewis made these comments about the FTA’s announcement. “President Obama,” said Rep. John Lewis, “is doing all he can to make good on his promises to the American people. He is trying to use the people’s resources to help sustain American families as we move through this period of crisis. There is no better use of taxpayer dollars than to make an investment in the people of this nation--in their employment and the infrastructure that supports them. I hope the governors who have resisted this creative opportunity will begin to put their constituents first and join the effort to rebuild the American economy, put people back in their homes, and send them back to work.” ###
03.05.2009	Rep. John Lewis requested and received funding for the following projects in the 5th Congressional District of Georgia in the FY O9 Omnibus Appropriations bill passed by the House. Agriculture · Georgia Cotton Commission, Cotton Insect Management: $346,000 Commerce, Justice, Science FY09 Appropriations · City of East Point, Law Enforcement Technology Upgrade: $300,000 · Georgia Institute of Technology, National Textile Center: $100,000 · Georgia State University, Prisoner Re-Entry for HIV-Infected Inmates: $500,000 · Spelman College, Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) Scholars Program: $200,000 Defense FY09 Appropriations · Morehouse School of Medicine, Neuregulin-1:effects on stroke and nerve gas recipients: $1,520,000 · Morehouse College, John H. Hopps Defense Research Scholars Program: $1,600,000 Energy and Water FY09 Appropriations · City of Atlanta, Environmental Infrastructure, City of Atlanta: $1,818,000 · Morehouse College, Morehouse College Minority Energy Science Research and Education Initiative: $1,903,000 · Georgia Institute of Technology, Consortium on Plant Biotechnology Research: $3,806,000 Interior and Environment FY09 Appropriations · Atlanta, GA Sewer System Rehabilitation, City of Atlanta: $300,000 · Flood Control/Environmental Infrastructure Project, City of East Point: $500,000 · The Consortium for Plant Biotechnology Research, Inc.(CPBR): $750,000 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education FY09 Appropriations · Grady Memorial Hospital, Atlanta, GA for renovation and equipment: $95,000 · Intergenerational Resource Center, Inc. (IRC), Adult Day Health Services for Veterans & Seniors: $57,000 · Girls Incorporated of Greater Atlanta, Girls Incorporated of Greater Atlanta Programming: $71,000 · Emory University, Southeastern Center for Emerging Biologic Threats: $95,000 · Clark Atlanta University, Center for Cancer Research and Therapeutic Development: $428,000 · Spelman College, Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) Scholars Program: $95,000 · Morehouse College, Morehouse College Research Initiative for the Academic Success of African American Males: $95,000 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education FY09 Appropriations (CONT.) · Georgia State University, Atlanta Center of Emergency and Primary Health Systems Effectiveness: $95,000 · National Black Arts Festival, Children's Education Village for National Expansion: $143,000 · Jewish Federation of Greater Atlanta’s Naturally Occurring Retirement Community initiative: $95,000 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development FY09 Appropriations · Noise Barrier Evaluation Study, Georgia Department of Transportation: $570,000 · Quality Living Services, Inc.: $237,500 · Atlanta BeltLine: $475,000 · MARTA I-20 East Transit Corridor: $950,000 · I-85 NB VIADUCT at SR 400 NB - EXIT LANE: $2,000,000 Funding for these projects must still be passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President . ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.26.2009	Lawmakers discuss problems and solutions to help ease hardships WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight held a hearing today to learn more about the assistance provided by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to taxpayers facing economic difficulties. Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) issued the following opening statement during today’s hearing: “People all over our country are hurting. Record numbers of people—our friends, our families, and our neighbors—are losing their jobs, losing their homes, and getting in line at food banks. “People are suffering. These are hard working people with families who, for the first time in their lives, are struggling to stay afloat while their debts increase. We must reach out to help. “Today, the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight will discuss what the Internal Revenue Service can do for taxpayers in need. We want people to know that there is help. “We need to tell people that they can get free help to prepare their tax returns during this filing season. We want to tell them how to get their refunds faster, especially if there is an emergency. We want them to know what steps to take if they owe taxes and want to pay, but cannot. In summary, we want to see the gentle side of the IRS. “I am grateful to our witnesses for appearing today. The Taxpayer Advocate, Ms. Olson, will report on problems that taxpayers are having and possible solutions. The Deputy IRS Commissioner, Ms. Stiff, will report on the IRS programs to help taxpayers and how the economy is affecting IRS operations. “We look forward to your testimony. As always, we ask you to tell us how the Congress can help you this filing season and beyond. “Thank you.” #### W&M Contact: Matthew Beck (202) 225-8933 Lewis Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 225-3801
02.25.2009	House Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) today announced that the Subcommittee on Oversight will hold a hearing on assistance available from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to taxpayers experiencing economic difficulties. The hearing will take place on Thursday, February 26, 2009, at 10:00 a.m. in the main Committee hearing room, 1100 Longworth House Office Building. In view of the limited time available to hear witnesses, oral testimony at this hearing will be from invited witnesses only. The National Taxpayer Advocate, Nina E. Olson, and the IRS Deputy Commissioner for Services and Enforcement, Linda E. Stiff, have been invited to testify. Any individual or organization not scheduled for an oral appearance may submit a written statement for consideration by the Subcommittee and for inclusion in the printed record of the hearing. FOCUS OF THE HEARING: During this recession, taxpayers are experiencing financial difficulties. In 2008, there were 3.4 million foreclosure filings and 2.6 million job losses. Many taxpayers are struggling to meet their daily living expenses as they face a wide range of financial and personal issues, which may make it difficult to meet their tax obligations. On January 6, 2009, the IRS kicked off the 2009 filing season with an announcement of steps taken to help financially distressed taxpayers. The IRS announced that its employees have greater flexibility to assist struggling taxpayers and may be able to adjust payments for back taxes, expedite levy releases, or postpone collections. Further, the IRS encouraged taxpayers to take advantage of new and existing credits (such as the first-time homebuyer credit and the earned income tax credit), deductions (such as the standard deduction for real estate taxes), and electronic filing options (such as Free File Fillable Tax Forms) to maximize and expedite refunds. The National Taxpayer Advocate, an independent official appointed to address taxpayer problems (established in Public Law 104-168), indicates that more action may be warranted to address the problems of struggling taxpayers. The Taxpayer Advocate’s most recent report to Congress focused on the challenges to taxpayers and tax administration during the economic downturn. The report recommended that the IRS change some of its collection practices in order to avoid exacerbating the financial distress of taxpayers. The Taxpayer Advocate noted that the IRS is underutilizing collection alternatives, particularly offers in compromise and partial pay installment agreements, and IRS employees need more guidance on how to identify and help distressed taxpayers. The Subcommittee will discuss the specific problems encountered by taxpayers during this recession. The Subcommittee will review the steps taken by the IRS to assist struggling taxpayers and consider recommendations of the National Taxpayer Advocate. In announcing the hearing, Chairman Lewis said, “Americans are suffering during these difficult economic times. They are trying to do the right thing and pay their taxes, but they may be unable. We need to understand their problems. They need to reach out to the IRS for assistance. Together, we must find ways to collect the proper amount of taxes owed in a manner that is fair and recognizes the problems that taxpayers are facing during this recession.” ##### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (Rep. John Lewis) (202) 226 - 4673 Ways & Means Committee (202) 225-5522
02.25.2009	Tonight President Barack Obama addressed the nation for the first time during a joint session of Congress. Rep. John Lewis made these observations about the President’s address: “Tonight President Obama did what he had to do. He spoke from his heart and offered the American people more than just words. He inspired us with a vision that the difficulties of today can be used to help us create a new nation better equipped for the 21st century. “He reminded us that our problems should not change our values. There are certain basic human needs this nation can never afford to sacrifice. We must invest in healthcare, housing, education, energy, and jobs. These are fundamental aspects of American life. But he also told us that we must all take a good hard look at government spending, as well as our own personal spending, and be willing to cut projects and programs that are no longer effective. “I have heard many president’s speak. I think this speech was one of the best. It was the right message at the right time for a nation that needs to be inspired and to be determined to meet the challenges of the next few years head on.” ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.25.2009	Rep. Lewis wanted to call your attention to The New York Times editorial published in this morning’s paper. If you have not seen it, it is worth considering. Much commentary has been offered about Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal’s rejection of stimulus package funds, but Georgia’s governor has also indicated he will do the same. Rep. John Lewis made these comments about the governors’ decision to refuse funding that could help sustain their constituents during the worst economic crisis this nation has seen in decades: “I don’t understand it. I don’t understand how any governor during this deep economic crisis could refuse federal help, especially those governors who come from the South--one of the poorest regions of this country with populations that are in dire need of resources for education, health care, and unemployment. The elected officials and governors in particular who are rejecting money from the stimulus package are turning their backs on the people they serve. It is shameful. And I don’t think the citizenry they represent or the historians of this period will be very kind to them.” ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673 The New York Times February 24, 2009 Editorial What Part of ‘Stimulus’ Don’t They Get? Imagine yourself jobless and struggling to feed your family while the governor of your state threatens to reject tens of millions of dollars in federal aid earmarked for the unemployed. That is precisely what is happening in poverty-ridden states like Louisiana and Mississippi where Republican governors are threatening to turn away federal aid rather than expand access to unemployment insurance programs in ways that many other states did a long time ago. What makes these bad decisions worse is that they are little more than political posturing by rising Republican stars, like Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina. This behavior reinforces the disturbing conclusion that the Republican Party seems more interested in ideological warfare than in working on policies that get the country back on track. Fortunately, as President Obama prepares for his first address to Congress on Tuesday evening, voters of both parties have noticed. About three-quarters of those polled in a recent New York Times/CBS News survey — including more than 60 percent of Republicans — said Mr. Obama has been trying to work with Republicans. And 63 percent said Republicans in Congress opposed the stimulus package primarily for political reasons, not because they thought it would be bad for the economy. It should be sobering news for Republicans that about 8 in 10 said the party should be working in a bipartisan way. The Republican Party’s attacks on the unemployment insurance portion of the stimulus package are a perfect example. States that accept the stimulus money aimed at the unemployed are required to abide by new federal rules that extend unemployment protections to low-income workers and others who were often shorted or shut out of compensation. This law did not just materialize out of nowhere. It codified positive changes that have already taken place in at least half the states. To qualify for the first one-third of federal aid, the states need to fix arcane eligibility requirements that exclude far too many low-income workers. To qualify for the rest of the aid, states have to choose from a menu of options that include extending benefits to part-time workers or those who leave their jobs for urgent family reasons, like domestic violence or gravely ill children. Data from the National Employment Law Project, a nonprofit group, show that 19 states qualify for some of the federal financing and that a dozen others would become eligible by making one or two policy changes. Unemployed workers are worst off in the Deep South, where relatively few people are eligible to receive payments. Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas stand out. The governors are blowing smoke when they suggest that the federal unemployment aid would lead directly to new state taxes. No one knows what the economic climate will be when the federal aid has been used up several years from now. But by dumping billions of dollars into shrinking state unemployment funds, which puts money into the hands of people who spend it immediately on food and shelter, the stimulus could help the states through the recession and into a time when unemployment trust funds can be replenished. In other words, the stimulus could make a tax increase less likely. But even if new taxes are required at some point, the new federal standards would protect more unemployed workers than ever before and bring states like Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas into the 21st century. Governors like Mr. Jindal should be worrying about how to end this recession while helping constituents feed and house their families — not about finding ways to revive tired election-year arguments about big spending versus small government.
02.19.2009	Mumbai, India -- Rep. John Lewis led a congressional delegation to India to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.’s historic journey to India to retrace the steps of Mahatma Gandhi. Rep. Lewis invited Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA) a member of the Ways & Means Committee with a long-standing relationship to India, Rep. Al Green (D-TX) , Rep. Shelia Jackson-Lee (D-TX), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), all members of the Homeland Security Committee, as well as Ambassador Andrew Young and former Senator Harris Wofford, who met Gandhi as a child. “It is has been a great honor to be able to walk in the footsteps of Mahatma Gandhi. Visiting his tomb, the site of his assassination, his ashram and his homes is like walking on sacred ground. The Indian people also recognize the revolutionary work of Martin Luther King Jr. and his commitment to non-violent resistance. Through this journey we have discovered a powerful link between the United States and India that may be a meaningful source of future work.” Congressman Lewis invited Rep. Spencer Bachus (R-AL) to co-lead the delegation. Bachus represents parts of Birmingham, Alabama. Rep. Bachus has made poignant remarks saying that Americans may not fully appreciate the importance of King’s non-violent movement. “Dr. King and Rep. Lewis’s commitment to non-violence has been a blessing to my hometown of Birmingham and all America. The peaceful Civil Rights Movement spared America the tortuous cycle that hatred and vengeance creates. Mohandas Gandhi‘s success in bringing about a non-violent revolution in India inspired Martin Luther King Jr. and John Lewis. We in America owe Gandhi and the Indian people our deepest gratitude.” Martin Luther King III and his wife were also invited by the U.S. Embassy to make the journey. India is a patriarchal society, and thus deeply reveres the lineage of heroes. Mr. King and his wife have been welcomed with deep respect and honor, as has the congressional delegation. ####
02.19.2009	Mumbai, India -- While Rep. John Lewis was traveling in India, he made these comments on the announcement of the president’s new housing plan. “President Obama’s housing program represents a significant commitment on the part of his Administration to help stave off further foreclosure and keep people in their homes. It is another step in a long-standing pledge made by the federal government decades ago to support homeownership among American citizens. “A home is often the most important financial purchase a person makes in his or her lifetime. The federal government has determined through former policy to secure this major investment on behalf of the American people, to do what it can to ensure fairness and honest-dealing throughout the process. It is clear that President Obama recognizes this legacy, and these efforts made today to staunch the foreclosure crisis may plant the seeds that will help to turn around our entire economy.” ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the conference report of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, by a vote of 246 to 183. These are the comments of Rep. John Lewis on the passage of the bill: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “I did vote for the economic stimulus package because I believe it is necessary to help the citizens of this country. People are hurting. They are losing their jobs, losing their homes. Schools are closing, and some of the nation’s first responders—police and firefighters—are out of work. The federal government cannot simply stand by and watch the people of this nation struggle. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “This stimulus package will help to restore a sense of hope and confidence that is necessary to encourage spending, and it will give our economy a boost. This is not a perfect bill, but it is a major downpayment; it is a first step toward regaining the integrity of our economy.” Final House Overview of Conference Report White House Table on Jobs Gained by District House State-by-State Numbers ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.13.2009	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the conference report of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, by a vote of 246 to 183. These are the comments of Rep. John Lewis on the passage of the bill: “I did vote for the economic stimulus package because I believe it is necessary to help the citizens of this country. People are hurting. They are losing their jobs, losing their homes. Schools are closing, and some of the nation’s first responders—police and firefighters—are out of work. The federal government cannot simply stand by and watch the people of this nation struggle. “This stimulus package will help to restore a sense of hope and confidence that is necessary to encourage spending, and it will give our economy a boost. This is not a perfect bill, but it is a major downpayment; it is a first step toward regaining the integrity of our economy.” Final House Overview of Conference Report White House Table on Jobs Gained by District House State-by-State Numbers ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.13.2009	“Today we celebrate the 200th birthday anniversary of one of our nation’s most profound public servants. President Abraham Lincoln stood before the American people nearly one-hundred and fifty years ago to deliver his first inaugural address at a time when our nation faced a perilous future and the deepest dangers of division. Through the darkest and most fragile days of this Republic and through its bloodiest war, he held this nation together. Because he believed in the principles of unity and the need for our democracy, he stood for what was right at the cost of his own life. This nation is deeply indebted to the courage, conviction, and vision of President Abraham Lincoln. “We hope and pray that the spirit of Lincoln will guide President Obama to lead this nation with as much wisdom and grace through the difficult days ahead. As we commemorate the 200th birthday of President Abraham Lincoln and face the our contemporary trials, let us look to his timeless words. We must ‘strive on to finish the work we are in; to bind up the nation’s wounds.’ The legacy reminds us all that great trial always offers great opportunity to prove again that together as one nation and one people we can overcome and surpass the most challenging adversity.”
02.04.2009	Yesterday night, by a vote of 419 to 0, Rep. John Lewis won passage of a resolution offering federal acknowledgement for the issues of teen dating violence. February 2-6 is Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention week. This resolution is in conjunction with a bill the Congressman has recently introduced called the Teen Dating Violence Prevention Act of 2009 (H.R. 789) in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill authorizes the Department of Justice to develop targeted grants to: assist youth victims of relationship abuse who run away, are homeless, incarcerated or end up in foster care; develop and implement education, counseling and prevention programs to prevent youth relationship abuse; provide rehabilitative services and counseling to both victims and abusers; offer legal services to victims who need protection or additional resources to ensure their safety; encourage collaborative prevention and reduction strategies; and enhance relationship abuse prevention and reduction programs already established in communities throughout America. In 2008, the Centers for Disease Control, which resides in the 5th Congressional District of Georgia, launched a public service campaign called Break the Silence: Stop the Violence. The Centers discovered that one out of 11 teenagers was a victim of physical abuse by a partner. And cell phones, the internet and other advanced technology have made stalking and abuse even more accessible. This bill offers some federal means to assist communities in preventing teen violence. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673 Additional Resources: HR 789 Teen Dating Violence Prevention Act Lewis Resolution Teen Dating Violence Prevention Act of 2009 Factsheet
02.04.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 2, the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act, by a vote of 290-135. This landmark, bipartisan legislation reauthorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which currently provides health insurance for more than seven million children. Today’s legislation protects coverage for those children, and expands it to include an additional four million children who would otherwise be uninsured. The bill has already been passed by the Senate, and President Barack Obama is expected to sign the bill into law this afternoon. The bill is already fully funded and should not add to the federal deficit. “It has been a long time coming.” said Rep. John Lewis. “For too long the very lives of millions of America’s children have been hanging in the balance. This bill provides medical assistance to children with disabilities, chronic and debilitating illnesses. It offers medical support to the motherless and fatherless orphans of our nation. For too long the survival of the least and most innocent Americans has been at risk while the federal government turned a blind eye to their need. I am gratified that today the struggle to retain and strengthen health benefits for these children will end with the President’s signature. With this bill, the Congress and our new President Barack Obama are affirming the role of the federal government to act as a safety net to help struggling Americans. We are saying, in effect, that we will not allow our citizens—especially the children of the United States--to suffer in silence with nowhere to turn. We are asserting that the federal government has a role and a responsibility to assist where there is need, and we have begun to meet that responsibility today by passing this SCHIP legislation.” ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.04.2009	Today Millard Fuller, the founder of the non-profit housing program, Habitat for Humanity, died in Americus, Georgia at the age of 74. Through Habitat for Humanity, Fuller and hundreds of volunteers built homes for more than 1.5 million Americans in more than 3,000 communities. Rep. John Lewis made these comments upon hearing of his passing. “Millard Fuller made a lasting contribution to our society to help alleviate the lack of affordable housing for hundreds and thousands of our citizens. He was one man, but he saw a need and he did what he could to answer that need. He engaged the goodwill of hundreds and thousands of volunteers to help provide shelter for thousands of citizens of modest means. His leadership and inclusive vision of humanity will be deeply missed.” ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.29.2009	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, also known as the stimulus package, by a vote of 244 to 188. This package was developed by the Obama Administration and approaches stimulus by strengthening the economy from the bottom up. This represents a significant shift from the fiscal policy of the last eight years. “Americans need help,” said Rep. John Lewis. “They are losing their jobs, their homes, and their businesses. Through this stimulus package, Congress is saying, in effect, that “trickle down” economics has not worked. We are saying that the people’s resources should be used to benefit the greatest number of citizens in their time of need.” The bill offers an immediate tax cut to 95 percent of Americans and provides 1 million new job opportunities in an emerging green economy. It increases Pell grant educational benefits, supports renovation of bridges, transits and waterways, offers tax cuts to businesses, and lowers health care costs by supporting health information technology upgrades. Ultimately, this package would create 3 to 4 million jobs helping to recover the 2.6 million jobs lost in America just last year. “There are tax cuts included in this bill to help create a balanced plan,” said Rep. Lewis. “But those who criticize spending today did not raise their voices when the federal deficit was expanding into double digits. Now, are they asking that the federal government close its doors and turn its back on our citizens? Congress is charged to make decisions about how to allocate the people’s resources. And this Congress has decided we must use our limited resources to benefit, not just a few, but the greatest number.” “This Congress has decided we must invest in America to begin economic recovery: modernize aging schools, expand health care coverage for people who are out of work, reward excellent teachers, and retrain jobless Americans to participate fully in a new green economy. We are saying that if you help average Americans get back on their feet, they will begin to refuel the economy, because they are the economy. This bill is a first step, but it is not the only step we must take to resolve this financial crisis.” The bill also offers unprecedented accountability –strong oversight, a historic degree of public transparency and it includes no earmarks. Following is a table that estimates specific benefits to Georgia from the bill. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673 Georgia Funds Received FY2009/2010
01.21.2009	Today Rep. John Lewis introduced H. Res. 73 in the U.S. House of Representatives to honor the legacy of the 80th birthday of Martin Luther King Jr. At least once during each session of Congress, Rep. Lewis draws attention to the legacy of this son of Atlanta and his lasting contribution to our nation by offering a resolution in his honor on or around the King holiday. The following is an excerpt of the statement he made on the floor today: “Martin Luther King Jr. spoke to the hearts and conscience of all of us who believed that nonviolence and love offered a more excellent way. This good man, this God-fearing man, gave us hope in a time of hopelessness. This good man, this man of God, this son of America, this citizen of the world, produced light in dark places. Martin Luther King had the ability to bring the dirt and filth out from under the American rug, out of the cracks and corners into the open light in order for us to deal with it. “Martin Luther King, Jr. more than any other American of the 20th Century, had the power to bring people together to do good--black and white, rich and poor, young and old, Protestants, Catholics and Jews. His message was love. His weapon was truth. His method was creative nonviolence. His goal was the Beloved Community -- a community of justice, a community at peace with itself. This man that I marched with, worked with and went to jail with, this man that I got to know was so sensitive and so caring. He personified the best of human kind. “He was a gentle man who used the teachings of Jesus and the tools of Gandhi. In a sense, he spoke a strange language -- the philosophy of passive resistance to evil and the use of nonviolence in the struggle for good. In a sense, he was a radical, far too advanced in his concepts of love and peace for the violent times in which he lived. “Dr. King taught us that the method of nonviolence was the key to building a Beloved Community, a society based on simple justice that values the dignity and the worth of every human being.” “I say to you, my friends, 41 years ago, Martin Luther King was taken from us by an assassin’s bullet. But murder could not kill the dream of peace. It could not kill the dream of an open society. It could not kill the dream of a Beloved Community. The movement that Martin Luther King, Jr. led, the movement that he sustained, was too necessary, too noble, too right to ever die. …….If Dr. King were here today, I believe he would say that the election of Barack Obama is not an ending. It is not even a beginning. It is the continuation of a struggle that began centuries ago to build a more perfect union in this country, a union of human kind that expresses one great universal truth. “We are all one people, one family, the human family and what touches one of us, affects all of us. As we pause today to commemorate the life and legacy of Dr, King, we recognize the unbelievable power of our democracy to grow, to expand, to let all our citizens come in and participate.” ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.16.2009	On Sunday January 18, 2008, Congressman John Lewis will deliver a Martin Luther King Jr. commemorative message at the historic Shiloh Baptist Church. Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) is the last remaining speaker from the historic March on Washington and the last remaining of the Big Six leaders of the Civil Rights Movement. In the 1960’s he was chairman of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) and was arrested and jailed more than 40 times on the front lines of the non-violent struggle for social change in America. Currently, he serves as the U.S. Representative of the 5th Congressional District in Georgia, Senior Chief Deputy Whip of the Democratic leadership, and Chairman of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight. As a legislator, he has remained on the forefront of the call for social change and is often called the “conscience of the U.S. Congress.” Shiloh Baptist Church is one of the oldest African American churches in Washington, DC. It was founded during the Civil War in 1863. When slaves were freed in Washington in 1862, African Americans flocked to the city. About 400 black members of the Shiloh Baptist Church in Fredericksburg, Virginia, who had been subjected to segregated worship practices in Virginia, established a new church home in Washington, DC free from the impediments of slavery. Shiloh has been a distinguished and leading church presence in the Washington community ever since. WHO: Rep. John Lewis WHAT: Delivers Commemorative Martin Luther King Jr. Message WHEN: Sunday January 18, 2009 at 10:55 AM WHERE: Shiloh Baptist Church, the corner of 9th & P Streets, NW Washington, DC #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.16.2009	“This weekend as we celebrate the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr., the leader of a non-violent movement that changed America forever, we must first celebrate the distance we have come and the progress we have made toward laying down the burden of racial separation and division. As we inaugurate the 44th President of the United States, Barack Obama, we must marvel at what the hands that picked cotton have done to help heal, transform, and reconcile our nation. “We have come a long way, but we still have a distance to go before we realize the dream of Martin Luther King Jr. As we commemorate this day in honor of a man of peace, we see conflict in the world all around us—in the Middle East, in Africa, in Asia and in the United States. If Dr. King were here today, we would say we must find a way to bring an end to war and violence. He would remind us of another visionary who saw a time when nations would hammer their swords into plows and their spears into pruning tools. And he would tell us that that was the dream he spoke about 45 years ago. “If we truly believe in King’s message, then we as a nation and as a people must come to the point where we study war no more. We must come to understand that war is obsolete as a tool of our foreign policy. War is bloody. War is messy. It tends not just to hide the truth, but to sacrifice the truth. We must call upon the people of the world to end the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, to end the conflict between Israel and Palestine, between India and Pakistan, and silence the strife in Africa, Latin America, in Asia and here at home.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.14.2009	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the State Children’s Health Insurance Program bill with a 289-139 vote. Passage of the bill was managed by the House Ways & Means Committee of which Rep. John Lewis is a senior member. The legislation, formerly vetoed by the Bush Administration provides health insurance for more than 7 million children. The program will protect coverage for those children and expand it to include an additional 4 million children who would otherwise be uninsured. The legislation is paid for through an increase in the federal tobacco tax, as well as a prohibition on kickbacks to physicians from hospitals they own. Rep. John Lewis made this statement today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of the bill: “Mr. Speaker, at long last, we will do what is right for our nation’s poorest children; today we will expand SCHIP to 4 million more children. We have a mission, an obligation, a mandate to provide health insurance for all Americans. And now we have a Congress and a President who will meet that obligation for our children. It has taken too long. This nation has been wrong to choose war and greed over children and health. Children need our help. They have a right to health care. Today we will do what is right and pass this expansion of SCHIP.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.14.2009	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the State Children’s Health Insurance Program bill with a 289-139 vote. Passage of the bill was managed by the House Ways & Means Committee of which Rep. John Lewis is a senior member. The legislation, formerly vetoed by the Bush Administration provides health insurance for more than 7 million children. The program will protect coverage for those children and expand it to include an additional 4 million children who would otherwise be uninsured. The legislation is paid for through an increase in the federal tobacco tax, as well as a prohibition on kickbacks to physicians from hospitals they own. Rep. John Lewis made this statement today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of the bill: “Mr. Speaker, at long last, we will do what is right for our nation’s poorest children; today we will expand SCHIP to 4 million more children. We have a mission, an obligation, a mandate to provide health insurance for all Americans. And now we have a Congress and a President who will meet that obligation for our children. It has taken too long. This nation has been wrong to choose war and greed over children and health. Children need our help. They have a right to health care. Today we will do what is right and pass this expansion of SCHIP.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.09.2009	Washington, DC - Today, the Department of Labor announced that in 2008, the U.S. lost 2.6 million jobs, more than any other year since 1945. The unemployment rate increased to 7.2 percent in the month of December, the highest rate increase since January 1993. Rep. John Lewis, chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Labor Task Force, released this statement on behalf of the CBC: “The national figures are high, but in some cities and some communities across the nation the problem is much worse. Minority communities always suffer more when our economy is struggling. When people lose their jobs, they lose their homes, their health care, and their ability to support their families. They lose their dignity and their self-respect. “This downturn represents the failure of trickle down economics. We can no longer allow every man and woman to fend for themselves. The federal government must act immediately to increase training, education, jobless services, and benefits to the many Americans who want and need to work. “We must support President-elect Obama’s efforts to create jobs in new and emerging sectors like technology, health care, and green infrastructure. And we must reaffirm the federal government’s role to assist Americans who need help.” ### CONTACT: Nicole Y. Williams (202) 225-2661 Congressional Black Caucus 2444 Rayburn Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 226-9776 (T) (202) 225-9817 (F)
01.08.2009	Building toward the holiday celebrating what would have been Martin Luther King Jr.’s 80th birthday, Rep. John Lewis was invited by the Central Intelligence Agency’s office of Diversity Plans and Programs to discuss the King legacy this morning at its headquarters in Langley, Virginia. Lewis will describe King’s commitment to the cause of non-violent social change, how the philosophy of non-violence was infused through the Civil Rights Movement, and ask listeners to consider its effectiveness as a tool of social transformation. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
12.23.2008	Each year, Rep. Lewis nominates qualified candidates from Georgia’s Fifth Congressional District to the five United States Service Academies: U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. The application and selection process is highly competitive with limited vacancies at each academy. "Entrance to the service academies," said Rep. John Lewis, "can play a powerful role in shaping the lives and careers of young people. The service academies prepare youngsters not only to attain high-level military offices, but to be future corporate executives and outstanding public servants. It is a great pleasure to open the doors to this opportunity and recommend some of the most intelligent and capable students in this metropolitan area as potential candidates to the service academies." Georgia’s Fifth District U.S. Service Academy Congressional Nominees: West Point Military Academy Robert McKerrow, Atlanta Richard McPhee, Atlanta United States Naval Academy Benjamin Bondurant, Atlanta Caroline Chandler Brown, Atlanta Matthew Campbell, Atlanta Brendan Haber, Atlanta Andrew Klemperer, Atlanta William O’Connor, Atlanta Thomas Winter, Atlanta United States Air Force Academy Parker Hodges, Atlanta Christopher Summins, Atlanta United States Merchant Marine Academy Mario Maddox II, Atlanta #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
12.17.2008	Taxpayers deserve to work with trained IRS professionals who are more efficient at collecting tax debt WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) joined fellow Committee members in a letter today urging President-elect Barack Obama to end the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) use of private contractors to collect Federal taxes. The IRS is currently deciding whether to renew the existing contracts for another year. The Committee has taken the lead in recent years on efforts to end the private debt collection program, arguing that tax collection is an inherent Government function and that professional IRS agents are more efficient at collecting outstanding tax debt. In 2007, the Committee conducted an investigation into the use of private debt collectors and found that their services often subjected taxpayers to undue harassment and confusion not associated with the use of trained IRS agents. Text of the letter sent to President-elect Obama is and pasted below and a signed copy is attached: December 16, 2008 President-Elect Barack Obama The Office of the 2008 Presidential Transition Washington, D.C. 20270 Dear President-Elect Obama: Congratulations on your recent victory. We are writing concerning the Internal Revenue Service’s (“IRS”) use of private collection agencies to collect unpaid Federal tax liabilities. Presently, the IRS has contracts with two companies for the collection of unpaid Federal income taxes. We understand that the IRS is in the process of determining whether to exercise its option to extend these contracts for a one-year period, which would run from March 8, 2009, to March 7, 2010. In the 110th Congress, the House passed three bills that would repeal the authority of the IRS to use private collection agencies. The collection of Federal taxes is an inherent government function. Former IRS officials have testified that the IRS can collect Federal taxes cheaper and more efficiently than the private collection agencies. We respectfully request that your Administration not proceed with renewing the existing contracts or expanding the program. In light of the current economic situation, it is important that the Administration protect taxpayers by ensuring that they deal with the IRS directly to work through any difficulties. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to working with you and your Administration during the upcoming Congress. Respectfully yours, _________________________ ___________________________ Charles B. Rangel John Lewis, Chairman Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight ________________________ ___________________________ Pete Stark Sander M. Levin ________________________ ___________________________ Jim McDermott Richard E. Neal ________________________ ___________________________ Earl Pomeroy Earl Blumenauer ________________________ ___________________________ Shelley Berkley Joseph Crowley ________________________ ___________________________ Chris Van Hollen Kendrick Meek ________________________ ___________________________ Allyson Y. Schwartz Bill Pascrell cc: Peter R. Orszag Director-designee, Office of Management and Budget Timothy F. Geithner Secretary-designee, Department of Treasury Douglas R. Shulman Commissioner, Internal Revenue Service ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
12.03.2008	Last Friday, James Paschal, one of the founders of Paschal’s Restaurant, died in Atlanta due to the complications of heart surgery. He was 88 years old. Paschal’s Restaurant was an unofficial headquarters for the Civil Rights Movement in Atlanta. Many of the organizing meetings to plan now historic civil rights actions, like the March on Washington and the Selma-to-Montgomery March, were held at Paschal’s. At a time when public accommodations were racially segregated by law throughout the South, Paschal’s was considered an oasis where civil rights activists could congregate, relax, nourish themselves, and in the comfort of that environment fuel their minds to plan major movement actions. Rep. John Lewis, the last remaining member of the Big Six civil rights leaders and former chairman of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), made this comment about the passing of James Paschal: “James Paschal was an extraordinary man. He was more than a business leader, more than an involved citizen, he was a gifted American who gave so much to Atlanta and the nation. People from around the world came to eat at Paschal’s because they understood the contribution James and his brother made to the Civil Rights Movement. “The first meal I had in Atlanta, when I moved to the city in June of 1963, was at Paschal’s Restaurant. Then it was located on old West Hunter Street, now Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue. At one time the headquarters of SNCC was right across the street from Paschal’s. We used to refer to the restaurant as Paschal’s Precinct. If you wanted to get a reading on what was happening in the community, you had to check in at Paschal’s to get the pulse of the Atlanta and a line on what was happening throughout the South. During the Civil Rights Movement, everyone—Hosea Williams, Martin Luther King Jr., Ralph Abernathy, A. Phillip Randolph, and many of the famous black entertainers—ate and visited at Paschal’s. At one time you could buy two pieces of chicken, potato salad, “early peas,” as we called them, two rolls and some peach cobbler for 99 cents plus tax at Paschal’s. The food, the comfortable surroundings, and the welcoming environment helped to fortify us to go out and do battle. The last time I saw Martin Luther King Jr. alive, I was in Paschal’s Restaurant. He had called a coalition of activists together to plan the Poor People’s campaign, and he held that meeting at Paschal’s. The restaurant James and his brother founded played a major role in the Civil Rights Movement. “James Paschal was a wonderful man, a very quiet man. He was very business-like. He was always concerned that we were comfortable and checked often to make sure the food and service were to our liking. He would ask, “Is everything all right, sir? How are you doing, sir?” He was very polite and spoke to us with dignity and respect. He was a true gentleman. There was something so stable, so dependable, so real about James Paschal. His very personality, his very being was as solid as a rock. He was very supportive to the Movement in his own quiet, deliberate way. Sometimes when we were having a major crisis, James Paschal might decide to host the meeting—give us our meals on the house—to help facilitate our planning and action. After Martin Luther King Jr.’s funeral, many of us went to eat at Paschal’s. It was like a home away from home. “We were more than lucky, but very blessed that a man named James Paschal came our way. He made a lasting contribution to the free exercise of civil rights in America, not just for African Americans, but all Americans. He will be deeply missed.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
12.03.2008	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, a bill shepherded through the House and Senate by Rep. John Lewis (D-GA), Rep. Deborah Pryce (R-OH), Sen. Deborah Stabenow (D-MI) which authorizes the minting of a commemorative Civil Rights coin to benefit the United Negro College Fund (UNCF) was signed into law by the President. The bill directs the Treasury Department to issue 350,000 one-dollar coins marking the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. More than a tribute, the bill will assist UNCF, the nation’s largest and most effective minority higher education assistance organization, by allocating all coin proceeds to help fund scholarship programs to support UNCF’s 39 member historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs). As a Senator, President-elect Barack Obama served as a lead co-sponsor of this bill in the Senate along with Senator Stabenow. The House passed the bill on April 1 of this year. Senate passage took place on November 21. The coin will be issued in 2014 and will mark the 50th anniversary of the passage of the Civil Rights Bill of 1964, which outlawed discrimination in employment and public accommodations, such as hotels and restaurants. “I am very pleased and delighted,” said Rep. John Lewis, “that this bill has been finally signed into law. America has turned a corner in politics and is charting a new course toward its future. It is so fitting and appropriate that at this moment in history, the US Congress has agreed to honor the legacy of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 by minting these commemorative coins. There is no question that we would not be at this juncture today without the inspiration and the sacrifice of Martin Luther King Jr. and skillful legislative prowess of President Lyndon Johnson. “And we would not be at this juncture today without countless and nameless ordinary citizens with extraordinary vision who had the courage to take a stand to make a difference in our society. There is no better way to honor this legacy than through the education of all Americans, especially African Americans, who must understand the price that had to be paid for the liberty we enjoy today. I am proud that the proceeds will benefit UNCF, which has guided and assisted thousands of students who may not have had an opportunity otherwise to become educated participants in our society. This is a great day and this bill represents a great opportunity.” “This is an important tribute to one of the most significant pieces of civil rights legislation in our history, a tribute that will make a real difference by generating resources to help minority students gain better access to higher education,” said Sen. Stabenow. “This legislation is an important step toward addressing the state of college attendance and graduation rates for African American students.” “UNCF is excited about the signing of the commemorative coin bill and proud to receive the proceeds from sales of the coin, which pays tribute to civil rights pioneers who were instrumental in the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,” said Michael L. Lomax, Ph.D., president and CEO of UNCF. “We are honored that the proceeds from the coin will carry on the legacy by helping UNCF continue to support the 60,000 students who depend on UNCF each year for the support that enables them to attend college and get the education they need to launch their careers and contribute to their communities.” “It is only fitting that we pass this legislation weeks after the election of our nation’s first African American President. The minting of these coins will honor those who came before us, as we look toward a shared future made possible by their struggle,” said Congresswoman Deborah Pryce (R-OH). “The Civil Rights Act of 1964 remains one of the most effective, influential pieces of legislation passed by the U.S. Congress in the last century, and is the bedrock for the America we know today. I am humbled to be joined in enacting this legislation by Congressman John Lewis, a true civil rights hero whose courage, thoughtful advocacy, and leadership in the struggle for civil rights speaks for itself.” Proceeds for the sale of the coins will support scholarships at UNCF member schools. UNCF administers more than 400 scholarship and internship programs so students from low and moderate-income families can afford college tuition, books and room and board. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
12.01.2008	An estimated 33 million people are living with HIV/AIDS in the world today. More than a million of those people live in the United States. From 2001 to 2005, the number of deaths from AIDS had decreased throughout the nation, however, that rate continued to climb in the South. According to the Centers for Disease Control, there are more people in the South living with and dying from AIDS today than in any other region of the country. From 2004 to 2006, half of all the people who died from AIDS in this country lived in the South. According to the Southern AIDS Coalition, of the 20 metropolitan areas with the highest rates of AIDS in the country, 80 percent or 16 of those areas are in the South. Of the 15 states with the highest rates of new AIDS diagnoses, 60 percent or nine of them are Southern states. There are many factors that contribute to this emergency—fear, poverty, lack of education, the crisis of the uninsured, lack of health care infrastructure, and reduced funding. “A virus does not discriminate,” said Rep. John Lewis. “That is why we must put aside any fears and reservations we may have and do all we can to look out and care for each other. It is in the best interest of our entire community, and it is in the best interest of the nation that we do what we can to help stop the spread of this disease. We have a moral obligation to care for those who are suffering from this virus, wherever we may find them. “As a government and as a national community, but especially in the South, we must use every resource at our disposal to save lives and control the spread of HIV and AIDS. History has shown that education and preventive measures can make a difference. The 110th Congress has expanded funding for life-saving treatments, but we can and must do more. I am hoping that a new administration will take another look at the federal commitment to end this disease and will help renew federal efforts to stamp out this epidemic.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
11.13.2008	Rep. John Lewis made this comment earlier today related to news of the Atlanta city government’s financial problems: "Mayor Franklin has delivered some very difficult news. There are tough times ahead for all of us who live in Atlanta. I am aware of her request for federal assistance. Right now, it is too early to determine what kind of federal support the city can receive. I am in the process of talking to the Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Rep. Charlie Rangel, and other colleagues to determine how the federal government can help the city as we confront this crisis." #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
11.07.2008	This year, Rep. John Lewis got a top score on the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) Action’s 2008 Congressional Report Card. Based on key votes in the U.S. House of Representatives, the 2008 Congressional Report Card covers the wide range of issues facing new veterans such as healthcare, the post 9/11 G.I. bill, mental health and support for homeless veterans. “IAVA Action’s 2008 Congressional Report Card recognizes those lawmakers who refused to compromise on the most important issues facing Iraq and Afghanistan veterans,” said Paul Rieckhoff, Executive Director of IAVA. “From passing a new GI Bill to increasing VA funding by over 10 billion dollars, the 110th Congress has made tremendous progress on behalf of America’s newest generation of heroes. Over the last two years, Congressman Lewis has demonstrated that he is a great friend to Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and their families. IAVA Action is proud to give Congressman Lewis an ‘A’ and would like to thank him for his leadership on these critical issues.” The Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) graded members of the 110th Congress on thirteen key votes and co-sponsorship of H.R. 5740, the Post 9/11 G.I. Bill. “There is no one,” said Rep. John Lewis, “who has paid a higher price for the policies of the last administration than our young men and women in uniform. Too many of them have sacrificed all they have to defend the interests of this country. We owe these young men and women our best, regardless of the challenges we face as a nation, and I believe this nation must honor their commitment and dedication with as much support as we can offer. “That is why I am proud to support the veterans of America with my vote for programs and policies that I believe will assist them. I also believe that the absolutely best way we can serve these sons and daughters of America is to find an expeditious and effective way to end these wars and bring our young men and women home. We must rediscover the skillful use of diplomacy to resolve our international conflicts and begin the process of healing that must follow to restore Iraq and Afghanistan to the community of nations.” In the 110th Congress, House Democrats passed landmark legislation for veterans including $16.3 billion in additional funding for veterans healthcare services, the Post 9/11 G.I. Bill to cover the cost of attending a public university, and improvements to the VA home loan program that protects veterans who have recently returned from combat from falling into foreclosure and allows more veterans to refinance their existing high-risk mortgages with VA home loans. For more information on the IAVA’s 2008 Congressional Report Card, visit their website at www.iava.org . #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
11.04.2008	Rep. John Lewis released this statement upon hearing of the passing of Mrs. Madelyn Dunham, the maternal grandmother of Sen. Barack Obama: “We mourn the passing of Mrs.Madelyn Dunham, the grandmother of Sen. Barack Obama. As a nation and as a people we are forever in her debt for helping to raise a grandson with the strength and the dignity to take up the mantle of leadership at a time of crisis and at a turning point in American history. We know that a part of our admiration for Sen. Obama is a reflection of his grandmother’s vision and her wisdom. My thought and prayers are with Sen. Obama and his family who, no doubt, hoped that his grandmother would be here to witness the results of tomorrow’s election. I have to believe that maybe, just maybe, she will yet be with them, still watching and guiding, but from a better place. May she rest in peace and may the peace that passes all understanding comfort the Obama family in this difficult time.” ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.31.2008	Asks Georgia Secretary of State To Resolve Voting Problems Before Election Day Today Georgia officials held a news conference at the State Capitol to shed light on problems at a polling station in Atlanta. About five voter registration terminals malfunctioned last night causing over 1000 people to be left in line waiting to vote at the Adamsville Recreation Center polling station, many of whom will not be able to vote. Lines in Georgia are again extremely long today. Georgia officials are asking the Secretary of State Karen Handel to resolve these problems before Tuesday and are encouraging an extension of early voting to ensure enfranchisement of Georgia citizens. Rep. John Lewis made this statement at the news conference: "Mayor Franklin, City Council President Lisa Borders, and Chairman John Eaves, I was deeply disturbed to hear that over 1000 citizens waited in the cold last night in Adamsville trying to cast their votes. "It is a shame and a disgrace that in 2008 the state of Georgia is still lagging behind in making it simple, easy. and convenient to participate in the democratic process. Nothing is more precious in a democratic society than free and fair access to the ballot box. "If we are having a problem today, we need to take any and all steps to fix it and fix it now before Election Day. I stand with my fellow Georgians and colleagues and ask Karen Handel, Georgia’s Secretary of State to protect the right to vote of citizens in this state. "We are requesting that the Secretary of State use Florida and North Carolina as an example. We ask that she extend early voting in Georgia through Saturday, Sunday, and Monday. We believe the number of poll workers should be increased at polling sites where a large turnout is expected. "She must increase the number of voter registration machines at locations where there is large turnout, and we are calling on Governor Perdue and Karen Handel to request emergency voting rights pre-clearance from the Department of Justice to clear the path for these changes. "My office is preparing a letter right now, advising the Attorney General Mukasey of these issues in Georgia and encouraging him to grant emergency pre-clearance, when it is requested. "The vote is precious, almost sacred. We must do everything in our power to insure the people of this state that our government is operating in good faith and is doing all it can to make sure every citizen can freely exercise his or her right to vote in this election. Thank you." #### ** UPDATE ** In response to voting problems in Georgia, Rep. John Lewis sent THIS LETTER to Attorney General Mukasey on Friday, October 31, 2008, asking for expedited preclearance of voting changes in Georgia that will resolve problems with voter registration machines and unmovable lines at Georgia polling stations. CONTACT Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.31.2008	In response to news reports yesterday that 1000 early voters in Atlanta were left waiting in the cold to cast their ballots last night, a news conference has been called this morning to address these concerns. Apparently, four or five terminals used to verify voter registration went down at the Adamsville Recreation Center on Martin Luther King Dr., SW in Atlanta at about 7:30 PM. The spokesman for Georgia Secretary of State, Karen Handel, whose voter verification procedures have come under scrutiny by the Department of Justice for possible violations of the Voting Rights Act, said that some of the machines would "time out" at that location and then encounter difficulty "reconnecting to the state voter registration system," according to a report in the Atlanta Journal Constitution. Some voters were not able to vote after this discrepancy occurred. To discuss the concerns these issues raise a news conference has been called today: WHO: Rep. John Lewis Mayor Shirley Franklin Lisa Borders, Atlanta City Council President John Eaves, Chairman of the Fulton County Commission (expected) WHAT: To address the breakdown of voting machines which left 1000 Georgia voters standing in line last night when the polls closed an disenfranchised many voters WHEN: October 31, 2008 WHERE: Georgia State Capitol, Washington Street Side #### ** UPDATE ** In response to voting problems in Georgia, Rep. John Lewis sent THIS LETTER to Attorney General Mukasey on Friday, October 31, 2008, asking for expedited preclearance of voting changes in Georgia that will resolve problems with voter registration machines and unmovable lines at Georgia polling stations. CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.21.2008	This year, Rep. John Lewis was the only member of the Georgia congressional delegation and one of only 67 members of the U.S. House of Representatives to receive the League of Conservation Voters’ (LCV) perfect score on issues of the environment. Annually LCV evaluates the voting records of members of Congress to see how consistently they supported legislation that has a positive environmental impact. “We congratulate Congressman Lewis for his perfect score,” LCV President Gene Karpinski said. “In voting pro-environment on every key vote in 2008, Rep. Lewis has again proven his commitment to solving the nation’s key energy and environmental issues. LCV looks forward to working with him to ensure that the next Congress finally passes vital legislation that tackles climate change and paves the way to a prosperous, clean energy future.” The League of Conservation Voters’ evaluations were based on votes taken during the second session of the 110th Congress and their assessment of that legislation’s positive impact on the environment. Their ratings focused on thirteen votes on issues such as subsidies for oil companies, building efficiency standards, and clean energy tax credits. On the 2007 LCV National Environmental Scorecard, Rep. Lewis received an overall rating of 95%, the highest rating received by members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation and a combined score of 97% for the 110th Congress, the highest overall rating of any member of the Georgia congressional delegation. For more information on the LCV 2008 National Environmental Scorecard, visit their website at www.lcv.org . #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 2673
10.10.2008	Today voting rights groups filed a suit against the Georgia Secretary of State charging that the voting rights of a Cherokee County citizen had been violated. This suit comes one day after serious concerns were lodged by the U.S. Department of Justice that Georgia’s attempts to verify voter identity violated the Voting Rights Act, a federal law which mandates states with a history of discrimination clear any voting procedures with the Department of Justice before they are implemented during an election. The Social Security Administration has also raised questions about the number of Georgia’s requests. Georgia has asked to verify the identities of 2 million voters. Rep. John Lewis, a symbol of the struggle for voting rights in America, made this statement in response to these events: "I was deeply disturbed when I heard about the allegations made in the case of Mr. Jose Morales, as well as the Justice Department’s valid inquiry into violations of the Voting Rights Act in Georgia. Georgia is not the only state where questions are mounting. In Ohio and in Florida and other states around the country it seems that obstacles are being created to keep citizens from participating in this election. "I think there is a deliberate, systematic effort to depress the turn out of African American, Latino and other minority voters on November 4th. This is harassment. It is intimidation, and it places an undue burden on some citizens. Who decides, based on what standards which 2 million voters deserve greater scrutiny than any others? I think these actions violate both the letter and the spirit of the Voting Rights Act. They should be pursued by voting rights groups and the Department of Justice with all deliberate speed so we can make the way clear for registered voters to freely exercise their constitutional rights. "I urge all the register voters of Georgia to become informed and know your rights so that no one can discourage you from casting your vote on Election Day. I can assure you I will be in touch with the Justice Department officials about this matter and will be monitoring the developments in the Morales case very closely." #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.03.2008	With only one-minute of time allotted to speak, Rep. John Lewis made this statement today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives about the Economic Stabilization Act of 2008: “Madame Speaker, I have decided that the cost of doing nothing is greater than the cost of doing something. The fear that is gripping Wall Street has the power to shut down Main Street. We cannot and we must not allow that to happen. The people are afraid. Their retirement savings are slipping away. Small businesses have no sales, no credit, and are closing their doors. People cannot get loans. They are losing their lines of credit. “We must act. We must do something. But I do not see this as a blank check. In a few months, we will have a new President and a new Congress. We must hold the feet of these financial institutions to the fire. It is only with that assurance that I will vote yes on this legislation. Thank you Madame Speaker.”
10.02.2008	Rep. John Lewis introduced a bill last week which would establish a Parents Corps Program to create a national parents, schools, and community policing network to help promote safe schools and curb youth drug abuse and violence. The National Parents Corps Act of 2008 (H.R. 7225) is based on a proven model of successful parental involvement which engaged 8,000 parents in 19 schools with a resulting increase in school-parent communication, student attendance, academic performance and a decrease in drop-out rates and disciplinary problems. “Young people are the strength and hope of this nation,” said Rep. John Lewis. “For too long they have struggled in public school environments that are not conducive to learning. We must do all we can to turn this around. This bill invests in the resources of a school community. It offers information, education, and builds a bridge of communication between parents, schools, and other local authorities to help create an environment where students can learn. It also helps provide a support system for teachers who are confronting challenges their education never prepared them to face. Students in public schools can perform. We just need to give them the right tools to succeed in an environment where they are expected to excel. The Parents Corps can take us one more step closer to success.” Because most parents with school-aged children have limited time to volunteer, the Parents Corps Act funds the employment of a full-time professional parent who acts as a liaison with teachers, administrators, students, social workers, community police and other parents to build a strong community safety net for their children. The national program will be managed by the office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention in the Department of Justice. The federal grants authorized through this program will recruit, hire, train, and employ a full-time parent of a child currently enrolled at each participating school to: Educate and mobilize other parents at the school to combat crime and gang activity; Create scientific-based informational services and training for parents, counselors, and schools administrators about the indicators of youth drug, alcohol, and tobacco abuse; Work with school officials, parents, and local authorities to conduct training and workings on treatment, prevention, and reduction efforts in the schools; and Recruit parents and volunteers to improve prevention, outreach and education. The bill is the third piece of a four-part anti-youth violence package introduced by Rep. Lewis in this session of Congress which include H.R. 854, the City Youth Violence Recovery Act, H.R. 5637, the SAFETY through Nonviolence Act of 2008, and H.R. 7208 Teen Dating Violence Prevention Act of 2008. ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
10.02.2008	In response to a conference held by the Fulton County District Attorney in February, Rep. John Lewis introduced a bill last week that will create a national teen dating violence prevention initiative managed by the U.S. Department of Justice. “Young people have more freedom and opportunity than ever before,” said Rep. John Lewis, “but they are also facing more danger and difficulty than their parents and adults realize. Teenagers who experience date violence are often too ashamed to get help, but without professional assistance these negative experiences may change their lives forever. That is why I wanted to offer support to victims of this violence so they can repair the physical and psychological damage of these crimes and go on to live healthy, safe, and productive lives.” The Teen Dating Violence Prevention Act of 2008 (H.R. 7208) authorizes the Justice Department to develop targeted grants that: Provide rehabilitative services and counseling to both victims and abusers; Assist youth relationship abuse victims who run away, are homeless, in foster care or are youth offenders; Offers legal services to educate victims in ways to protect themselves and the resources available to them; Develops and implements education, counseling, and best practices programs to help prevent the abusive relationships before they start; and Uses community-based solutions to enhance established relationship abuse prevention programs and reduction services. Young women between the ages of 16 and 24 experience the highest rates of intimate violence. Those who experience dating violence are more likely to suffer from post-traumatic stress, dissociation, anxiety, and depression. Nearly half of the young people who reported being victims of dating violence also say they have attempted suicide. The use of cell phones and Internet technology has escalated threatening behaviors in youth dating. About one third of teens say they have been text messaged by aggressive partners 10 to 30 times per hour inquiring about where they are or what they are doing. This bill is the fourth piece of a four-part anti-youth violence package introduced by Rep. Lewis in this session of Congress which includes H.R. 854, the City Youth Violence Recovery Act, H.R. 5637, the SAFETY through Nonviolence Act of 2008, and H.R. 7225, the National Parents Corps Act of 2008. ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.27.2008	Today, a bill sponsored by Rep. John Lewis, Chairman of the Ways & Means Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the U.S. House of Representatives called the Charities Enhancement Act of 2008 (H.R. 7083) was passed by the House. Lewis introduced the bill earlier this year as a result of hearings he called and testimony he requested on the impact of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 on charities and foundations. The committee’s work revealed some unintended consequences of the 2006 bill that the Charity Enhancement Act helps to rectify. "Charities and foundations perform profound service to our nation," said Rep. Lewis. "They touch aspects of human need that the government is not able to reach. While we must not and cannot extend tax exemptions to organizations which use this benefit for personal gain, we also must not constrain the work of all the competent charities in this country because of a few who misuse the tax advantage. The Charity Enhancement Act is an attempt to relieve effective charitable institutions, especially those with a long history of outstanding service, from some of the unintended constrictions of current law. We need to free up these organizations, especially as we approach tough economic times, so they can continue to offer meaningful support to Americans who are left out and left behind." The bill passed as a suspension on a voice vote and now heads to the Senate for review. The Charity Enhancement Act is a bi-partisan bill supported by many organizations, including the Council on Foundations. The bill: promotes scholarships by revising rules so the granting of scholarships is not viewed as a taxable event; makes charitable institutions more transparent and public by facilitating the electronic filing of tax returns filed by charities and foundations; supports the philanthropy of Native American tribal governments; provides relief to longstanding foundations and charities established by estates; and supports volunteer boards by allowing charities to reimburse some of the reasonable and necessary expenses they incur in providing services to their organizations. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.25.2008	“The discussions on this issue are still on-going, and we still do not know what the final package will entail. We know this is a very serious crisis. We cannot run and hide. “Even so we must not and should not give Wall Street a blank check; it’s not fair to the American taxpayer. People who fell prey to some of the same unscrupulous lenders who helped destabilized this market are struggling to pay their mortgages, and the Bush Administration was reluctant to lend them a hand. “Why is it that we can find a way to bail out Wall Street, but we cannot help the people struggling on Main Street? People are losing their jobs, their homes, and struggling without health care. No one has come to their rescue, but yet overnight we are pressed to come to the aid of Wall Street. “We must protect the resources of the American people to ensure that their tax dollars are available to give them the services they require, not siphoned off to pay for the failures of private industry.” Note: On November 4, 1999, Congressman Lewis was one of 57 members of congress to vote against the Financial Services Modernization Act, which effectively deregulated the banking, securities and insurance industries. CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673 UPDATE: Rep. John Lewis Signs Congressional Progressive Caucus(CPC) Letter to Democratic Leadership CPC letter to House Leadership
09.24.2008	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed, the Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2008 (H.R.7006) by an overwhelming vote of 419 to 4. This legislation includes key provisions authored by Rep. John Lewis (D-GA). Because of the tornado damage to Atlanta in March 2008, Lewis was the first to support a bill introduced by his colleague on the Ways and Means Committee, Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), which served as the basis for the disaster relief legislation passed today. Rep. Lewis helped shape the drafting of the bill by fighting against earmarking funds for disaster relief, which allows some cities to get more support than others, regardless of need. He argued that all cities that have been declared federal disaster areas should be extended the same services and treatment by the federal government. He wrote a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in April 2008 and worked with his colleagues to urge the adoption of a fair set of rules so all states are treated equally when they begin rebuilding in the wake of disaster. His ability to shape the debate on this legislation will help assure that Atlantans are extended all the services the federal government can offer during any natural disaster. Also included in this legislation is a provision introduced by Rep. Lewis which raises the income tax deduction volunteers can claim for gas mileage while they are performing charitable duties, like delivering Meals On Wheels. Lewis’s bill almost doubled the charitable mileage deduction rate from 14 cents to at least 27 cents. "The era of affordable gas has come to an end," said Rep. John Lewis. "As we face the challenges of our economic crisis, we will need people to volunteer, to give of themselves, to do what they can to help each other through the difficult times. This is tax deduction is a way that I can support that kind of giving, as a member of the Ways & Means Committee," said Rep. Lewis. Overall, H.R. 7006 will provide targeted tax relief to businesses and families affected by the natural disasters in 2008. The legislation will establish a flexible, national plan for dealing with disaster relief that would extend to floods, tornadoes, wildfires, hurricanes, or any other disaster that yields a Federal disaster declaration. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.23.2008	"Today is a dark day in the state of Georgia and the nation. Today a man named Troy Anthony Davis, a man who may be innocent, is scheduled to be put to death in Georgia at 7 PM. "There is no question that the murder of a police officer deserves the strongest penalty, but the seriousness of the crime cannot justify the execution of an innocent man. The government does not give life, and especially when there is far more than a reasonable doubt, I do not think it has the right to take life away. "How is it that the greatest nation on earth, a nation that will send its soldiers into war to defend the cause of justice and freedom around the world, does not have the will to spare this one man’s life until justice can be done? "The U.S. Supreme Court has said it would hear the case—six days after Mr. Davis is scheduled to be executed. My understanding is that extraordinary efforts are being made by Mr. Davis’s legal team to appeal to Justice Clarence Thomas, designated to hear emergency stays of execution in the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. " I have put in a call to President Bush hoping against hope that he might respond, but in spite of these efforts I think the picture is very grim. We still have a chance to preserve our integrity as a nation. We still have a chance to demonstrate our commitment to justice. "There are people who still have the power to spare Mr. Davis’s life, at the very least until new evidence in his case can be heard before a judge. Martin Luther King Jr. used to say, ‘The time is always right to do what is right.’ I am continuing to work, hoping, and praying that one of the officials in Georgia or someone at the federal level who has the power to intervene will decide to do what is right." ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.23.2008	Tomorrow, Rep. John Lewis, Chairman of the House Ways & Means Oversight Subcommittee will hold a hearing to examine the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) at 10:00 AM, Main Committee Room, 1100 Longworth. The PBGC is a federal corporation which guarantees the pension payments of 44 million workers and retirees who have invested in 30,500 defined benefit pension plans. In January 2007, GAO estimated the corporation was bearing cumulative underfunding of $350 billion, including $73 billion in plans sponsored by financially weak firms. “This hearing takes on deep significance,” said Rep. John Lewis, “in light of the current financial crisis. We must shed some light on the problems of this organization in an effort to avoid failure. People who have worked faithfully until retirement and have given the best years of their lives to their jobs should not have to worry about whether their pensions will be there when they retire. It is the job of the federal government to regulate private industry and monitor how taxpayer dollars are spent. I want to do what I can as chairman of this committee to see that the people’s interests are preserved and protected.” While the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 specifically states that the U.S. government does not have to pay PBGC’s obligations, the corporation’s 2007 Annual Report states that, if the corporation fails to address its deficit, eventually plan sponsors, participants, and “possibly taxpayers” will bear the burden. The report also estimates that there is only a 23 percent chance of reaching full funding within the next ten years. Ever since July 2003, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) has designated PBGC’s single-employer pension insurance program as a “high-risk” program that needs broad-based transformations and warrants Congressional attention. GAO has investigated and issued recommendations with respect to various aspects of PBGC’s operations, including reports on the investment strategy and governance structure. PBGC is funded by insurance premiums paid by plan sponsors, assets received from terminated plans, and investment income from PBGC assets. As of September 30, 2007, PBGC reported a deficit of $13.1 billion in the single-employer pension insurance program and a deficit of $955 million in the multi-employer pension insurance program. #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.19.2008	Figuring out how to generate more income is generally the focus of most wealth building seminars. But reducing tax burden is a powerful, yet often overlooked component. As the chairman of the Ways and Means subcommittee on Oversight, Rep. John Lewis felt it was important to offer attendees to the Congressional Black Caucus Annual Legislative Weekend from September to explore the impact of taxes on African American households. Some studies have shown that the tax burden African Americans face in some states contributes significantly to their inability to save and accumulate wealth. His forum entitled “Living in the Black: Barriers to Wealth Creation in the African American Community” held Friday, September 26, 2008, 2:00-3:30 p.m., Washington Convention Center, Room 143C will engage a panel of experts to discuss how the mortgage crisis, regulations restricting non-profit organizations, and the unequal distribution of the federal tax burden hampers the wealth-building capacity of African Americans. PANELISTS: David A Brennen – Tax Expert on Non-Profits and Charities, Professor of Law, University of Georgia, Associate Editor, Taxation News Quarterly Cassandra Jones Havard – Expert on Regulation of Financial Institutions Beverly Moran - Expert on Impact of Federal Taxation on Individuals Jessica Gordon Nembhardt – Visiting Assistant Professor at Howard University’s Center for Race and Wealth in the Economics Department, Expert on Community and Asset Based Economic Development The forum will highlight some of the barriers to wealth creation for the African American community and provide solutions for overcoming those obstacles. Key issues addressed during the forum will include the inequitable levels of tax benefits received by African American charities and tax exempt organizations, the detrimental financial impact the housing crisis has had on the current and future wealth of blacks, the federal income tax disparity between black and white households with equal attributes and levels of income, and other community- and asset- based economic issues that affect the wealth creation and sustainability of the African American community. ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.18.2008	Today, Rep. John Lewis encouraged schools throughout Georgia’s 5th Congressional District to take part in a National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) program called “Picturing America” which engages student interest in American history through art. Already 121 schools and libraries in Atlanta have engaged in the program. Those schools will receive 40 high-quality reproductions depicting many of America’s most historic pieces of art as well as an in-depth resource guide to help teachers build lesson plans around the art. The deadline to submit an application is October 31st. “I am pleased,” said Rep. John Lewis, “that so many young people, teachers and schools in my district, will benefit from this initiative. Art is a valuable part of a well-rounded education that opens new doors to learning. So many schools have had to cut art programs. I applaud the National Endowment for the Humanities developing this innovative initiative which places art back in the curriculum and uses it as a tool to support the academic goals of a school.” Over 26,000 schools and public libraries across the country will participate in this program. For more information, visit www.PicturingAmerica.neh.gov #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4674
09.17.2008	House Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) today announced that the Subcommittee on Oversight will hold a hearing on the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”). The hearing will take place on Wednesday, September 24, 2008, at 10:00 a.m., in the main Committee hearing room, 1100 Longworth House Office Building. In view of the limited time available to hear witnesses, oral testimony at this hearing will be from invited witnesses only. Representatives of PBGC and the U.S. Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) have been invited to testify. However, any individual or organization not scheduled for an oral appearance may submit a written statement for consideration by the Committee and for inclusion in the printed record of the hearing. BACKGROUND: PBGC is a federal corporation established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) of 1974 (P.L. 93-406), as amended. It currently guarantees payment of basic pension benefits earned by 44 million American workers and retirees participating in about 30,500 defined-benefit pension plans. PBGC is funded by insurance premiums paid by plan sponsors, assets received from terminated plans, and investment income from PBGC assets. As of September 30, 2007, PBGC reported a deficit of $13.1 billion in the single-employer pension insurance program and a deficit of $955 million in the multi-employer pension insurance program. While ERISA specifically states that the U.S. government is not obligated to pay PBGC’s obligations, PBGC’s 2007 Annual Report states that, if the corporation fails to address its deficit, eventually plan sponsors, participants, and “possibly taxpayers” will bear the burden. In the 2007 Annual Report, PBGC estimates that there is only a 23 percent chance of reaching full funding within the next ten years. In July 2003, GAO designated PBGC’s single-employer pension insurance program as a high-risk program that needs broad-based transformations and warrants Congressional attention. In January 2007, GAO continued to list PBGC as a high risk area and noted in its High Risk Series that PBGC-insured plans had cumulative underfunding of $350 billion, including $73 billion in plans sponsored by financially weak firms. In addition, GAO has investigated and issued recommendations with respect to various aspects of PBGC’s operations, including reports on the investment strategy and governance structure. In announcing the hearing, Chairman Lewis said, “PBGC plays a vital role in our retirement system and our economy. The operation of PBGC is a concern for workers, plan sponsors, and the American taxpayer. The Congress must make sure that PBGC is governed responsibly and operates efficiently.” FOCUS OF THE HEARING: The Subcommittee will review the financial condition, operations, and governance of PBGC. The hearing will focus on the deficit in the single-employer pension insurance program, the change in investment policy, and the governance weaknesses identified by GAO. The Subcommittee also will examine the overall status of the defined-benefit pension system, including the rise in the number of frozen or voluntarily terminated plans. DETAILS FOR SUBMISSION OF WRITTEN COMMENTS: Please Note: Any person(s) and/or organization(s) wishing to submit comments for the hearing record must follow the appropriate link on the hearing page of the Committee website and complete the informational forms. From the Committee homepage, https://waysandmeans.house.gov/, select "110th Congress" from the menu entitled, "Committee Hearings” (https://waysandmeans.house.gov/Hearings.asp?congress=18). Select the hearing for which you would like to submit, and click on the link entitled, "Click here to provide a submission for the record." Once you have followed the online instructions, complete all informational forms and click "submit" on the final page. ATTACH your submission as a Word or WordPerfect document, in compliance with the formatting requirements listed below, by close of business Wednesday, October 8, 2008. Finally, please note that due to the change in House mail policy, the U.S. Capitol Police will refuse sealed-package deliveries to all House Office Buildings. For questions, or if you encounter technical problems, please call (202) 225-1721. FORMATTING REQUIREMENTS: The Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. As always, submissions will be included in the record according to the discretion of the Committee. The Committee will not alter the content of your submission, but we reserve the right to format it according to our guidelines. Any submission provided to the Committee by a witness, any supplementary materials submitted for the printed record, and any written comments in response to a request for written comments must conform to the guidelines listed below. Any submission or supplementary item not in compliance with these guidelines will not be printed, but will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee. 1. All submissions and supplementary materials must be provided in Word or WordPerfect format and MUST NOT exceed a total of 10 pages, including attachments. Witnesses and summiteers are advised that the Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. 2. Copies of whole documents submitted as exhibit material will not be accepted for printing. Instead, exhibit material should be referenced and quoted or paraphrased. All exhibit material not meeting these specifications will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee. (more) 3. All submissions must include a list of all clients, persons, and/or organizations on whose behalf the witness appears. A supplemental sheet must accompany each submission listing the name, company, address, telephone and fax numbers of each witness. Note: All Committee advisories and news releases are available on the World Wide Web at https://waysandmeans.house.gov. The Committee seeks to make its facilities accessible to persons with disabilities. If you are in need of special accommodations, please call 202-225-1721 or 202-226-3411 TTD/TTY in advance of the event (four business days notice is requested). Questions with regard to special accommodation needs in general (including availability of Committee materials in alternative formats) may be directed to the Committee as noted above. Note: All Committee advisories and news releases are available on the World Wide Web at https://waysandmeans.house.gov. ***
09.17.2008	Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the bill and against the amendment. Members of Congress, you are not the mayor of Washington, D.C., you do not sit on the City Council, you have not been ordained to stand in judgment. I dare you to act as judge and jury and sentence the people of the District of Columbia to unfettered access to guns. Some of my friends have fought tooth and nail against too much government intervention. So how could you suggest tonight that Congress circumvent, disregard, and disrespect the rights and freedom of the citizens of this city? D.C. residents have made it crystal clear they want to limit the proliferation of guns in Washington to protect all of its citizens, including Members of Congress, staffers, even the President of the United States, who all live and work in this city. The amendment would nullify the will of hundreds of thousands of voting Americans like they don't even exist. They are citizens of America. They are human beings. We all heard the news of a few weeks ago: 11 people were shot, wounded, some even died on the streets of Washington in one night. How many more people will die? How many more victims will be robbed when they stare down the barrel of a gun? As Members of Congress, you may believe what you will. Maybe you truly think that when everyone bears arms, the city will really be safer. You have a right to your opinion, but we are here tonight to say the people of the District of Columbia do not agree. And they should not have your way of life, your viewpoint, your amendment forced down their throat. That is not right. That is not fair. That is not just. And I think even you would agree that that is not the American way.
09.16.2008	Washington, D.C.—Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the most comprehensive energy-reform legislation in more than two decades. The Comprehensive American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act is a short-term compromise with a long-term vision. “The people of this nation are hurting,” said Rep. John Lewis, “each time they fill up their cars at the gas pumps. Members of Congress have all heard from their constituents about the pain they are suffering, and we have responded. Gas prices are burning a hole in peoples’ pocket books. We need to do what we can to get this economy back on track and make sure that Americans can pay their mortgages, put food on their tables, and take care of the basic necessities of life.” The bill brings American consumers more energy security and economic relief by expanding renewable sources of energy to lower prices, ending tax subsidies to Big Oil and making sure that companies drilling on public lands pay proper royalties. The bill also takes aggressive steps towards ethics reform, ending the cozy relationship between many regulation and enforcement officials and top oil and gas executives. Most importantly, this bill creates jobs for American workers, especially in the renewable energy sector. The bill provides new and expanded tax incentives for renewable sources of electricity like wind, solar and bio-fuel; incentives for energy efficient homes, buildings and appliances; and low-income heating assistance provisions that make sure senior citizens on fixed incomes as well as the poor and the jobless, are not left out in the cold this winter. “There is more work to be done,” said Rep. Lewis. “But this bill starts this nation down the road toward comprehensive reform of the energy industry in this country.”####
09.12.2008	“I was profoundly saddened to hear that the Georgia State Board of Pardons and Paroles did not extend clemency to Troy Anthony Davis. There are so many unanswered questions in this case, so many witnesses who have recanted their testimony, so much that would lead any reasonable person to doubt the case against this man. “I do not know Troy Anthony Davis. I cannot say whether he is guilty or innocent. What I can say is that as a society we must ask ourselves whether any human being should be put to death based on the weakened evidence available in this case. “In Georgia, the punishment for some crimes is death. But what price does a society pay for the death of an innocent man? Officer Mark Allen McPhail gave his life for the cause of justice. I question whether even he would see this execution in the face of so much doubt as a fitting punishment for his homicide. “Anytime we destroy another human being, a part of our humanity dies a little. It is my hope and my prayer that the state of Georgia is not making a mistake, the final mistake, the ultimate mistake. Once someone is put to death, there is no chance to undo any damage that was done.“ This whole story is a tragedy. My prayers are with the family of Officer McPhail and also with Troy Anthony Davis, his legal team, and family. This is a case that should disturb the conscience of us all.” Rep. Lewis appeared before the Georgia State Board of Pardons and Parole on behalf of Mr. Davis when his execution was stayed in July 2007, and he submitted a letter to the board today in support of clemency for Troy Anthony Davis. #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
09.11.2008	Yesterday Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) and Jim Ramstad (R-MN), Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight, introduced the Fair Deal for Volunteers Act of 2008 (H.R.6854). The bill will relieve volunteers who use their personal vehicles for charitable activities by allowing the Internal Revenue Service mileage reimbursement rate to reflect the higher price of gas and other fluctuations in fuel costs. Under current law, the mileage rate for charitable activity is fixed in the Internal Revenue Code at just 14 cents per mile, but the average cost of a gallon of regular gas has more than doubled in the last eight years, nearly neutralizing the benefit of reimbursement. "As we watch this nation slip into ever more trying economic times," said Rep. John Lewis, "the work of charitable institutions and volunteers will become increasingly important to help this nation meet the mounting needs of the poor. Volunteer workers offer food to the hungry, blankets for the homeless, and comfort for the sick. This charitable work benefits our whole society, providing necessary care to people the government cannot reach. This good work not only strengthens the bonds of our society, but it can save taxpayers millions in services the government could not afford to deliver. That is why the federal government should do all it can to assist these worthy citizens. And that is why it is fitting and appropriate that the IRS offer fair compensation to Americans who help bear the load of the most needy among us." "It is unconscionable," said Rep. Jim Ramstad, "that the charitable mileage rate is fixed at 14 cents per mile, while fuel costs have soared. This crucial legislation will provide much-needed relief to the charities and volunteers who serve the most vulnerable people in America," said Ramstad. The Fair Deal for Volunteers Act replaces the former deduction limit with IRS flexibility to set a mileage rate for charitable work that considers current economic factors, as well as the volunteers and organizations themselves. Currently, the IRS is able to increase the deduction amount for medical, moving and business expenses to reflect current economic conditions because the rate is not written into the law. The Fair Deal for Volunteers Act was introduced in the Senate in July of this year by Senators Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME). "Jim Ramstad and I remember working side-by-side with Ben Cardin when he was a former member of the Ways and Means committee," said Rep. Lewis. "We were glad we were able to take the Senate’s lead and build on the opportunity to present an even stronger alternative for charitable workers. This legislation could not have two greater champions than Senators Cardin and Snowe."
09.11.2008	Yesterday Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) and Jim Ramstad (R-MN), Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight, introduced the Fair Deal for Volunteers Act of 2008 (H.R.6854). The bill will relieve volunteers who use their personal vehicles for charitable activities by allowing the Internal Revenue Service mileage reimbursement rate to reflect the higher price of gas and other fluctuations in fuel costs. Under current law, the mileage rate for charitable activity is fixed in the Internal Revenue Code at just 14 cents per mile, but the average cost of a gallon of regular gas has more than doubled in the last eight years, nearly neutralizing the benefit of reimbursement. "As we watch this nation slip into ever more trying economic times," said Rep. John Lewis, "the work of charitable institutions and volunteers will become increasingly important to help this nation meet the mounting needs of the poor. Volunteer workers offer food to the hungry, blankets for the homeless, and comfort for the sick. This charitable work benefits our whole society, providing necessary care to people the government cannot reach. This good work not only strengthens the bonds of our society, but it can save taxpayers millions in services the government could not afford to deliver. That is why the federal government should do all it can to assist these worthy citizens. And that is why it is fitting and appropriate that the IRS offer fair compensation to Americans who help bear the load of the most needy among us." "It is unconscionable," said Rep. Jim Ramstad, "that the charitable mileage rate is fixed at 14 cents per mile, while fuel costs have soared. This crucial legislation will provide much-needed relief to the charities and volunteers who serve the most vulnerable people in America," said Ramstad. The Fair Deal for Volunteers Act replaces the former deduction limit with IRS flexibility to set a mileage rate for charitable work that considers current economic factors, as well as the volunteers and organizations themselves. Currently, the IRS is able to increase the deduction amount for medical, moving and business expenses to reflect current economic conditions because the rate is not written into the law. The Fair Deal for Volunteers Act was introduced in the Senate in July of this year by Senators Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME). "Jim Ramstad and I remember working side-by-side with Ben Cardin when he was a former member of the Ways and Means committee," said Rep. Lewis. "We were glad we were able to take the Senate’s lead and build on the opportunity to present an even stronger alternative for charitable workers. This legislation could not have two greater champions than Senators Cardin and Snowe."
09.11.2008	This afternoon, Thursday September 11, 2008, Rep. John Lewis will lead U.S. House of Representatives action to meet Georgia’s need and the need of America’s states and cities to fix their highways. In July he managed time surrounding legislation to restore funding to the Highway Trust Fund. The House of Representatives passed the bill, by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 387 to 37. "The Bush Administration," said Rep. Lewis, "has dropped their opposition to restoring the funds to the Highway Trust and has finally acknowledged that a serious crisis exists. The House has been asked to accelerate the enactment date and make the legislation effective immediately. So today, we make that change so that we can continue rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure." The Highway Trust Fund is used by Congress to meet state and city needs to fix America’s roads. Part of the funding for the trust comes from gasoline taxes. Reduced gasoline usage has contributed to a shortfall in the fund. Another major factor was an $8 billion shift of funds from the trust in 1998 to help defray the federal deficit. In July it became clear that the trust fund did not have enough resources to meet the needs of America’s extensive highway system. The fund’s balance dropped from $4.2 billion at the beginning of September to less than $1.4 billion by the end of July. This month the fund will receive only $2.7 billion in funding but will receive $4.4 billion in requests for state reimbursement. "Transportation is one of the greatest needs of my district," said Rep. Lewis. "The building and maintenance of Georgia’s road creates jobs, reduces accidents, increases highway safety, and it can help metro Atlanta respond to the congestion and pollution issues my constituents are facing. That’s why I decided to take leadership on this issue in the House, to fight for the jobs of and a better quality of life for my constituents." Rep. John Lewis will manage time on the floor of the House on H.R. 6532, the Bill to Restore the Highway Trust Fund Balance at approximately 2:00 PM on Thursday September, 11th. #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4674
08.26.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) released the following statement today on the 88th anniversary of the ratification of the 19th Amendment, guaranteeing women the right to vote: “Today, we honor the women who gave all they had to become equal participants in our democracy. Suffragists like Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony saw beyond the limitations of legal restriction and cultural tradition and determined they would define themselves. Women have become one of the most powerful majorities in America, and they serve in some of the highest offices and corporate board rooms in the land. It was right, and it was necessary that this nation paved the way for the full and free participation of women as citizens in our society.” #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
08.14.2008	As many members of the press are already aware, August 28th, the night that Sen. Barack Obama will officially accept the Democratic Nomination for President of the United States, is also the 45th anniversary of the March on Washington. The date holds great power because it has marked the beginning of a series of new eras in black politics at different stages in American history. Consider these seminal moments: On August 28, 1955, a 14-year-old boy named Emmett Till was kidnapped from his great uncle’s home in Money, Mississippi by two men and killed for allegedly whistling at a white woman. Once the body was found, Till’s mother insisted on an open casket funeral so that everyone would see how brutality of her son’s murder. Jet magazine and other black journals around the country published the photo. African American reaction to that murder is widely considered the moment that black activism coalesced to begin the modern-day civil rights movement. August 28, 1963, was a defining moment for the Civil Rights Movement. The March on Washington for Jobs and Justice, a vision of A. Phillip Randolph which brought together the Big Six organizations of the Civil Rights Movement, was a landmark in equal justice movement in America. Martin Luther King Jr. made his historic "I Have a Dream" speech on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, which was a defining moment for the modern-day movement. Rep. John Lewis is the last remaining speaker from the March on Washington. August 28, 2005, Hurricane Katrina reached its peak before hitting landfall in Louisiana the next morning. Hurricane Katrina, among the five most deadly hurricanes to ever hit the United States, is considered the most costly on record and is responsible for the deaths of over 1800 people at least. There are many who see the ineffectuality of the government response to the storm as a touchstone for the civil rights issues of the 21st century. Its advent will have social reverberations for generations to come and evokes the King legacy of poverty, jobs, and justice that he saw as the new mandate for the American agenda. August 28, 2008, just 45 years after the March on Washington, when African Americans had to take a so-called literacy test in most Southern states to be able to register and vote, an African American will be nominated for election to the highest office in the land. Don’t miss this historic moment. Book in advance to speak to Rep. John Lewis, the last remaining speaker at the March on Washington. Appointment times in Denver are filling up, please consider taping interviews in advance and an alternate date additional to the 28th. #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
08.14.2008	Atlanta—On Wednesday, August 13, 2008, Rep. John Lewis visited Grady Memorial Hospital’s Diagnostic Testing Laboratory and Infectious Disease Program. The visits were part of a larger effort to reach out to healthcare professionals to explore the best ways to implement a comprehensive national healthcare agenda. “Diagnostic testing,” said Rep. John Lewis, “is becoming more important everyday as a treatment tool to make sure patients get the very best care. In the next Congress, I believe we will see more and more members who are ready to do the hard work required to create a high quality, accessible healthcare system for all Americans. “That’s why I am spending time talking to people all over my district employed in all parts of the healthcare system. I am listening to their concerns, their hopes, their ideas so that together we can find creative and innovative ways to improve America’s healthcare system. I am pleased to have the opportunity to visit Grady Memorial Hospital’s diagnostic lab and see first-hand the good and necessary work Atlanta researchers are doing there.” #### VIEW PICTURES OF REP. LEWIS' VISIT TO GRADY MEMORIAL HOSPITAL Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
08.14.2008	“We are all one people, one family, the human family.” That is a philosophy Rep. John Lewis often advocates. Nowhere is its meaning more potent than in the issues of homelessness and health care. Recent studies have shown that urban populations of homeless people have high rates of tuberculosis, pneumonia, influenza, and other airborne diseases, as well as other communicable diseases like HIV/AIDS. On National Healthcare for the Homeless Day, Rep. John Lewis will join others in the Atlanta metro area who assert that finding some way to allow the homeless to have access to healthcare service protects us all. Taking care of the homeless is also taking care of ourselves. The event, sponsored by St. Joseph’s Mercy Care Services, will offer discussion and information about homeless health issues with a view toward future legislative action on national healthcare. Rep. Lewis will also present St. Joseph’s with a $379,355 to support Mercy Care Services new electronic medical record (EMR) system. Free health screenings will be provided and the day will conclude with the dedication of Saint Joseph's new twenty-bed Recuperative Care Unit, the first of its kind in Atlanta. National Healthcare for the Homeless Day is an opportunity to focus on the healthcare needs of the homeless, traditionally excluded from healthcare policy discussions. It occurs annually during the National Healthcare for the Homeless Council and the National Association of Community Health Centers’ (NACHC) National Health Center Week, August 10-16. Who: Rep. John Lewis Horace Sibley What: National Healthcare for the Homeless Day, sponsored by Saint Joseph’s Mercy Care Services; Dedication of the new Saint Joseph’s Mercy Care Recuperative Care Unit When: August 13, 2008 1:30 PM Where: Gateway Center 275 Pryor Street Atlanta, GA 30303 #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.31.2008	On March 2, 2007, the Bluffton University baseball team was traveling from Ohio to Florida for a tournament. Early in the morning, on Interstate 75 in Atlanta, its chartered bus, attempting to exit the highway, fell off an overpass and landed on its side on the road below. The crash resulted in the deaths of five members of the baseball team, the driver and his wife, and injuries for many of the other 33 passengers on-board. As former Member of the House Public Works and Transportation Committee, Rep. Lewis investigated why safety belts are not offered in passenger buses and on school buses. He remembered that in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity (SAFETEA-LU) Act of 2005 Congress demanded that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) develop a standard that bus manufacturers would have to adhere to reduce complete and partial ejections in crashes by October 1, 2009. The Congressman was disturbed by how little progress had been made on this rule. In response, he submitted a reporting request to the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. This request was accepted by the Subcommittee and included in the fiscal year 2008 appropriations bill that passed the U.S. House of Representatives last year. Consequently, the bill demands that the NHSTA provide an interim report to Congress on the progress of the new safety rule by May 1, 2008. Simultaneously, Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Kay Bailey Hutchinson (R-TX) also took action in the Senate to introduce the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act of 2007. Rep. Lewis will introduce a companion bill today in the House as the lead sponsor in the U.S. House of Representatives of this legislation. The bill requires the DOT to upgrade federal safety standards applicable to motorcoaches and take action to improve the operational requirements of drivers and companies. The legislation would lead to the adoption of available safety technologies, result in stronger oversight and compliance with federal safety rules, and encourage better training of motorcoach operators to protect passengers from death and injury due to ejection, rollover, roof crush, and fires. Specifically, the bipartisan legislation would require: Safety belts and stronger seating systems to ensure occupants stay in their seats in a crash; Improved commercial driver training. Currently, no training is required by federal regulation; Anti-ejection glazing on the body of the bus to prevent passengers from being easily thrown outside the motorcoach; Strong, crush-resistant roofs that can withstand rollovers; Improved protection against fires by reducing flammability of the motorcoach interior, and better training for operators in the case of fire; A National Commercial Motor Vehicle Medical Registry to ensure that only medically qualified examiners conduct physical examinations of drivers and a medical certificate process to ensure that all certificates are valid and no unqualified operator is allowed to drive; Strengthened motorcoach vehicle safety inspections including roadside inspections, safety audits, and state and motor carrier programs for identifying vehicle defects; Electronic On-Board Recorders (EOBRs) with real-time capabilities to track precise vehicle location, and recorded data not accessible to manipulation by a driver or motor carrier; and Tax credits and small business grants to assist motorcoach operators in managing the cost of adhering to these new safety standards Subsequently, the NTSB released the Highway Accident Report for the Bluffton accident investigating the cause of the crash and recommendations for preventing future accidents. The report recommended the implementation of many provisions of this legislation, including the development of motorcoach occupant protection systems and passenger safety standards, the outfitting of motorcoaches with enhanced safety equipment and devices, and the development of on-board recording of bus-crash data. ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.31.2008	For the first time since the U.S. Surgeon General first revealed that smoking tobacco is a threat to Americans’ health, the U.S. Congress voted today to regulate tobacco products. Yesterday the U.S. House of Representatives voted 362 to 102, a veto-proof margin, to pass H.R. 1108 the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act. In light of the fact that African Americans are disproportionately affected by higher rates of cancer due to cigarette smoking, this bill represents a significant step forward in controlling the negative impact cigarette additives, advertising directed to children, and the languid implementation of smoking cessation programs in African American communities and other neighborhoods throughout the country. Reports of a split inside the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) on this issue have been unbalanced and unfair. There is widespread agreement throughout the CBC that cigarette products should be regulated. The only discrepancies that occurred before the bill’s passage related how to make a strong bill even stronger, especially regarding the issue of menthol, an additive particularly attractive to African Americans. Attempts to curtail the use of menthol by tobacco companies threatened to derail the bill entirely, and some members did not want to forego the opportunity to begin regulation of tobacco products by allowing passage to hinge entirely on one issue. However, an amendment was added to heighten the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) mandate to document the deleterious affects of menthol within the smoking population, paving the way for further regulation and ultimately the banning of menthol cigarettes. This bill does empower the FDA to begin regulating menthol and to reduce or eliminate menthol in cigarettes any time after the date of enactment of this legislation if the FDA determines, based on the science, that such action would protect the public health. “The regulation of tobacco products is long overdue,” said Rep. John Lewis. “Millions of Americans have died and millions are suffering with an addiction that is hard to kick because of nicotine additives and flavored cigarettes. It is the role of government to protect its citizens and that protection must weigh corporate advantage with the safety and health of American citizens. In this instance the Congress decided that the health of our citizens is more important than a corporation’s bottom line. ” H.R. 1108 is landmark legislation that applies the strongest standard for product regulation ever given to the FDA, stronger than its ability to regulate food, drugs or medical devices because of the proven damage tobacco products have caused to Americans. Its major provisions include creating barriers and serious consequences for entities who try to market and sell tobacco to children. It offers fast track development of smoking cessation and nicotine replacement therapy programs, bans the additives used to make flavored cigarettes, and gives regulatory authority to the FDA to clamp down on the production of mentholated cigarettes. #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.31.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep John Lewis today backed a comprehensive measure that will help end the discriminatory practice of paying a woman less than a man for performing the same job. The Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 1338) will strengthen the landmark Equal Pay Act and close the loopholes that have allowed some employers to avoid responsibility for discriminatory pay. “It is not right.,” said Rep. John Lewis. “It is not fair. It is not just that women doing the same job are not receiving equal compensation as men for the same work. I am glad that the U.S. Congress took action to help right this wrong today,” Although the wage gap between men and women has narrowed since the passage of the Equal Pay Act in 1963, gender-based wage discrimination remains a significant problem for women in the U.S. workforce. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, women only make 77 cents for every dollar earned by a man. In addition, African American women only earn 66 cents on the dollar while Hispanic women earn 55 cents on the dollar compared to their male counterparts. The Institute of Women’s Policy Research concluded that this wage disparity will cost a woman anywhere from $400,000 to $2 million over her lifetime in lost wages. The Democratic Congress has taken important steps to stop the practice of discriminatory pay. Last year, the House approved the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, legislation that rectifies a recent Supreme Court decision that has made it harder for workers to pursue pay discrimination claims. “The Paycheck Fairness Act builds is just another contribution of a Congress committed to serve the American people,” said Rep. Lewis. “Another accomplishments of one of the most productive legislative sessions in the history of this body.” ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.30.2008	Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution by voice vote to apologize for slavery. “The systematic dehumanization of African Americans,” said Rep. Lewis, “for hundreds of years was a horrible crime, and the legacy of these atrocities still lingers with us today. For centuries, African Americans were denied—wages, decent housing, food, clothing, and all the basic necessities of life. They were disenfranchised in the Constitution, barred from voting, from gaining an education, and any protection or right a citizen should expect in a civilized society. Our culture was destroyed, our lives were always in jeopardy, and our very humanity was in question. Any nation which perpetrates these kinds of atrocities on any of its citizens should at least apologize for its actions. And an apology is a very important step toward laying down the legacy of this tragedy once and for all.” The language of the resolution is as follows: Whereas millions of Africans and their descendants were enslaved in the United States and the 13 American colonies from 1619 through 1865; Whereas slavery in America resembled no other form of involuntary servitude known in history, as Africans were captured and sold at auction like inanimate objects or animals; Whereas Africans forced into slavery were brutalized, humiliated, dehumanized, and subjected to the indignity of being stripped of their names and heritage; Whereas enslaved families were torn apart after having been sold separately from one another; Whereas the system of slavery and the visceral racism against persons of African descent upon which it depended became entrenched in the Nation's social fabric; Whereas slavery was not officially abolished until the passage of the 13th Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1865 after the end of the Civil War; Whereas after emancipation from 246 years of slavery, African-Americans soon saw the fleeting political, social, and economic gains they made during Reconstruction eviscerated by virulent racism, lynchings, disenfranchisement, Black Codes, and racial segregation laws that imposed a rigid system of officially sanctioned racial segregation in virtually all areas of life; Whereas the system of de jure racial segregation known as `Jim Crow,' which arose in certain parts of the Nation following the Civil War to create separate and unequal societies for whites and African-Americans, was a direct result of the racism against persons of African descent engendered by slavery; Whereas a century after the official end of slavery in America, Federal action was required during the 1960s to eliminate the dejure and defacto system of Jim Crow throughout parts of the Nation, though its vestiges still linger to this day; Whereas African-Americans continue to suffer from the complex interplay between slavery and Jim Crow--long after both systems were formally abolished--through enormous damage and loss, both tangible and intangible, including the loss of human dignity, the frustration of careers and professional lives, and the long-term loss of income and opportunity; Whereas the story of the enslavement and de jure segregation of African-Americans and the dehumanizing atrocities committed against them should not be purged from or minimized in the telling of American history; Whereas on July 8, 2003, during a trip to Goree Island, Senegal, a former slave port, President George W. Bush acknowledged slavery's continuing legacy in American life and the need to confront that legacy when he stated that slavery `was . . . one of the greatest crimes of history . . . The racial bigotry fed by slavery did not end with slavery or with segregation. And many of the issues that still trouble America have roots in the bitter experience of other times. But however long the journey, our destiny is set: liberty and justice for all.'; Whereas President Bill Clinton also acknowledged the deep-seated problems caused by the continuing legacy of racism against African-Americans that began with slavery when he initiated a national dialogue about race; Whereas a genuine apology is an important and necessary first step in the process of racial reconciliation; Whereas an apology for centuries of brutal dehumanization and injustices cannot erase the past, but confession of the wrongs committed can speed racial healing and reconciliation and help Americans confront the ghosts of their past; Whereas the legislature of the Commonwealth of Virginia has recently taken the lead in adopting a resolution officially expressing appropriate remorse for slavery and other State legislatures have adopted or are considering similar resolutions; and Whereas it is important for this country, which legally recognized slavery through its Constitution and its laws, to make a formal apology for slavery and for its successor, Jim Crow, so that it can move forward and seek reconciliation, justice, and harmony for all of its citizens: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives-- (1) acknowledges that slavery is incompatible with the basic founding principles recognized in the Declaration of Independence that all men are created equal; (2) acknowledges the fundamental injustice, cruelty, brutality, and inhumanity of slavery and Jim Crow; (3) apologizes to African Americans on behalf of the people of the United States, for the wrongs committed against them and their ancestors who suffered under slavery and Jim Crow; and (4) expresses its commitment to rectify the lingering consequences of the misdeeds committed against African Americans under slavery and Jim Crow and to stop the occurrence of human rights violations in the future. ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.24.2008	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill which can help the thousands of families facing foreclosure in Atlanta. Democrats have been working on a broad housing assistance package to help staunch America’s mortgage industry crisis, despite President George Bush’s vow to veto the plans. Today, he indicated he would not stand in the way of this mortgage assistance, as the House prepares to vote on the bill. “I don’t see that President Bush had any choice,” said Rep. John Lewis. “It would be inhumane, unthinkable, unbelievable that a President would use his veto to prevent housing assistance to thousands of American families in crisis. I am glad that the President has finally seen his way clear to join the U.S. Congress in its efforts to help the people of this nation. “In the last quarter, 18,000 families in Atlanta were facing mortgage foreclosure; many of them are African Americans. Some were taken advantage of by unscrupulous lenders. It is the role of government to step in and help when people are suffering. This housing package is a first step in a series of actions this Congress must take to keep this kind of crisis from happening again and to help lift people out of financial danger.” The American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act will enable over 400,000 homeowners in crisis to refinance their mortgages at lower-rates in an effort to help them stay in their homes, preserve their credit standing, and make good on their debts. It expands housing assistance to veterans, and establishes a new independent regulator which will monitor the activities of government sponsored housing agencies like Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the Federal Home Loan Banks, among other provisions. This bill also includes additional funding for the IRS to manage the Economic Stimulus rebate program, which can assist people struggling with mortgage payments. As Chairman of the Ways and Means Oversight subcommittee, Rep. Lewis discovered that the IRS was overwhelmed by the administrative challenges of the program. It was fielding thousands of additional phone inquiries during its busiest tax season of the year and mountains of additional administrative work to pay out rebates to millions of Americans. In order to smooth the way for Americans still waiting for payments, Rep. Lewis was able to attach support for the IRS to this housing bill, so that it could retain seasonal workers who can respond to taxpayer’s questions and push through paperwork to get money in the hands of citizens as quickly as possible. Above all, this legislation is not a bailout of the mortgage industry. It requires lenders to bear responsibility and take substantial losses by lower the principal amounts of their mortgages, and it does not release homeowners from their mortgage obligations. The bill is expected to pass in the House today and will move to the Senate for a vote. ####
07.24.2008	Today, despite vigorous Republican opposition, Rep. John Lewis led a successful U.S. House of Representatives action to meet Georgia’s need and the need of America’s states and cities to fix their highways. The Highway Trust Fund Restoration Act, H.R. 6532, was passed with resounding bi-partisan support by a vote of 387 to 37. “Transportation is one of the greatest needs of my district,” said Rep. Lewis. “The building and maintenance of Georgia’s roads creates jobs, reduces accidents, increases highway safety, and it can help metro Atlanta respond to the congestion and pollution issues my constituents are facing. That’s why I decided to take leadership on this issue in the House, to fight for the jobs of and a better quality of life for my constituents.” The Office of Management and Budget has projected that the Highway Trust Fund will experience a shortfall of $3.7 billion in the 2009 fiscal year. In Georgia that would result in an almost $400 million cut in federal funds to maintain state highways and a loss of almost 14,000 jobs. One reason the shortfall occurred was because of an $8 billion shift of funds in 1998 from the trust to help defray the federal deficit. But because transportation issues have worsened significantly in the last ten years—bridge collapses and significant repairs due to natural disasters to name a few untimely difficulties—Rep. Lewis and the bill’s other 79 co-sponsors believe the money should be returned to the Highway Trust Fund to help rebuild America’s roads. The successful passage of this bill would help prevent the 34 percent cut of jobs and federal highway funds. The bill now goes to the Senate where it is expected to pass. The bill does not increase taxes and has no effect on the nation’s revenue. #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.24.2008	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution recognizing the 20th anniversary of the National Black Arts Festival by a unanimous vote led by Rep. John Lewis. The Festival is currently underway in Atlanta and celebrates the artistic contributions of African Americans. The bill resolves “That the U.S. House of Representatives— 1. Recognizes the important role that arts and arts education plays in the lives of millions of Americans; 2. Recognizes the continuing contributions and influence of African-American art work to America’s cultural life; 3. Urges all citizens to support efforts to strengthen artistic training and appreciation in schools; and 4. Recognizes the 20th anniversary of the National Black Arts Festival.” This kind of resolution draws federal attention to the importance of the festival to the Atlanta community and helps pave the way toward more federal support for the event. It offers Rep. Lewis an opportunity to discuss the festival with other members of the House as they work to pass this resolution, to raise their awareness about the festival’s longtime contribution to the arts community. Then when requests for funding are made in the future, it gives other members of the House, who must approve that funding, a point of reference to engage them on the issue of support. #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.15.2008	Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted to override President Bush’s veto of H.R. 6331, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008. The bill and this veto override was championed by leaders of the Ways and Means Committee, of which Rep. Lewis is a senior member. Though, he was in Georgia today awaiting the results of the primary, Congressman Lewis has been a long-time, staunch defender of Medicare and the continued need to preserve the integrity of the program. If he had been in Washington today, he would have voted with other members of the House in a bi-partisan accord to override the President’s veto. “By overriding the President’s veto today,” said Rep. Lewis, “the U.S. House of Representatives took a first step, among others that must follow, to preserve, protect, and improve the Medicare system. As representatives of the people, we have a moral obligation to do what is right, what is fair, and what is just. We must not cut payments to physicians. We must defend access to healthcare for seniors, the disabled, and others beneficiaries of Medicare. While we are spending billions of taxpayer dollars in Iraq for little gain, we could be using those valuable resources to secure the lives of millions of Americans. I applaud the work of my colleagues today who came together in a bi-partisan fashion to take a stand for the people of this nation.” At issue has been an increase in Medicare reimbursements to physicians. Many doctors have been providing service to Medicare patients while risking their own financial solvency due to recent cuts in government reimbursements. Without this increase, thousands of seniors and disabled Americans would have lost access to medical care. The bill increases payments to doctors by 1.1 percent and stops a mandated 10.6 percent cut in payments. This legislation is fully funded primarily through reductions in overpayments to the Medicare Advantage Indirect Medical Education program and adjustments in the fee-for-service program. Thebill also includes aspects of two pieces of legislation Rep. Lewis introduced, H.R. 1193, the Kidney Care and Quality Education Act, which addresses issues related to end stage renal disease, and H.R. 552, the Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, the fourth leading cause of death in the United States. #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
07.09.2008	Lost Retirement Savings Can be Rolled into Roth Individual Retirement Accounts Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) today hailed House passage of H.R. 6382, the Pension Protection Technical Correction Act of 2008. The bill includes provisions of legislation authored by Rep. Lewis, H.R. 4061, the Lost Retirement Savings Act, inspired as a response to the struggles of Delta employees. After Delta Air Lines emerged from bankruptcy in May 2007, thousands of employees previously had to forfeit benefits and wages they were due. As compensation, those employees received lump sum payments for the wages and benefits they had lost. But because these sums were subject to taxation upon receipt, the advantage of this assistance was mitigated by the additional burden on workers to comply with tax laws as well as the deduction of income. As a response to this problem, Rep. Lewis, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, introduced the Lost Retirement Savings Act to preserve the benefits offered to these employees. The original bill allows lump sum payments to be rolled into a traditional IRA without taxation and into a Roth IRA with tax deferment. The bill which passed the House today, the Pension Protection Technical Correction Act of 2008, includes provisions of the Lewis bill, including the ability of employees to roll lump sum payments into a Roth IRA with tax deferment. “These employees have been through so much,” said Rep. John Lewis. “A lot has been asked of thousands of pilots and other airline employees in Atlanta and around the country. Today, we are one step closer to providing them some much needed relief. Times are hard. They’re getting harder. People are tapping into their savings just to get by. We need to protect people’s savings and help them prepare for retirement in any way we can. The bipartisan support for this effort makes a statement, and I am proud to have led the effort.” The Pension Protection Technical Correction Act of 2008 clarifies numerous sections in the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) to ensure that the statute is implemented and interpreted as Congress intended. Millions of workers, along with their employers and service providers, will benefit from these improvements to employer-sponsored defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans. The legislation now awaits action by the full Senate. ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
06.28.2008	This week, Rep. John Lewis voted with a majority of House members to pass legislation that will improve Medicare services to seniors and protect them from a 10.6% pay-cut to doctors. This legislation is the first in a series of actions that will have to be taken to roll back a decade of Republican efforts aimed at privatizing Medicare. This bill does not offer all the improvements Democrats would like to make, but it is a starting point that enfranchised support from both parties. Even though President Bush has threatened to veto H.R. 6331, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act, was passed by a veto-proof majority this week by a vote of 355-59. Beyond his passionate support for the fixing and continuation of Medicare, Rep. Lewis introduced two pieces of legislation—H.R. 552 the Pulmonary and Cardiac Rehabilitation Act and H.R. 1193 and the Kidney Care Quality and Education Act—that the Ways & Means Committee saw as good ideas and included portions of them in the Medicare bill. The legislation includes H.R. 552, introduced by Rep. Lewis, which would require Medicare to pay for pulmonary and cardiac rehabilitation services to treat Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), the 4th leading cause of death in the United States. COPD is an obstruction of airflow associated primarily with emphysema and chronic bronchitis. A key component of successfully managing COPD is pulmonary rehabilitation, which improves patients’ lives and reduces hospitalizations and medical expenses. The Medicare bill also includes some important provisions of H.R. 1193, the Kidney Care and Quality Education Act, introduced by Rep. Lewis, which requires the establishment of pilot programs to track, screen for, and increase awareness of chronic kidney disease. And it requires Medicare to pay for kidney disease education services that will help beneficiaries manage health problems that often accompany the disease, prevent additional complications, and understand their dialysis options. The Medicare Improvement Act further modernizes Medicare payments for dialysis services by “bundling” all the costs of End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) care into a single payment, implementing longstanding recommendations from the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) and the Government Accountability Office (GAO). It also increases payments to providers of ESRD services and protects patients with complex medical needs, including anemia management and quality requirements. The primary provisions of the Medicare bill will prevent a 10.6 percent pay cut to physicians, scheduled to take place on July 1. Physicians and hospitals, already strapped because of drastic reductions in federal reimbursement for the care of Medicare patients, would have likely discontinued their treatment, if this pay cut had taken effect. Instead, this bill offers a 1.1 percent increase in physician compensation starting January 1, 2009. It also includes important improvements for beneficiaries, such as Medicare mental health parity, improved preventive coverage, and enhanced low-income assistance. In addition, it included measures to ensure prompt insurance payment to pharmacies for prescription drugs, and a delay of a Medicaid regulation that would result in lower generic drug reimbursement to pharmacies. It also delays implementation of the flawed competitive bidding program for Durable Medical Equipment (DMEPOS). To pay for this bill, it authorizes reductions in Medicare Advantage Indirect Medical Education (IME) overpayments and adjusts the private fee for service program. These cuts do not threaten seniors at all, but stops the drain of federal dollars which now can be used to sustain the program, instead of used as a pay-off or “incentive” to the health care industry. Reducing the payments to this one program alone offers Congress most of the necessary funds to pay for many of these increased services. The bill has earned the support of Senate Finance Chairman Max Baucus (D-MT), who is urging its passage by the Senate. #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4674
06.28.2008	On Monday, Rep. John Lewis introduced H. Res. 1293 to commemorate of the 44th anniversary of the deaths of civil rights workers James Chaney, Andrew Goodman, and Michael Schwerner who were murdered during the Freedom Summer campaign of 1964. The effort was a nationwide call for volunteers to help register black voters in Mississippi. The brutal murders drew the nation’s attention to the violent resistance of Southern segregationists and provoked an outpouring of support for the Freedom Summer campaign and the ongoing Civil Rights Movement. Despite the widespread attention received by the case, no one was convicted for the murders for more than forty years. In 2005, on the day they disappeared more than 40 years later, Edgar Ray Killen, a leader of the local Klu Klux Klan group responsible for the deaths, was convicted of those crimes. While the Freedom Summer campaign marked the climax of voter-registration activities in the South, the murders of Andrew Goodman, James Chaney, and Michael Schwerner alerted the nation to the sacrifice made by Civil Rights activists in the fight for voting rights in America. The bill had 20 co-sponsors and was passed on suspension in the U.S. House of Representatives by a voice vote. When he introduced the bill Rep. Lewis made this statement on the House floor: “Madame Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the courage and conviction of three young men - Andrew Goodman, James Chaney, and Michael Schwerner. On June 21, 1964, they gave their lives in the struggle for voting rights in America. “There was a time, just 44 years ago, when it was almost impossible in the American South for people of color to register and vote. Then I was 23 years old and the chairman of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee. I traveled around the country encouraging people to come to Mississippi to get involved with the Freedom Summer of 1964. “At that time the state of Mississippi had a population of more than 450,000 blacks, but only 18,000 were registered to vote. It was dangerous, very dangerous, for those of us who believed that everyone should have the right to vote. But in spite of the risks, there were people—young and old, black and white, rich and poor—people like Andy Goodman, James Chaney, and Mickey Schwerner, who put aside the comfort of their own lives to make sure that every citizen had free and fair access to the ballot in America. “Mickey Schwerner was a twenty-four-year-old, Jewish man from Brooklyn, New York, who was already a participant in the movement. Andy Goodman, also Jewish, was 21-years-old and a student at Queens College in New York. James Chaney was a 21-year-old African American man from Meridian, Mississippi who decided to take a stand for justice in his own community. “On the morning of June 21, 1964, these three young men drove to Longdale, MississippiPhiladelphia, Mississippi. That same evening, they were released from the jail by the sheriff and turned over to the Klan. Then were beaten, shot and killed. to investigate the burning of an African American church. On their way back, they were arrested by the sheriff, taken to jail in “Their burnt blue Ford station wagon was pulled from a creek, just two days later. I joined the search for them that night with a very heavy heart. Their bodies were found a few weeks later on August 4, 1964, buried under a mound of dirt. “Madame Speaker, I share this story today so that members of Congress will realize that the struggle for civil rights has been a long, hard road, littered by the battered and broken bodies of countless men and women who paid the ultimate price for a precious right—the right to vote. “Andy Goodman, James Chaney, and Mickey Schwerner did not die in Europe. They did not die in Asia. Or in Africa. They did not die in Central America. Or in the Middle East. They died right here in the America—in the American South. I knew these three young men. “I urge all of my colleagues to vote for this resolution, to pay tribute to these three young men, and so many others, who died in the struggle for voting rights in America. We must never forget their sacrifice. As members of the U.S. House of Representatives, it is our duty, our mission, our mandate to make sure that these three young men did not die in vain. Thank you, Madame Speaker.” ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4674
06.28.2008	Peace Action and Peace Action West rated the voting records of the members of the 110th Congress on legislation they believe was key to advancing a foreign policy agenda based on human rights, diplomacy, and international cooperation. Congressman John Lewis received a perfect score from Peace Action and was also recognized on the “Honor Roll” for co-sponsoring important legislation. The Peace Action and Peace Action West 2007 Congressional Scorecard highlights the voting records of U.S. representatives and senators on eleven pieces of legislation from the first session of the 110th Congress related to ending the war in Iraq, preventing military action against Iran, supporting nuclear nonproliferation and military aid, and promoting human rights internationally. Rep. Lewis was honored for his co-sponsorship of the Iraq War De-escalation Act (H.R. 787) and the Bring the Troops Home and Iraq Sovereignty Act (H.R. 508), which Peace Action calls the, “strongest bill offered on the war in Iraq.” For more information on the Peace Action and Peace Action West report, check their website at www.peaceactionwest.org . ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4674
06.19.2008	Today Rep. John Lewis introduced a resolution recognizing the 20th anniversary of the National Black Arts Festival. The Festival is scheduled to take place in Atlanta July 18th to the 27th and celebrates the artistic contributions of African Americans. The bill resolves “That the U.S. House of Representatives— 1. Recognizes the important role that arts and arts education plays in the lives of millions of Americans; 2. Recognizes the continuing contributions and influence of African-American art work to America’s cultural life; 3. Urges all citizens to support efforts to strengthen artistic training and appreciation in schools; and 4. Recognizes the 20th anniversary of the National Black Arts Festival." This kind of resolution draws federal attention to the importance of the festival to the Atlanta The bill has been introduced and will be referred to the Committee on Education and Labor. community and helps pave the way toward more federal support for the event. #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
06.19.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Georgia has over 167,000 Social Security beneficiaries and veterans who have not even filed for the economic stimulus payments meant to offer a boost to the economy and some relief to the taxpayer. Nationwide, over 5.6 million Social Security beneficiaries and veterans have yet to file. The Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight, Rep. John Lewis, held a joint hearing today to find out more what kinds of outreach efforts have been implemented and to encourage the IRS, SSA and other non-governmental organizations to find new ways to reach this target population. “The purpose of this stimulus package was to jumpstart the economy and help families struggling under the weight of higher gas and food prices,” said Rep. John Lewis (D-GA). “With unemployment rates on the rise and the U.S. economy continuing to struggle, we must ensure that the millions of Americans eligible for stimulus checks actually receive them.” Georgians have until October 15, 2008, to file a return needed to receive a stimulus check this year. Rep. John Lewis will be actively working with local organizations to make all eligible taxpayers aware of this important benefit and filing deadline. In February, Congress passed the Economic Stimulus Act, which provides a minimum economic stimulus payment of $300 for individuals and $600 for married couples filing joint returns with earned income of at least $3,000. Individuals receiving Social Security, veterans, and other retirement benefits also are eligible to receive a stimulus check. To learn more about this hearing go to https://waysandmeans.house.gov . ### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
06.19.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) made the following opening statement today at a hearing called by the Ways and Means Subcommittees on Oversight and Social Security focusing on the need to ensure that economic stimulus payments reach their target populations: “Today, the Ways and Means Subcommittees on Oversight and Social Security will review the status of the rebate checks. People are suffering. I’m really not sure how people are getting by. We are trying to get money into the hands of people who need it the most, but by doing that we have placed a huge strain on the resources of the IRS and we have not been successful at reaching all of the people who are entitled to this tax rebate. “As Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee, I know it has been hard for the Internal Revenue Service to take on the rebate checks during the tax filing season. “There are almost 20 million additional taxpayers. Calls to the IRS have doubled this filing season, with over 10 million calls in one week and 70 million calls to date. The Service has mailed over 200 million notices to taxpayers on the rebate checks alone. “I am concerned that the strain on its workers, its budget, collections, and taxpayer services will be felt through the next filing season. The Administration needs to tell Congress what resources the IRS needs. “In addition to the burden on the IRS, we know that millions of elderly and working people have not yet filed for a rebate check. People are suffering under the pressure of rising food and gas prices – we know people need this relief. Clearly, millions of people do not know that they are eligible. We look forward to learning how the agencies plan to reach these people. We want to learn how the Congress, the Administration, and the public and private sector can work together to put billions of dollars in the pockets of Americans who need it most. Thank you.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 6473
06.13.2008	“It is so very sad to hear that Tim Russert has died. This nation has lost not only an outstanding journalist, but an American patriot. He glowed with his love for politics, for this country, and especially his native Buffalo, New York. The last time we spoke, I saw him on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, DC. Whenever we saw each other, we would always talk about Buffalo, his hometown, and the city where some of my relatives now live. He was always warm, always open, and engaging. “As the consummate host of Meet the Press, his analysis of all the great issues of the day informed millions of Americans and people all over the world whose lives are shaped by the decisions of our government. This one man served our society so well, by asking questions and offering us all some of the vital information we need to take action as voters and citizens of a democracy. “Tim Russert made a lasting contribution to our society. We must hold his family in our hearts and prayers. He will be deeply missed.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
06.13.2008	“It is so very sad to hear that Tim Russert has died. This nation has lost not only an outstanding journalist, but an American patriot. He glowed with his love for politics, for this country, and especially his native Buffalo, New York. The last time we spoke, I saw him on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, DC. Whenever we saw each other, we would always talk about Buffalo, his hometown, and the city where some of my relatives now live. He was always warm, always open, and engaging. “As the consummate host of Meet the Press, his analysis of all the great issues of the day informed millions of Americans and people all over the world whose lives are shaped by the decisions of our government. This one man served our society so well, by asking questions and offering us all some of the vital information we need to take action as voters and citizens of a democracy. “Tim Russert made a lasting contribution to our society. We must hold his family in our hearts and prayers. He will be deeply missed.” #### CONTACT: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
06.03.2008	Rep. John Lewis Hosts Veterans Disability Forum with Senator Max Cleland & House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Bob Filner Forum to explore growing incidence of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder/Traumatic Brain Injury in new veterans and the impact of disability claims backlog ATLANTA –First of its kind analysis performed by the RAND Corporation recently discovered one in five troops who served in Iraq or Afghanistan have symptoms of major depression or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). With an average wait time of more than 180 days for veterans trying to appeal disability claims, there is deep concern over the growing number of servicemen and women believed to be suffering from PSTD or traumatic brain injury (TBI). Rep. John Lewis will bring together Congressional experts, research, and technical professionals to assist veterans from all generations aware of the health issues associated with PTSD, TBI, and the benefits available to them. WHO: Rep. John Lewis Rep. Bob Filner, Chair, House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Former Senator Max Cleland Mr. Al Bocchicchio, Atlanta VA Regional Office Dr. Barbara Rothbaum, Emory University, Director, Trauma, Anxiety Recovery Program Dr. Barbara Boyan, GA Tech, Ctr for Advanced Biotechnology for Soldier Survivability Alexa Jensen, VA Congressional Relations Officers- Compensation and Benefits Bobby Rain, AMVETS Brian Poole, Disabled American Veterans (DAV) Ronnie Olgetree, American Legion Robert Love, Vietnam Veterans of America Frank Pascarelli, CDC WHERE: WestChester Complex 758 Scott Blvd. Decatur, GA 30030 WHEN: June 9, 2008 – 10 a.m. to 1 p.m Contact: Brenda Jones Ph. 202.226.4673
05.13.2008	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives will likely pass H.R. 6022, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve Fill Suspension and Consumer Protection Act.&nbsp; Rep. John Lewis is one of the co-sponsors of the bill. The measure suspends the filling of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve through the end of the year, as long as the price of crude oil remains above $75 per barrel. “This is not a silver-bullet,” said Rep. Lewis, “but it is one answer among others that the Congress is working on. We must find some ways to ease the pressure on American families to make ends meet. Gas prices are too high, and people are hurting right now. People are rationing gas voluntarily because they can’t afford to fill up their tanks. Businesses and government is hurting too—the truckers, the airline industry, school systems. The people are looking for leadership, and since the President has been unwilling to act, the Congress is trying to use every means at its disposal to respond to this crisis.” With gas prices at a record high of $3.72 a gallon, it is estimated that suspending shipments to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve could lower prices by 5 to 24 cents per gallon, by adding 70,000 barrels of oil to the market daily. The SPR is 97 percent full, and currently holds more than $80 billion worth of oil. Continued purchases, which drive up the costs to American consumers, do not make sense, especially in these hard times. The bill passed 97-1 in the U.S. Senate and is expected to pass on suspension in the House tonight. If the President vetoes this measure, it is expected that the Congress will have the votes to override his veto. ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
05.10.2008	“I feel very proud,” said Congressman Lewis, “of all the young people of the Fifth District, especially these fine artists who are using their talent to tell us how they view the world around them. They are expanding their minds through artistic expression and engaging in thought-provoking work that enriches and diversifies the culture of this great metropolis called Atlanta. The first prize winner will receive a $10,000 scholarship to The Atlanta Institute of Art (AIA) and a $3000 Artistic Merit Scholarship from the Savannah College of Art and Design. That merit scholarship can be applied to tuition at the Savannah College and is renewable. The second prize winner will receive a $5000 scholarship from AIA, and the third prize winner will receive a $2000 scholarship also to AIA. As a bonus, the first prize winner and his/her art teacher will be flown to Washington, D.C. for a day to be honored at an awards ceremony sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus. The first prize-winning work of art will be exhibited in the United States Capitol for one year to represent the culture and talent of the Fifth District of Georgia. That work will be viewed by hundreds of dignitaries and everyday citizens who pass through the U.S. Capitol and will hang along with the work of other winners from congressional districts across the country. REP. JOHN LEWIS 2008 FIFTH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT OF GEORGIA HIGH SCHOOL ART COMPETITION WINNERS FIRST PLACE: Reuben Buchanan, 12th Grade, Tri-Cities High School, Danny Campbell, Art Teacher , “ My December” mixed media, resident of Riverdale SECOND PLACE: James Burrell, 11th, Benjamin E. Mays High School, Eubanks/Dubose, Art Teachers, “Melancholy Princess”, graphite, resident of Atlanta (Cascade Heights) THIRD PLACE: Charlotte Watts, 12th, Druid Hills High School, Anastasia Fink, Art Teacher, “2 Students” Composition on metal, photography. Residency TBD ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
05.09.2008	Today the Internal Revenue Service announced that it granted Grady Memorial Hospital Corporation tax-exempt determination. The 501 (c) 3 status enables the new corporation to receive a $200 million grant from the Robert W. Woodruff Foundation, Atlanta’s largest philanthropic donor. Many hope this generous funding will help begin a new era of stability for the hospital. It has struggled in recent years with a $55 million deficit due to rising health care costs, dwindling government aid, and the inability for many of its patients to pay for its services. Processes to gain the tax exempt status from the IRS were begun by the corporation about one month ago. It was seeking an expedited determination process in expectation of the first installment of the Woodruff gift around May 1st. When some roadblocks occurred, they called Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) to see if he could help. As chairman of the House Ways and Means subcommittee on Oversight, Rep. Lewis has an on-going relationship with the IRS Commissioner. He was able to secure the tax exempt status for Grady in just seven days after his office was contacted. “I am pleased and delighted to help Grady receive this tax-exempt status,” said Rep. Lewis. “The work of Grady Memorial Hospital is the essence of a charitable institution. Grady serves the most needy, even the most desperate among us and gives them the chance to live. Grady is a vital part of the heart and soul of downtown Atlanta. I am glad to do whatever I can to support the continued operation of this important health care resource in our community.” ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
05.08.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act, the most comprehensive legislative response yet to the housing problems facing the country. Even though the bill will help keep more people in their homes and help stabilize the housing market, President Bush has threatened to veto the measure. “A home is the foundation of the American dream,” said Senior Chief Deputy Whip, John Lewis (D-GA). “Because of this emergency, too many families are watching their dreams slip away. Recently, I held a foreclosure forum in Atlanta to help people facing the unbelievable pressure of losing their homes learn about the resources available to them. Some of the solutions they discovered there can save them from ending up in the living room of a family member, or worse yet, from homelessness. I just don’t know how people are making it today. All the basic necessities are sky high. Too many families stand to lose everything they have. “In this emergency, elected officials must not look the other way. The people are depending on the federal government for support in their time of need. They are saying that if their taxpayer dollars--their money--can be used to bail out private, for-profit institutions, why shouldn’t some of their tax dollars be used to help them in a time of trouble. Today the House delivered some solutions to these financial problems. We gave struggling families options to choose from and expanded their ability to stay in their homes.” In metro Atlanta, there was a 52 percent increase in foreclosure filings, equaling 81,000 filings last year. Nationally, 8,000 Americans face foreclosure every day, and it is projected that over the next two years, one third of American homeowners will find themselves in foreclosure proceedings as a result of the subprime loan crisis. The legislation passed by the House today was developed by the House Ways and Means Committee, on which Rep. Lewis sits and serves as subcommittee chairman of Oversight and Investigations. The bill helps people refinance their mortgages, protects home values, and makes $15 billion worth of loans and grants to states for the acquisition and rehabilitation of foreclosed homes in the hardest hit neighborhoods. To spur home buying and help stabilize the housing market, the bill also:Gives first-time homebuyers a refundable tax credit that works like an interest-free loan of up to $7,500 (to be paid back over 15 years) Supplies states with $10 billion of additional tax-exempt bond authority in 2008 to refinance subprime loans; Makes loans to first-time homebuyers and helps finance the construction of affordable rental housing; Provides taxpayers who claim the standard deduction with up to an additional $700 standard deduction for property taxes; Offers reforms which encourage the creation of low-income housing. To View Legislation Summary: https://majorityleader.house.gov/docUploads/Housing_Overview.pdf Contact: Brenda Jones Ph. 202.226.4673
05.05.2008	“The Cinco de Mayo observance began decades ago to commemorate the victory of the Mexican militia over a powerful French army at the Battle of Puebla on May 5, 1862. In the United States, this celebration has transcended that history to symbolize the ability of a committed and determined people to overcome the most fierce opposition. As a city that has often served as a headquarters for contemporary and historic movements rooted in the call for equality and justice, the members of the 5th Congressional District join with their Latino and Hispanic brothers and sisters in Atlanta to recognize this principle of democracy. We celebrate their rich heritage and culture and widen our circle to include them as members of the Beloved Community, an all-inclusive society based on simple justice that values the dignity and the worth of every human being.” ### Contact: Brenda Jones Ph. 202.226.4673
04.30.2008	Rep. John Lewis made a statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to counteract a news conference President Bush held yesterday. During the news conference, the President refused to admit that the decline of the American economy is a recession. He has blocked the passage of congressional responses to the foreclosure crisis that would expand foreclosure protection for homeowners and take action to stabilize neighborhoods full of vacant housing that has become the target for crime. The President would not sign children’s health insurance funding for poor, sick, disabled, and dependent children, transferring the majority of the high costs of their health care on to families already struggling to keep up. Despite his close alignment with big oil companies, the President offered no proposals to help relieve consumers plagued by high gas prices. Instead, the President tried to blame the Democrats for the problems of this economy, even though the Republicans controlled the White House, the Senate, and the Congress for seven years, and rammed through legislation that has crippled successful federal support for education, veterans, the elderly, children, the disabled and much more, funneling trillions of tax dollars into war. Democrats took the majority only 18 months ago. Rep. Lewis delivered this statement during one-minute speaking time on the floor of the House today: “Mr. Speaker, the President wants to blame the Democrats for the economic mess he made. He’s the one who wants to sweep our problems under the rug. He should be ashamed of himself. When he came into office, the previous administration had created more than 22 million new jobs. The economy was booming. People had a chance to live the American dream. Now, gasoline is too high, food is too high, the rent is too high, and nobody can get a raise.President Bush has had his hand on the wheel for seven years. He’s been in charge. But he wants to blame the Democrats for the economic mess he’s made. Well, as they say in the South, that dog won’t hunt. The Republicans got us into the mess, and now it’s going to take the Democrats to get us out. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.” ### Contact: Brenda Jones Communications Director for The Honorable John Lewis 343 Cannon House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Ph. 202.226.4673 Fx. 202.225.0351
04.28.2008	Today the U.S. Supreme Court decided 6-3 to uphold an Indiana requirement mandating voters to show a government-issued photo ID in order to vote in the state. The court ruled such a requirement is constitutional. Similar laws exist in Georgia, Missouri, and Arizona. The Georgia law was ruled unconstitutional in state courts. 23 states require some form of ID to vote, but the requirement to show only a government-issued ID means people in rural areas must travel long distances to one of the few government offices in the state to be able to vote. To the elderly, the poor, and the disabled this requirement can be prohibitive. Rep. John Lewis responded to the decision: “I believe the Supreme Court got it wrong today,” said Rep. John Lewis. “There is not any convincing evidence that voter fraud is a problem in our election process. However, there is a real concern that in an economy where people are already struggling to pay for the most basic necessities that too many citizens will be unable to afford the fees and transportation costs involved in getting a government-issued photo ID. This law tends to discourage seniors and Americans with limited incomes from participating in the political process. In 2008, we should be making it easy, simple, and convenient to vote. Instead, we have created another stumbling block. This ruling is a barrier to an inclusive democracy. Today we have taken a significant step backward.” ### Contact: Brenda Jones 202-226-4673
04.22.2008	Tomorrow, April 23 at 10 AM Rep. John Lewis will question participants in a full committee hearing of the House Ways & Means Committee in 1100 Longworth about the crisis in Social Security support for disabled Americans. Atlanta has the longest list of backlogged disability appeals in the country. Nationwide there are 1.3 million Americans waiting for decisions on their applications for disability benefits. The average processing time in Atlanta North is the worst in the country at 828 days, and in Atlanta proper it is 750 days. A Social Security administrative law judge from Atlanta, Frederick Waitsman, will also testify during the hearing. “I became deeply concerned about this crisis in Social Security,” said Rep. Lewis, “when I heard from caseworkers in my office that people in my district had died after waiting years for their rightful claims to be favorably discharged by the federal government. Somehow the richest, most powerful nation in the world must find a way to meet the needs of these Americans. They have suffered enough. They should not suffer at the hands of their government.” Social Security has long been celebrated as one of the most successful and effective government programs ever implemented. However, due to significant under-funding by a Republican-led Congress bent on privatizing the program, the Social Security Administration has been crippled. From 1998 to 2007 the Social Security Administration received $4.6 billion less than the Commissioner requested. Lack of adequate funding has meant staff lay-offs, plummeting moral, a greater incidence of administrative errors, and the waiting lists became longer and longer. Beyond this the Social Security Administration has had to take on additional responsibilities in recent years due to immigration enforcement procedures. As the baby boomers increasingly begin to apply for Social Security benefits, it further complicates the ability of this under-funded agency to respond to the demand. For the first time in many years, the Congress appropriated more funds in 2008 for the administration of Social Security than requested, but the backlog will take years to clear. This hearing will allow the Social Security Commissioner to discuss his plan to cut the backlogs and for members to hear the impact this backlog has caused. Rep. Lewis believes this is an important story. He would like to set up a conference call for interested reporters on this topic, offering access to experts, administrators, and citizens who can discuss this backlog and its impact. With sufficient reporter interest this call can be quickly arranged. Please email brenda.jones@mail.house.gov, if you are interested in participating in this call. ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.21.2008	This morning Sen. John McCain made a speech in Selma, Alabama where he acknowledged the courage of Rep. John Lewis and other participants in the Civil Rights Movement during the conflict on the Edmund Pettus Bridge. Rep. Lewis had no advance knowledge of the nature or intentions of Sen. McCain’s remarks. “I am gratified that Sen. John McCain would take the opportunity to recognize what happened 43 years ago on the Edmund Pettus Bridge. Bloody Sunday was a turning point in the struggle for voting rights and equal justice in America. President Lyndon Johnson was right when he compared what happened in Selma on March 7, 1965, to the crossroads this country faced at Appomattox, Lexington, and Concord. These seminal events cut to the core of American democracy. Their significance to all Americans is much bigger, much larger, and much more profound than partisan politics." ### Press Release - 4/21/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.18.2008	Congressman Lewis received this important message from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) regarding impending disaster relief application deadlines for those struggling to recover from the tornado that hit the Atlanta metro area last month: Georgia residents coping with low insurance settlements and late-arriving bills for damages and losses caused by the mid-March severe storms and tornadoes are running out of time to register for state and federal disaster assistance. The most immediate application deadlines are for Disaster Unemployment Assistance (DUA) to help residents in any of the seven declared counties who have lost income due to the disaster. The deadlines are set 30 days from the date a county is declared eligible for federal assistance. Anyone in Fulton County interested in filing for DUA must apply for these benefits no later than April 21, 2008. In all other eligible counties - Bartow, Burke, DeKalb, Floyd, Jefferson and Polk - the deadline is April 23, 2008. DUA claims may be filed at any of the Georgia Department of Labor career centers in those areas. The state-run, federally financed program extends the possibility of benefits to workers who may not normally qualify for unemployment compensation, including farmers, farm workers, diversified farming operators, loggers, commission-paid employees, those who are self-employed and others who are not eligible for the state’s program. The maximum weekly benefit amount is $320. Residents in the seven declared counties also have only 30 more days to register with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for possible state and federal disaster assistance. Registrations cannot be accepted after the May 19 deadline. Recovery officials urge homeowners, renters and business owners with disaster-related damage in any declared county to call 800-621-FEMA (3362) without delay. The number for those with a speech- or hearing-impairment is 800-462-7585. Lines are open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily until further notice. Multilingual operators are available at both registration lines. Online registration is also available at www.fema.gov. Also other Georgia-specific information released from FEMA regarding tornado relief has been compiled on Rep. Lewis’s website. Go to www.house.gov/johnlewis and click on the Tornado Relief link on the right-side of the homepage. ### Press Release - 4/18/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.15.2008	Bill Repeals Use of Private Collection Agencies and Simplifies the Tax Filing Process Today, Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) and House Ways and Means Chairman Charlie Rangel (D-NY) ushered passage of the Taxpayer Simplification Assistance Act. The bill modernizes Internal Revenue Service functions to make filing taxes simpler, improves taxpayer protection, and restores fairness to aspects of the tax code. Hearings called by Rep. Lewis revealed that thousands of elderly, disabled, and low-income citizens are targeted to purchase high-interest refund anticipation loans, and others have been harassed by private tax debt collection agencies contracted by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). This bill corrects these and other problems, making it easier and simpler for citizens to file their taxes. Chairman Lewis managed the floor debate on the legislation and last week chaired the Ways and Means markup. “The collection of taxes is a public service and a part of the public trust.,” said Rep. Lewis. “The success of our tax system is dependent upon the goodwill and respect of the American people, and the people are due goodwill and respect from their government in return. Private tax collection services have violated the public trust. During the hearings, I discovered that taxpayers have been targeted and harassed mercilessly by private tax collection agencies. One elderly couple was called 150 times in 30 days. The poorest and most vulnerable citizens in our society are targeted. They are soldiers serving in Iraq, elderly residents of nursing homes, non-English speaking taxpayers, and people in disaster stricken areas. “The integrity of our government is on the line. As representatives of the people, we should not tolerate programs that violate the most central values of public service. Plus, the IRS Commissioner and its experts have assured us they have the tools in place to do this job, and they can perform this function much more effectively and efficiently, if given the resources. When you sum up the violations to the public trust, the extreme aggressiveness of these agencies, and the opportunity to save taxpayers money, all the factors seem to point to repeal. It was the right thing to do, the just thing to do, and the most cost effective thing to do.” The provisions included in H.R. 5719 would: Repeal the IRS’s authority to use private debt collection companies to collect Federal taxes. Protect low-income taxpayers by prohibiting IRS debt indicators for predatory refund anticipation loans, allowing IRS employees to refer taxpayers to qualified low-income taxpayer clinics, and authorizing funding for Volunteer Income Tax Assistance ("VITA") programs. Require the IRS to notify taxpayers if it suspects theft of a taxpayer`s identity. Prohibit the misuse of Department of the Treasury names and symbols in misleading websites and "phishing" schemes. Eliminate the special requirements for individuals to keep detailed records of calls made on employer-provided cell phones. Delay for one year the imposition of a three-percent withholding requirement on government payments for goods and services made after December 31, 2010. Stops federal contractors from using foreign subsidiaries to evade Social Security and other employment taxes. Make the administrators of state and local government programs liable for paying the employment taxes on amounts paid by government programs to in-home care workers provided to elderly and disabled persons. ### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.15.2008	Today a bill sponsored by Rep. John Lewis will be debated and voted on on the House floor. It’s called the Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act of 2008 (H.R. 5719). The bill is the result of a hearing Lewis held as Chair of the House Ways & Means Oversight Subcommittee that revealed thousands of low-income taxpayers were targets of predatory refund anticipation loans and aggressive tax debt collection tactics used by private collection agencies contracted by the government. The hearing revealed that use of private tax debt collection companies not only violated the government’s ethical standards and public service mandate, but questions were raised in the hearing about its cost effectiveness and efficiency. This bill would repeal the use of private debt collection agencies to collect tax payments. It will also make the tax filing process simpler for some taxpayers, offers more protection from taxpayer identity theft and misleading and fraudulent internet schemes using the Treasury Department’s name.
04.14.2008	This evening Delta Airlines announced its merger with Northwest Airlines, saying the move would put it in a stronger position to confront the rising cost of fuel prices and the challenges of a recession. It has said that no hubs would be closed as a result of this merger. The company will have combined revenue of $35 billion and over 75,000 employees. “This is a great step for Delta,” said Rep. John Lewis. “It is a powerful combination that should help strengthen the air transportation industry in this country. This would make Delta one of the largest airlines in the world. I salute the officials of Northwest, and especially Delta for using their hard-won stability to strengthen their position and improve their ability to serve the people. This merger should make it easier for people in Atlanta and around the nation to fly, and it preserves the Delta name. The Delta headquarters will remain in Atlanta, which helps protect the economy of the city during a time of recession.” ### Press Release - 4/14/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.14.2008	Are you having trouble paying your mortgage? Are you or is someone you know facing foreclosure? Do you have questions about mortgage fraud? Learn who can help and how to receive public assistance Date: April 26, 2008 (Saturday) Time: 11:30 a.m. – 2:30 p.m. Location: The Dunbar Recreational Center (GYM) 477 Windsor Street SW Atlanta, Georgia 30312 Ideas and Information to be offered by: Moderator: Ann Fulmer - (Co-founder of Georgia Real Estate Fraud Prevention and Awareness Coalition) 30310 Mortgage Fraud Task Force Center for Working Families,Inc. Consumer Credit Counseling Service, Inc. Department of Housing and Urban DevelopmentFederal Reserve Bank of Atlanta – Community Development Federal Trade Commission Georgia ACORN National Association of Black Churches NeighborWorks Office of the United States Attorney Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.03.2008	In July 1946, two African American couples were driving through Monroe, Georgia, pulled from their car by a mob of 12 to 15 unmasked men, shot hundreds of times, and killed. Then they were hung from nearby trees. One of the victims, Dorothy Malcolm, was seven months pregnant. No one has ever been prosecuted for these crimes. Annually a group of activists, organizations, and public officials acknowledge the senseless deaths of these young citizens. This year, they will simultaneously commemorate the legacy and the death of Martin Luther King, Jr., also killed by an assassin's bullet, to raise awareness for the continuing need for prosecution of these and hundreds of other unsolved civil rights cases. Rep. Lewis has sponsored the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act (H.R. 923/S 535) which establishes more federal support within the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Civil Rights Section of the Department of Justice and directly to local law enforcement agencies to encourage the prosecution of these lingering cases. The bill has passed the House, but is awaiting Senate action. On the 40th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.'s death, Rep. Lewis will join the Moore's Ford Commemoration. WHO: Rep. John Lewis - U.S. Representative, 5th Congressional District, Georgia WHAT: 40th Anniversary of Assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. and Moore's Ford Annual Commemoration WHEN: Friday April 4, 2008 at 10:00 AM WHERE: Moore's Ford Bridge, Monroe, GA in Walton County Other Related Events on that day 12 Noon - Rally for Justice, 1st African Baptist Church, Monroe 1 p.m. - Motorcade to the historic memorial marker on Highway 78 remembering the victims Roger and Dorothy Malcom, George and Mae Murray Dorsey (and the unborn infant) ### Press Release - 4/3/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.02.2008	Yesterday, lead sponsor Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) with co-sponsor Deborah Pryce (R-OH) and Vic Snyder (D-AR) won passage of the Civil Rights Act Commemorative Coin Bill. Lewis, Pryce, and Snyder held a news conference today with Dr. Michael Lomax, President of the United Negro College Fund, to discuss the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. and the passage of the coin bill. The bill honors the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 with the minting of a commemorative $1 coin. The Civil Rights Act is widely recognized as one of the most effective, influential pieces of legislation passed by the U.S. Congress in the past 50 years. The statute helped dismantle the system of legalized discrimination in voting and public accommodations in America and served as a model for subsequent civil rights laws. The Act helped fashion the America we know today, a nation that recognizes the equal rights of the disabled, women, the elderly, minority citizens and other groups as valuable contributors to our society. "I am very pleased and delighted," said Rep. John Lewis, "that members of the House saw fit to pass this bill on the eve of the 40th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.'s death. It is fitting and appropriate that this Congress should pay tribute to its role in helping to bring about a new America that is closer than ever before to laying down the burden of race. The legacy of Dr. King and the Civil Rights Act have contributed immeasurably to this new day, this new America. I am proud that the House has found a way to honor to this history. Now we look toward the Senate to help this bill become law." "The Act is the bedrock for the America we know today," said Rep. Deborah Pryce (R-OH). "Upon its passage, the law transformed our nation into one that recognizes our minority citizens, the disabled, women, the elderly, and other groups as invaluable contributors to our society, and all inherently and equally deserving of the protections afforded by our Constitution. The fight for civil rights continues, and the Civil Rights Commemorative Coin honors our nation's historic struggle, and reaffirms the promise for justice and equality for all in the generations that will follow us." Pryce was particularly honored to share in the bill's passage with Congressman John Lewis - the bill's sponsor- who is considered a hero and statesman from the Civil Rights movement. Said Pryce, "Congressman Lewis's brave leadership in the first Selma to Montgomery March, and his support for nonviolent revolution in the face of the brutal attacks of that fateful Sunday, are the very acts of courage the coin seeks to honor for future generations." It is very important," said Rep. Snyder, "that we continue to highlight these important stories and events of the Civil Rights Movement, which were an important part of American history and critical to America's progress," said Congressman Snyder. "In 2007, we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the desegregation of Little Rock Central High School with a commemorative coin, and I am honored to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act in 2014 with this commemorative coin." "UNCF is proud," said Dr. Michael Lomax, the fund's President, "to have been chosen to receive the proceeds from this commemorative coin, and proud to be linked with the civil rights pioneers whose courage and dedication resulted in the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. We are also honored that the proceeds from the coin will pay tribute to those pioneers by helping UNCF educate the young men and women who will be our next generation of leaders. Commemorative coins are authorized by Congress to celebrate and honor American people, places, events, and institutions. While the coins are legal tender, they are not minted for general circulation. As well as memorializing important aspects of American history and culture, commemorative coins help raise money for important causes. A portion of a coin's cost is collected as a surcharge that benefits community organizations. Under H.R. 2040, the Civil Rights Commemorative Coin is expected to raise up to $3.5 million for the United Negro College Fund (UNCF), which provides scholarships and internships for minority students and assists our nation's historically black colleges and universities. #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
04.02.2008	Yesterday, Rep. John Lewis spearheaded House passage of two pieces of legislation. One was a U.S. House of Representatives resolution honoring the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. and encouraging the nation and the Congress to pause in silent memory of his life and his sacrifice. The other was the Civil Rights Act Commemorative Coin bill that authorizes the Treasury Department to issue a coin paying tribute to a bill that has been called the most important, most effective legislation the U.S. Congress has passed in the last 50 years. The bill still needs to be passed by the Senate and signed by the president to become law. Rep. Lewis will hold a news conference today encouraging Senate passage of the bill. Senator Debbie Stabenow and Senator Barack Obama are the Senate co-sponsors. Commemorative coins are authorized by Congress to celebrate and honor American people, places, events, and institutions. While the coins are legal tender, they are not minted for general circulation. As well as memorializing important aspects of American history and culture, commemorative coins help raise money for important causes. A portion of a coin's cost is collected as a surcharge that benefits community organizations. Under H.R. 4770, the Civil Rights Commemorative Coin is expected to raise up to $2.5 million for the United Negro College Fund, which provides scholarships and internships for minority students and assists our nation's historically black colleges and universities. ### Press Release - 4/2/08 H. Res. 1061 - Bill Text
04.01.2008	In light of the 40th anniversary of Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s death on April 4, 1968, Rep. John Lewis will hold a media availability for all press, especially broadcast media, who are interested in talking to him about the King assassination. Simultaneously he will be celebrating the passage of the Civil Rights Act Commemorative Coin bill that authorizes the Treasury Department to issue a coin honoring the Civil Rights Act of 1964, enabled by the now famous March on Washington led by Dr. King. The proceeds of that bill will benefit the United Negro College Fund (UNCF). Dr. Michael Lomax, President of the UNCF, a graduate of King's alma mater Morehouse College, and a student at the time of King's assassination was assigned to work with dignitaries in Atlanta during King's funeral. Bill co-sponsor Rep. Deborah Pryce (R-OH) and Rep. Vic Snyder (D-AR) will offer their comments. Press will have an opportunity to talk to Rep. Lewis about the King assassination and the coin bill at that time. WHO: Reps. John Lewis (D-GA), Deborah Pryce (R-OH), Vic Snyder (D-AR) and Dr. Michael Lomax, President, United Negro College Fund WHAT: On 40th Anniversary of King Assassination and Civil Rights Act Commemorative Coin Bill WHEN: 10:30 AM, Wednesday April 2nd WHERE: U.S. Capitol, H330 ### The Negro has no room to make any substantial compromises because his store of advantages is too small. He must press unrelentingly for quality, integrated education or his whole drive for freedom will be undermined by the absence of a most vital and indispensable element-learning. Martin Luther King Jr. 1964 Press Release - 4/1/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.27.2008	On Saturday, March 29th, 2008, the 5th Congressional district will have approximately five free IRS tax assistance locations open between the hours of 9a.m. to 3p.m. It’s called a “Super Saturday” in Georgia. It’s a one day event that is part of an extensive outreach effort by the IRS. This effort is directed toward people who are eligible for the economic stimulus payment but who normally are not required to file a tax return. “I hope all the people in my district,” said Rep. Lewis “hear about this important event and will participate. The economic stimulus package was created to help the people who need it the most. I hope everyone will take advantage of this opportunity to get a rebate from the federal government.” “We don’t want any Americans to miss out on their economic stimulus payment, said IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman. For millions of Americans, filing a tax return is not routine. Their income is either too low or not taxable. But this year, filing a 2007 return is the only way to receive an economic stimulus payment. Super Saturday is one way the IRS and its partners are working to ensure everyone eligible receives a stimulus payment.” The IRS encourages everyone who is required to file a tax return to do so prior to the April 15th deadline to enable the agency to process the return and to calculate stimulus payment eligibility and amounts. At these free assistance locations, IRS employees will help prepare the Form 1040A returns for low-income workers, retirees, disabled veterans and others. Information about free assistance locations is available by calling the IRS Hotline, 1-800-906-9887, which provides a list of IRS offices and partner sites in Georgia offering assistance on Super Saturday. ### IRS Super Saturday Press Release - 3/27/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.27.2008	On Sunday March 30, Rep. John Lewis will be the guest preacher at the Washington National Cathedral's 11:15 AM service. The sermon commemorates the 40th anniversary of a speech made by Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. On March 31, 1968, King gave his last Sunday sermon at the Washington Cathedral. Five days later he was shot and killed in Memphis. In honor of the 40th anniversary of his speech and the 40th anniversary of King's assassination, the Cathedral asked Congressman Lewis to speak. The Congressman will take part in The Sunday Forum: Critical Issues in the Light of Faith at 10 AM, a discussion on issues of the day in the context of faith, that precedes the service, and he will deliver his sermon at the 11:15 AM service. The service begins a whole week of preaching and programming on the topic of racial reconciliation at the Washington National Cathedral. The Cathedral calls this series "Remaining Awake-A Week Celebrating Racial Reconciliation and Justice. WHO: Rep. John Lewis, Guest Preacher WHAT: Initial Sermon for "Remaining Awake-A Week Celebrating Racial Reconciliation and Justice" series WHEN: March 30, 2008 10:00 AM The Sunday Forum: Critical Issues in the Light of Faith 11:15 AM Service WHERE: Washington National Cathedral, Massachusetts and Wisconsin Avenues, NW, Washington, DC, Nave of the Cathedral The Washington National Cathedral is the 6th largest cathedral in the world and the 2nd largest in the U.S. Pierre L'Enfant included the idea for a national church in his plan. On January 6, 1893, the U.S. Congress issued a charter for the building of that church. The Cathedral was begun in 1907 and finally completed in 1990. ### A live webcast will be available. For more information or to view the live webcast, visit the Washington National Cathedral webpage Press Release - 3/27/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.24.2008	“This weekend this nation reached a devastating landmark. 4000 of our soldiers have died in Iraq--a war of choice, not a war of necessity. Tens of thousands of Iraqi citizens have died and over a million have left their homes seeking refuge. How many more of our young people must lose their lives before we realize enough is enough? How much more violence must we rain on humanity before we see that one more day is too many? One more death is too much. "I do not understand the insensitivity of elected officials in this Administration who regard the opposition of seventy percent of the American people as irrelevant. Opponents to this war, like the Grandmothers for Peace who were arrested in Atlanta on the 5th anniversary of the Iraq war, should not have to risk the hazards of jail to make their voices heard. The American people want to end this war and end it now. "I urge my colleagues in the Congress to lead the way. It is time for us to close this grim chapter in American history. It is leaving a stain on the moral fabric of this nation and destroying our credibility in the international community. Mohandas Gandhi once said, "Liberty and democracy become unholy when their hands are dyed red with innocent blood." "We will never find the answers in Iraq down the barrel of a gun. We must begin the healing and restoration that only diplomatic solutions can offer. Martin Luther King Jr. once said, ‘There is no way to peace. Peace is the way.' We must end this war and end it now." ### Press Release - 3/24/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.21.2008	Yesterday evening, the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) issued a statement indicating that the President has declared Georgia a major disaster area, opening up millions of dollars in federal resources to help with rescue efforts. "I am glad that President Bush has recognized the suffering of people in Fulton County," said Rep. John Lewis, "and the devastation that this tornado visited on the city of Atlanta and surrounding areas. Though city and state officials have done an incredible job during this emergency, it became clear that the greater resources of the federal government would be needed to help communities that are struggling to recover. I am relieved that the president acted swiftly to meet the emergencies in this crisis." FEMA support will be granted in two major areas—individual assistance, which supports individuals and households, and hazard mitigation, which assists state and local governments as well as certain non-profit organizations to take preventative measure to reduce risks of this kind of damage in the future. Also, all counties within the state of Georgia can apply to the federal government for hazard mitigation grants. Members of Congress can assist governments in their districts with this application. Following you will find information about how individuals and families can use and apply for the emergency assistance provided by FEMA. If residents have difficulties with these applications or with FEMA itself, members of Congress can help people in their districts navigate the federal system. ASSISTANCE TO INDIVIDUALS AND HOUSEHOLDS The Individuals and Households Program (IHP) provides financial help or direct services to those who have necessary expenses and serious needs if they are unable to meet the needs through other means. Up to $28,800 is available in financial help (adjusted each year), although some forms of IHP assistance have limits. Flood insurance may be required as indicated below. These forms of help are available: Housing Assistance (including Temporary Housing, Repair, Replacement, and Semi-Permanent or Permanent Housing Construction) and Other Needs Assistance (including personal property and other items). Housing Assistance Temporary Housing: Money to rent a different place to live or a temporary housing unit (when rental properties are not available). Repair: Money for homeowners to repair damage from the disaster that is not covered by insurance. The goal is to repair the home to a safe and sanitary living or functioning condition. FEMA may provide up to $28,800 for home repair; then the homeowner may apply for a Small Business Administration disaster loan for additional repair assistance. FEMA will not pay to return a home to its condition before the disaster. Flood insurance may be required if the home is in a Special Flood Hazard Area. Repair and replacement items include: Structural parts of a home (foundation, outside walls, roof) Windows, doors, floors, walls, ceilings, cabinetry Septic or sewage system Well or other water system Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning system Utilities (electrical, plumbing, and gas systems) Entrance and exit ways from the home, including privately owned access roads Blocking, leveling and anchoring of a mobile home and reconnecting or resetting its sewer, water, electrical and fuel lines and tanks Replacement: Money to replace a disaster-damaged home, under rare conditions, if this can be done with limited funds. FEMA may provide up to $28,800 for home replacement. If the home is located in a Special Flood Hazard Area, the homeowner must comply with flood insurance purchase requirements and local flood codes and requirements. Semi-Permanent or Permanent Housing Construction: Direct assistance or money for the construction of a home. This type of assistance occurs only in very unusual situations, in locations specified by FEMA, where no other type of housing assistance is possible. Construction shall follow current minimal local building codes and standards where they exist, or minimal acceptable construction industry standards in the area. Construction will aim toward average quality, size, and capacity, taking into consideration the needs of the occupant. If the home is located in a Special Flood Hazard Area, the homeowner must comply with flood insurance purchase requirements and local flood codes and requirements. Other Needs Assistance Other Needs Assistance provision of the Individuals and Households Program provides grants for uninsured, disaster-related necessary expenses and serious needs. Flood insurance may be required on insurable items (personal property) if they are to be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area. Assistance includes: Medical and dental expenses Funeral and burial costs Repair, cleaning, or replacement of: - Clothing - Household items (room furnishings, appliances) - Specialized tools or protective clothing and equipment required for your job - Necessary educational materials (computers, school books, supplies) Clean-up items (wet/dry vacuum, air purifier, dehumidifier) Fuel (fuel, chain saw, firewood) Repairing or replacing vehicles damaged by the disaster, or providing for public transportation or other transportation costs Moving and storage expenses related to the disaster (including evacuation, storage, or the return of property to a home) Other necessary expenses or serious needs (for example, towing, or setup or connecting essential utilities for a housing unit not provided by FEMA) The cost of a National Flood Insurance Program group flood insurance policy to meet the flood insurance requirements Conditions and Limitations of IHP Assistance Non-discrimination: All forms of FEMA disaster housing assistance are available to any affected household that meets the conditions of eligibility. No Federal entity or official (or their agent) may discriminate against any individual on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, disability, or economic status. Residency status in the United States and its territories: To be considered for disaster housing assistance, you or a household member must provide proof of identity and sign a declaration stating that you/they are a United States citizen, a non-citizen national, or a qualified alien. Supplemental Assistance: Disaster housing assistance is not intended to substitute for private recovery efforts, but to complement those efforts when needed. FEMA expects minor housing damage or the need for short-term shelter to be addressed by homeowners or tenants. Furthermore, the Disaster Housing Program is not a loss indemnification program and does not ensure that applicants are returned to their pre-disaster living conditions. Household Composition: People living together in one residence before the disaster are expected to continue to live together after the disaster. Generally, assistance is provided to the pre-disaster household as a unit. If, however, the assistance provided to the household is not shared with you, or if the new residence is too small or causes you undue hardship, you may request assistance separate from your pre-disaster household. Type of Assistance: Generally, more than one type of IHP assistance may be provided to the household. Only FEMA has the authority to determine which type of assistance is most appropriate for the household and the period of assistance to be covered. Proper Use of Assistance: All financial assistance provided by FEMA should be used as specified in writing: to rent another place to live, to make the home repairs identified by FEMA, or to prevent eviction or foreclosure, or to replace or repair personal property. Failure to use the money as specified may make you ineligible for additional assistance. All money provided by FEMA is tax-free. Documentation: It is your responsibility to provide all documentation necessary for FEMA to evaluate your eligibility. You may need to provide proof of occupancy, ownership, income loss, and/or information concerning your housing situation prior to the disaster. You should keep all receipts and records for any housing expenses incurred as a result of the disaster. This includes receipts for repair supplies, labor, and rent payments. Insurance: If you have insurance, any assistance provided by FEMA should be considered an advance and must be repaid to FEMA when you receive your insurance settlement payment. If your settlement is less than FEMA's estimated cost to make your home habitable, you may qualify for funds to supplement your insurance settlement, but only for repairs relating to the home's habitability. FEMA does not provide replacement value amounts or assistance with non-essential items. Duration of Assistance: Repair and Replacement Assistance is provided as a one-time payment. Temporary Housing Assistance (or a mobile home/travel trailer) is provided for an initial period of 1, 2, or 3 months. To be considered for additional assistance, you must demonstrate that you have spent any previous assistance from FEMA as instructed, and you must demonstrate your efforts to re-establish permanent housing. Additional assistance is generally provided for 1, 2, or 3 months at a time. The maximum period for IHP assistance is 18 months, unless extended by the President. Appeal Rights: If you disagree with FEMA's determination of eligibility or the form of assistance provided, you have the right to appeal within 60 days of the date of your notification letter. Send appeal letters to: Appeals Officer, FEMA- Individuals & Households Program, National Processing Service Center, P.O. Box 10055, Hyattsville, MD 20782-7055. Telephone: 1-800-621-FEMA or TTY 1-800-462-7585. ### Press Release - 3/21/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.19.2008	Rep. John Lewis was named one of the “Best Representatives for Children” by the Children’s Defense Fund Action Council based on his perfect voting score in the 2007 Nonpartisan Congressional Scorecard. Rep. Lewis voted to protect the health and well-being of the children in Georgia 100 percent of the time. “I applaud Representative Lewis for his commitment to improving the lives of children in Georgia,” said CDFAC President Marian Wright Edelman. “With 9.4 million uninsured children in America and nearly 13 million living in poverty, it is critical that we have Representatives committed to making children a priority. Representative Lewis is a dedicated advocate for children and has truly earned the distinction of being one of the best Representatives for children.” The 2007 Children’s Defense Fund Action Council Nonpartisan Congressional Scorecard ranks every Member of Congress based on fundamental votes that affect children. This congressional scorecard specifically scores ten Senate votes and ten House votes which directly affect a range of issues in reference to children’s lives. Congressman Lewis managed to achieve a distinct voting score by supporting all ten votes, which included budget, appropriations, child health, education and tax relief/minimum wage measures. The CDFAC notifies the nation about children’s needs and promotes preventive investment before children are faced with illness, trouble, problems with school or family issues. Moreover, the annual Nonpartisan Congressional Scorecard is a component of the CDFAC’s public education, ongoing policy analysis and advocacy for children. For more information about the CDF Action Council and access to the Scorecard, visit their website at www.cdfactioncouncil.org. ### Voting Record Press Release - 3/19/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.19.2008	"Today we celebrate a grim anniversary. This marks the beginning of our sixth year of conflict in Iraq. America's sons and daughters-the men and women of the military--have done everything we have asked of them. They have faced situations that have tested them to the very core of their beings. They have done their part, and now we must do ours. We must find the best possible way and the most expeditious way to bring them home. I believe the people of Iraq and the government of Iraq want to manage their own affairs. We need to step aside, and let them step up to the plate. "We must turn our attention now to our veterans. Over 4,000 Americans have been killed, and tens of thousands have been injured. Instead of spending billions of dollars on an unending war, we need to focus on healing-healing the wounds of Americans who have been deeply scarred by this conflict, healing the turmoil our mistakes in Iraq have visited on the Iraqi people, and building the bridges of diplomacy that will bring a permanent end to this unnecessary conflict. We have a responsibility to lay down the tools and instruments of war and begin the long-range work of peace and reconciliation that will restore stability to the region." #### Iraq Anniversary Press Release - 3/19/08
03.19.2008	When a tornado strikes a U.S. community, the federal government sees it as the responsibility of local, city and state governments as well as humanitarian organizations and other private interests to respond to the crisis. If it is determined that local agencies are unable to meet the demands of the emergency, then a governor can petition the federal government for supplementary support through the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. A damage assessment will be made by the Federal Emergency Management Administration, in conjunction with the Georgia Emergency Management Administration and other agencies to determine whether the governor's request for supplementary assistance is warranted. "On Monday Governor Perdue sent a letter to the White House, " said Rep. John Lewis, "asking the President to declare the City of Atlanta and Fulton County disaster areas due to significant damage caused by the tornado. I urge the President to give the City of Atlanta and Fulton County this declaration so that over $100 million of federal support can be made available to our region. "The U.S. Congress has appropriated over $6 billion under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act in 2008 alone to be applied to these kinds of emergencies. The money is there. It was placed in the hands of a federal agency by the Congress to allow the President to act swiftly without the impediments of the legislative process. The people of Georgia need the President to act. This crisis is straining city and state budgets. Local agencies are trying to meet the needs of our citizens, but we need much more support. " I will also be looking at damage assessment reports to determine whether the U.S. Congress should consider passing emergency supplemental funding to give more long-range support for any continuing and persistent needs that arise from this crisis. My office is in constant contact with federal, state, city and local authorities. We will continue monitoring this problem and are doing everything possible to encourage swift federal action to meet the needs of the people in the 5th District and throughout the region." Following is FEMA's Declaration Process Fact Sheet that describes how emergency funding is provided through that agency. Also, please be advised that the United Way of Metropolitan Atlanta offers a 211 call center to receive non-emergency calls for human service needs. The 211 Call Center can offer information on shelters, food, and other services to citizens who may need help. FEMA Declaration Process Fact Sheet The Emergency Response Process Preliminary Damage Assessments/ The Declarations Process/Primary Considerations for Declarations Local emergency and public works personnel, volunteers, humanitarian organizations, and other private interest groups provide emergency assistance required to protect the public's health and safety and to meet immediate human needs. If necessary, a governor can declare a state of emergency and invoke the state's emergency plan to augment individual and public resources as required. A governor may determine, after consulting with local government officials, that the recovery appears to be beyond the combined resources of both the state and local governments and that federal assistance may be needed. In requesting supplemental Federal assistance under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5121-5206 (Stafford Act), the Governor must certify that the severity and magnitude of the disaster exceed state and local capabilities; certify that Federal assistance is necessary to supplement the efforts and available resources of the state and local governments, disaster relief organizations, and compensation by insurance for disaster related losses; confirm execution of the state's emergency plan; and certify adherence to cost sharing requirements. Under the declaration process and to assist a governor to determine if a request for assistance should be made, a preliminary damage assessment is conducted. These assessments are conducted in counties affected by the disaster event. FEMA works with the State's emergency management agency to accomplish these assessments. The Preliminary Damage Assessment This preliminary damage assessment team is comprised of personnel from FEMA, the State's emergency management agency, county and local officials and the U.S. Small Business Administration. The team's work begins with reviewing the types of damage or emergency costs incurred by the units of government, and the impact to critical facilities, such as public utilities, hospitals, schools, and fire and police departments. They will also look at the affect on individuals and businesses, including the number damaged, the number of people displaced, and the threat to health and safety caused by the storm event. Additional data from the Red Cross or other local voluntary agencies may also be reviewed. During the assessment the team will collect estimates of the expenses and damages. This information can then be used by the Governor to support a declaration request - showing the cost of response efforts, such as emergency personnel overtime, other emergency services, and damage to citizens, is beyond state and local recovery capabilities. The information gathered during the assessment will help the Governor certify that the damage exceeds state and local resources. The Declaration Process As set forth in the Stafford Act, a governor seeks a presidential declaration by submitting a written request to the President through the FEMA regional office. In this request the Governor certifies that the combined local, county and state resources are insufficient and that the situation is beyond their recovery capabilities. Following a FEMA regional and national office review of the request and the findings of the preliminary damage assessment, FEMA provides the President an analysis of the situation and a recommended course of action. Criteria Used By FEMA The federal disaster law restricts the use of arithmetical formulas or other objective standards as the sole basis for determining the need for federal supplemental aid. As a result, FEMA assesses a number of factors to determine the severity, magnitude, and impact of a disaster event. In evaluating a Governor's request for a major disaster declaration, a number of primary factors, along with other relevant information, are considered in developing a recommendation to the President for supplemental disaster assistance. Primary factors considered include: Amount and type of damage (number of homes destroyed or with major damage); Impact on the infrastructure of affected areas or critical facilities; Imminent threats to public health and safety; Impacts to essential government services and functions; Unique capability of Federal government; Dispersion or concentration of damage; Level of insurance coverage in place for homeowners and public facilities; Assistance available from other sources (Federal, State, local, voluntary organizations); State and local resource commitments from previous, undeclared events; and Frequency of disaster events over recent time period. The very nature of disasters-their unique circumstances, the unexpected timing, and varied impacts-precludes a complete listing of factors considered when evaluating disaster declaration requests. However, the above lists most primary considerations. FEMA coordinates the federal government's role in preparing for, preventing, mitigating the effects of, responding to, and recovering from all domestic disasters, whether natural or man-made, including acts of terror. #### Press Release - 3/19/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.15.2008	“My heart and my prayers go out to all the victims of the tornado in Atlanta. My office has been communicating with Mayor Franklin’s office and the Federal Emergency Management Administration to determine how we can work together to respond to this crisis. My understanding at this time is that there may be one fatality. Thirty people have been injured, and the city has already set up temporary housing. About 70 people have arrived so far to receive shelter. “Several of our major landmarks-- the Georgia Dome, Centennial Park, the Georgia World Congress Center, and even my office in Atlanta--have been ravaged by this tornado, and another one could be on the way. Atlanta is a strong, resilient city. We have pulled together and survived through major crises before. I want the people of Atlanta to rest assured that the leadership of this city, the state government, and their federal representatives are working together to try to get the city back on its feet again as quickly as possible. I believe the people of this city are praying for each other and will pull together to support each other through this difficult time.” ### Press Release - 3/15/08 FEMA Tornado Fact Sheet Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.10.2008	Tomorrow, the public may get some answers about the drought in the southeastern United States. Rep. John Lewis led a successful push by the Georgia delegation to hold a public hearing that addresses the conditions that led to the current drought and the factors that must be considered to resolve the problem. Testimony will be heard by the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee at 10 AM in the Rayburn House Office Building, Room 2167 on March 11. “We must think of this as an opportunity,” said Rep. Lewis, “to bring together important stakeholders and hear exactly what is going on and what needs to change to better manage such a precious resource.” Since recent attempts by the Secretary of Interior Dick Kempthorne to reach consensus among the governors of Florida, Georgia, and Alabama have failed, this hearing will help shed light on some of the persistent challenges and conflicts that have made agreement difficult. Reps. John Lewis (D-GA), Allen Boyd. (R-FL) and Hank Johnson (D-GA) will testify, along with experts from the Florida seafood industry, the Army Corps of Engineers, the U.S. Geological Survey and others. Often growth in the city of Atlanta is blamed for the cause of the drought, however, it is expected that Robert Hunter, Commissioner of the Atlanta Dept. of Watershed Management, will help clarify Atlanta’s role in the crisis and demonstrate that Atlanta has successfully implemented steps that cut down on water waste and recycle un-used resources. Many experts believe that new water management manuals which reflect contemporary challenges would be a major component of a remedy. Rep. Lewis believes the people need an objective, scientific analysis, not hampered by politics, in order for experts to develop a modern, effective plan. He is drafting legislation which directs the Army Corps of Engineers to conduct a comprehensive study of water management in the southeastern US which will be used to help find a reasonable, scientific solution to this crisis. ### Press Release - 3/10/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.07.2008	House Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) today announced that the Subcommittee on Oversight will hold a hearing on the 2008 tax return filing season, IRS operations, the fiscal year 2009 budget proposals, and the National Taxpayer Advocate’s Annual Report. The hearing will take place on Thursday, March 13, 2008, at 10:00 a.m., in the main Committee hearing room, 1100 Longworth House Office Building. In view of the limited time available to hear witnesses, oral testimony at this hearing will be from invited witnesses only. Acting Commissioner Linda Stiff, Internal Revenue Service, and Nina E. Olson, National Taxpayer Advocate, have been invited to testify. However, any individual or organization not scheduled for an oral appearance may submit a written statement for consideration by the Committee and for inclusion in the printed record of the hearing. FOCUS OF THE HEARING: In 2007, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") collected $2.7 trillion in taxes and processed nearly 250 million tax returns, including 140 million individual income tax returns. The Subcommittee will discuss the current tax return filing season with a focus on taxpayer service and assistance, earned income tax credit outreach, and the status of economic stimulus payments. The Subcommittee also will review IRS operations not related to the filing season. Specifically, the Subcommittee will look at examination rates, collection activities, the tax gap, electronic filing, and protection of taxpayer information. In July 2007, the IRS established a new office to focus on data protection and identity theft, including phishing schemes and online fraud. The Subcommittee will discuss activities of this office to notify and assist potential victims of identity theft and data loss incidents. As part of its consideration of IRS operations, the Subcommittee will discuss the Administration’s fiscal year 2009 proposed budget for the IRS of $11.4 billion, an increase of 4.3 percent over the fiscal year 2008 level. The Subcommittee will examine the Administration’s priorities with respect to taxpayer services, enforcement, operations support, and business systems modernization. Further, the Subcommittee will consider the Administration’s compliance initiatives and budget proposals to close the tax gap. Finally, the position of National Taxpayer Advocate was established by the 1996 Taxpayer Bill of Rights (Public Law 104-168). The purpose of the Taxpayer Advocate is to provide an independent system to address taxpayer problems not resolved by normal channels and to propose changes in the administrative practices of the IRS. The Taxpayer Advocate must submit a report each year to the House Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Committee on Finance. The National Taxpayer Advocate will highlight key issues and recommendations from the December 2007 Report to Congress. In announcing the hearing, Chairman Lewis said, "The IRS must enforce our tax laws, but it also needs to make taxpayer service a priority so that we maximize the numbers of taxpayers who voluntarily comply with our tax laws. The Congress must ensure that the IRS operates efficiently and fairly for all Americans." DETAILS FOR SUBMISSION OF WRITTEN COMMENTS: Please Note: Any person(s) and/or organization(s) wishing to submit comments for the hearing record must follow the appropriate link on the hearing page of the Committee website and complete the informational forms. From the Committee homepage, https://waysandmeans.house.gov/, select "110th Congress" from the menu entitled, "Committee Hearings" (https://waysandmeans.house.gov/Hearings.asp?congress=18). Select the hearing for which you would like to submit, and click on the link entitled, "Click here to provide a submission for the record." Once you have followed the online instructions, completing all informational forms and clicking "submit" on the final page, an email will be sent to the address which you supply confirming your interest in providing a submission for the record. You MUST REPLY to the email and ATTACH your submission as a Word or WordPerfect document, in compliance with the formatting requirements listed below, by close of business Thursday, March 27, 2008. Finally, please note that due to the change in House mail policy, the U.S. Capitol Police will refuse sealed-package deliveries to all House Office Buildings. For questions, or if you encounter technical problems, please call (202) 225-1721. FORMATTING REQUIREMENTS: The Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. As always, submissions will be included in the record according to the discretion of the Committee. The Committee will not alter the content of your submission, but we reserve the right to format it according to our guidelines. Any submission provided to the Committee by a witness, any supplementary materials submitted for the printed record, and any written comments in response to a request for written comments must conform to the guidelines listed below. Any submission or supplementary item not in compliance with these guidelines will not be printed, but will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee. 1. All submissions and supplementary materials must be provided in Word or WordPerfect format and MUST NOT exceed a total of 10 pages, including attachments. Witnesses and summiteers are advised that the Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. 2. Copies of whole documents submitted as exhibit material will not be accepted for printing. Instead, exhibit material should be referenced and quoted or paraphrased. All exhibit material not meeting these specifications will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee. 3. All submissions must include a list of all clients, persons, and/or organizations on whose behalf the witness appears. A supplemental sheet must accompany each submission listing the name, company, address, telephone and fax numbers of each witness. Note: All Committee advisories and news releases are available on the World Wide Web at https://waysandmeans.house.gov. The Committee seeks to make its facilities accessible to persons with disabilities. If you are in need of special accommodations, please call 202-225-1721 or 202-226-3411 TTD/TTY in advance of the event (four business days notice is requested). Questions with regard to special accommodation needs in general (including availability of Committee materials in alternative formats) may be directed to the Committee as noted above. *** Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.05.2008	Congress.org rated the power and ability of members of Congress to be effective in 2007 and 2008. The organization gave each member a score based on position, influence, legislation and earmarks and then gave them a power score that ranked all the members in each chamber of Congress. Position was determined by tenure in Congress, committee assignments, and leadership position; Influence was related to actions taken in 2007 regarding an issue or bill; Legislation was related to success in the legislative process in 2007, passage of that member’s legislation out of a House committee, floor passage, chamber passage, and signing into law. Earmarks was related to allocations to specific projects or programs, usually benefiting official’s state or congressional district. Rep. Lewis was rated 23rd in power in the House of Representatives out of 435 members, the highest among all the members of the Georgia Delegation. He was given this rating, according to Congress.org because of “his long tenure or years in office in Congress can provide clout,” chairmanship of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight, the quality of his committee assignments that reflect greater influence or longer tenure, successful passage of one or more bills out of the House or Senate, and his position in the Democratic leadership of the House as Senior Chief Deputy Whip, second in command to Majority Whip Jim Clyburn (D-SC). *** Press Release - 3/5/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
03.03.2008	The American Association of University Women (AAUW) rated the voting records of members of the 110th Congress to determine how consistently they supported the issues they believe are most important to women. Congressman John Lewis received a perfect score from the AAUW. “On behalf of the more than 100,000 bipartisan members of the American Association of University Women, I want to thank Congressman Lewis for his 100 percent rating in our recently published AAUW Congressional Voting Record," said Lisa Maatz, AAUW's Director of Public Policy and Government Relations. "We greatly appreciate his consistent support for AAUW’s priority issues in the first session of the 110th Congress, including his support for making college more affordable, advancing pay equity issues, and strengthening hate crimes laws, as well as his opposition to efforts to weaken family planning programs." The AAUW Congressional Voting Record for the 110th Congress, First Session tracked legislation that became law to determine its impact on women. Those bills included an increase in the minimum wage, the largest increase in student aid since the G.I. bill; federal investment in science, technology, engineering, and math education; and it also reflects positions on other issues the AAUW deems important to women such as pay discrimination law, expanding hate crimes prevention and protecting access to reproductive health care. For more information on the AAUW report, check their website at www.aauw.org . ### Press Release - 3/3/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.29.2008	Rep. John Lewis (GA-5) and Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) sent a letter to President Bush urging him to join Congress in honoring the African American spiritual. Last year the House of Representatives unanimously passed a bipartisan resolution (H. Res 120), which recognizes the contribution of African American spirituals to our nation's history. The bill declares the African American spiritual a national treasure and urges the President to do the same with a national proclamation. "Through the African American spiritual, "said Rep. John Lewis, "we can hear the voices of African slaves, some of our American ancestors, calling out to the divine, seeking guidance through their dark night of suffering. Though the institution of slavery is gone, the music still continues to inspire because it so simply yet beautifully describes the trials of the human condition. These songs also formed the backbone of the Civil Rights Movement, a revolution of values in our lifetime that helped redeem the soul of America. Due to the powerful role this music has played in American history and for the continuing inspiration it provides today, I believe it is both fitting and appropriate for the President to proclaim these songs as a national treasure." "The African American spiritual has been woven into the fabric of this nation's history, in fact, people around the globe play and enjoy music that draws on the musical legacy of enslaved Africans. It truly epitomizes the theme of Black History Month this year, which emphasizes how the struggles of African Americans to have contributed to the diverse American identity," said Rep. DeLauro. "I would urge the President to share in this celebration of the historic achievements of African Americans and issue the proclamation recognizing the African American spiritual and a national treasure." Following is the full text of the letter: February 27, 2008 The Honorable George W. Bush President The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, As we celebrate African American history during the month of February we honor the contributions of African Americans all across our nation. In recognition of this celebration, I am writing to request that you issue a proclamation that reflects on the important contribution of African American spirituals to American history, and name the African American spiritual a national treasure. African slaves in America were prohibited from speaking their native languages and from learning to read and write English. Spirituals and oral history thus became their sole mode of expressing their desires for freedom, their anguish in bondage, and their love for God. By blending rhythms and tones from their native lands with the language of the New World and the Christian faith, African slaves forged the uniquely American art form of the African American spiritual. Though they are rooted in one of the darkest periods of our history as a nation, spirituals have also inspired America's greatest musical accomplishments, from entire genres such as jazz and rock 'n' roll to moving works of opera and orchestral music. Songs such as "We Shall Overcome," "Go Down Moses," and "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot," and have entered our cultural lexicon and that of the world. Today, human beings across the globe play and enjoy music that draws on the musical legacy of enslaved Africans. Furthermore, in its cry for deliverance, the African American spiritual captures a resounding call for justice and human dignity that instructs to this day. As you may know, I introduced a resolution (H.Res.120) in honor of the African American spiritual. I am pleased to inform you that this bi-partisan resolution passed unanimously during African American history month last year on February 7th . Given this recognition by the House of Representatives, I urge you to join us in honoring the African American spiritual as a national treasure and issue the proclamation that is detailed in the resolution. Sincerely, Rosa DeLauro John Lewis Barbara Lee Jim McDermott Raul Grijalva Rush Holt John Larson Maurice Hinchey Doris Matsui E.B. Johnson Elijah Cummings Chris Van Hollan Albio Sires Vic Snyder Stephanie Tubbs-Jones Betty Sutton #### Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.17.2008	Rep. John Lewis mourns the passing of civil rights activist Rev. James Orange who passed tonight at Crawford Long Hospital in Atlanta. Rep. Lewis made these comments upon hearing about Rev. Orange's death. "Rev. James Orange was a close and dear friend. We worked side-by-side in the movement for social justice and equal rights, and we have been neighbors for several years. He was a tireless committed and dedicated non-violent soldier of the Civil Rights Movement. He was part of the great campaigns in Birmingham and one of the organizers of the Selma to Montgomery march. He did so much to help those who were left out and left behind by organizing oppressed workers and brought hundreds of people into the labor movement. His leadership will be deeply missed." ### Press Release 2-16-08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.16.2008	When the governors of Alabama, Florida and Georgia met with the U.S. Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne in November of last year, a February 15th deadline was set to encourage the states to develop an agreement that would help settle the water challenges of the region. The Governors announced today that they would not meet that deadline. ‘I think the entire Georgia delegation," said Rep. Lewis, "on both sides of the aisle, is very disappointed that the Governors were not able to come to an agreement. They seem to be making an attempt to come to terms with a long-standing, challenging, but critical issue. I think members of Congress see the U.S. House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure committee hearing requested by the entire Georgia delegation and scheduled for March 11 as another opportunity for the governors to come together and describe the nature of the issues they are confronting. "The hearing will allow the American people and members of Congress to better understand their current obstacles, the steps these public officials are taking to ensure the preservation of this vital natural resource, and alleviate concerns about any future drought emergencies. The people who live in our region cannot survive without water. They want to be certain that every possible step is employed to ensure the security of this precious resource." ### Press Release 2-13-08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.14.2008	Rep. John Lewis wants a complete investigation of Humane Society report that a California slaughterhouse may have distributed tainted beef to U.S. schools. A shocking video investigation revealed animals so ill they were unable to walk being prodded with a forklift to be slaughtered for human consumption. These animals could be infected with mad cow disease or other illnesses known to cause human fatalities if eaten. Twenty-four school districts in Georgia receive beef from the Hallmark/Westland meat source, including Fulton and DeKalb counties. Rep. Lewis, also a cosponsor of H.R. 661, the Downed Animal and Food Safety Protection Act, signed a strongly worded letter to the Secretary of Agriculture, Ed Schafer demanding a full, intensive investigation into the procedures and federal laws that would sanction this kind of activity. The letter states, "We call on USDA to immediately undertake a prompt and systematic investigation of the abuses which occurred at the Hallmark plant; of the weaknesses in the USDA's rule implementation and administration which allowed the practices to go unnoticed, and of the current practices and safeguards in effect at the largest beef processing plants across the United States. Congress and the American people need to know urgently the extent to which downed cattle are still being passed into the food supply. Finally, we urge you to take the strongest possible disciplinary actions against any company or plant that is found to be in violation of USDA's July 13, 2007, rule regarding downed cattle. We thank you for your attention to this matter and look forward to your prompt reply detailing the actions USDA will be taking in response to the discoveries at the Hallmark plant in Chino." ### Press Release - 2/13/08 Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
02.12.2008	In a speech honoring the legacy of African Americans President Bush saluted the work of historian Carter G. Woodson, former Secretary of Transportation William Coleman, one of the Little Rock Nine Ernest Green, former Temptation Otis Williams, and Rep. John Lewis. "It is an honor," said Rep. Lewis, "for a President of the United States to acknowledge the legacy of African Americans. We have been a part of every conflict ever fought to defend this nation, and for centuries we have been on the frontlines of the call for justice in our democracy. This nation is a better nation, and we are a better people because of the talents, sacrifice, and ingenuity of African Africans in this society. So it is fitting and appropriate that President Bush would take the time to acknowledge this great contribution to American history. I feel very gratified to be named in the company of such distinguished men." President Bush made the following comments about Rep. John Lewis: "Congressman John Lewis earned his place in history long before winning a seat in the United States Capitol. As a young man, he became one of the leaders of the Civil Rights Movement. He organized freedom rides, sit-ins, and voter registration drives. One Sunday in 1965, he set out to lead a march from Selma to Montgomery. The marchers never made it past the rows of state troopers outside Selma. But their message made it all the way to Washington. Five months later, Congress passed the Voting Rights Act. More than forty years later, John Lewis continues to inspire us -- and we are blessed to have him among us today." The President also began his speech with a discussion about the recent incidence of noose hangings that have occurred around the country. He called the noose a "tool of murder" and "intimidation" and identified with African Americans' alarm at the resurgence in the use of this symbol of hate. Rep. Lewis was the only member of Congress named in the President's address. #### Press Release 2/12/08 30.46 Kb Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.29.2008	The U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5140, the Recovery Rebates and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act by a vote of 385 to 35. Democratic leadership in the House-Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-8), members of the Ways & Means committee chaired by Rep. Charles Rangel (NY-15) and the Financial Services Committee chaired by Rep. Barney Frank (MA-4) worked closely with Minority Leader John Boehner (OH-8) and President Bush to craft an agreement that offers cash tax rebates to 117 million Americans. Democrats, in particular, fought hard to ensure that low-to-moderate income citizens benefited from this package, and some economists say that cash infusion in the hands of low-to-moderate income families is up to 24 percent more effective in generating economic growth. This package will provide tax relief of up to $600 per individual and $1,200 per married couple, plus an additional $300 per child. Recovery rebate checks could be sent as early as mid-May, getting money to Americans who will spend it immediately to reinvigorate the economy. In Georgia 3.5 million households will receive rebates averaging $914 per household and equaling $3.2 million. "Today I was pleased, "said Rep. John Lewis, "to cast a vote to help get our economy moving again and help meet the needs of the people of the 5th Congressional District of Georgia. The great majority of the citizens in the 5th District will benefit from this action. We will put money-more than pocket change-in the hands of many Americans so they can put food on their tables, pay their rent and their mortgages, tuition, doctor bills, car payments, and much more. "These are very difficult times for hardworking families. It is difficult, almost impossible, to make for too many Americans to make ends meet. It is the role of the government to respond to people when they are in need, and that is what we did today." Rep. Lewis is a member of the House Ways & Means Committee. PRESS RELEASE 30.63 Kb Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.29.2008	The Congress will continue to work with President Bush in a bi-partisan manner to meet the needs of the American people. However, for a nation that is facing a potential economic crisis, I was dismayed that the President offered no new ideas to the American people and no perspective on the span of his Administration. We applaud the development of and look forward to the passage of the Economic Stimulus package. Though the package is a bi-partisan agreement, the Democratic leaders in the House pushed to ensure that as many people in the middle and lower tax brackets would gain some benefit from the stimulus package. 117 million Americans will receive money to help pay their bills, to put food on the table, to buy shelter, clothing and transportation. Their spending helps stimulate the economy and at the same time relieves some of the strain on American citizens. Once again, the President is asking the American people to sacrifice without reigning in the expansion of the federal government and the cost of war. He announced tonight that he will again encourage budget cuts of 151 federal programs, cuts to programs like Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, cuts to federal provisions that help children, help the sick, the elderly, the disabled, and the poor. Yet he has not mentioned controls on the most bloated areas of the budget. Why should those who are struggling the most sacrifice all they have, while others with more resources enjoy the benefits of tax breaks? In this challenging economic environment, it would be fiscally irresponsible to allow the tax cuts for the rich to become permanent. During the Republican-led 109th Congress, earmarks soared to their highest levels. At the height of this unchecked and irresponsible spending spree, the President said nothing. In this Congress, Democrats reduced earmarks by nearly half during the last fiscal year and created a transparency never before known in the House appropriations process. We have uncloaked the earmarks and enabled citizens to see where their money is going. Some earmarks are excessive and unreasonable, but most support meaningful programs, such as electronic medical records upgrade for Grady Hospital and land acquisition programs for Morehouse School of Medicine in the 5th District. These are the 5th District programs that would be cut if the President has his way. He is asking the Congress to end our earmarking in while his Administration uses the process liberally to meet the needs of special interests. This is not right. This is not fair. This is not just. The President pledged to come to the table on a number of issues that are important to the American workforce. Perhaps the most important were the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reauthorization and State, Children's Health Insurance Plan. Unfortunately, instead of really working with Congressional leaders to help those most affected by trade and in need of unemployment insurance and health coverage for their children, the President pledged to veto these bills that passed the House with bipartisan support last year. When the President is willing to support congressional efforts to provide domestic solutions for hardworking Americans, only then can we begin to discuss whether the Colombia, Panama, and Korea free trade agreements will actually benefit the average American worker. I was glad to hear that the President mentioned the need for Americans citizens and businesses to conserve and preserve this little planet we call our home. I was encouraged by his attention to the issues of the environment. I do not believe he has made a clear statement of this kind on the environment in any other state of the union address. He did discuss bringing about 20,000 troops home, which is good news. I continue to believe that we must do more. We must bring all our troops home as soon as possible and begin the diplomacy that will restore peace and order to the nation of Iraq. PRESS RELEASE 35.71 Kb Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
01.24.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman John Lewis and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, along with 26 House colleagues and more than a dozen Senate members, introduced the Civil Rights Act of 2008, which will strengthen accountability when civil rights and workers' rights are violated. Recent court decisions have weakened America's civil rights laws in ways that Congress never intended. This legislation will ensure accountability for violations of our civil rights and fair labor laws and give individuals the right to challenge practices that have unjustified discriminatory effect based on race, color, national origin, disability, age or gender. It also gives students the same protection from harassment in school that workers have on the job, and holds employers fully accountable for age discrimination and discrimination against our men and women in the armed services. The Civil Rights Act of 2008 is co-sponsored by 26 Members of the House of Representatives including the Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee John Conyers and the Chairman of the Education and Labor Committee George Miller. In the senate, the Civil Rights Act of 2008 is co-sponsored by Senators Leahy, Dodd, Lautenberg, Bingaman, Kerry, Harkin, Mikulski, Akaka, Boxer, Feingold, Murray, Durbin, Schumer, Cantwell, Clinton, Obama, Menendez, Cardin, and Brown. "The struggle for civil rights in this country," said Rep. John Lewis, "has been a long hard road, littered with the broken bodies of countless men and women who gave all they had for the cause of social justice. They were sharecroppers, sanitation workers, teachers, students, ministers, priests, housewives, and activists. They were ordinary people with extraordinary vision who joined together and tore down the walls of legalized segregation and racial discrimination in this country. Only a few decades later, we cannot allow recent court decisions to turn back the clock and open the door to contemporary abuses. That is why Sen. Kennedy and I have worked so hard to meet every judicial step backward with a legislative step forward. We want to be able to say that on our watch, we did all we could as members of Congress to ensure the protection of civil rights in this country and hold discriminatory employers and individuals accountable. With the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 2008, we hope the 110th Congress will hold the same legacy, as a legislative body that continued the march toward a democracy in this country that ensures liberty and justice for all." Senator Kennedy said, "Civil rights is still the unfinished business of America. Prejudice, discrimination, and outright bigotry continue to limit the lives of large numbers of our people, and even some courts have rolled back core protections for civil rights and workers' rights. The Civil Rights Act of 2008 will restore the bedrock principle that individuals may challenge all forms of discrimination in public services and will strengthen existing civil rights protections. Our civil rights and fair labor laws must have effective remedies that ensure accountability for discrimination, or America will never be America." Continued>> Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673 BACKGROUND ON THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 2008 Congress has enacted bipartisan laws to ensure that federal tax dollars are not used to subsidize discrimination, and that Americans have real remedies when their civil rights are violated. Recent court decisions have weakened these basic protections in ways that Congress never intended. Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) and Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA) plan to reintroduce a bill to help keep the promise of equality by strengthening accountability when civil rights and workers' rights are violated. The Civil Rights Act of 2008 would: Ensure that Federal Funds are not Used to Subsidize Discrimination Allow individuals to seek relief when federal funds subsidize practices that have an unjustified discriminatory effect. Federal laws prohibit discrimination by recipients of federal funds based on race, national origin, disability, age, or gender. In 2001, however, the Supreme Court held that individuals may no longer challenge federally-funded programs that have an unjustified discriminatory effect, unless they also can meet the heavy burden of proving discriminatory intent. Thus, currently, only the federal government can bring such suits. This bill restores the individual right to challenge practices that have an unjustified discriminatory effect based on race, color, national origin, disability, age or gender. Protect students from harassment in schools that receive federal funds. It gives students the same protection from unlawful harassment in our schools as adults have on the job. Currently, schools that receive federal funds cannot be held accountable if a teacher or classmate harasses a child unless the school had actual notice of the abuse and did virtually nothing to correct the problem. This is true even if the school has turned a blind eye to clear signs of harassment. Hold Employers Accountable for Age Discrimination Make state employers fully accountable for age discrimination. Under a recent Supreme Court decision, state employers do not have to provide back pay or other monetary damages when they discriminate against workers based on age in violation of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act. The bill would require state employers to give workers full relief for age discrimination, including backpay. Clarify the standard for challenging employment practices that have a discriminatory effect based on age. It makes clear that the standard of proof in cases alleging an unjustified discriminatory effect based on age is the same as in cases alleging an unjustified discriminatory effect based on race, color, gender, national origin, or religion. Improve Accountability for Other Violations of Civil Rights and Workers' Rights Prohibit employers from requiring workers to give up the right to enforce employment laws in court in order to get a job or keep a job. Provide attorney's fees and expert fees in major civil rights and labor cases. Provide full, effective remedies for victims of discrimination based on gender and religion paralleling those available for race and national origin discrimination claims. Provide relief for workers, regardless of immigration status, who are victims of labor and employment law violations. Contact: Brenda Jones (202) 226 - 4673
12.21.2007	On December 19, 2007 Congress completed consideration of H.R. 2764, the fiscal year 2008 omnibus appropriations bill. The bill included funding for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, Energy, Interior, Commerce, Justice, Science, Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, Treasury, Agriculture, State, Homeland Security, Veterans’ Affairs, the city of Washington, D.C., other independent and regulatory agencies, and the executive, judiciary and legislative branches of government. The Congressman worked to ensure that omnibus appropriations also included funding directives for the following local initiatives -- Atlanta, GA City Safe Project: $399,500 Georgia State University HIV/ Prisoner Reentry Program, Atlanta, GA: $94,000 City of East Point GA Law Enforcement Technology Upgrade: $446,000 Morehouse College Project Mars Program: $188,000 Women in Science and Engineering Scholars Program at Spelman College: $188,000 Atlanta (Environmental Infrastructure), GA: $1,500,000 Morehouse College Energy Science Research and Education Initiative: $2,000,000 The City of Atlanta for wastewater and stormwater rehabilitation project: $300,000 The Metro North Georgia Water Planning District for water and wastewater improvements project: $300,000 Consortium for Plant Biotechnology and Research: $525,000 Jewish Federation of Greater Atlanta, Atlanta, GA for a Naturally Occurring Retirement Community: $82,000 Southeastern Center for Emerging Biologic Threats, Emory University, Atlanta, GA for programs related to bioterrorism and emerging biological threats: $390,000 Piedmont Hospital, Atlanta, GA for a project regarding the transition of older patients from hospital to home: $195, 000 Fulton County, Atlanta, GA for Project Excell, an intensive outpatient treatment program serving homeless males with co-occurring substance abuse and mental health disorders: $97,000 St. Joseph’s Hospital Mercy Care Services, Atlanta, GA for health information technology: $390,000 Beltline Environment Impact, Atlanta, GA: $300,000 I-285 Bus Rapid Transit Project in Atlanta, GA: $500,000 Acquisition of MARTA Clean Fuel Buses, GA: $3,000,000 Southern Fuel Cell Coalition Demonstration Project, GA: $200,000 Atlanta Botanical Gardens in Atlanta, GA for construction of the Canopy Walk, an educational nature walk: $150,000 Intergenerational Resource Center, Inc. in Atlanta, GA for construction of the Martin Luther King, Sr. Community Resource Center, Inc.: $200,000 Cotton Insect Management and Fiber Quality, University of Georgia and the Georgia Cotton Commission, GA: $371,000 Other Metro Atlanta initiatives supported by the Congressman and included in the final conference report are: Morehouse University School of Medicine in Atlanta, GA for land acquisition and construction of the medical school campus: $300,000 MARTA Clifton Corridor (Lindbergh-Emory), GA: $750,000 Grady Health Systems, Atlanta, GA for electronic medical records upgrades: $326,000 The Department of Defense was funded in previous legislation signed by the President in November. It included funding directives for: Advanced Bio-engineering for Enhancement of Soldier Survivability, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA: $1,600,000 The Center for Vaccine Scale-Up/Process Research Phase I, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA: $800,000 The John H. Hopps, Jr. Defense Research Scholars Program, Morehouse College, Atlanta, GA: $2,000,000 Many of these federal agencies and local programs of national significance are critical domestic, anti-poverty, and economic growth efforts that are being bankrupted by the war in Iraq. Instead, this administration consistently opposes providing adequate funding for health, education, job training, local police efforts, transportation, research, criminal rehabilitation and family support that is needed here at home.
12.20.2007	On December 19, 2007, the House of Representatives passed the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2007, legislation providing immediate tax relief to millions of families who would otherwise pay higher taxes under the alternative minimum tax (AMT) this year. More than 500,000 families in Georgia and more than 45,000 taxpayers in the 5th District are estimated to benefit from lower taxes under this bill. Approximately 23 million American taxpayers would have paid a total of about $50 billion in additional taxes if this AMT legislation was not passed. Approximately 23 million American taxpayers would have paid a total of about $50 billion in additional taxes if this AMT legislation was not passed. The Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) was designed in 1969 to ensure that a couple hundred extremely wealthy individuals couldn’t take advantage of deductions and rules to avoid paying taxes altogether. Individuals must determine their tax liability once under the standard tax code, a second time following the rules under the AMT, and pay whichever is larger. When the tax was created in 1969 it was not indexed for inflation; therefore, it is now impacting a growing number of taxpayers that the AMT was never intended to hit. Without this legislation, the AMT would impact people making $50,000 per year. That was not the intent and we acted to protect 23 million taxpayers from being hit. Unfortunately, the cost of preventing this tax increase is $50 billion, and that cost will now be added to the national debt due to Republican objections over paying for AMT tax relief. Every time we add to the national debt, we are asking our children and grandchildren to pay the bill. I supported closing loopholes to cover the cost, including a provision that would have prevented a super-wealthy class of hedge fund investment managers from using offshore tax haven corporations to defer taxes on compensation they receive. This fiscally responsible approach was blocked by Republicans, who chose to side with the wealthy and focused on one side of the ledger, calling our effort to close tax loopholes for rich investors a tax increase. When you look at the numbers under the Democrats’ plan it becomes hard to believe the President and his supporters labeled that effort a tax increase. It is important that families will now avoid a higher tax bill, but unfortunately the obstruction of the minority party prevented Democrats from passing a more responsible bill. Closing tax loopholes for the super-rich would have offset the cost of this tax relief and kept the debt lower. The larger the debt grows, the more difficult it will be to address urgent issues like reforming Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security so they are on stronger financial footing for future generations.
12.18.2007	“During his long and outstanding career, Georgia House Speaker Tom Murphy was a powerful political force to be reckoned with. This man--in his own, unique way--used his influence to make a lasting contribution for the betterment of all of the citizens of Georgia. We mourn with his family and many friends on his passing.” ###
12.18.2007	Rep. John Lewis is spearheading efforts to call for a hearing of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on the conditions that led to the drought in Georgia. Congressman Lewis spoke to committee members and engaged the Georgia delegation to send the attached letter requesting a hearing on the matter. The hearing is likely to be set early during the next session’s legislative cycle, perhaps as early as January, and should provide an opportunity for all parties in the debate to be heard, including possible statements from the governors of Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, as well as the Army Corps of Engineers and other federal agencies. The committee has sent a letter to Rep. Lewis confirming its interest in holding this hearing. Much of the responsibility and jurisdiction of these matters lies with the states involved in the crisis, but Congressman Lewis wants Congress to use its power as a mediator to offer all sides of the debate a chance to air their viewpoints and to allow members of Congress to engage possible solutions to the crisis. ### Related Resources: Confirmation Response Letter from Transportation & Infrastructure Committee
12.06.2007	Speaker Nancy Pelosi will join House Republican Leader John Boehner and Representatives John Lewis and Vic Snyder today at 12:30 PM to recognize the desegregation of the Little Rock Central High School. Rep. Lewis will present Speaker Pelosi and Leader Boehner with the 2007 Little Rock Central high School Desegregation 50th Anniversary Commemorative Silver Dollar, the first commemorative coin to highlight an American civil rights event. The coin is available through the U.S. Mint until December 14th. WHO: Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi Minority Leader John Boehner Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) Rep. Vic Snyder (D-AK) WHAT: Presentation of Little Rock Nine Commemorative Coin WHEN: Thursday Dec. 6th at 12:30 PM WHERE: H-210, Speaker’s Ceremonial Office, The U.S. Capitol ####
11.30.2007	Saturday December 1 is World AIDS Day, founded in 1988 by the World Health Organization (WHO) to call global attention to the need for HIV/AIDS awareness, education, prevention and treatment. The most recent report by the WHO indicates that growth in the incidence of AIDS peaked in the 1990's and has leveled at high proportions ever since, with 33 million people around the world living with HIV/AIDS today. Trends indicate that in all regions of the world, the incidence of AIDS in women is growing. In Sub-Saharan Africa where the incidence of the disease is the highest, 61 percent of women have AIDS. In 2007 1.7 million people died there from the disease, and 1.6 million were newly infected. Also, the southern United States is reporting more new cases of infection than any other region, and it has reached epidemic proportions in some communities, including some in Atlanta. Rep. Lewis made this statement about our need to address the spread of HIV/AIDS: "This nation needs to do more," said Rep. John Lewis, "to combat AIDS here and abroad. The battle has not been won. Actually, it has only just begun, and HIV/AIDS is continuing to spread, especially in the American South, among minority populations, both in rural and urban areas. "Each one of us must find a way to involve ourselves in efforts to hold back this epidemic, because it respects no boundaries of class, race, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion, city, state, nation or region. This is an equal opportunity disease. No one, but no one, can afford to stand on the sidelines and claim that they have not felt its sting. If we can see this challenge as an opportunity to help each other worldwide, we can replace the epidemic of disease with the contagion of compassion. In the final analysis, we're all one people, one family, the human family." ###
11.14.2007	On Saturday November 10th, former Congressman Gus Hawkins, the first African American ever elected to the California delegation, a founder of the Congressional Black Caucus, and the author of seminal legislation that helped level the playing field for the poor and minorities in this country died in Bethesda, Maryland. Congressman Lewis made this statement in response to his passing: “This nation has lost a great champion for the cause of equal rights and social justice in America,” said Rep. John Lewis. “Gus Hawkins embodied the true meaning of public service. Regardless of the challenges he faced in his 55 years as a legislator, he always led with great dignity and elegance. He was soft-spoken and modest. He was always a perfect gentleman, but make no mistake, Gus Hawkins was a warrior. During some of the most difficult times in contemporary American history, Gus Hawkins took a stand for what was right and what was good, what was fair and what was just. “I remember meeting him several times when I was a participant in the Civil Rights Movement. He was not afraid to visit Selma, visit Birmingham, and cities in Mississippi when the hostility and tension was at its height in the mid-1960’s. As a member of Congress, he felt it was his responsibility to see first-hand what was happening at the heart of the Movement. And while we were marching in the streets, while we were sitting-in and sitting-down, Gus Hawkins was standing up for equal justice in the U.S. House of Representatives. “He sponsored the equal employment section of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which laid the groundwork for the creation of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. He also fought tirelessly for an increase in the minimum wage, and with Sen. Hubert Humphrey, he co-authored the Humphrey-Hawkins Act of 1978, officially named the Full Employment and Balanced Growth Act of 1978. The bill required two reports to Congress from the Chairman of the Federal Reserve to discuss monetary policy and its impact on the economy. Though the requirement of the 1978 bill expired in 2000, the report remains today as one of the most important statements made by the Federal Reserve chairman. “Gus Hawkins was responsible for legislation that created jobs, that invested the values of youth employment and community service in our society, and that protected women’s rights in the workplace. Throughout his whole career, he did all he could to lift the circumstances of those who had been left out and left behind in America, supporting bill after bill that tried to strike the core issues of poverty and inequity in America. We will miss Rep. Gus Hawkins. He was one of a kind, and we may not be so lucky to see his likeness again, but the impact of his life and his work as a legislator will remain a part of American history for generations to come.” ####
10.19.2007	Today, Dr. Carol Couch, Director of Georgia Environmental Protection, briefed the entire Georgia congressional delegation in a meeting in the U.S. Capitol about Georgia water crisis and the federal bureaucratic impediments to a resolution of Georgia's drought problems. Rep. John Lewis called the meeting to facilitate a unified delegation response to the issue. State officials have been negotiating with the Army Corps of Engineers to find ways to relax federal water release standards that would relieve some of the shortage problems in the state. At a news conference today, the bureaucratic challenges were made clear. Dr. Couch said that rain would help, but it would not alleviate the long-term strategic need to address water release issues in the region. However, late today some initial progress was made. Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works John Paul Woodley phoned both U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson and Saxby Chambliss in response to a letter they had sent in September asking that the water control manual be updated. Today, Woodley confirmed that the Army would begin to update water control procedures for the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa River Basin--procedures that were implemented decades ago when water resources were plentiful. The Georgia delegation asserts that new standards must reflect current water usage patterns, greater water demand in the Southern region, and contemporary shifts in the environmental condition of the region. The Georgia House delegation reacted to this initial progress as follows: REP JOHN LEWIS: "I am gratified that we have finally made some progress with the Army Corps of Engineers. This is a first step toward resolving our water problems in Georgia. We look forward to more discussion with the Army Corps and encourage additional steps to further update water control procedures in the region. We must find a resolution that relieves the threat to Georgia families and businesses." REP. TOM PRICE: "I'm encouraged that the Army Corps of Engineers has finally begun to recognize the water crisis in Georgia. The clock is still ticking for the Atlanta area. The Corps must quickly enact further and permanent changes to protect Lake Lanier and the Chattahoochee." REP. SANFORD BISHOP : "While this news is encouraging, I hope the Corps will move quickly to update the water control manuals for the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint River Basin, which would be an even greater benefit to the over 4 million Georgians now facing a severe water shortage." REP. JACK KINGSTON: "Common sense is beginning to prevail over red tape and courtroom delays. We are united as a delegation and will continue to fight this battle till the spigot is turned." REP. DAVID SCOTT: "I applaud the Army Corps of Engineers for finally taking the necessary steps to begin updating the water control manual for the ACT river basin. It is my hope that they will also take similar action with respect to the ACF basin in the near future. Updating these manuals however, is only the first step of a long-term process, and still leaves Georgia highly vulnerable to short-term water supply concerns. These concerns can only be met by scaling back the amount of water released from Georgia's reservoirs. So while I am pleased the Corps has taken some action, more can and must be done to protect the livelihood and well-being of millions of Georgians." REP. LYNN WESTMORELAND: "For Georgians, this is a positive development. Of course, we haven't been promised more of our own water yet, but we're cautiously optimistic that the Corps of Engineers is going to look at the facts in Georgia and see the crisis and act to give us some relief. But this move does nothing for my constituents in the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint river basin. My district covers the southern metro Atlanta suburbs down into western Middle Georgia. The crisis is just as real at Lake West Point in Troup County as it is at Lake Lanier and Lake Allatoona. We have been trying to get the Corps' attention about the emergency situation on the A-C-F river corridor for years and now they are updating the A-C-T basin. It is good for those people but most of them are in Alabama where they have no statewide water plan as we do in Georgia. We will continue our efforts to convince the Corps to put people above mussels and sturgeon." REP. JOHN BARROW: "I'm glad Army Corps agreed to this updated plan. Their action will benefit the Atlanta area, but it won't solve the problem of too little rain to replenish our reservoirs. All of Georgia's metropolitan areas must manage our water supply more effectively. Severe water restrictions are likely if we don't do a better job, and that can cause hardship on our citizens, businesses, and our environment." REP. PHIL GINGREY: "Moving forward on the update of the ACT Water Control Manuals is critical for the people of Georgia's Eleventh Congressional District, and I want to commend Secretary Geren for this bold decision. We have clearly seen the negative impact of managing under decades-old ACT manuals on Lake Allatoona and Carters Lake - particularly during a time of drought. Recent months have made clear the need to perform these manual updates for the sake of Northwest Georgia, its people, and their businesses. We still must address our state's immediate water supply issues, as well as the water control manuals for the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flynt Basin, but today's decision is a tremendous - and welcome - step forward." REP. HANK JOHNSON: "I had a good conversation with Assistant Secretary Woodley today, and I am encouraged that the Corps of Engineers is finally starting to listen to the people who own the water and are suffering as a result of this drought." REP. PAUL BROUN: "This is a welcome first step by the Corps, and one that is long overdue. While it begins to address Georgia's long term water needs, it does little to offer relief to people throughout Georgia who are suffering due to this historic drought. I continue to urge the Corps to use all possible means to ensure Georgians have access to the water they need in every corner of our state." REP. JOHN LINDER: "I am pleased that the Corps has finally started acting with some common sense. Secretary Woodley's decision to have the Corps of Engineers begin to update the water control manual for the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa (ACT) river basin is a victory for Georgians. However, we must remember there is much work to be done before Georgians can feel secure about their water supply." "Water is not an endless resource, and we must prepare ourselves now for the future. My bill, the ‘21st Century Water Commission Act,' creates a commission of water experts to evaluate the water needs of the entire nation, and ensure that every American has access to adequate drinking water, even in times of severe drought. We must learn from our experience in Georgia and go to work now to stop this from ever happening again." ###
10.18.2007	October is National Disability Employment Awareness Month and an important time to recognize the continuing employment difficulties that face Americans with disabilities. Despite the ability and desire to work, people with disabilities face an estimated 65-percent unemployment rate. In order to help bring more attention to this problem, Rep. John Lewis was named an AbilityOne Congressional Champion. Since 1938, the AbilityOne Program (formerly JWOD Program) has provided job training and employment opportunities for people who are blind or who have other severe disabilities. Last year, the AbilityOne Program served approximately 1,000 Georgians with disabilities and over 40,000 nationwide. "Decent employment for a livable wage is a powerful way to affirm the contributions of citizens with disabilities," said Rep. Lewis. "Every human being has gifts to share with our society. We must make room for them, understand their issues and concerns, and find meaningful ways for Americans with disabilities to sustain the nation." The program, which uses the purchasing power of the federal government to buy products and services from participating community-based nonprofit agencies, provides the opportunity to hone job skills while earning good wages and benefits. The end result is greater independence and quality of life for people with disabilities. Rep. Lewis also maintains a close relationship with Bobby Dodd Institute, a community rehabilitation program in the 5th district that annually serves approximately 500 people with disabilities. Bobby Dodd Institute operates several AbilityOne contracts in the metro Atlanta area. Rep. Lewis actively works with the facility to identify employment opportunities for people with disabilities in the 5th District. "The work of AbilityOne and the Bobby Dodd Institute gives meaning to those in our society who too often are left out and left behind," said Rep. Lewis. "I remain committed to do all I can to help our brothers and sisters, our sons and daughters, who live with disabilities." ####
10.18.2007	As dean of the Georgia delegation, Rep. John Lewis has called a second meeting of the entire delegation to assess the best legislative response to the drought. Federal law mandating water from Lake Lanier to be released to serve Florida and Alabama has been under close scrutiny during this crisis. Some officials say this emergency highlights the need for review and changes of federal law on this matter. At the current rate of depletion, the state of Georgia is projected to run out of water in three months without some intervention. As a response, Rep. Lewis has again called a delegation, including the entire Senate and House membership, to discuss legislative solutions. The delegation will meet this time with Dr. Carol Couch, Director of the Georgia Environmental Protection Division. A media avail will occur immediately following the meeting in Room H-330 of the U.S. Capitol, tomorrow Thursday October 18th at 12:45 PM. ####
10.09.2007	Today Congressman Lewis will visit the Gerald Ford Museum in Grand Rapids, Michigan to discuss the National Archives exhibit Eyewitness: American Originals. The exhibit opened at the National Archives in Washington and has traveled to the Carter Center in Georgia and the Constitution Center in Philadelphia. The Eyewitness exhibit features 25 first-hand accounts of seminal moments in American history, as seen by National Archives curators. There is a letter from John Adams describing his first meeting with King George III, a letter from a medic describing the horrors of the Dachau concentration camp, an audio clip of astronaut Jim Lovell's travel in space on Apollo 8, Lady Bird Johnson's diary entry describing the day of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, and a life-sized photograph of 600 peaceful non-violent protestors walking across the Edmund Pettus Bridge. John Lewis, then the chairman of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee was at the head of that march along with Hosea Williams of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. The testimony Congressman Lewis gave in court recounting the events of Bloody Sunday, June 7, 1965, is also a part of the exhibit. ####
10.02.2007	Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Sander M. Levin (D-MI) and Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) announced that the Subcommittees will hold a joint hearing on import safety. The hearing will take place on Thursday, October 4, in the main Committee hearing room, 1100 Longworth House Office Building, beginning at 10:00 a.m. In view of the limited time available to hear witnesses, oral testimony at this hearing will be heard from invited witnesses only. However, any individual or organization not scheduled for an oral appearance may submit a written statement for consideration by the Subcommittees or for inclusion in the printed record of the hearing. FOCUS OF THE HEARING: This hearing will focus on the mechanisms and legal authorities under current law for ensuring the safety of food and consumer products imported into the United States. The hearing will examine how these mechanisms and authorities are functioning, what problems may exist with respect to each mechanism or authority, and what improvements are needed. The hearing will look into the role of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and CBP's coordination with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Food Safety Inspection Service (FSIS) and the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) at the ports of entry. In addition, the hearing will address the application of sanitary and phytosanitary measures in the United States and overseas and the consistency of those measures with the World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. BACKGROUND: Recent incidents of contaminated food, unsafe toys, and other products have led to an examination of the United States regulatory framework for ensuring that imports meet U.S. public health, product safety, and consumer protection standards. The ability of U.S. Government regulators to identify and take action to prohibit the importation of the unsafe imports is a critical part of the inquiry. Last year, the United States imported $1.9 trillion of goods. A growing portion of the American food supply is provided through imports. For example, in 2005, more than 84% of all fish and seafood was imported. Each day, 25,000 shipments of food are imported. Similarly, Americans use and depend on imported products for virtually every aspect of daily life, from toys to appliances. In 2006, China was the largest supplier of imported toys, producing 86% of toys played with by American children. The United States has a complex structure at the ports of entry to process imports and monitor compliance with American safety standards. The composition of the President's Interagency Working Group on Import Safety illustrates the multifaceted, multi-agency dimension of the system. The Working Group is comprised of members from the following departments, agencies, and Executive Office divisions: Health and Human Services, State, Treasury, Justice, Agriculture, Commerce, Transportation, Homeland Security, Management and Budget, United States Trade Representative, Environmental Protection and the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The CBP, a component of the Department of Homeland Security, is the primary border agency and the starting point for ensuring the safety of all imports. In the area of food and product safety, CBP must coordinate with a host of agencies, including the Department of Health and Human Services and its Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The Trade and Oversight Subcommittees are focused on providing CBP with proper authority and appropriate enforcement tools for ensuring import safety. DETAILS FOR SUBMISSION OF WRITTEN COMMENTS: Please Note: Any person(s) and/or organization(s) wishing to submit for the hearing record must follow the appropriate link on the hearing page of the Committee website and complete the informational forms. From the Committee homepage, https://waysandmeans.house.gov/, select "110th Congress" from the menu entitled, "Hearing Archives" (https://waysandmeans.house.gov/Hearings.asp?congress=18). Select the hearing for which you would like to submit, and click on the link entitled, "Click here to provide a submission for the record." Once you have followed the online instructions, completing all informational forms and clicking "submit" on the final page, an email will be sent to the address which you supply confirming your interest in providing a submission for the record. You MUST REPLY to the email and ATTACH your submission as a Word or WordPerfect document, in compliance with the formatting requirements listed below, by close of business Thursday, October 18, 2007. Finally, please note that due to the change in House mail policy, the U.S. Capitol Police will refuse sealed-package deliveries to all House Office Buildings. Those filing written statements who wish to have their statements distributed to the press and interested public at the hearing can follow the same procedure listed above for those who are testifying and making an oral presentation. For questions, or if you encounter technical problems, please call (202) 225-1721. FORMATTING REQUIREMENTS: The Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. As always, submissions will be included in the record according to the discretion of the Committee. The Committee will not alter the content of your submission, but we reserve the right to format it according to our guidelines. Any submission provided to the Committee by a witness, any supplementary materials submitted for the printed record, and any written comments in response to a request for written comments must conform to the guidelines listed below. Any submission or supplementary item not in compliance with these guidelines will not be printed, but will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee. 1. All submissions and supplementary materials must be provided in Word or WordPerfect format and MUST NOT exceed a total of 10 pages, including attachments. Witnesses and submitters are advised that the Committee relies on electronic submissions for printing the official hearing record. 2. Copies of whole documents submitted as exhibit material will not be accepted for printing. Instead, exhibit material should be referenced and quoted or paraphrased. All exhibit material not meeting these specifications will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use by the Committee. 3. All submissions must include a list of all clients, persons, and/or organizations on whose behalf the witness appears. A supplemental sheet must accompany each submission listing the name, company, address, telephone and fax numbers of each witness. Note: All Committee advisories and news releases are available on the World Wide Web at https://waysandmeans.house.gov/. The Committee seeks to make its facilities accessible to persons with disabilities. If you are in need of special accommodations, please call 202-225-1721 or 202-226-3411 TTD/TTY in advance of the event (four business days notice is requested). Questions with regard to special accommodation needs in general (including availability of Committee materials in alternative formats) may be directed to the Committee as noted above. ***
09.26.2007	Rep. John Lewis CBC Issue Forum Thursday, September 27th from 1:00 - 2:50 p.m. at the Washington, DC Convention Center in Room 144-BC, Rep. John Lewis will engage a group of experts to discuss the role of violence in American culture. Are there times when violence is presented as an acceptable way to resolve human differences in American culture? If so, what are the psycho-social costs of the normalization of violence in our society? Do we perceive the power of peace as an agent of social, political, and diplomatic transformation? Rep. Lewis will engage the panel on these and other issues about the price of war and the power of peace. "During the sixties," said Rep. Lewis, "the power of love and the power of peace were seen as agents of change in America. And because of that commitment to peaceful ends through peaceful means, this nation witnessed a non-violent revolution under the rule of law, a revolution of values and ideas. As Americans seek transformation of the current political landscape and examine the impact of pre-emptive war, we can see the cost of violent transformation more clearly and make room to consider the power, the advantages, and the techniques of peaceful change." PANELISTS Martin Luther King III, President & CEO, Realizing the Dream Beverly Caffee Glenn, Executive Director, Hamilton Fish Institute at George Washington University Tracy McDaniel, Founder and Director of KIPP: Reach College Preparatory Tarak Abuata, Palestine Support Coordinator for the Christian Peacemaker Teams and the Director of Love Thy Neighbor Facilitator: John Rich, Chair, Department of Health Management and Policy, Drexel University ###
09.19.2007	Rep. John Lewis, who began his career in political activism as a student during the Civil Rights Movement, praised student involvement in the Jena 6 case. "I salute the hundreds and thousands of students who will be coming from all around the country, but especially from the colleges and universities in the Atlanta area, who are moved to action in the Jena 6 case. It is important for the young people of this generation to stand up, to speak up, speak out, and move their feet when they witness a miscarriage of justice. "There have been several cases which have caused them concern. Mychal Bell's case is too similar to what is happening in the Genarlow Wilson case and to what happened in the Marcus Dixon case. And there are questions about the shooting of Sean Bell by police in New York City. Due to these and other instances, some people have decided that they must use extra-legal means, such as peaceful, non-violent protest, to demonstrate a wrong that is occurring in our society. I encourage students and others to continue to use their voices and take non-violent action to highlight injustice in our society." ####
09.10.2007	Thousands of our nation’s 9/11 heroes have become sick as a result of their exposure to environmental toxins at Ground Zero. Some have even died. Yet, six years after the fateful 9/11 terrorist attacks brought the World Trade Center towers crashing down, sick Ground Zero responders, area residents, workers, and students still lack a comprehensive federal plan of action to provide monitoring to all people exposed to the Ground Zero toxins and treatment for those who are sick as a result. The "9/11 Health and Compensation Act" would: Ensure that everyone exposed to the Ground Zero toxins has a right to be medically monitored and all who are sick as a result have a right to treatment; Build on the expertise of the Centers of Excellence, which are currently providing high-quality care to thousands of responders and ensuring on-going data collection and analysis; Expand care to the entire exposed community, which includes residents, area workers and school children as well as the thousands of people from across the country who assisted with the recovery and clean-up effort; and Provide compensation for loss by reopening the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this legislation and I will do everything within my power to ensure passage.
09.06.2007	Today Rep. John Lewis testified before a Senate Judiciary Panel about the continuing need for the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice. With the resignation of top law enforcement official Attorney General Alberto Gonzales leaving the Department of Justice, the Senate Judiciary Committee has called for testimony regarding the historic significance of the Civil Rights Division of DOJ and the continuing need for its services. In recent years deeply disturbing reports have emerged suggesting that the career attorneys in the division have been pressured to change their rulings about whether state elections laws violated the Voting Rights Act. The controversial Georgia photo ID law is one decision alleged to have been subjected to that kind of pressure. On the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the Civil Rights Division, the Senate Judiciary Committee will mark the occasion with testimony regarding the history and the continuing relevance of this branch of DOJ. CLICK HERE to read Rep. Lewis Testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee
09.06.2007	With the resignation of top law enforcement official Attorney General Alberto Gonzales leaving the Department of Justice in disarray, the Senate Judiciary Committee has called for testimony regarding the historic significance of the Civil Rights Division of DOJ and the continuing need for its services. In recent years deeply disturbing reports have emerged suggesting that the career attorneys in the division have been pressured to change their rulings about whether state elections laws violated the Voting Rights Act. The controversial Georgia photo ID law is one decision alleged to have been subjected to that kind of pressure. On the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the Civil Rights Division, the Senate Judiciary Committee will mark the occasion with testimony regarding the history and the continuing relevance of this branch of DOJ. On the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the Civil Rights Division, the Senate Judiciary Committee will mark the occasion with testimony regarding the history and the continuing relevance of this branch of DOJ. The testimony takes place today, Wednesday September 5, Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 226 at 10:00 a.m. Panel I: The Honorable John Lewis United States Representative [D-GA-5th] Panel II: Wade Henderson President and CEO Leadership Conference on Civil Rights Washington, DC Theodore Shaw Director-Counsel and President NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund, Inc. Washington, DC Peter Zamora Washington, DC Regional Counsel Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund [MALDEF] Washington, DC Gail Heriot Commissioner United States Commission on Civil Rights Professor of Law University of California at San Diego San Diego, CA Robert P. Moses President The Algebra Project, Inc. Cambridge, MA Robert H. Driscoll Partner Alston & Bird Washington, DC
08.29.2007	"Forty-four years since the March on Washington, that unbelievable gathering on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, this nation has come a great distance toward laying down the burden of race." Yet we are still in the process of trying to build the Beloved Community, an idea that Dr. King said is deeply rooted in the American dream." "I often think about that day. I often think about the men and women who marched with us and the people I met at the march who are no longer here today. I often think about the leaders of the March who are no longer with us today. They were ordinary men and women with extraordinary vision who helped transform America. That is why those of us who still remain must do all we can to inspire a new generation to fulfill the mission of equal justice, peace, and the kinship of all human kind that are the enduring legacy of the Civil Rights Movement." ###
08.27.2007	“It was time for Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to go." His credibility was at an all time low. He had refused to cooperate with the U.S. Congress and members of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees who were exercising their constitutional duty to seek the truth. He never came clean about the firing of eight U.S. attorneys; he never told the truth about that. He never came clean about the wiretapping and surveillance of U.S. citizens; he never told the truth about that. Contrary to his responsibility to uphold the Constitution, he planned and encouraged the violation of civil liberties in this country. Even though he was the highest law enforcement official in the land, he was evasive and known for stonewalling efforts to determine the facts in a lawful investigation. It was time for Attorney General Gonzales to go.” ###
08.16.2007	“Asa Hilliard was a mentor and educator who touched the lives of thousands of students. Through his work and his teaching many young people and those not so young learned the mastery and accomplishment of their African heritage for the first time. His exhaustive research, his guided tours to Africa, and his ability to put complex ideas into simple language, allowed him to use history as a tool to bring black people into oneness with themselves. In this way he was more than an educator, psychologist and philosopher, he was a healer, a way-shower, a bearer of light who used knowledge to transform the minds of his students. He was a tremendous asset to the Georgia State University system and to the Atlanta community. He will be deeply missed.” ###
08.16.2007	“The victory that was won on May 17, 1954, when the U.S. Supreme Court decided the Brown v. Board of Education case was the beginning, in many ways, of the modern-day Civil Rights Movement. I remember I was only 14-years-old then, attending a segregated school in rural Alabama. I had to use the hand-me-down books and ride to school on a dilapidated school bus passed the closer and better maintained white public schools. When I heard about the Brown decision, I really believed that the very next day everything in my world would change. “I never dreamed it would take years of determined, persistent challenge by a visionary lawyer like Oliver Hill to make that decision stick. He and his colleagues at the NAACP Legal Defense Fund took the struggle for justice out of the streets and brought it into the courtroom. Through their work, they wrestled with the conscience of a nation and helped redeem the soul of America. I can think of no greater accomplishment for a litigator than that. The brilliant, intelligent, strategic, and visionary work of Oliver Hill changed this nation forever. He made a lasting contribution to our democracy and moved this nation a great distance down the road toward building the Beloved Community, a nation and a world at peace with itself.”
07.31.2007	Health care policy is complex and remains one of the most important issues confronting Americans, according to most national opinion surveys. This week the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection Act of 2007 (CHAMP) in an attempt to address some of these concerns. CHAMP initiates strategies to fund the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and to strengthen Medicare. Click here to listen to the press call Health care policy is complex and remains one of the most important issues confronting Americans, according to most national opinion surveys. This week the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection Act of 2007 (CHAMP) in an attempt to address some of these concerns. CHAMP initiates strategies to fund the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and to strengthen Medicare. A great deal of erroneous information has been circulating suggesting that cuts to the Medicare Advantage program will hamper seniors’ ability to retain the benefits of the program. And there has been deep concern nationwide about the ability of states to continue the funding of the CHIP program, which expires on September 30 of this year. Without it millions of children will lose their access to health care. Rep. John Lewis is sponsoring a conference call to offer the press an opportunity to address their questions about Medicare, CHIP, and national health policy generally to health care policy experts and assists reporters and editors interested in developing background on this on-going issue. Invited commentators: Robert Greenstein, Executive Director and Founder, Center on Budget Policy and Priorities David Certner, Legislative Council and Policy Director, AARP Jeanne Lambrew, Senior Fellow, Health Policy, Center for American Progress Marc Steinber, Deputy Director, Health Policy, Families USA Cybele Bjorklund, Staff Director, House Committee on Ways & Means WHEN: Wednesday August 1, 2007, at 11 AM WHAT: Press Background Briefing and Conference Call on National Health Policy Only a limited number of reporters and editors can participate in this conference call. If you are interested in joining the call, please email brenda.jones@mail.house.gov and indicate your interest to join the call. The call in instructions will be emailed to you at that time. Thank you. ###
07.25.2007	Yesterday, two health insurance company lobbyists tried to stage a bogus media event outside of Congressman Lewis’s district office to scare seniors about proposed changes to the Medicare Advantage program. Other members of the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee have been subjected to a misinformation campaign launched by health insurance companies to pressure them from voting for changes to the Medicare Advantage program. When questioned by Lewis staffers yesterday, many of the seniors had no idea who had asked them to come to the so-called rally or why they were there. Some even complained about their Medicare Advantage service. “This is a shameful attempt to frighten the most vulnerable citizens,” said Rep. Lewis, “Seniors have paid their dues and deserve our deepest respect for the service they have given to our society. They should not have to worry about whether their benefits will be available when they need them, and that is what Congress is trying to insure. The changes to the Medicare Advantage program we propose will not change seniors’ benefits. They will help preserve the Medicare system and make federal payments to insurance companies fair and equal across the board.” In a series of past legislative efforts, including the controversial Medicare Prescription Drug bill, Congress decided to overpay health insurance companies for enrolling seniors in the Medicare Advantage program. Health insurance companies were paid 12 percent more, amounting to millions of dollars, as an “incentive” to sign up Medicare patients. This was a back-door means to privatize Medicare and entice seniors to move from traditional Medicare into private health insurance plans. In Senate and House Congressional hearings testimony from many parties, including the American Association of Retired People (AARP), independent research conducted by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, the Congressional Budget Office, the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, Families USA, and the Kaiser Family Foundation have all verified that this overpayment is a waste of taxpayer dollars that weakens the Medicare system and increases its insolvency. The changes to Medicare Advantage that the House Ways & Means Committee will vote on this week will not affect benefits to seniors at all, but they will require that all federal payments for Medicare beneficiaries, whether in the traditional Medicare program or in the Medicare Advantage program, are the same. It would gradually end the slush fund health insurers have enjoyed at the taxpayers’ expense and divert those funds to strengthen Medicare benefits for all seniors and support the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), a valuable program that is about to expire. Even though President Bush and some Senate Republicans have vowed to stop these bills, Rep. Lewis and supporters in the House see these changes as government at its best, working for the people, not for special interests. Rep. Lewis will continue to pursue the kind of policy that preserves Medicare, respects the dignity of all senior citizens, and paves the road toward universal health care. A media packet is available on this subject at your request or online. Please call (202) 225-3801 to request a packet or go to www.house.gov/johnlewis. #### MEDIA PACKET Independent Research: AARP Hard-Sell Tactics Push Medicare Advantage Plans AARP Statement for Record on the Medicare Advantage Program Submitted to the Senate Finance Committee AARP Opposes Medicare Advantage Inflated Payments CENTER FOR BUDGET POLICY Private Plan Overpayments Weaken Medicare’s Financing and Hasten the Program’s Insolvency KAISER FAMILY FOUNDATION Medicare Advantage: Key Issues and Implications for Beneficiaries FAMILIES USA Whose Advantage? Billions in Windfall Payments Go to Private Medicare Plans Legislative Resources: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET: Report on Medicare Advantage and the Federal Budget CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CBO TESTIMONY - Medicare Advantage Program, June 28, 2007 (House Committee on the Budget) CBO TESTIMONY - Medicare Advantage Program: Enrollment Trends and Budgetary Effects, April 11, 2007 (Senate Committee on Finance) CBO TESTIMONY - Medicare Advantage Program: Trends and Options, March 21, 2007 (House Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Health) CBO REPORT - Medicare Advantage: Private Health Plans in Medicare
07.25.2007	In a tight fiscal year, Rep. John Lewis secured these appropriations in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development bill for his District in this session of Congress. They have been approved by the House and still need to be passed by the U.S. Senate to become law. Acquisition of MARTA Clean Fuel Buses, Atlanta, GA: $300,000 The Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (MARTA) will complete acquisition of a 55 new clean fuel technology buses to replace aging vehicles in its fleet. MARTA seeks to do its part to help alleviate traffic congestion in the Atlanta metro area by making mass transit more accessible, attractive and convenient to residents of the area. The clean fuel bus program has been a key to meeting these goals. Atlanta Botanical Gardens Construction of the Canopy Walk, Atlanta, GA: $150,000 The Atlanta Botanical Garden will construct a Canopy Walk to make the 12-acre Storza Woods in the Atlanta Botanical Gardens more accessible to visitors. ABG has already raised $8.2 million of the total $9.2 million towards the construction of the Walk. This project will broaden the Garden’s outreach to Atlanta public schools by giving students a unique proximity to woodland life. ABG will also incorporate children’s programs about plants, habitats, and conservation into the programming of the Canopy Walk. Beltline Draft Environmental Impact Statement and Preliminary Engineering, Atlanta, GA: $ 300, 000 This funding will support the environmental impact assessment of the approved locally preferred alternative for the BeltLine project by initiating environmental work as required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), and commencement of preliminary engineering for the BeltLine project. The largest and most comprehensive urban redevelopment project in the United States, the BeltLine transit component is expected to serve 45 neighborhoods along 22 miles of transit service through Atlanta’s urban core connecting to multiple existing MARTA stations and to the broader regional transit network. I-285 Bus Rapid Transit Project in Atlanta, GA: $500,000 The Perimeter Community Improvement Districts are a self-taxing, non-profit business improvement district authorized by the Georgia General Assembly for projects related to economic development and transportation improvements in the business district. Congestion relief along I-285 in the Atlanta Region is among the more challenging transportation issues in the United States. The Atlanta Region is one of the most congested urban areas in the U.S., and it continues to grow at one of the faster rates of commercial and residential growth. A corridor study indicated the feasibility of a bus rapid transit or light rail transit system running parallel to I-285 from US 41 on the west, to the MARTA North rail line and the Perimeter employment area, and from there to the I-85 corridor on the east. Funds are needed in FY 2008 to assist the completion of environmental reviews and preliminary engineering for the project. Southern Fuel Cell Coalition Demonstration Project, Atlanta, GA: $200,000 The Center for Transportation and the Environment (CTE) develops and promotes advancements in transportation technologies, vehicles, and fuels that reduce environmental pollution and fossil fuel dependency. In 2004, CTE initiated the Southern Fuel Cell Coalition, a member-based organization begun in partnership with the Federal Transit Administration to promote and accelerate the development, demonstration, and commercialization of hydrogen and fuel cell transportation technologies in the southeastern US. Southern Fuel Cell Coalition initiative will continue to expand its membership in the South and will provide seed funding for five hybrid and fuel cell vehicle and infrastructure demonstrations through 2009. Morehouse School of Medicine will also receive $300,000 for Land Acquisition and Construction of the Medical School Campus. ####
07.24.2007	Today, the Subcommittee on Oversight is holding its first hearing on tax-exempt organizations. Today we will take a broad look at charities and foundations and review the current state of the charitable sector. These organizations play such an important role in our country. Charities and foundations make up the very fabric of our communities. They know the deepest human needs of our friends and neighbors and they know the solutions that work. Often, at critical times, charities and foundations are the leaders that show government the way to care for our citizens. We must listen and learn from you. Last year, these organizations spent over one trillion dollars on directly serving those in need. These services touch every corner of life in our communities – education, the arts, and medical research. They also serve those who need our help the most by feeding the hungry, caring for the sick and lifting up those who live in poverty. The government alone cannot address these important unmet needs. We count on charities and foundations to fill this gap. The need for these programs creates a special tie between charities and the government. As we move forward in this Congress, we must work together for the common good of our communities. The question today is whether we can do more. Can we touch more lives, and uplift more people? We must strengthen the non-profit sector so that we can deliver more services to more Americans. They are counting on us. We must not fail them. We invite the sector to work with us toward this goal. Thank you. .
07.24.2007	House Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA) will hold an overview hearing on tax-exempt organizations, which will focus on charities and foundations described in Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(3). The hearing will take place tomorrow Tuesday, July 24, 2007, in the main Committee hearing room, 1100 Longworth House Office Building, beginning at 10:00 a.m. “The volunteers and organizations that make up the charitable community work day after day providing services to our communities that are critical to all Americans and essential to the well-being of our Country," Chairman Lewis said when announcing this hearing. “The Congress and the public must continue to support this community. I look forward to beginning a dialogue about the important role charities play in American life. The Subcommittee will continue its review of tax-exempt issues throughout the 110th Congress, including charities’ efforts to assist diverse communities and other specific areas of concern." The list of potential includes: Steven T. Miller, Commissioner, Tax Exempt and Government Entities Division, Internal Revenue Service , tentative Stanley J. Czerwinski, Director, Intergovernmental Relations, Strategic Issues, Government Accountability Office Gregory D. Kutz, Managing Director, Forensic Audits and Special Investigations, Government Accountability Office Diana Aviv, President and Chief Executive Officer, Independent Sector Steve Gunderson, President and Chief Executive Officer, Council on Foundations ###
07.24.2007	Stands up for taxpayers by repealing troublesome private debt collection program Yesterday the House Ways and Means Committee passed H.R. 3056, the Tax Collection Responsibility Act of 2007, to repeal the use of private debt collection companies to collect Federal income taxes, delay the application of an onerous three percent withholding requirement on businesses, and discourage individuals who renounce their U.S. citizenship to avoid paying taxes. As Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee of Ways and Means, Congressman Lewis called a hearing last month to explore citizen complaints of harassment by private debt collection firms. Though there has been a push within the current administration to turn over many of the traditional functions of government to private businesses, Rep. Lewis believes this can be a disservice to citizens. Sometimes these services charge exorbitant rates to the government, and their profit motivation can work at odds with the public service mission of the government. At the hearing, the Internal Revenue Service, including its current commissioner, testified that it could manage those privatized functions at a lower cost to the taxpayer. The findings of the hearing led Rep. Lewis to work to create the Tax Collection Responsibility Act, and it was approved by a vote of 23 to 18 by the full Committee. “The private debt collection program is an insult to the American taxpayer and our Federal tax system,” said Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA). “The collection of taxes is a core government function. It is the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) mission. We found that, in addition to taxpayer harassment, this program wastes tax dollars by paying a bounty up to 24 percent to the debt collectors. We were told by the IRS Commissioner that IRS employees could do the job more efficiently for less money. Enough is enough, we must stand up for taxpayers and we must stand up for IRS employees by ending this program.” ###
07.24.2007	Stands up for taxpayers by repealing troublesome private debt collection program Yesterday the House Ways and Means Committee passed H.R. 3056, the Tax Collection Responsibility Act of 2007, to repeal the use of private debt collection companies to collect Federal income taxes, delay the application of an onerous three percent withholding requirement on businesses, and discourage individuals who renounce their U.S. citizenship to avoid paying taxes. As Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee of Ways and Means, Congressman Lewis called a hearing last month to explore citizen complaints of harassment by private debt collection firms. Though there has been a push within the current administration to turn over many of the traditional functions of government to private businesses, Rep. Lewis believes this can be a disservice to citizens. Sometimes these services charge exorbitant rates to the government, and their profit motivation can work at odds with the public service mission of the government. At the hearing, the Internal Revenue Service, including its current commissioner, testified that it could manage those privatized functions at a lower cost to the taxpayer. The findings of the hearing led Rep. Lewis to work to create the Tax Collection Responsibility Act, and it was approved by a vote of 23 to 18 by the full Committee. “The private debt collection program is an insult to the American taxpayer and our Federal tax system,” said Oversight Subcommittee Chairman John Lewis (D-GA). “The collection of taxes is a core government function. It is the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) mission. We found that, in addition to taxpayer harassment, this program wastes tax dollars by paying a bounty up to 24 percent to the debt collectors. We were told by the IRS Commissioner that IRS employees could do the job more efficiently for less money. Enough is enough, we must stand up for taxpayers and we must stand up for IRS employees by ending this program.” ###
07.20.2007	Congressman Lewis won funding for the following 5th District initiatives within the 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education Funding bill, passed by the U.S. House of Representatives last night. The bill must be passed by the Senate and signed by the President to become law. Improve Quality of Care through Electronic Health Records, Atlanta, GA: $300,000 Funding for this project would be used towards developing electronic health records (EHRs) for the underserved and homeless communities in Atlanta served by Saint Joseph’s Mercy Care Services. The national goal is to have an EHR for most Americans by 2012. The EHR will help reduce medical errors, reduce cost and significantly improve quality and integration of care especially for those with chronic diseases. In addition, there is a national emphasis on ending chronic homelessness. This project will have significant impact in both arenas. Piedmont Hospital, Atlanta, GA -- Sixty-Plus Senior Care Transition Grant Program: $150,000 Piedmont Hospital is a not-for-profit hospital located in Atlanta Georgia. It has 4,000 employees and 900 physicians with staff privileges. The objective of this program is to encourage older patients and their caregivers to assert a more active role during their care transition from the hospital to home in order to reduce re-hospitalization, lower costs to the Medicare program and overall healthcare costs, and improve lives. The focus of the program is in the medication self-management, patient-centered record, primary care and specialist follow-up, and increasing knowledge of symptoms that indicate a worsening condition. Project Excell, Fulton County, GA: $100,000 Fulton County seeks to implement a new initiative that seeks to address one of SAMHSA’s national priorities. This 5-year program would create a12-week “evidence-based best practice” intensive outpatient treatment program serving homeless males with a co-occurring substance and mental health disorders. Southeastern Center for Emerging Biologic Threats, Atlanta, GA: $100,000 The Southeastern Center for Emerging Biologic Threats (SECEBT) within Emory University will build upon successful research, training and innovative programs related to bioterrorism and emerging biologic threats, including West Nile virus, epidemic influenza, avian influenza, and staph infections that are resistant to antibiotics related to penicillin. ###
07.20.2007	Congressman Lewis won funding for the following 5th District initiatives within the 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education Funding bill, passed by the U.S. House of Representatives last night. The bill must be passed by the Senate and signed by the President to become law. Improve Quality of Care through Electronic Health Records, Atlanta, GA: $300,000 Funding for this project would be used towards developing electronic health records (EHRs) for the underserved and homeless communities in Atlanta served by Saint Joseph’s Mercy Care Services. The national goal is to have an EHR for most Americans by 2012. The EHR will help reduce medical errors, reduce cost and significantly improve quality and integration of care especially for those with chronic diseases. In addition, there is a national emphasis on ending chronic homelessness. This project will have significant impact in both arenas. Piedmont Hospital, Atlanta, GA -- Sixty-Plus Senior Care Transition Grant Program: $150,000 Piedmont Hospital is a not-for-profit hospital located in Atlanta Georgia. It has 4,000 employees and 900 physicians with staff privileges. The objective of this program is to encourage older patients and their caregivers to assert a more active role during their care transition from the hospital to home in order to reduce re-hospitalization, lower costs to the Medicare program and overall healthcare costs, and improve lives. The focus of the program is in the medication self-management, patient-centered record, primary care and specialist follow-up, and increasing knowledge of symptoms that indicate a worsening condition. Project Excell, Fulton County, GA: $100,000 Fulton County seeks to implement a new initiative that seeks to address one of SAMHSA’s national priorities. This 5-year program would create a12-week “evidence-based best practice” intensive outpatient treatment program serving homeless males with a co-occurring substance and mental health disorders. Southeastern Center for Emerging Biologic Threats, Atlanta, GA: $100,000 The Southeastern Center for Emerging Biologic Threats (SECEBT) within Emory University will build upon successful research, training and innovative programs related to bioterrorism and emerging biologic threats, including West Nile virus, epidemic influenza, avian influenza, and staph infections that are resistant to antibiotics related to penicillin. ###
07.19.2007	Congressman Lewis has been instrumental in his support for sewage and water infrastructure initiatives to alleviate long-standing problems in the Atlanta metro area. In a very tight budgetary environment where federal contribution to vital state initiatives have been radically reduced or eliminated across the country, Congressman Lewis was able to continue focused federal attention on Atlanta’s sewer and water problems. Through his efforts, the following projects were appropriated $3 million in funding through HR 2641, Energy and Water Appropriations for FY 2008 passed yesterday by the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill must still be passed by the Senate and signed by the President to become law. Environmental Infrastructure, Atlanta, GA: $1,000,000The City of Atlanta has undertaken the largest water and sewer renovation project in its history. Excessive overflows from the combined sewer system, coupled with sanitary sewer overflows and leaks in the separated area, are seriously impacting metropolitan Atlanta regional water quality. The proposed project would improve surface water quality by providing combined sewer capacity relief to capture more storm water and sewage flows and associated flood relief in several areas of the City. Morehouse Minority Energy Science Research and Education Initiative, Atlanta, GA: $2,000,000 Morehouse College will develop The Minority Energy Science Research and Education Initiative, a comprehensive program for high achieving students, to prepare them for the rigors of science, technology, engineering and math-related careers. The program immerses the participants into a 4-year program, beginning the summer before their freshman year, and involves a structured program of mentored research, tuition support, ongoing seminars, and summer research experiences at research laboratories around the country. Morehouse also seeks to selectively enhance its laboratory facilities in Dansby Hall that are designed to enhance the pedagogical process and advance research areas consistent with the National Nuclear Security Administration objectives within the U.S. Department of Energy. ####
07.19.2007	Congressman Lewis has been instrumental in his support for sewage and water infrastructure initiatives to alleviate long-standing problems in the Atlanta metro area. In a very tight budgetary environment where federal contribution to vital state initiatives have been radically reduced or eliminated across the country, Congressman Lewis was able to continue focused federal attention on Atlanta’s sewer and water problems. Through his efforts, the following projects were appropriated $3 million in funding through HR 2641, Energy and Water Appropriations for FY 2008 passed yesterday by the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill must still be passed by the Senate and signed by the President to become law. Environmental Infrastructure, Atlanta, GA: $1,000,000The City of Atlanta has undertaken the largest water and sewer renovation project in its history. Excessive overflows from the combined sewer system, coupled with sanitary sewer overflows and leaks in the separated area, are seriously impacting metropolitan Atlanta regional water quality. The proposed project would improve surface water quality by providing combined sewer capacity relief to capture more storm water and sewage flows and associated flood relief in several areas of the City. The City of Atlanta has undertaken the largest water and sewer renovation project in its history. Excessive overflows from the combined sewer system, coupled with sanitary sewer overflows and leaks in the separated area, are seriously impacting metropolitan Atlanta regional water quality. The proposed project would improve surface water quality by providing combined sewer capacity relief to capture more storm water and sewage flows and associated flood relief in several areas of the City. Morehouse Minority Energy Science Research and Education Initiative, Atlanta, GA: $2,000,000 Morehouse College will develop The Minority Energy Science Research and Education Initiative, a comprehensive program for high achieving students, to prepare them for the rigors of science, technology, engineering and math-related careers. The program immerses the participants into a 4-year program, beginning the summer before their freshman year, and involves a structured program of mentored research, tuition support, ongoing seminars, and summer research experiences at research laboratories around the country. Morehouse also seeks to selectively enhance its laboratory facilities in Dansby Hall that are designed to enhance the pedagogical process and advance research areas consistent with the National Nuclear Security Administration objectives within the U.S. Department of Energy. ####
07.13.2007	This morning Congressman John Lewis appeared before the Georgia State Board of Pardons and Paroles to speak on behalf of Mr. Troy Anthony Davis, a man who has been incarcerated for 15 years and is on death row due to his conviction in the murder of a Savannah police officer. Even though seven of the nine witnesses who testified in the Davis case have since recanted their testimony saying that they were threatened and coerced by the police, Davis has never been granted an appeal to allow the courts to hear new evidence in his case. Over 4000 letters in support of Davis were submitted to the parole board, along with statements made by Archbishop Desmond Tutu, actor and activist Harry Belafonte, and a former head of the FBI William Sessions. Several jurors also appeared before the board to say that had they heard the testimony now available, they never would have convicted Davis. The prosecution and state witnesses will appear before the parole board this afternoon. Davis is scheduled for execution tomorrow, July 17, 2007. Following is the text of Rep. Lewis’s statement as written: Good morning, Chairperson Hunt and members of the State Board of Pardons and Paroles. It is a privilege to address you today, and I want to thank you for hearing me. I will not speak long, because what I have to say is very simple. I do not know Troy Anthony Davis. I do not know if he is guilty of the charges of which he has been convicted. But I do know that nobody should be put to death based on the evidence we now have in this case.Evidence that is dramatically different from what the jury heard. Evidence that I understand no court has ever considered, for technical reasons that have nothing to do with the truth. We sometimes hear that a guilty person has gone free because of some legal technicality, and we understandably feel frustrated when that happens. Now we have the opposite situation. A man who may well be innocent may die tomorrow -- all because of those technicalities. This is much more than frustrating; it is tragic. It is unjust. And at a time when we are trying to convince the whole world that our way is best, it does not speak well of us. I will say only a little about the facts of the case, because you have other witnesses that know them better than I. But here is what I understand to be true. I understand that there is no physical evidence. No murder weapon. No fingerprints. No DNA. Just the testimony of a few frightened and confused people who were taken completely by surprise when a tragedy suddenly erupted -- without warning -- for just a few seconds -- in the middle of the night. And now, the case against Mr. Davis, that rested on that testimony, is a shambles. I understand that there were nine key witnesses, seven of whom have recanted their testimony. The eighth witness has left the state and refuses to talk about the case. And the ninth cannot recant without confessing that he committed the murder. Indeed, some of the other recanting witnesses have now implicated him. You must surely know the evidence better than I. And you know the law better than I. But I know, with what we have learned since the original jury heard this case, that a reasonable jury today should have doubts -- grave doubts -- since we now know so much more than the original jury. I am sure the members of the original jury are fine people. And I am sure they tried to do the best they could with the tools they were given. But nobody ever gave them the tools to do the job right. Those tools were offered to the courts years later, but they said it was too late to use them. So now the tools are in your hands. Hands that are not bound by technicalities. And it is not too late to use the tools you have been given. But I am here now, because I could not stay away. If executing Troy Davis on the evidence we now have is the best our justice system can do, then that system is not worthy of the word justice. People of good faith can and do disagree about the death penalty. But all of us must certainly agree that before we carry out the ultimate penalty, we must be sure. The only thing I am sure of is that nobody can even come close to being sure that Troy Davis committed this crime. I am, frankly, shocked to think that we could execute anyone under these circumstances. And I ask you not to let that happen. Before I sit down, let me say a few words about a man who cannot be here today. I speak, of course, of the victim of this terrible crime, Officer Mark MacPhail. And I hope you will think of him too as you make your decision. Officer MacPhail’s death was a senseless tragedy, and I am sure his loved ones still feel the pain of his loss. I pray for them and for Officer MacPhail today. And I ask you to do the same. For it is a terrible thing to be a victim of a violent crime. I know, because I am one. I was beaten senseless by a Coca-Cola crate when I arrived at the Greyhound bus station in Montgomery, Alabama as a Freedom Rider in 1961. I could easily have died. I was clubbed nearly to death a few years later on Bloody Sunday at the Edmund Pettis Bridge, and for awhile I looked death in the face, sure that I was about to see God. Indeed, of all the people in this room, I suspect that I am the only one who has any real idea of what Officer MacPhail felt in the last moments of his life. And I also think I know what he would say if he could speak to us today. He would tell us not to compound one tragedy with another. He would tell us not to make another man’s family feel the pain that his family felt. He would tell us that his killer may still be at large. And he would tell us that, as an officer of the law, he wants our legal system to do what is right. That winning cases does not matter. That only justice matters. And that he does not want his legacy to be the death of an innocent man. As a fellow public servant, I believe I know what you should do. And as a man of faith, I am sure I know what God wants you to do. Do justice. Commute the sentence of Troy Anthony Davis. Thank you very much. ####
06.25.2007	On Sunday June 24, Rep. John Lewis will receive the Lincoln Medal awarded by the Ford's Theater in Washington, DC to "individuals who through their body of work, accomplishments or personal attributes exemplify the lasting legacy and mettle of character embodied by...President Abraham Lincoln." Past honorees consist of five First Ladies, including Nancy Reagan, Hillary Rodham Clinton, and Lady Bird Johnson; several historians, including Doris Kearns Goodwin; and business executives such as Robert Iger, President and CEO of The Walt Disney Company. Congressman Lewis will be one of only three members of Congress who have ever been granted the award since its inception in 1981. The executive committee of the Board of Trustees of Ford's Theater evaluates candidates and determines who will receive the medal. As the nation nears the bicentennial of Lincoln's birth, the committee was seeking candidates who "illuminate or reflect Lincoln's legacy of leadership, service, humanity, wisdom, eloquence, and vision in their body of work and accomplishments or personal attributes." Congressman Lewis is being honored, "for his dedication to protecting human rights and civil liberties and valiant efforts to perpetuate the ideals and national vision espoused by President Lincoln." "Congressman Lewis's lifelong dedication to peace and justice," said Ford Theater's Producing Director Paul Tetreault," serves as a model on what it means to truly be a public servant-his strength of purpose and commitment to civil rights brings Lincoln's ideals and legacy to life." Ford's Theater is the site of the assassination of the16th president, Abraham Lincoln. The theater is managed by the National Park Service and has been preserved to retain its historic significance. Though a national historic site, it still hosts contemporary plays today and is a popular Washington tourist destination.
06.25.2007	On Sunday June 24, Rep. John Lewis will receive the Lincoln Medal awarded by the Ford's Theater in Washington, DC to "individuals who through their body of work, accomplishments or personal attributes exemplify the lasting legacy and mettle of character embodied by...President Abraham Lincoln." Past honorees consist of five First Ladies, including Nancy Reagan, Hillary Rodham Clinton, and Lady Bird Johnson; several historians, including Doris Kearns Goodwin; and business executives such as Robert Iger, President and CEO of The Walt Disney Company. Congressman Lewis will be one of only three members of Congress who have ever been granted the award since its inception in 1981. The executive committee of the Board of Trustees of Ford's Theater evaluates candidates and determines who will receive the medal. As the nation nears the bicentennial of Lincoln's birth, the committee was seeking candidates who "illuminate or reflect Lincoln's legacy of leadership, service, humanity, wisdom, eloquence, and vision in their body of work and accomplishments or personal attributes." Congressman Lewis is being honored, "for his dedication to protecting human rights and civil liberties and valiant efforts to perpetuate the ideals and national vision espoused by President Lincoln." "Congressman Lewis's lifelong dedication to peace and justice," said Ford Theater's Producing Director Paul Tetreault," serves as a model on what it means to truly be a public servant-his strength of purpose and commitment to civil rights brings Lincoln's ideals and legacy to life." Ford's Theater is the site of the assassination of the16th president, Abraham Lincoln. The theater is managed by the National Park Service and has been preserved to retain its historic significance. Though a national historic site, it still hosts contemporary plays today and is a popular Washington tourist destination.
05.07.2007	Today Rep. Lewis met with Rev. Hutchins, informant Alex White, and other members of Congress, including Rep. Hank Johnson and the Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, John Conyers to discuss the federal implications of the murder of Kathryn Johnston, an elderly Atlanta woman killed in a police raid. The FBI has indicated it has found evidence of a "culture of corruption" in the Atlanta police department. The meeting was scheduled for 6 PM today. It has been delayed by votes on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. "In recent weeks there have been several shootings of ordinary citizens by several police departments in Metropolitan Atlanta. The murder of Kathryn Johnston is the most tragic. It is unreal. It is unbelievable that someone can live to be almost 100 years old, serve our society honorably, and be shot down in her home by officers of the law-members of the Atlanta police department. I think it is critically important that the state of Georgia, the City of Atlanta, the Fulton County District Attorney's office, the Department of Justice and the FBI conduct thorough investigations to discover the causes of this misconduct at its roots. "I see the shooting and killing of Ms. Johnston as one piece of a larger puzzle that calls for a complete and full investigation to include the use of informants, the obtaining of questionable warrants, the possible planting of drugs by officers of the law, the allegations of a cover-up, and the use of excessive force in the Atlanta police force. The credibility of the police department is at stake. Citizens must have confidence that the police department is there to protect and defend their rights, not to violate them. We must utilize every means at our disposal, both federally and locally, to ensure that this kind of injustice never, ever happens again." ###
05.07.2007	Congressman Lewis made this statement in response to Prudential Financial's generosity. "I want to thank Art Ryan, Chairman and CEO of Prudential Financial, for having the vision and the foresight to make this $1 million contribution to the building of the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial. Your contribution is an important step down a very long road to honor a great American who changed this nation forever. Dr. King was not a politician; he was not a president or a member of Congress. He was a simple Baptist preacher who became the greatest moral leader of his time. He spoke to the conscience of us all telling us that the transformative power of love, the way of peace, the way of non-violence is a better way, a more excellent way. "He inspired millions of Americans across this nation and human beings around the world to believe that we could create a Beloved Community based on simple justice that values the dignity and the worth of every human being. And because of what he did and what he sacrificed, he must be looked upon as one of the founding fathers of the New America, a nation he help awaken to the true meaning of its creed. This generous contribution helps bring the foundation closer to the building of a moving memorial to Martin Luther King Jr.--to the man, to his philosophy, to his dream and all that he stood for. Thank you."
05.04.2007	On Tax Day, yesterday evening, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation shepherded by Rep. John Lewis that takes important steps to protect taxpayers from fraud. . As the new chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee on Oversight, one of the first hearings Rep. Lewis called was an investigation of predatory lending practices which target vulnerable customers desperate to get credit and saddle them with debilitating debt. The committee also looked at identity theft and misleading use of the Internal Revenue Service web identity for profit. The bill was passed with overwhelming support from both Republicans and Democrats because of its practicality, necessity, and fiscal responsibility. The act meets pay-go requirements, which mandate any expenditure paid to implement the legislation to be provided for through fiscal mechanisms within the legislation. "Today we are reminded," said Rep. Lewis, who managed time on the House floor during this vote, "that we must protect taxpayers from fraudulent tax schemes, misleading websites and predatory refund loans. The Taxpayer Protection Act is an important first step in standing up for the American taxpayer and moves us in the right direction toward simplifying tax issues for the average taxpayer." The Taxpayer Protection Act (H.R. 1677): Increases taxpayer protections from "predatory" lenders who offer tax refund anticipation loans, gives taxpayers more time to recover property seized improperly by the IRS, and works to stop the widespread tax fraud initiated by inmates of federal prisons. Cracks down on misleading websites that seek to get personal information from citizens by imitating the IRS and increases both civil and criminal penalties for these offenses. Requires the IRS to notify a taxpayer in the course of a tax fraud investigation when it suspects that his or her taxpayer identity may have been used unlawfully. Simplifies tax filing requirements for businesses owned jointly by husbands and wives. Strengthens IRS outreach to ensure that citizens eligible to receive the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) are aware of the benefit and know what steps to take to get it. Unclaimed EITC represents billions of dollars in additional revenue to families across America. Rep. Lewis also held a hearing on why this credit, available for years, was still underutilized by eligible families. In addition, under Democratic leadership, the House of Representatives has already passed $1.3 billion in tax cuts to help small businesses grow and hire new workers, without adding to the federal deficit. House Democrats are also committed to ending the "Parent Penalty" and providing a long term fix for the Alternative Minimum Tax. ###
05.04.2007	"When we send our young people off to college, we think they are going to learn, to grow, and to become productive and good citizens. We would never dream that they would become victims of senseless acts of violence. As a nation and as a people, this tragedy demonstrates what we know in our hearts and minds is true. We must find a way to break the cycle of violence that is gripping our society. "This shooting rampage, the worst in American history, has taken so many young lives. It tears at the very core of our beings. We pray for the victims of this unbelievable, unspeakable, and horrific tragedy. And we are reminded that is never, ever too late to teach our young people, and therefore our nation, that the way of love, the way of non-violence is the better way to resolve all the strivings and the struggles of humanity."
05.04.2007	Today, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) joined Rep. Stephanie Tubbs-Jones (D-OH) and Senators Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA) to introduce the Count Every Vote Act. Rep. Lewis made this statement at the news conference today. "It is so fitting and appropriate that we will reintroduce the Count Every Vote Act today. It was 42 years ago on March 7, 1965, that Hosea Williams and I led 600 marchers across the Edmund Pettus Bridge to demonstrate the need for voting rights in Alabama and the other ten states of the old Confederacy. It is because of their sacrifice that I stand here as a member of Congress today, along with three women who are members of the U.S. Senate and one a member of the House. "We have come a great distance, but we still live in an America where some votes are not counted, even when people struggle and make the effort to get to the polls. That's not right, that's not fair, and it's not in keeping with the spirit of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. The vote is the most powerful non-violent tool we have in a democratic society, and the people must have faith and confidence that all their votes will be counted. "We need this comprehensive reform of our political process, and I am glad to lend my support to the Count Every Vote Act, to help create more free, more fair, more just elections in our country. Thank you." The Count Every Vote Act will: provide a voter verified paper record for every vote cast in electronic voting machines; ensure access to voter verification for all citizens, including language minority voters, illiterate voters and voters with disabilities; mandate that the paper record be the official ballot for purposes of a recount; set a uniform standard for provisional ballots so that every qualified voter will know their votes are treated equally; require the Federal Election Assistance Commission to issue standards that ensure uniform access to voting machines and trained election personnel in every community; improve security measures for electronic voting machines; require states to work to reduce wait times for voters at polling places; designate Election Day a federal holiday and requires early voting in each state in order to encourage more citizens to exercise their right to vote; enact "no-excuse" absentee balloting; enact fair and uniform voter registration and identification; require states to allow citizens to register to vote on Election Day; restore voting rights for ex-offenders who have repaid their debt to society; protect voters from the conflicts of interest and deceptive practices that lead to the disenfranchisement and harm voter trust in the integrity of the system; prohibit chief state election officials as well as owners and executives of voting machine manufacturers from serving in any position on the political campaign committee of a candidate or engaging in other kinds of partisan campaign activities; make it a federal crime to commit deceptive practices, such as sending flyers into minority neighborhoods telling voters the wrong voting date, and make these practices a felony punishable by up to five years of imprisonment. The legislation is supported by People For the American Way, Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under the Law, the NAACP, Common Cause, U.S. PIRG and the Brennan Center for Justice. At today's press conference, representatives from voting rights organizations emphasized the urgent need to pass the Count Every Vote Act.
02.23.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives has undertaken four days of five-minute debates regarding House Concurrent Resolution 63 which, if passed, would indicate that members of the House disapprove of the President's decision to send twenty thousand more troops to Iraq. Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) spoke during time given to House leadership in this debate. At 8:16 AM today he made the following statement. This is the written text: "Mr. Speaker, I rise with deep concern that this President has chosen to escalate the war in Iraq, instead of charting a course towards peace. Today I am reminded of the words of Martin Luther King, Jr., when he spoke out against the Vietnam War on April 4, 1967. "He said, "The world now demands a maturity of this nation that we may not be able to achieve. It demands that we admit that we have been wrong from the beginning of our adventure in Vietnam, just substitute Iraq, and that our actions have been detrimental to the people of that nation. "War is messy. War is bloody. It tends not just to hide the truth, but to sacrifice the truth. And the truth is that this was a war of choice, not a war of necessity. It was ill-fated from its inception at the highest levels of government. And persisting in error will not fix a policy, that was fundamentally flawed from the very beginning. "Thousands of our sons and daughters have been left dead on the battlefield. And tens of thousands are changed forever, wounded physically and spiritually by the brutality of war. Our soldiers are the best men and women in the world, willing to sacrifice all they have at a moment's notice to protect our freedom. They do not deserve to pay with their lives for the errors of this Administration. "Mr. Speaker, we will never find the answers to the problems we have created in Iraq down the barrel of a gun. The lasting solutions to this crisis will emerge from skillful diplomacy, not military might. The Good Book says, "Come let us reason together." "We must never, ever be afraid to talk. What harm could come from sitting down with Syria, Iran, and our allies in the Middle East to help bring the warring parties together? "John F. Kennedy, once said, "Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable." "My greatest fear is that the young people growing up in the Middle East will never forget this American invasion. My greatest fear is that they will grow up to hate our children, our grandchildren, and generations yet unborn because of what we're doing today in Iraq. "Yes, we must maintain a strong national defense. We must defend our borders. We must bring an end to terrorism, but not at the expense of our own democracy. Not at the expense of the very principles this nation was founded upon. I want to close by asking a question of old: Mr. Speaker, what does it profit a great nation to gain the whole world, and lose its soul? "Gandhi would say, "It is either non-violence or non-existence". And Martin Luther King, Jr. would say, "We must learn to live together as brothers and sisters or perish as fools." It is better to heal than to kill. It is better to reconcile than to divide. It is better to love than to hate. That is why we must vote for this resolution. "We must not continue to put our young people in harm's way and make them sitting ducks in a civil war. As members of Congress we must continue to stand up, speak up, and speak out. It is our duty; it is our right; it is our moral obligation. We must stop this madness and bring our young men and women home. We must not continue to escalate this war. Vote for this resolution. Thank you, Mr. Speaker."
02.23.2007	Tomorrow February 13 in his first hearing as Chairman of the House Ways & Means Subcommittee on Oversight, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) will explore why millions of low-income citizens are not taking advantage of the Earned Income Tax Credit. In the 5th Congressional District of Georgia alone there are over 20 thousand residents eligible for the credit who could gain the benefit of more than $43 million in unclaimed funds. Nationwide about 75 percent of eligible taxpayers claim this benefit resulting in nearly $12 billion in unclaimed federal funds. Rep. Lewis will question the IRS and non-profit organizations that serve low-income communities about the dynamics which result in such a high proportion of unclaimed resources. Since the Bush tax cuts of the last eight years and the high cost of the war on Iraq have left the federal government with record deficits, federal contributions to programs which assist low-income and middle class communities have been cut and sometimes eliminated altogether. The president's most recent budget proposes elimination of 91 programs and drastic reductions to 51 programs, many of which serve the families targeted by the earned income tax credit. "Poor and moderate income families need all the help they can get today," said Chairman Lewis. "An earned income tax credit refund could mean more food on the table for hungry children, money to hold back evictions, life-saving medications for a senior citizen, or a winter coat for some child. That is why we must make sure that we place every possible tool in the hands of mothers and fathers who are struggling to support their families. The federal response to Hurricane Katrina made it clear that there is "no room at the inn" for poor families in America. Our government has turned a blind eye and a deaf ear to their need. I want to do what I can to make a difference in their lives." The subcommittee will hear testimony from: Richard Morgante, Commissioner, Wage and Investment Division, International Revenue Service David Williams, Director, Earned Income and Health Coverage Tax Credits Karen Rogers, Director, Mayor's Office of Weed & Seed, Atlanta, Georgia Bonnie Esposito, Executive Director, AccountAbility Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota John Wancheck, Earned Income Tax Credit Outreach Campaign Coordinator, Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Washington, DC Donna Klein, President and Chief Executive Office, Corporate Voices for Working Families, Washington,DC Deborah Lum, Executive Director, Atlanta Workforce Development Agency, Atlanta, GeorgiaThe hearing will take place on Feb. 13th at 1:00 PM in the Rayburn House Office Building Room B-318. There is limited space for the press. Please call in advance to reserve space.
02.23.2007	Rep. John Lewis made this statement today regarding U.S. Airways' withdrawal of their bid to purchase Delta Airlines. He has been a strong supporter of Delta's independence. "This is great news for Delta and for Atlanta. Delta is an outstanding corporate citizen, and it deserves the support of all of us. The pilots, flight attendants, machinists, mechanics, and all the rank and file employees of Delta have demonstrated their unyielding support for this institution. Because of their sacrifice and the reasonable judgments of the creditors, Delta will continue to be a strong, healthy, and independent contributor to the Atlanta metropolitan community."
02.23.2007	"The State of the Union is not good. There is an unbelievable, unacceptable gap between the wealthy and the poor in our society. Despite the progress of our economy as a whole, which the President pointed to as his administration's one success, there are still millions of Americans struggling to make ends meet. "In cities and counties across this nation, there are communities of citizens who are doing extremely well, and just a few miles away there are residents who can barely make ends meet. There are mothers and fathers who are working hard, sometimes at two or three jobs, but they still cannot put a decent meal on the table. These families are demonstrating personal responsibility, but the federal government has nearly abandoned them. The richest and most powerful nation in the world, a nation that supports so many in foreign lands, should take more interest in meeting the needs of all of its citizens, not just a handful of the wealthiest Americans and corporations. "None of the proposals the President offered tonight demonstrated a significant federal commitment to close these gaps. His health care proposals will motivate employees to leave employer provided health plans and seek their own insurance coverage. That change is more beneficial to corporations who can use lower employee enrollment to terminate healthcare benefits altogether, saving them millions of dollars. Further, the health tax deductions the President proposed benefit the rich more than they do the poor families that really need the help. What will happen to workers if this kind of legislation is passed? Without the leverage of group negotiation, the President's plan will require families to eventually spend more and more of their monthly income on insurance premiums. "The President's energy policy fails to offer incentives for corporate or consumer energy reductions and acts more as a set of guidelines rather than a federal mandate to protect our environment and moderate the energy appetites of this nation. The President's education proposals still offer no fiscal specificity to make No Child Left Behind a viable program. In short, most of the ideas the President offered tonight seem like the same empty promises he has made before. They sound good in a speech, but leave millions of American citizens with no hope. We can do better. We must do better for American families, and I believe this Democratic Congress will come up with better proposals than these to meet the needs of America's working families. "Lastly, I will say again that it is time to bring our troops home. We must bring this war to an end. We must stop it. We cannot afford to go down this road of militarism and violence any longer. It is not working. It will not work. We need to support our troops, we need to maintain a strong national defense, but the head of the most powerful nation on Earth should not be afraid to sit down with the leaders of Iran and Syria. He should be willing to negotiate with our allies in the Middle East and Iraq's neighbors to help solve this conflict. The past three years have demonstrated that a military solution is too difficult in Iraq. We must find a political solution that uses the regional and international community of nations to bring peace and stability back to Iraq."
02.16.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives has undertaken four days of five-minute debates regarding House Concurrent Resolution 63 which, if passed, would indicate that members of the House disapprove of the President's decision to send twenty thousand more troops to Iraq. Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) spoke during time given to House leadership in this debate. At 8:16 AM today he made the following statement. This is the written text: "Mr. Speaker, I rise with deep concern that this President has chosen to escalate the war in Iraq, instead of charting a course towards peace. Today I am reminded of the words of Martin Luther King, Jr., when he spoke out against the Vietnam War on April 4, 1967. "He said, "The world now demands a maturity of this nation that we may not be able to achieve. It demands that we admit that we have been wrong from the beginning of our adventure in Vietnam, just substitute Iraq, and that our actions have been detrimental to the people of that nation. "War is messy. War is bloody. It tends not just to hide the truth, but to sacrifice the truth. And the truth is that this was a war of choice, not a war of necessity. It was ill-fated from its inception at the highest levels of government. And persisting in error will not fix a policy, that was fundamentally flawed from the very beginning. "Thousands of our sons and daughters have been left dead on the battlefield. And tens of thousands are changed forever, wounded physically and spiritually by the brutality of war. Our soldiers are the best men and women in the world, willing to sacrifice all they have at a moment's notice to protect our freedom. They do not deserve to pay with their lives for the errors of this Administration. "Mr. Speaker, we will never find the answers to the problems we have created in Iraq down the barrel of a gun. The lasting solutions to this crisis will emerge from skillful diplomacy, not military might. The Good Book says, "Come let us reason together." "We must never, ever be afraid to talk. What harm could come from sitting down with Syria, Iran, and our allies in the Middle East to help bring the warring parties together? "John F. Kennedy, once said, "Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable." "My greatest fear is that the young people growing up in the Middle East will never forget this American invasion. My greatest fear is that they will grow up to hate our children, our grandchildren, and generations yet unborn because of what we're doing today in Iraq. "Yes, we must maintain a strong national defense. We must defend our borders. We must bring an end to terrorism, but not at the expense of our own democracy. Not at the expense of the very principles this nation was founded upon. I want to close by asking a question of old: Mr. Speaker, what does it profit a great nation to gain the whole world, and lose its soul? "Gandhi would say, "It is either non-violence or non-existence". And Martin Luther King, Jr. would say, "We must learn to live together as brothers and sisters or perish as fools." It is better to heal than to kill. It is better to reconcile than to divide. It is better to love than to hate. That is why we must vote for this resolution. "We must not continue to put our young people in harm's way and make them sitting ducks in a civil war. As members of Congress we must continue to stand up, speak up, and speak out. It is our duty; it is our right; it is our moral obligation. We must stop this madness and bring our young men and women home. We must not continue to escalate this war. Vote for this resolution. Thank you, Mr. Speaker."
02.15.2007	Yesterday on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Rep. John Lewis, dean of the Georgia delegation, led a bi-partisan effort to honor the late Rep. Charlie Norwood (R-GA). Today he will represent the Democratic congressional leadership at the funeral of Rep. Norwood in at the First Baptist Church, 3500 Walton Way, in Augusta, Georgia. Despite their differences, Rep. Lewis was able to remember Mr. Norwood as a beloved champion for the people of the 9th District of Georgia. Following is an excerpt of his written comments: "More than anything else, Congressman Norwood was a warrior. He fought for his beliefs with passion and conviction, and he fought for the people of the 9th District of Georgia who loved him. He was awarded two bronze stars for his bravery on behalf of our nation during the Vietnam, and he fought courageously for patient rights here on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. "In fact, his last official act was to reintroduce the Patient's Bill of Rights on Monday, a bill he co-authored with John Dingell. Charlie Norwood fought a good fight. He was a warrior to the end. "The thoughts and prayers of all the members of the Georgia delegation are with his wife Gloria, his two sons, Charles and Carlton, their families, and his many grandchildren. I hope they will find comfort in knowing that Congressman Charlie Norwood made a lasting contribution to the state of Georgia and to this Congress. He will be deeply missed. Thank you, Mr. Speaker."
02.12.2007	Tomorrow February 13 in his first hearing as Chairman of the House Ways & Means Subcommittee on Oversight, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) will explore why millions of low-income citizens are not taking advantage of the Earned Income Tax Credit. In the 5th Congressional District of Georgia alone there are over 20 thousand residents eligible for the credit who could gain the benefit of more than $43 million in unclaimed funds. Nationwide about 75 percent of eligible taxpayers claim this benefit resulting in nearly $12 billion in unclaimed federal funds. Rep. Lewis will question the IRS and non-profit organizations that serve low-income communities about the dynamics which result in such a high proportion of unclaimed resources. Since the Bush tax cuts of the last eight years and the high cost of the war on Iraq have left the federal government with record deficits, federal contributions to programs which assist low-income and middle class communities have been cut and sometimes eliminated altogether. The president's most recent budget proposes elimination of 91 programs and drastic reductions to 51 programs, many of which serve the families targeted by the earned income tax credit. "Poor and moderate income families need all the help they can get today," said Chairman Lewis. "An earned income tax credit refund could mean more food on the table for hungry children, money to hold back evictions, life-saving medications for a senior citizen, or a winter coat for some child. That is why we must make sure that we place every possible tool in the hands of mothers and fathers who are struggling to support their families. The federal response to Hurricane Katrina made it clear that there is "no room at the inn" for poor families in America. Our government has turned a blind eye and a deaf ear to their need. I want to do what I can to make a difference in their lives." The subcommittee will hear testimony from: Richard Morgante, Commissioner, Wage and Investment Division, International Revenue Service David Williams, Director, Earned Income and Health Coverage Tax Credits Karen Rogers, Director, Mayor's Office of Weed & Seed, Atlanta, Georgia Bonnie Esposito, Executive Director, AccountAbility Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota John Wancheck, Earned Income Tax Credit Outreach Campaign Coordinator, Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Washington, DC Donna Klein, President and Chief Executive Office, Corporate Voices for Working Families, Washington,DC Deborah Lum, Executive Director, Atlanta Workforce Development Agency, Atlanta, GeorgiaThe hearing will take place on Feb. 13th at 1:00 PM in the Rayburn House Office Building Room B-318. There is limited space for the press. Please call in advance to reserve space.
01.31.2007	Rep. John Lewis made this statement today regarding U.S. Airways' withdrawal of their bid to purchase Delta Airlines. He has been a strong supporter of Delta's independence. "This is great news for Delta and for Atlanta. Delta is an outstanding corporate citizen, and it deserves the support of all of us. The pilots, flight attendants, machinists, mechanics, and all the rank and file employees of Delta have demonstrated their unyielding support for this institution. Because of their sacrifice and the reasonable judgments of the creditors, Delta will continue to be a strong, healthy, and independent contributor to the Atlanta metropolitan community."
01.23.2007	"The State of the Union is not good. There is an unbelievable, unacceptable gap between the wealthy and the poor in our society. Despite the progress of our economy as a whole, which the President pointed to as his administration's one success, there are still millions of Americans struggling to make ends meet. "In cities and counties across this nation, there are communities of citizens who are doing extremely well, and just a few miles away there are residents who can barely make ends meet. There are mothers and fathers who are working hard, sometimes at two or three jobs, but they still cannot put a decent meal on the table. These families are demonstrating personal responsibility, but the federal government has nearly abandoned them. The richest and most powerful nation in the world, a nation that supports so many in foreign lands, should take more interest in meeting the needs of all of its citizens, not just a handful of the wealthiest Americans and corporations. "None of the proposals the President offered tonight demonstrated a significant federal commitment to close these gaps. His health care proposals will motivate employees to leave employer provided health plans and seek their own insurance coverage. That change is more beneficial to corporations who can use lower employee enrollment to terminate healthcare benefits altogether, saving them millions of dollars. Further, the health tax deductions the President proposed benefit the rich more than they do the poor families that really need the help. What will happen to workers if this kind of legislation is passed? Without the leverage of group negotiation, the President's plan will require families to eventually spend more and more of their monthly income on insurance premiums. "The President's energy policy fails to offer incentives for corporate or consumer energy reductions and acts more as a set of guidelines rather than a federal mandate to protect our environment and moderate the energy appetites of this nation. The President's education proposals still offer no fiscal specificity to make No Child Left Behind a viable program. In short, most of the ideas the President offered tonight seem like the same empty promises he has made before. They sound good in a speech, but leave millions of American citizens with no hope. We can do better. We must do better for American families, and I believe this Democratic Congress will come up with better proposals than these to meet the needs of America's working families. "Lastly, I will say again that it is time to bring our troops home. We must bring this war to an end. We must stop it. We cannot afford to go down this road of militarism and violence any longer. It is not working. It will not work. We need to support our troops, we need to maintain a strong national defense, but the head of the most powerful nation on Earth should not be afraid to sit down with the leaders of Iran and Syria. He should be willing to negotiate with our allies in the Middle East and Iraq's neighbors to help solve this conflict. The past three years have demonstrated that a military solution is too difficult in Iraq. We must find a political solution that uses the regional and international community of nations to bring peace and stability back to Iraq."
01.16.2007	Today several men and women in active-duty military troops made this public appeal for troop withdrawal in Iraq. They issued the following statement: "As patriotic Americans proud to serve the nation in uniform, I respectfully urge my political leaders in Congress to supportthe prompt withdrawal of all American military forces and bases from Iraq. Staying in Iraq qill not work and is not worth the price. It is time for the U.S. troops to come home." Congressman Lewis made this statement in response to that appeal: "I have the deepest respect for these men and women in uniform who have taken this courageous and patriotic step today. They have exercised their constitutional right to free speech, and they have questioned an unjust war. Somewhere those of us who represent the American people, and the American people themselves, must follow the leading of these men and women in uniform today and find a way to speak up and speak out about this unnecessary war. President Bush is not listening to the people who elected him. He is not listening to the bi-partisan commission that he appointed, and he has dismissed generals who do not support his viewpoints. He is not listening to the growing disapproval for this war effort. The people of this nation are saying it is time for us to close this very grim chapter in American history, a chapter that is leaving a dark stain on the moral fabric of our nation and compromising our credibility among the community of nations. We have buried over 3000 of our nation's sons and daughters and tens of thousands of Iraqi citizens have lost their lives. War is messy. War is bloody. It tends not only to hide the truth, but to sacrifice the truth. A new escalation of troops will not hide the mistakes of a preemptive war. As these members of our armed forces suggest here today, the soldiers involved in this escalation will only become sitting ducks in the crossfire of civil strife, sacrificing their futures for questionable gains. I deeply believe the American people want us to bring their children home. They know we are not safer today, than we were before we went to war. This war is not the answer. We must find a way to bring our young men and our young women home. Thank you.
01.12.2007	Rep. John Lewis made this statement today in honor of Martin Luther King, Jr. "Today we celebrate and commemorate the life of a man of peace, a man of love, a man of nonviolence who must be considered one of the founding fathers of the new America. Because of his dedication to the cause of justice and the imperative of human dignity, he wrestled with the soul of a nation and challenged it to reach its highest destiny. He injected new meaning into the very veins of American society and gave his life to make our democracy real. "What he did, what he said, and what he sacrificed inspired an entire generation, and its power still rings throughout this nation and the world. We are a different country today; we are a better people today because Martin Luther King, Jr. believed in the power of love over hate, the power of nonviolence over violence, and the power of peace over war. "If Dr. King could speak today he would tell us to stop this madness and bring our troops home. He would say that war is an obsolete, ineffective tool of our foreign policy. He would say that we must struggle against injustice, we must stand up for what we believe, but if peace is our goal, then peaceful ends can only be secured by peaceful means. He would say as a nation and as a people we can do better; we must do better. We must find a way to live together as brothers and sisters or we will perish as fools."
01.10.2007	Congressman Lewis made this statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today on H.R. 2 on the Fair Minimum Wage Act 2007. "Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chairman Miller for yielding, and I want to thank him for bringing this piece of legislation before us. "Mr. Speaker, it is unacceptable that we have waited ten years to address this problem- unacceptable. We have waited far too long. Millions of our American citizens, our brothers and sisters, mothers and fathers, are working long hours to receive a minimum wage and are still living in poverty. In 2007, we should be ashamed of ourselves. We can do better. We can do much better as a nation and as a people. "American workers are suffering. They are struggling to fill their cars with gas, to put good food on the table. They are working hard, and they are still living in poverty. That is not right. It is not fair, and it is not just. All American workers deserve good pay for hard work. This is a matter of fairness. This is a matter of human decency. This is a matter of human dignity." "Nearly 20 states have increased their minimum wage above the federal level. It is time for us in Congress to do the same. In my district, the basic cost of living for a family of three is $27,000. Even with the increase we are considering today, it is still $12,000 short. "This is just the first step today, and we must do more for working families in the fight against poverty. President Roosevelt said it best when he said that the test of our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it is whether we provide enough for those who have too little. "Today, Mr. Speaker, we must pass the minimum wage. It is time that Congress's actions reflect the will of the American people."
01.10.2007	"Tonight President Bush spoke to the American people to explain his new strategic plan to manage the war in Iraq. Regardless of the changes, the President suggests the heart of this new plan is the deployment of 20,000 additional troops to Iraq. "On Nov. 7th the American people decided to make a change, mainly because they were concerned about the progress of this war. They want us to find a responsible way to leave Iraq and bring our young men and women home. Somewhere those of us who represent the American people must speak up and speak out about this failed policy. President Bush is not listening to the people who elected him. "He is not listening to the bi-partisan commission that he appointed, and he has dismissed generals who do not support his viewpoints. I will not butcher my conscience by sending more of our children, mothers, and fathers into an unjust war. They will only become sitting ducks in the crossfire of civil strife, sacrificing their futures for questionable gains. I don't think any good will come from this effort, and I support all the work of this Congress to oppose this escalation of troops in Iraq."
12.18.2006	Rep. John Lewis will participate in an extremely rare ceremony on Friday October 13th at 7 PM at First Iconium Baptist Church located at 542 Moreland Avenue, SE in Atlanta. He will participate in the Court of Honor of Troop 542 to induct three of its members into the brotherhood of Eagle Scouts. The Eagle Scout is the highest award obtainable from the Boy Scouts of America organization. Only 5 percent of all boy scouts earn the Eagle Scout honor, yet their ranks include notable Americans, such as the distinguished U.S. Senator from Georgia Sam Nunn, Apollo astronaut James Lovell, founder and Chairman of the Marriot Corporation J.W. Marriott, former President Gerald Ford, and former Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives Thomas Foley. Very few scouts from one troop ever obtain the honor, and even fewer troops have inducted three young men into those honored ranks at one time. The award recognizes outstanding performance in the areas of leadership, service, and outdoor skills. The three inductees are: Anderson Hood III (17) who receives the award after earning 21+ merit badges and completing the construction of a prayer stand and the redecoration of a church prayer chapel. Anderson is a student at Southwest Dekalb High School and hopes to attend Harvard University. Lawrence Johnson (18) who receives the award after earning 21+ merit badges and conducting a women's essentials drive to assemble personal care packages and supplies for a battered women's shelter. Lawrence is a freshman at Morehouse College on a full academic scholarship. Gregory McDowell (17) who receives the award after earning 21+ merit badges and completing the construction of benches and the renovation of a children's playground. Gregory is a student at Southside High School and plans to open his own 1-stop automotive maintenance and repair business after studying automotive mechanics. "I am pleased and delighted to participate in this historic ceremony," said Rep. Lewis. "There is too much emphasis on young men who lose their way and present a challenge to our society. For every one of those, there are so many more fine young people who want to make meaningful contributions with their lives. As a city and a community of neighbors, we need to celebrate these young men and hold up their achievement as an example to other youth. I am very proud of Troop 542 and the accomplishments of these three young men."
12.06.2006	Late last night after a series of votes were taken on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Rep. John Lewis led a special order debate on the proposed hostile takeover of Delta Airlines by U.S. Airways. Reps. David Scott (D-GA), Sanford Bishop (D-GA), and Rob Bishop (R-UT) contributed to the discussion. During his remarks, Congressman Lewis talked about the need for close congressional inspection of this move by U.S. Airways. "I...encourage the Justice Department," said Rep. Lewis, "and the House Judiciary Committee to review this takeover with a fine-toothed comb so we can make sure it serves the best interests of the American people....I think freedom in the marketplace is important, but when a bad business deal like this one threatens the economies of so many communities and the lives of so many citizens, I think members of Congress must take notice. I think we must step in and take a long hard look at the economic impact of this kind of hostile takeover." Rep. Lewis has spoken to the Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Jim Oberstar (D-MN) and other members of the Georgia delegation have spoken to Rep. John Conyers (D-MI) Chairman of the Judiciary Committee to raise their concerns about this merger. In preliminary conversations with Chairman Oberstar, Rep. Lewis senses deep concern from him about the U.S. Airways proposals. They have discussed the possibility of holding congressional hearings on the hostile takeover. Rep. Lewis and other members of the House on both sides of the aisle whom he has spoken to are very concerned about the financial viability of U.S. Airways. Because it has not been able to fully integrate its last merger with America West, and it is also currently involved in bankruptcy proceedings that it has not been able to bring to a close, Rep. Lewis believes this proposal represents a bad deal across the board for Delta. At stake are the carefully crafted agreements that Delta employees, pilots, executives, and creditors have worked so hard and sacrificed so much to create. They will enable Delta to emerge from bankruptcy within a few months as a viable, independent institution. The U.S. Airways merger will add a new $2 billion of debt to the equation and could mire the new company in a new bankruptcy proceeding. Inevitably, services to mid-sized cities like Cincinnati, Augusta, Philadelphia, and Salt Lake City, among many others, would be cut. "Even though US Airways can't seem to manage its own merger," said Rep. Lewis, "it is hoping and praying that it can take advantage of the hard work and tough sacrifices the good people of Delta have already made so that it can survive. Why must the American people pay, why must the employees pay, why must travelers pay when American businesses can't get their house in order? This is not a win-win situation. It is a win for US Airways and an incredible risk for Delta Airlines. It is a risk for the people of Atlanta, a risk for Hartsfeld-Jackson Airport, the largest airport in the world. It is a risk for the state of Georgia and thousands of American citizens."
12.01.2006	"Today we must renew our commitment to join together as a world community to combat HIV/AIDS. There are over 40 million people living with HIV/AIDS today. 4 million of those people only recently discovered they are infected with this threatening disease that might have been prevented through education and treatment. In 2004, a study by the National Primary Care Center, the Georgia Office of Minority Health, and Morehouse School of Medicine (MSM) revealed that the incidence of HIV/AIDS was increasing in the American South. Georgia ranked third among states most affected, and the study revealed the disease had reached epidemic proportions in certain Atlanta metropolitan-area communities. "Worldwide, more than half of those struggling with the disease live in sub-Saharan Africa. If the disease continues to spread at its current rate, projections suggest HIV/AIDS could potentially wipe out a third of the continent's population. Today in six sub-Saharan African countries the ravages of the disease has lessened the life expectancy to 40 years of age, a statistic more common in the 1800's than in 2004. The Asia-Pacific region registers over 7 million people infected with HIV/AIDS, according to a study by UNAIDS and the Asian Development Bank, and half a million people die every year from the disease in that region of the world. "In the face of this pandemic, we must continue to reach out and use the resources of this great nation to care for those who are suffering from HIV and AIDS. We need to make a greater commitment to research that leads to a cure, a greater commitment to the effective distribution of life-saving medicines, and a greater commitment to education that has proven effective in stemming the tide of this disease. Above all, we cannot be silent. As a nation and as a people, we must acknowledge the devastation of this disease and do all we can to end it." Rep. John Lewis is a member of the U.S. House of Representatives Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health. He will be attending AIDS Atlanta Honors this evening to commemorate the day.
11.13.2006	Congressman John Lewis spoke in a program this morning celebrating the groundbreaking at the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial on the National Mall in Washington, DC. The memorial will be the first honoring an African American placed on the Mall and recognizes Dr. King's patriotic service to our democracy. Following is the text of the Congressman's speech: "President Bush, President Clinton, Ms. Oprah Winfrey, Andy Young, members of the King family, members of the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity, and my beloved brothers and sisters, this is a great day in the history of our country. "It is a great day because today we will break ground on this little piece of real estate we call the National Mall, this front yard of the nation, to honor one of the founding fathers of modern America. It is a day that we pay tribute not just to a man, but to the transformative power of love, non-violence, peace, and the American dream. "I knew Martin Luther King, Jr. He was my leader, my friend, my brother, and my colleague in the struggle for civil rights and social justice in America. He was just a simple human being filled with love and compassion for all human kind. "I will never forget the first time I met him. I was 15 years old and in the tenth grade in 1955, growing up on a farm outside Troy, Alabama when I heard the voice of Martin Luther King, Jr. on an old radio. He was talking about Rosa Parks and the Montgomery Bus Boycott. He was talking about the ability of a disciplined and determined people to make a difference in our society. "When I heard his words, I felt like he was speaking directly to me. I felt like he was saying, "John Lewis, you can do it. You can make a difference in the struggle to defend the dignity of humankind." "Growing up in the heart of the segregated South, I saw those signs that said WHITE MEN, COLORED MEN, WHITE WOMEN, COLORED WOMEN, WHITE WAITING, COLORED WAITING. "I would ask my mother, my father, my grandparents and great grandparents, "Why segregation? Why racial discrimination?" And they would say, "That's the way it is. Don't get in trouble. Don't get in the way." Martin Luther King Jr. inspired me and thousands of other Americans to get in the way. He inspired us to get in trouble, but it was good trouble, necessary trouble. "It seems it was only a few years ago that I stood with Martin Luther King, Jr. and eight other leaders of the Civil Rights Movement as he spoke just a short distance from here at on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. And in that now historic speech, that included the words, "I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal." "In that speech when he said, "I have a dream today, a dream deeply rooted in the American dream," Martin Luther King, Jr., the moral leader of the nation, transformed those marble steps into a modern day pulpit. He spoke to the conscience of us all telling us that the way of peace, the way of love, the way of non-violence is a better way, a more excellent way. "He spoke to the noble idea that we must learn to live together as brothers and sisters or perish together as fools. Through his life and through his actions, he moved the mountains of our faith by declaring that a threat to justice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. "He inspired millions of Americans across this nation and human beings around the world to believe that we could create a Beloved Community based on simple justice that values the dignity and the worth of every human being. "That is why I think it is so fitting, so appropriate that on this sacred and hallowed ground, a memorial will be built not only to an American citizen, but to a citizen of the world who gave his life trying to protect the dignity of and the worth of all humankind. "I want to thank Alpha Phi Alpha for its vision and thank all of those contributors who supported this project, because this monument will inspire generations yet unborn to get in the way. It will help them see that one human being can make a difference. "But above all, this monument will serve as a reminder to each of us that it is better to love and not to hate, it is better to reconcile and not divide, it is better to build and not tear down. "It will remind all of us that the dream of Martin Luther King Jr. is not yet accomplished, and each of us must continue to do our part to help build the Beloved Community, a nation and a world at peace with itself. Thank you.
11.09.2006	I am very saddened to learn about the passing of Ed Bradley. We have lost one of the most distinguished journalists of our time. I knew Ed Bradley. It was just wonderful to be in his presence. He was so gifted, so talented, so smart, so wise. He could be very serious on one hand, but incredibly funny on the other. Through his incisive investigative journalism as a correspondent for 60 Minutes, he made a lasting contribution to our democracy, covering the Vietnam War, the White House, corporate America, and documenting the great human conflicts of our time. I feel so blessed to have known him. He will be deeply missed.
11.01.2006	In the November issue of Esquire magazine, Congressman John Lewis is named one of the "9 Pillars of Congress". The magazine describes the honor in this way: "The good works and great sacrifice of our elected officials too often go unsung. If you're looking for real thought leadership, here are some of our very best." The magazine goes on to describe Rep. Lewis as "a beacon of probity in the House." The Congressman was one of three members of the House of Representatives given this honor; the rest were senators. And he was the only minority member of Congress included in this group.
10.25.2006	It was important for President Bush to talk to the American people about the war in Iraq today. This is one of the deadliest months on record since the beginning of the war. 93 service men and women have died in Iraq since Oct. 1st, and the death toll will probably reach 100 before this month comes to an end. The American people need a sign that there is a light at the end of this tunnel of death and destruction. But the President did not offer us hope. What is the substantive difference between benchmarks and timetables? The President could not say. And though he did not use the words "stay the course," the policies he described amount to the same message. He is playing a game of semantics trying to shift the tide of American dissatisfaction before the November election. Meanwhile, the lives of our sons and daughters hang in the balance. Because we invaded a sovereign government, we have given birth to a climate of greater extremism in the Middle East. Every intelligence report verifies that this war has created more terrorists, and it has made this world a much more dangerous place. And the longer we stay, as Iraq teeters on the brink of civil war, the longer our troops will be a focus for violence. How many more of our young men and young women must be sacrificed on the altar of a failed policy? How many more of our young men and young women must pay the ultimate price for this ill-conceived, mismanaged war. We cannot kill all of the terrorists. We cannot shoot them all; we cannot bomb them all. We need to stop this madness and send a message that we want to bring this war to an end. We all have one vote and by getting out and voting for members of Congress, we can vote against this war. Even decorated members of the military have said the only solution in Iraq is a political solution. We need to bring our sons and daughters home and begin the process of rebuilding, healing, and stabilizing American and Iraqi families torn apart by this war and find diplomatic ways to create a sustainable democracy in Iraq.
10.20.2006	Today Rep. John Lewis (D-GA), and Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Barack Obama (D-IL) sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzalez requesting federal investigation of an action taken by the Georgia State Board of Elections. The elections board sent out over 200,000 letters informing voters in mainly Democratic districts that they may not have the proper government-issued photo identification required to vote in the November 7th election. That letter would have been appropriate had a Superior Court judge in Fulton County not ruled last month that the Georgia photo-ID law violated the state constitution. A prominent GOP member of the elections board contended the letters were slated for delivery before the judge's ruling, but evidence released from the secretary of state's office reveals the letters were sent to the post office after the judge issued his decision. Former Gov. Roy Barnes has filed a lawsuit against the state over the matter, and Rep. Lewis joined Senators Dodd and Obama requesting a federal investigation of the mailing to determine whether voting rights laws were broken. "The right to vote is precious, almost sacred," said Rep. Lewis. "The integrity of American elections is the foundation of our democracy. If we can defend democracy with American lives in Iraq, we must use the full resources of the federal government to defend it here at home. It is important that the U.S. attorney general investigate this matter to determine the motive and the intent of this mailing. We must let the federal government and the courts decide whether voter suppression was the goal of this action." "This seems like nothing more than a cynical attempt to influence elections by discouraging people to vote," Sen. Obama said. "It's crucial that we vigorously defend American citizens' right to vote, and this matter should be thoroughly investigated as soon as possible." "This isn't about what party you belong to or what candidate you favor, it is about being an American and exercising your right to vote," said Sen. Dodd. "It is unconscionable and illegal to discourage citizens in any way from casting their ballots, and the recent mailing from the Georgia Board of Elections is doing just that. Let's set the record straight here and hope for high voter turnout in Georgia and across the nation." The photo-ID law has been debated in Georgia for the last two years. Two such laws were passed by the Georgia state legislature. Both were challenged in court, one was enjoined by a U.S. District Court judge and the other by a Superior Court judge, and both were ruled illegal or unconstitutional. Currently, 12 forms of ID can be used to identify a Georgia voter at the polls, ID that is readily accessible to any citizen. The requirement of a government-issued photo ID mandates rural, elderly, disabled and poor voters to visit one of a few government offices throughout the state, which can be miles away from their homes, in order to exercise their constitutional right to vote. Judges have ruled the requirement is too burdensome to mandate all-citizen compliance. Proponents of the law have suggested it will help protect against voter fraud, but the incidence of that kind of voter fraud in Georgia is nearly insignificant. Obama and Dodd introduced a resolution in the Senate in September expressing the sense of the Senate that Congress should reject photo ID legislation. Lewis is the House sponsor of the bill. Sen. Dodd is also the author of the Help America Vote Act (HAVA). Lewis is a long-time voting rights activist, arrested over 40 times in the struggle for equal access to the ballot box for all Americans, and a passionate defender of the Voting Rights Act during its recent reauthorization by Congress this year.
10.17.2006	October is National Disability Employment Awareness Month and an important time to recognize the continuing employment difficulties that face Americans with disabilities. Despite the ability and desire to work, people with disabilities face a 50-percent unemployment rate or higher. In order to help bring more attention to this problem, Rep. John Lewis was named a Javits-Wagner-O'Day (JWOD) champion. Since 1938, the JWOD program has provided job training and employment opportunities for people who are blind or who have other severe disabilities. Last year, this organization located in the 5th Congressional District served approximately 1,100 Georgians with disabilities who were able to earn nearly $7.6 million in direct labor wages. "Decent employment for a livable wage is a powerful way to affirm the contributions of citizens with disabilities," said Rep. Lewis. "Every human being has gifts to share with our society. We must make room for them, understand their issues and concerns, and find meaningful ways for Americans with disabilities to help sustain the nation." The program, which uses the purchasing power of the federal government to buy products and services from participating community-based nonprofit agencies, provides the opportunity to hone job skills while earning good wages and benefits. The end result is greater independence and quality of life for people with disabilities. In Georgia, 976 people with disabilities currently work on JWOD contracts, which generated $7,594,510 in wages earned and $27,970,953 in product sales for the state. Rep. Lewis also maintains a close relationship with the Bobby Dodd Institute, a community rehabilitation facility in the 5th district that annually serves approximately 700 people with disabilities. Last year, the Congressman helped the institute secure a $45,000 technology grant to purchase computers for its high school special education program. Rep. Lewis actively works with the facility to identify employment opportunities for people with disabilities in the 5th District. "The work of JWOD and the Bobby Dodd Institute," said Congressman Lewis, "gives meaning to those in our society who too often are left out and left behind. I remain committed to do all I can to help our brothers and sisters - our sons and daughters - who must live with disabilities."
10.01.2006	Recently, the American Association of University Women rated the voting records of members of the 109th Congress. Congressman John Lewis is the only member of the Georgia delegation to have received a perfect voting record from the AAUW on issues it deems important to women. The score is based on specific votes taken on issues of education, federal budget allocations and appropriations, civil rights, reproductive rights, and economic security that arose on the agenda of the 109th Congress. For a more detailed discussion of the program, check the AAUW website https://www.aauw.org/issue_advocacy/.
09.26.2006	"President Gerald Ford was more than a politician; he was a statesman and a gentleman. Gerald Ford will always be remembered as the leader who found the courage and the capacity to heal an injured nation. When this country faced one of the greatest constitutional crises in our history, he responded to the bitter anguish and disappointment of the American people with a determination to bring this nation together. He did not make a popular decision, but he had the daring and the conviction to put the best interests of the American people first. "A few years ago, I was deeply moved and honored to have received the John F. Kennedy Profiles in Courage Award on the same program as Pres. Ford. To this day, I still have wonderful memories of that moment and treasure the photographs of us together in my home and my office. The whole nation mourns the loss of this statesmen and extends its deepest sympathy to his wife Betty and the Ford family."
09.08.2006	On September 11, 1906, Mahatma Gandhi began an 8-year non-violent struggle to end unjust treatment of Indians in South Africa. Exactly 100 years later Rep. John Lewis will join with members of the Indian community and other proponents of peace nationwide to commemorate the modern legacy of non-violent struggle initiated by Gandhi's first public act of satyagraha. This anniversary is especially poignant for Americans who will forever see it within the context of the tragedy that struck American shores on September 11, 2001. In a time of war, the planners of this event hope to assert the value of non-violence as a mechanism of international diplomacy. They also hope to commemorate the 5th anniversary of the 9/11 tragedy as a day of peace and reconciliation. Rep. Lewis has been a frequent and outspoken critic of misguided military intervention in Iraq and sees effective non-violent action as a more strategic, constructive tool of American diplomacy in the Middle East. As a member of the Civil Rights Movement, he successfully implemented non-violent action to help address American injustice to African Americans. He is a life-long adherent to the principles of non-violence. WHO: Rep. John Lewis, Arun Gandhi, the M.K. Gandhi Institute for Non-Violence and others WHAT: A Day of Peace and Reconciliation on the 5th Anniversary of 9/11 Tragedy and 100th Anniversary of Gandhi's first non-violent public action WHERE: National Mall, steps of Lincoln Memorial near Reflecting Pool WHEN: Monday September 11, 2006, at 11:30 AM
08.29.2006	America remembered two pivotal moments in its history this week, the 43rd anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Justice (August 28, 1963) and the first year since the Gulf Coast's devastation by Hurricane Katrina (August 29, 2005), with particular concern for the continued debilitation of one of the world's great cities-New Orleans. The coincidence of these defining moments in American history highlights the consistent relevance of the Civil Rights Movement and the lingering challenges this nation must face. With these thoughts in mind, Rep. John Lewis made the following statement: "As we pause to reflect on the first anniversary of Hurricane Katrina and the 43rd anniversary of the March on Washington, it is evident that the message of the Civil Rights Movement still needs to be heard. This nation's response to Hurricane Katrina reveals, more than any other recent event, that we are still a nation divided by race and class. "In 1963, as co-chair of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, we marched on Washington to focus attention on the need for political and economic justice for black people in America. On the steps of the Lincoln Memorial that day I talked about the hundreds and thousands of African Americans who had no money for transportation because they lived on starvation wages or had no pay at all. "I pointed a finger at our government demanding to know where the homeless and starving of this nation could find help. I talked about the need to address the injustice of police brutality and the failure of both political parties to confront their responsibility to enfranchise African Americans both politically and economically. "That day the fire of youth was still in my bones, but those words still ring with relevance today. During the crisis caused by Hurricane Katrina, it became painfully clear to this nation and the world that a large segment of American society is locked out and literally left behind. The remnants of the same injustice we marched on Washington to protest 43 years ago was still visible in the drama of neglect and abandonment that we watched unfold before our very eyes only one year ago. "In the Civil Rights Movement, we looked to the federal government as a sympathetic referee in the cause of equal justice. Where is the leadership today in the White House or the Congress that realizes the purpose of government is not just to serve the rich and the self-sufficient, but also to defend the poor, the sick, the elderly, the starving, the homeless, and the suffering in America. Yes, self-reliance is the responsibility of every individual, but Hurricane Katrina proves that virtue can fail. What then is the responsibility of a humane, compassionate society when people cannot fend for themselves? The legacy of a great nation is judged not by the might of its military or the size of its treasury, but by the way it treats its citizens. There is still time to change the reality of American neglect that Hurricane Katrina brings to light. I hope that in this session of Congress we will have the courage and the dignity to put politics aside and let justice for all the victims of Hurricane Katrina prevail."
08.22.2006	"The radio ads issued by the National Black Republican Association," said Rep. Lewis, "claiming that Martin Luther King Jr. was a Republican are deceptive and misleading. "I knew Martin Luther King, Jr. He was my friend. He was my colleague. We worked together, and I know that he voted for John F. Kennedy, the Democratic candidate for President, in 1960. I know he voted for Lyndon Johnson for president in 1964 and not Barry Goldwater. And if he had lived, he would have voted for Hubert Humphrey in 1968 and not the Republican candidate Richard Nixon. "These ads are an insult to the legacy and the memory of Martin Luther King, Jr. They are an affront to all that he stood for and to everyone who worked with him and followed him. They should be withdrawn and denounced by the Republican Party. Both parties made mistakes and blunders when it came to the issues of civil rights and race, but the great majority of African Americans identify with the Democratic Party because of its great history of championing the causes of those who have been left out and left behind, the cause of civil rights and social justice."
08.02.2006	Mrs. Ora Crawley, the oldest sibling of Rep. John Lewis (D-GA), died on Thursday July 27, 2006, in Detroit, Michigan. She was 70 years old. Mrs. Crawley was a native of Alabama but lived in Detroit for many years. She is survived by five brothers other than Rep. Lewis and two sisters. She had two children-one son, Donzell Crawley, and one daughter, Dorothy Crawley Powell. She has 5 grandchildren and one great-grandchild. The funeral will be held on Friday August 4th at 11 AM at the Second Ebenezer Baptist Church in Detroit.
07.28.2006	Rep. John Lewis, a long-time proponent of non-violence, called for peace in all Middle East conflicts. Rep. Lewis is more than an advocate for non-violence, he practiced non-violent resistance during the Civil Rights Movement, was arrested and jailed over 40 times and was beaten by police during the Freedom Rides and several non-violent protests against legalized segregation and discrimination. More recently, Rep. Lewis, along with four other members of the Congressional Black Caucus, was jailed after a peaceful protest in front of the Embassy of the Sudan against the violence in Darfur. He was also arrested during the anti-apartheid efforts against South Africa during the 1980's. He has been an out-spoken critic of the war in Iraq. He made this statement recently about the conflicts in the Middle East. "Over 300 civilians in Lebanon were killed in one week. The United Nations reports more than one-third of them are children. And Prime Minister Siniora has pleaded for mercy. What will it take for us as a world community to finally say enough is enough? We must stop the violence and give peace a chance. "When will the warring factions in Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and the United States be willing to say that they have spilled enough innocent blood? When will they say it is time for us to lay down the tools and instruments of war? "Can we hear the words of Gandhi, perhaps stronger now than ever before, ‘We must choose non-violence or non-existence?' Are we finally willing to hear the words of Martin Luther King, Jr. ‘We must learn to live as brothers and sisters or perish as fools?' Can we, the most powerful nation in the world, use our influence, to raise these questions and give peace a chance? "We are one people, one family--the human family--and we must find a way to understand each other, to make peace with each other, and learn to live together. We must find a way to lay down the tools and instruments of war."
07.26.2006	Although Rep. John Lewis has attended every presidential signing ceremony of the Voting Rights Act since it was first signed by Pres. Lyndon Johnson in 1965, he will not be able to be present at this one for personal reasons. He will be attending a funeral in Massachusetts. "The reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act," said Congressman Lewis, "is a historic occasion. It demonstrates our willingness as a nation to continue to meet our democratic destiny, to continue to open up the political process so that all American citizens can fully participate. "I was there 41 years ago when President Lyndon Johnson first signed the act on August 6, 1965, and since that time we have witnessed a non-violent revolution under the rule of law, a revolution of values, a revolution of ideas. But justice is not a state, it is an act, and each generation must do its part to confirm its commitment to equality and fairness in America. "With this signing, the members of the Congress and the President have done their part. The President's clear message that he would sign this bill, from the very beginning of the public debate, was helpful to its passage. Also instrumental was the powerful, overwhelming record of persistent voting rights discrimination amassed and fiercely defended by Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and fellow committee member and chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Mel Watt (D-NC). "The Voting Rights Act has always enjoyed a majority of support in the Congress, on both sides of the aisle, ever since its first passage in 1965. That 40-year commitment reveals our determination as a legislative body to protect the integrity of the democratic process in America. "I would have liked to have been able to offer these sentiments to the president personally, and I am deeply appreciative of his invitation. Unfortunately, my chief of staff's father died on Saturday. And when I searched my soul, I decided that since the work on this reauthorization was done, that I should support someone in a time of great need who has given all he has to support me."
07.13.2006	July 13, 2006 -The following is a transcript of the comments Congressman Lewis made today during the debate in support of H.R. 9, the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006, which reauthorizes the expiring sections of the Voting Rights Act. "Mr. Chairman, before the Voting Rights Act was passed in 1965, all across the American Southern very few African Americans were registered to vote. Men and women of color stood in unmovable lines. In Lowndes Count, Alabama between Selma and Montgomery, more than 80 percent of that county was African American, but not a single African American was registered to vote. "Many people were harassed, jailed, beaten, and some were even shot and killed. I cannot forget that in 1965, three young men that I knew--James Chaney, Mickey Schwerner, and Andy Goodman-two were white, one was black. They went out to investigate the burning of a church, a church that was to be used to prepare people to pass the so-called literacy test. "These three young men were arrested, jailed. They were taken from the jail by the sheriff and his deputy beaten, shot and killed. They were killed for trying to help people become participants in the democratic process. During that dark period in our recent past, black men and women who were teachers in public schools, colleges and university professors were told that they could not read well enough, and they failed their so-called literacy test. On one occasion a would-be voter was asked to name the number of bubbles in a bar of soap. On another occasion, a person was asked to count the number of jelly beans in a jar. "Yes, we have made some progress. We have come a distance. We are no longer met with bullwhips, fire hoses, and violence when we attempt to register and vote. But the sad fact is, the sad truth is discrimination still exists. And that is why we still need the Voting Rights Act. And we must not go back to the dark past. We cannot separate the debate today from our history and the past we have traveled. When we marched from Selma to Montgomery in 1965, it was dangerous. It was a matter of life and death. I was beaten. I had a concussion at the bridge. I almost died. I gave blood, but some of my colleagues gave their very lives." "We must pass this act without any amendment. It is the right thing to do, not just for us, but for generations yet unborn. When historians pick up their pens and write about this period, let it be said that those of us in the Congress in 2006, we did the right thing. And our forefathers and our foremothers would be very proud of us. Let us pass a clean bill without any amendments.
06.27.2006	June 27, 2006 - Does Rep. Westmoreland know American history? "My words have been used out of context in a misleading manner to justify abolition of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act by Rep. Westmoreland and other enemies of the VRA in the House and Senate. I said during my 2001 court testimony that there has been a transformation in America, and that statement is obviously true to anyone who is familiar with American civil rights history. America is vastly different today than it was just 40 years ago, when people lost their jobs, their farms, and their very lives just for attempting to register to vote. Overt brutality is no longer an accepted response to the voter registration of minority citizens. People no longer meet fire hoses, state troopers and attack dogs when they go to government offices to register to vote today. The cessation of this kind of hostility represents a significant change in the climate and very nature of America, but it does not indicate that voting discrimination in this country has been eliminated. I have never said, nor can any objective party who looks at the evidence say, that voting discrimination no longer exists in America today. "Beyond that, the philosophy of non-violent resistance is fundamentally optimistic. The transformation that I have witnessed convinces me that we are involved in an on-going, evolutionary process of preparing to lay down the burden of race in America, but you cannot find one word from me that suggests the job is done. Freedom is not free. It is not a state; it is an act, and it requires a series of continuous, on-going actions to ensure our unbroken path toward freedom as a nation. Our progress should be an encouragement to continue down the road to equal justice in America, not to turn back the clock.Let the Opponents of Section 5 Respond to the EvidenceThe fact is that there have been over 1000 objections issued by the Justice Department since the last reauthorization of Section 5 in 1982. The evidence is so overwhelming that the Judiciary Committee voted 33 to 1, both Republicans and Democrats, in favor of Section 5 reauthorization. Furthermore, they felt Section 5 was still such a pertinent remedy to current voting discrimination problems that they returned that section to its original power in the H.R. 9 reauthorization bill, since it had been weakened by recent judicial decisions.The opponents to Section 5 must be made to confront the persistent evidence of voting discrimination in America. How does Mr. Westmoreland respond to the DOJ objections to discriminatory voting plans that occurred in his district in the cities of Ashburn, Forsyth, East Dublin, Macon, and Griffin and in the counties of Bibb and Twiggs? How do he and Mr. Norwood respond to the 20 objections lodged by the DOJ since1982 regarding statewide voting plans deemed to be in violation of the VRA? There is an old Southern saying that goes the dog that howls the most is the one who got hit. Is it possible that Rep. Westmoreland wants to gut Section 5 because Georgia and the 9th congressional district have been required to change discriminatory laws? I think that possibility bears some scrutiny.The Problem with the Westmoreland and Norwood AmendmentsThe truth is that Section 5 was intended to prohibit contemporary acts of voting discrimination; higher minority voter turnout and increased numbers of elected officials are a by-product, not the aim, of Section 5. Though there are no more poll taxes and grandfather clauses, today's tools are discriminatory redistricting and annexation plans, at-large elections schemes, unexpected re-registration requirements, sudden polling place changes, and the development of new rules for candidate qualification. All of these methods are used to discriminate against minorities and have lead to over 1000 objections by the DOJ since 1982. The Supreme Court itself has recognized that seemingly insignificant changes to voting plans can actually be subtle attempts to discriminate.Section 5 has been the only quick, cost effective, and efficient means ever developed to address voting discrimination. Prior to the enactment of the VRA, jurisdictions had to litigate voting discrimination claims, and after one method, such as the "white primary," was found unconstitutional, then a new method was simply implemented. Further, while a law or practice was being litigated, it usually remained enforceable, thus voting rights violations continued during protracted cases. Section 5 now provides a simple administrative alternative or a judicial avenue in which jurisdictions have only to show that a change is not discriminatory. Bail-out provisions already exist within the current legislation. In fact, several districts in Virginia have successfully applied the bail-out provision of the VRA. Bailing-out under the current law is not difficult, it is not expensive, as Rep. Westmoreland claims (average cost is $5000), and jurisdictions can easily prove their case if they want to bail out. Under the current bailout procedure, jurisdictions must show that they are free from discrimination. Under the Westmoreland Amendment the burden is upon the U.S. Attorney General to determine which jurisdictions do not discriminate, which would neutralize the power of the Section 5 by requiring the DOJ to spend its time proving which jurisdictions do not discriminate, instead of preventing voter discrimination as it happens.Using the last three presidential elections as a "trigger" to determine which jurisdictions should be subject to federal clearance of their election law changes would leave only one state under the purview of Section 5-essentially abolishing Section 5. (That one state would be Hawaii, which has no significant history of voting discrimination). Knowing that an amendment to eliminate Section 5 would not pass, the Norwood Amendment is a back-door attempt to get rid of Section 5. The coverage formula does not need to be updated. The current record reveals the jurisdictions with a pervasive history of voting discrimination are the same jurisdictions today that continue to evidence voting discrimination. Therefore, the current trigger, which utilizes elections turnout in 1975, successfully identifies today's VRA violators.Westmoreland Call for "Negotiation" Subverts Established House Procedure Mr. Westmoreland says he is willing to meet with me and the CBC "to create a new formula" for Section 5 coverage. But as a member of the CBC, I think I can say that we as a caucus believe in the hearing process established by the House of Representatives. Mr. Westmoreland had an opportunity to participate in those hearings, and testimony was offered representing his point of view. In the end, those ideas were rejected by the committee as insufficient to address the continuing incidence of voting discrimination in America. H.R. 9 was developed to answer, not the queasiness of public officials in the covered states, but the evidence of violation that permeates the House record. Just as Mr. Westmoreland wants to nullify Section 5 of the VRA, he wants to nullify the Judiciary Committee record and disregard the facts.In summary, the Westmoreland and Norwood Amendments are age-old attempts to nullify the law and disregard the facts for political gain. We have made those mistakes before in this country, especially as it relates to matters of race, and I hope this nation and this Congress will not choose to go down that dark road again. I hope we have evolved enough at this juncture to choose a better way, a way that is not regressive, but a way that will helps us continue our preparations as a nation and as a people to lay down the burden of race in America.
06.22.2006	June 22, 2006 - Rep. John Lewis spoke out against H.R. 5638, the Permanent Estate Tax Relief Bill on the House floor today. He made the following comments (as prepared for delivery): "Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor today because I am sick and tired of the greed that is prevailing in this House. The Republican majority today will help millionaires with an estate tax cut, while forgetting hard-working Americans - Millions of them - by refusing to increase the minimum wage. "This is unbelievable. It is immoral. And it is wrong. "The majority must wake up and see the struggles of minimum wage earners. They work hard, every day, to feed their families. People cannot afford health care, people are struggling to fill their cars with gas. Many live in poverty; they all live pay-check to pay-check, and they have not seen an increase in the minimum wage in 9 years. This Congress should be ashamed. "When will we stop helping the super rich? They don't need our help! When will we start to take care of the least among us? "Franklin Delano Roosevelt said that ‘the test of our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it is whether we provide enough for those that have too little'." "We are failing this test and we are failing the American people. This is not progress. This is greed and it is disgraceful."
06.22.2006	June 22, 2006 - Rep. John Lewis joined Rep. Juanita Millender-McDonald (D-CA) in her opposition to the Federal Election Integrity Act proposed by Rep. Henry Hyde (R-IL). Rep. Millender-McDonald, ranking Democrat on the House Administration committee, held a news conference today in response to a committee hearing on Arizona Proposition 200. Rep. Lewis released this statement in support of the minority view on this matter: "41 years after the signing of the Voting Rights Act, we should be making it simple, we should be making it very simple to participate in the democratic process. In recent years, we have taken steps to open up the election process and let all of our citizens in. "Now we want to take a step back and require voters to prove their citizenship or show a government issued-ID in order to vote. Many elderly citizens, the disabled, people in small, rural communities-they don't have a passport. They may never have owned a birth certificate or a driver's license. Some of these citizens have to pay a fee or travel many miles to government offices, wait several weeks before their ID's are delivered. "The Federal Integrity Act will place an extra burden on thousands of American citizens who have a right to participate in our democracy. That is not right. This is not fair. That is not just. "The right to vote is precious. It is almost sacred. It is the heart and soul of the democratic process. It is the key to the protections that have made this the most powerful government in the world. "If we can fight for democracy around the globe, we should stand for democracy here at home and offer every citizen a chance to be heard. We should offer every citizen a voice in the democratic process in this nation. Thank you."
06.21.2006	June 21, 2006 - "It is unfortunate and disappointing," said Rep. Lewis, "that we have encountered a setback in the passage of the Voting Rights Act reauthorization, H.R. 9. The bi-partisan, bi-cameral support of the House and Senate leadership for the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006, carefully crafted by Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Committee Member Rep. Mel Watt (D-NC), was a high point in the legislative history of the 109th Congress. "It is very important that we move on H.R. 9 before the July break, and I hope that this Congress will be able to see its way clear to make that happen. It is ironic and very troubling that the opposition to H.R. 9 stems from the major objections of members of Congress from Georgia. Georgia is the last place that should seek to relieve itself from the commitment to fully empowered, equal participation that democracy implies. "After all, it was during the middle of the last census that the Georgia State Legislature authored a redistricting plan that severely diluted the power of the African American vote. It was Georgia that developed the modern-day poll tax, as one federal judge called it, that disenfranchises rural voters, the elderly, the disabled, students and other minorities who have no government photo ID. It is the state of Georgia that has received over 80 objections from the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice since the last reauthorization, pointing to discriminatory voting plans agreed to by state, county, and local governments. And Georgia represents only a part of the over 1000 objections the DOJ has seen fit to make since the last reauthorization in 1982. "The evidence shows that voting discrimination in America is not dead, and the Voting Rights Act must retain its original power in order to assure that democracy prevails in every hill and valley, every city and suburb, on every fertile farm and every desert plain in America. If we as a nation and a people are truly committed to the full participation of every American in the democratic process, then there should be no serious impediment to the passage of H.R. 9. To every Member who has looked at the overwhelming evidence, it is clear that we have come a great distance, but we still have a great distance to go before we can lay down the burden of voting discrimination in America."
06.18.2006	June 28, 2006 - Rep. John Lewis opposes the Stearns Amendment (No. 21) to H.R. 5672, the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY 2007. This amendment would mandate that the Justice Department spend no funds to enforce the language assistance provisions of the Voting Rights Act (VRA). Section 203 of the VRA requires that minority citizens who have been subjected to a history of discrimination be provided language assistance to ensure that they can make informed choices at the polls. There are some mistaken ideas about Section 203 of the VRA. It does not offer voting assistance to illegal or non-naturalized immigrants. It refers only to U.S. citizens who may not speak English fluently enough to comprehend some of the complex ballot initiatives that are often a part of the voting environment today. More than 70% of the citizens who use the language assistance provision of the VRA are born in the United States and include not only Latino citizens, but Alaskan natives, American Indians and Asian Americans. "The Stearns Amendment is a modern-day literacy test," said Rep. Lewis. "It is a back-door attempt, through the appropriations process, to cripple federal enforcement of Section 203 of the Voting Rights Act. We must decide as a nation whether we want to live in a truly democratic society, or whether we want to reserve democracy for a privileged few. Are we suggesting, through the Stearns Amendment, that Native Americans, the only original citizens of this land, should not have the language assistance they may need to participate in the democratic process? That is not right, that is not fair, that is not just." Language assistance is vital to the equal representation of Native Americans. In Apache County, Arizona, DOJ enforcement of the language assistance provisions of the Voting Rights Act resulted in a 26 percent increase in Native American voter turnout, and it allows Native veterans who have defended democracy abroad, Navajo Code talkers who aided American intelligence efforts in World War II, as well as elderly tax-paying Native American citizens to participate knowledgeably in the electoral process. The provision of Chinese language ballots in New York City helped more than 100,000 Asian-American citizens vote in recent elections. Even though the city is home to the largest Asian-American community in the country, they had never been able to elect an Asian American to a major elected post. Finally, due to DOJ language assistance support mandated by Section 203 of the Voting Rights Act, John Lui was elected to the City Council in 2001. These are just a few examples of the powerful benefit of the language assistance portions of the VRA. Rep. Lewis encourages his colleagues to vote NO on the Stearns Amendment.
06.16.2006	June 16, 2006 -As a founding member of the Out-of-Iraq Caucus, a coalition of 72 members of the House of Representatives who are seeking ways to end the conflict in Iraq, Rep. John Lewis spoke on the floor last night in support of Rep. John Murtha's Resolution to redeploy American troops from Iraq. That resolution also mandates that no permanent U.S. military bases remain in Iraq after troop withdrawal. Congressman Lewis made the following statement on the House floor last night: Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Mr. Murtha, for yielding me time. Mr. Speaker, it is time for us to close this very grim chapter in American history. A chapter that is leaving a dark stain on the moral fabric of our nation and compromising our credibility among the community of nations. As Gandhi once said, "Liberty and democracy become unholy when their hands are dyed red with innocent blood." Mr. Speaker, we have buried 25 hundred of our nation's mothers, father, daughters, sons, husbands, wives, brothers, and sisters.The lives of 18 thousand men and women have been changed forever. Some have lost their arms, their legs, and their sight in this unnecessary conflict. Mr. Speaker, war is messy. War is bloody. It tends not to only hide the truth, but to sacrifice the truth. While we may have won some military victories, those do not erase the mistakes of a preemptive war. They will not silence the questions that are troubling the minds of the American people. They know today that Iraq did not pose an immediate threat. There were no weapons of mass destruction, and they see that we are deeply involved in a misguided conflict. Mr. Speaker, I deeply believe the American people want to bring their children home. We are not safer today, than we were before we went to war. This war is not the answer. So we must find a way, out of no way, to bring our young men and our young women home. Thank you.
06.14.2006	June 13, 2006 -Since January of this year, Congressman John Lewis has moved $6.25 million of appropriations through the House of Representatives that will benefit Georgia's 5th District, and he will continue to shepherd those projects through Senate approval. This afternoon the House Labor-HHS Appropriations Chairman's Amendment verified that the project requests made by Rep. John Lewis and listed below will receive funding. "There is nothing more important," said Rep. John Lewis, "than securing federal support for district projects. I am glad that my seniority in Congress and my work on the Ways and Means Committee affords me the opportunity to contribute substantial federal support to worthwhile institutional and community efforts that will improve and sustain the quality of life for residents of the Atlanta metropolitan area." Grady Health System Disaster Preparedness Center-Atlanta, GA: $550,000 to strengthen the Emergency Department Information System within Grady Hospital and ensure that the status and activities of all ED patients can be recorded, tracked, displayed, analyzed, and archived efficiently and comprehensively. This system's comprehensive coordination of information will support Grady's long term plans to move to an "E-Health" record system. The accessibility of patients' medical information will also offer medical personnel a thorough overview of patient history and the ability to perceive patient trends, which will improve the efficiency of patient care, confidentiality standards, and patient safety throughout the hospital. Fulton County Jail Diversion Program-Atlanta, GA: $300,000. The Jail Diversion Program offers a more comprehensive approach to the treatment of mentally ill inmates who may have experienced only limited mental health service during their incarceration. Research has shown that addressing the mental illness of inmates drastically reduces rates of recidivism for misdemeanor-related mental health and substance abuse issues, overcrowding in jail and prison, domestic and family violence, hospital emergency room visits, and other social problems. The Southeastern Center for Emerging Biologic Threats: $500,000 supports the ongoing work of the Southeastern Center for Emerging Biologic Threats (SECEBT) to facilitate the development of innovative collaborations between center partners, as well as other business and community groups. (more) The funding will be used to complement successful research, training and innovative programs related to bioterrorism and emerging biologic threats, including West Nile virus, epidemic influenza, avian influenza, and community associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. SCLC/W.O.M.E.N., Inc. Empowerment Training Center-Atlanta, GA: $100,000 to enhance and expand the services currently offered in the Empowerment Training Center. The center helps adult learners raise their academic competencty, strengthens parenting skills, and develops and improves marketable skills. Funding will support the hiring of teachers to meet the increasing numbers of students who need these services, the purchase of updated training materials, and will expand the capacity of the Center to deliver training to the underserved population. Rep. Lewis also supported the following project included in the bill: Fulton County Department of Health & Wellness: $250,000 toward the development of a Fulton County Department of Health and Wellness emergency preparedness package that will inform and protect the citizens of Fulton County in case of a natural disaster or terrorist attack. The package consists of: (1) Public Information Campaign; (2) Volunteer Program; (3) Backup Generators; and (4) Telecommunications. These projects have been approved by the House Appropriations Committee and must be voted on by the full House and the Senate to become law.
06.13.2006	Use of luxury jet raises questions of abuse June 13, 2006 - Senior Ways and Means Committee Democrats John Lewis (GA) and Pete Stark (CA) today questioned Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Mike Leavitt's use of a costly jet, leased by the Centers for Disease Control for emergency purposes, to facilitate a promotional tour in support of the Administration's stalled Medicare prescription drug program. "I think it is a shame and a disgrace," said Rep. John Lewis, "that a Member of the President's cabinet would use resources placed in the public trust, resources intended to rush emergency disaster relief personnel to Americans who are seriously ill, for a public relations junket. Apparently, there were instances that the CDC could have used this jet for justifiable medical emergencies, while Mr. Leavitt had the plane engaged. This is an irresponsible use of taxpayer dollars." The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) leases the jet through Phoenix Air Group in Cartersville, Georgia for a price of $252,000 per month, with additional fees of $3,000 per flight hour for its use. As mentioned in the attached legislation, Congress authorized the Department of Health and Human Services to use the plane during "times of emergencies" and "in response to significant events." According to CDC and HHS officials, taxpayers have already spent over $2.1 million for the use of the airplane in 2006. "This plane is supposed to help the CDC respond to emergencies. Secretary Leavitt has abused his authority to use this plane by flying to press conferences and sticking taxpayers with the bill," cautioned Rep. Pete Stark. "While Secretary Leavitt has a job to do, he must be accountable to taxpayers who trust him to use their money responsibly. At a staggering cost of $3,000 per flight hour, Leavitt's jet-setting in the CDC plane has been far more expensive than any first class ticket would have been. These expenditures call into question his judgment and his use of the public trust." Conference report on FY 2006 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations Act (H.R. 3010, H.Rept. 109-337; PL 109-149) SEC. 227. In addition to any other amounts available for such travel, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts available from this or any other appropriation for the purchase, hire, maintenance, or operation of aircraft by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shall be available for travel by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and employees of the Department of Health and Human Services accompanying the Secretary or the Director during such travel. From the Statement of Managers: DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES TRAVEL The conference agreement includes a new provision granting authority to the Secretary to use, at his discretion, charter aircraft under contract with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The Secretary has significant operational responsibilities in times of emergencies and in the days following such emergencies. The Department is the primary agency for directing public health and medical services in response to significant events. Due to the unpredictable nature of such events, the conferees believe the Secretary must be in a posture to respond and communicate as an event is unfolding. Yet, existing travel limitations on the Secretary make this extremely difficult. The availability of CDC's charter aircraft will allow the Secretary to immediately return to Washington or rapidly move to another location as the situation dictates, at the same time being able to securely communicate with and direct the Department. The conference agreement also extends this authority to the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The conferees understand that, due to existing restrictions, the Director on a number of occasions has not been able to accompany employees of the Agency responding to public health emergencies. The conferees expect the Secretary and the Director of CDC to exercise this authority in an economical and judicious manner. The conferees request that the Secretary report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate regarding the use of this authority in the annual justification of estimates for the Appropriations Committees and at the end of the third quarter of each fiscal year.
06.07.2006	June 7, 2006 - "Ever since my first day in Congress 20 years ago," said Rep. John Lewis, "I have remained focused on using all the resources available at the federal level to help the Atlanta metropolitan area confront the issues of traffic congestion. These FY'07 funds will help our community find ways to improve the quality of life for residents of and visitors to one of the most important urban centers in the South." Rep. John Lewis is responsible for securing the $1.7 million in funding for the following 5th District projects in the FY07 Transportation, Treasury, HUD House Appropriations bill, and he supported $1.2 million in additional funding for the remaining projects. The Belt Line [draft environment study and preliminary engineering]: $250,000 Georgia State University Science Park: $100,000 East Point Roadway Improvement Project: $250,000 Atlanta Botanical Gardens: $100,000 Georgia Tech Research Transportation Center: $500,000 Clifton Corridor Study: $500,000 Additional Funding: Cobb County Chattahoochee Hill Country Trail Master Plan: $200,000 MARTA Bus Acquisition Program: $500,000 MARTA Northline Corridor: $250,000 CTE (Southern Fuel Cell Technology): $500,000 These appropriations have been approved by the House and still need to be passed by the U.S. Senate to become law.
06.05.2006	June 5, 2006 - Rep. John Lewis was deeply dismayed by President Bush's support of the Senate proposal to constitutionally define marriage, as an attempt to ban state recognition of same-sex marriage. "I have fought too long and too hard, "said Rep. John Lewis, "to abolish legalized discrimination in America to be silent when the President of the United States advocates writing it into the U.S. Constitution. This marriage amendment is political pandering of the worst kind. And I think the American people see this Administration's sudden, renewed interest in it for the cynical political ploy that it really is. The American people realize that the only time they hear about the need to protect the sanctity of marriage is during an election season. President Bush and his supporters used this amendment in the last election, and they are using it now, to distract American voters from the missteps of a failed White House. "The President and his supporters want to whip voters into an emotional frenzy so they will forget about price gouging at the gas pump and this Administration's ties to big oil. They hope Americans will forget about the human cost of a misguided war in Iraq or the failures of the Medicare prescription drug program. But Americans will not forget how they were abandoned during Hurricane Katrina, how budget cuts have left working families, college students, veterans, the poor, the sick, the elderly and the disabled almost defenseless against an economic policy that works for the rich but is pushing working Americans into poverty. This is deceptive, misleading, divisive politics that shows no regard for the sanctity of the U.S. Constitution and no respect for the dignity or the intelligence of the American people."
06.01.2006	The Multicultural Festival is a project of the Congressman Lewis's 5th District Committee on Multicultural Initiatives. It is a celebration of the cultural diversity of the Atlanta metropolitan area. There will be music, dance, art, and food for all to enjoy. WHEN: Sunday June 4, 2006, at 12 noon until 2 PM WHERE: Grant Park Pavilion 800 Cherokee Avenue, SE Atlanta
05.19.2006	On Saturday May 20, Rep. John Lewis will join other participants in the Freedom Ride movement, including Jim Zwerg, Rev. Solomon Seay, his colleague congressional colleague Rep. Artur Davis, State Sen. Quinton Ross, and other state and local officials to commemorate the 45th anniversary of this historic activism. They will attend ceremonies in Montgomery including the unveiling of a plaque at the home of Dr. Richard Harris (333 Jackson St.) at 2:30 PM and Rep. Lewis will address celebrants during a program sponsored by the Alabama Historical Commission at the First Baptist Church in Montgomery beginning at 5:00 PM. The First Baptist Church was formerly pastored by the Rev. Ralph Abernathy, top aide to Martin Luther King, Jr. On May 4, 1961, 12 young Americans, both black and white, determined to desegregate public transportation by sharing seats on a Greyhound bus trip through the Deep South. The Supreme Court had recently decided that segregation on interstate transportation was unconstitutional and the Congress for Racial Equality (CORE) decided to test that strategy by developing what became known as the Freedom Rides. Lewis participated in the first ride beginning in Washington, DC and planned to end up in New Orleans on the 7th anniversary of the Brown v. Board of Education decision, May 17, 1961. Rep. John Lewis, then 21-years-old and an active participant in the Nashville lunch counter sit-in movement, was one of the first participants selected for the ride. He shared his seat with another 21-year-old Wisconsin resident, Jim Zwerg. Their trip was largely uneventful as they traveled through Maryland, Virginia and other states, until they reached the outskirts of Anniston, Alabama where the bus was stopped and surrounded by an angry mob of 200 people. The riders, including Lewis and Zwerg, were attacked and beaten and the bus was firebombed. The riders were separated by race, arrested, and Lewis and his fellow protestors were subsequently released and left at the Alabama state border by the police. They thought they would probably be lynched, but they were able to find shelter at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Richard Harris, who at the risk of their own lives hid Lewis and the other riders for four days until they could be rescued. Then Attorney-General Robert Kennedy had to declare martial law and require a National Guard escort to allow Lewis and others to continue the rides. Dr. Harris was a former Tuskegee Airman and a registered pharmacist in Montgomery who owned Dean Drug Store. The store was a center for local activism in Montgomery during the Civil Rights Movement, but was destroyed as a part of a local development project. Altogether 400 young men and women participated in the Freedom Rides that successfully brought an end to segregation in public transportation in America.
05.15.2006	Congressman John Lewis joined other members of the Congressional Black Caucus to call for an end to the genocide in Darfur, Sudan responsible for the slaughter of thousands of innocent people, the raping of women and girls, the enslavement of 8000 Africans, and the displacement of millions of Sudanese citizens. To date, an estimated 450,000 Darfurians have died since the beginning of the genocide in 2003, more than 2.5 million have been displaced from their homes and nearly 3.5 million people are currently in need of emergency humanitarian assistance as a result of the crisis orchestrated by the Government of Sudan and its allied Janjaweed militias. Rep. Lewis joined CBC Chairman Melvin Watt (D-NC), Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Al Green (D-TX) and D.C. Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton in front of the Embassy of the Sudan today in Washington in this non-violent protest. All 6 members were arrested by the Secret Service and taken to a D.C. jail. A veteran of the Civil Rights Movement, Congressman Lewis has been arrested over 40 times in peaceful, non-violent protests against injustice in America and around the world. He was also arrested at the South African Embassy in the 1980's in American protests against apartheid. "`Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere'," said Congressman Lewis. "We were arrested today to demonstrate the need for our government to do more to end the raping and killing of innocent Sudanese citizens. The world cannot stand by silently and witness the mass murders of our fellow human beings. Yesterday it was Auschwitz, Rwanda, and Bosnia. Today it is Darfur. Tomorrow it will be somewhere else. As citizens of the most powerful nation on earth and as members of the world community, we must do all we can to put an end to all genocide, ethnic cleansing and government sponsored terrorism." Recently, a peace agreement was reached in Abuja, Nigeria between the Government of Sudan and the Sudanese Liberation Movement (SLM). The CBC thinks that the agreement falls short of expectations to provide protection to civilians on the ground, more political representation for Darfur in the central government, and adequate mechanisms for ensuring disarmament of the Janjaweed. (more) During the press conference, Chairman Watt and the CBC listed the following demands to stop the genocide in Darfur: Cessation of Violence - The government of Sudan and its Janjaweed militias must immediately stop the violence against Darfurians; UN Peacekeepers - A Chapter 7 UN peacekeeping mission to assist the African Union Mission; Accountability - Accountability for government officials and Janjaweed responsible for genocide; Emergency Food -President Bush must push the Government of Sudan to release its 300,000 - 500,000 metric tons of grain reserves to feed the starving people of Darfur; Civilian Protection - Protection of civilians who remain vulnerable; Refugee Return - The Administration must work to ensure the Government of Sudan does all it can for the internally displaced and the refugees of Darfur to restore security so they can return to their homes soon, and; Full Implementation of Peace Agreements - Full implementation of the Darfur Peace Agreement and the Comprehensive Peace Agreement between the North and South. A growing number of members of Congress are pushing for a measure passed in the House recently to be signed into law. House Resolution 3127 seeks to hold Sudanese government officials and Janjaweed commanders accountable for their involvement in the genocide. The CBC was the first to highlight the crisis in Darfur and on June 24, 2004 introduced H. Con Res 467, declaring genocide in the region.
05.15.2006	Today is the last day for eligible citizens to sign-up for the Medicare prescription drug program, known as Medicare Part D. Though Congressman Lewis agrees that a prescription drug program is a necessary Medicare benefit, he believes that Part D is deeply flawed legislation that needs to be fixed. Numerous news reports on the implementation of this benefit reveal it is incredibly confusing, so confusing many physicians and attorneys cannot comprehend the program. This confusion is compounded by the fact that the Medicare Hotline, a service supposed to help seniors navigate the program's complexities, has been found by the GAO to deliver faulty responses to seniors' questions. Further, most seniors are still unaware that they will be penalized at the rate of 1% per month if they do not sign-up by today's deadline. "Healthcare should be considered a right in America," said Rep. Lewis, "not a privilege. It should not depend upon the size of a person's wallet or the numbers in a zip code. I firmly believe that all Americans need and deserve to have access to medical coverage in order to ensure the `life, liberty and pursuit of happiness' that our government is supposed to enable." "However, this legislation penalizes the poor, the sick, the elderly and the disabled more than it helps. Half of seniors are unaware that they need to sign up by today, and only a quarter of those who need it the most have enrolled. Americans need to question their representatives to find out whom this Congress serves. Is it interested in serving the health insurance industry above American citizens? If its goal is to serve the people, then the answer is simple. We need to extend the deadline for this prescription drug program and waive the penalties until beneficiaries can make informed choices about whether to participate. Finally, we need to fix this prescription drug benefit so that it meets the needs of the vulnerable American citizens it is meant to protect." Links to Relevant Reading on the Subject [USA Today, 4/25/06] [Wall Street Journal. 5/4/06] [GAO Report on Medicare Part D] [Washington Post, 5/10/06]
05.10.2006	Congressman John Lewis denounced the tax reconciliation bill as immoral and unjust. In brief, the economic growth touted by Administration interests has come at the expense of the American worker. Real income for a typical household has fallen by more than $1600 since President Bush has been in office while costs for healthcare, insurance, gasoline, utilities, food, education and all the costs necessary to manage a successful family have risen. Congressman Lewis believes the Congress should be assisting working Americans, instead of heaping them with more financial responsibility. He made these comments on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today: Mr. Speaker, there is a time when politicians must put politics aside. There is a time when we must stand up and meet our moral obligation as servants of the people. Millions of Americans are struggling today. They work hard. They are just trying to make ends meet. They are trying to make a way out of no way. And they are looking to Congress for a little bit of light, a little bit of hope after a hard day's work. They don't want a hand out, they just need a fair shake. But with this tax bill, we have abandoned our responsibility to the people who elected us. We have shut the door in their faces. We have told them there is no room in the inn. In this bill, you have cut off the orphaned, the old, the poor, the weak, and the sick. In this bill, you cut Medicaid, Medicare, veteran's benefits and housing programs all in the name of financial discipline. Then how can we, in good conscience, pass a tax bill that helps the rich get richer and drives millions of our citizens into financial despair? We are asking the poor to sacrifice! Shouldn't the rich sacrifice too? Where is the mercy? Where is the compassion? Where is the fairness? Our tax policy should be fair. I ask you, Mr. Speaker, is it right to have a tax bill that saves hard-working American families only $10 a year, while millionaires save thousands? With $10 you can't even fill a tank full of gas! You can't pay the light bill. You can't put food on the table or clothes on your children's backs. Mr. Speaker, this bill is not right. It is not fair. It is not just. It demonstrates shameful disregard for the people of this nation. As a nation, as a people, and as a Congress, we must do better, and we can do better. I ask my colleagues to vote against this tax reconciliation bill.
05.05.2006	https://johnlewis.house.gov/administrator/index2.php?option=com_content On Saturday May 6th Congressman Lewis will kick-off the first annual Community Recognition Ceremony. The program will honor individuals who make an outstanding contribution to the Atlanta metropolitan community. Recognition will be offered in several categories: Education, Public Safety, Community Leadership and Volunteerism, Youth Achievement, Arts/Media, and Community Service. Individuals have been nominated by members of the Atlanta community and awardees will be announced during the ceremony. The event will take place on: Saturday May 6, 2006 At the Rialto Center for the Performing Arts 80 Forsyth St., NW Atlanta, Georgia 30303 11:00 AM to 1:00 PM
05.04.2006	Congressman John Lewis reflected on the anniversary of the Freedom Rides today with these comments: "The Freedom Rides are probably the untold story of the Civil Rights Movement. It was 45 years ago today that we began the Freedom Rides. We left Washington, DC on May 4th, 1961, bound for New Orleans in an effort to try to desegregate public transportation in the Deep South. Decades later the whites-only signs have come down, and all people-both blacks and whites, Native Americans, Latinos and Asians, people of all races, colors, nationalities and creeds-can travel from this nation's capitol to New Orleans without being beaten, arrested, and jailed for sitting next to each other. Today there is only one waiting room at the train and bus station, only one lunch counter or dining room at restaurants. "Through the non-violent protests of hundreds, thousands, and millions of our citizens, ordinary people with extraordinary vision, this nation has witnessed a non-violent revolution under the rule of law, a revolution of values, a revolution of ideas. As a nation and as a people, we have come a great distance, but we still have a great distance to go before we lay down the burden of race and class in America. We can take our inspiration from the past and prepare for the future. "In the Civil Rights Movement we used to say that our struggle was more than one day, one season or one year. It was more than one presidential term or one legislative session, it was the struggle of a lifetime. Each generation must continue to do its part to win some victory for humanity. Each generation must continue to do its part to bring us closer to the Beloved Community, a nation at peace with itself."
05.01.2006	Today Congressman Lewis joined forces with other concerned citizens and activists in the Atlanta Metropolitan area to protest price gouging at the gas pump. Helen Butler of the Georgia Coalition for the People's Agenda, Richard Ray President of the Georgia AFL-CIO; Charlie Flemming of the Atlanta North Georgia Labor Council; Patty Durand of the Sierra Club; and Lee Biola of Citizens for Progressive Transit met in front of the Exxon Mobil station at Ponce de Leon and Moreland Avenues in the 5th Congressional District to register their outrage at soaring pump prices in light of record oil company profits. Congressman Lewis made this statement: We come here today to send a message. Americans are being ripped off at the gas pump. We will not be still. We will not be quiet. I believe government is supposed to serve and care for the people of this nation and not leave the citizens to fend for themselves. The Administration we have in Washington today is too beholding to big oil to look out for working families. The Secretary of State is a former member of the board of directors of Chevron. The Secretary of Commerce still has investments in big oil. Vice President Cheney is more than knee-deep in big oil as a former head of Halliburton. He allowed the oil interests to help write the energy policy of this nation. And the President has close ties to and probably still owns stock in big oil. Too many friends of the Administration are making profits on the backs of the American people, so they can't help families in this crisis. This is like the fox guarding the chicken coop. On Meet the Press on yesterday, the Secretary of Energy showed no concern for the devastating affect these outrageous prices are having on American families. He justified these price hikes as market adjustments and never discussed any action he plans to take to help the people of this nation. Before the first congressional investigation is even held, he had the audacity to say that there is no price gouging. It is not fair, it is not right, it is not just that today some Americans have to choose to fill their prescriptions or fill up their cars with gas. This crisis is having a rippling affect. It affects taxi cabs, hotels, restaurants, school systems, and local government. All across the board, people are struggling. Parents are paying more than $100 a week in gas so they can get their children to school, buy groceries, and take care of all the business it takes to raise a family. Where is the leadership in Washington? Where is the leadership in the Congress? Why won't someone speak up on behalf of working families? In another period, not too long ago, in 1962, President Kennedy intervened when steel prices got to high. Why can't this Administration take some action on behalf of the American people? What's good for Exxon Mobil is not necessarily good for America. We need leadership in Washington that believes in serving the people and not just serving themselves and their friends in big oil. We need a Congress and a president that will defend the American people from corporate greed. The people of this nation have to take our country back. We have to take our government out of the hands of corporate America. It is a shame and a disgrace that the American consumers are being ripped off at the pump. We can do better. We can do much better. I urge the people of this district to write letters to Congress and make calls to the White House to make their voices heard in this crisis. Thank you.
04.26.2006	U.S. Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.) has joined forces with U.S Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT), Jim Talent (R-MO), and Rep. Kenny Hulsoff (R-MO) to push legislation that would create two new offices in the Department of Justice. They would focus on investigating and prosecuting unsolved Civil Rights-era murders, like the infamous Emmett Till case in Ms., which served as a catalyst for the modern-day Civil Rights Movement. Other states, like Georgia, also have unsolved murders on the books, such as the 1946 lynching in Monroe, Ga. in which a pregnant African American woman and her husband were forced from their car by a mob. They were dragged 50 yards down a wagon trail and shot while a crowd of 200 people watched. No was ever charged in the murders. Last year the Georgia Association of Black Public Officials urged prosecutors to bring charges in the case. "There are unsolved cases like these in many states in America." said Rep. Lewis, "If we allow these crimes to go unanswered, we cannot candidly declare we are a nation that believes in justice. By using the resources of the federal government to resolve these crimes, we are saying that historical context is no excuse for brutality in America. And we are reclaiming our integrity as a nation by doing what we can to right these wrongs today." The bill would create an Unsolved Crimes Section, within the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice, and an Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Investigative Office within the FBI. Both offices will focus on prosecuting pre-1970 cases that resulted in death and still remain unsolved in coordination with state and local law enforcement officials. The Section Chief would be responsible for prosecuting these cases and would be required to report to Congress and the American people on their actions. If a crime other than murder is discovered during the course of an investigation it will be referred to the appropriate law enforcement officials. The Section would report its findings to Congress annually on September 30th, the end of the federal fiscal year. The bill also provides $10 million in appropriations to establish both offices and funding for the Community Relations Service within the DOJ to work with local communities to solve these crimes. Following is Rep. Lewis's statement at the news conference today: I am very pleased to join Sen. Dodd, Sen. Talent, Rep. Hulshoff and all my House and Senate colleagues today to introduce this important and necessary legislation. We live in a nation that believes in honor and respects the dignity of humankind. With this legislation, we are confirming those values today. We are saying, in effect, that historical context is no excuse for brutality in America. We are rejecting the reasons of yesterday that left these horrible crimes unpunished. We are reclaiming our dignity as a nation by doing what we can to right these wrongs today. Our purpose here is not to open up old wounds, but to begin the process of healing. It is honor that restores dignity. It is justice that heals injustice. The Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act can help us bring this dark chapter of our history to a close, by delivering the focus and the resources necessary to put the mistakes of the past behind us. It is my hope and prayer that the many crimes committed during this nation's struggle for civil rights will be solved as a result of this legislation. And maybe then we will move one step closer to reconciling ourselves with each other. We are one America, one nation, one people, and one human family. Thank you.
03.20.2006	WHO: Rep. John Lewis Harry Boxler, Atlanta Bureau of Planning Ryan Gravel, Beltline Partnership Dr. Catherine Ross, Georgia Tech Transportation Institute Paul Grether, MARTA Gerald Ross, Georgia Department of Transportation WHAT: Town hall meeting to hear updates on transportation projects and issues from city and state experts and to answer the questions of concerned metro Atlanta citizens. WHEN: Saturday March 25, 2006 from 10 AM to 12 Noon WHERE: Atlanta City Hall Auditorium, Old City Council Chamber, 3rd Floor, 55 Trinity Avenue, SW This event is free and open to the public. Seating is limited, so r.s.v.p. to Rachelle O'Neil at (404) 659-0116 or rachelle.o'neil@mail.house.gov or visit the website www.house.gov/johnlewis for more information.
03.07.2006	March 7, 2006 - Congressman John Lewis made the following comments in response to the death of Gordon Parks: "Gordon Parks was an extraordinarily gifted photographer. He used the lens of his camera to capture the pain and the triumph of life in Black America. He photographed the major movements of his time-the Civil Rights Movement and the Great Migration of black people from the rural South to the large urban centers in the North. He used his perceptive eye and photographic skill to paint a very vivid picture of the inner workings of Elijah Muhammad's Nation of Islam. He documented the lives of notable Americans like, Malcolm X, Martin Luther King Jr., as well as other luminaries of religion, politics, and entertainment. "Gordon Parks was the supreme Renaissance man. He was not only a photographer, but a choreographer, painter, director, composer, and author. His movies, "The Learning Tree" and "Shaft" offered divergent perspectives on American life that had a major impact on the life and thinking of many young African Americans. Gordon Parks made a lasting contribution to our society. He was extraordinary, but still so approachable, so human. He was one of the most talented men of our time."
02.16.2006	Proceeds to Benefit the United Negro College Fund February 16, 2006 - Today, Congressman John Lewis (D-GA) and Congresswoman Deborah Pryce (R-OH) will introduce bi-partisan legislation (H.R. 4770) to honor the fiftieth anniversary of the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 with the minting of a commemorative $1 coin. The Civil Rights Act is widely recognized as one of the most effective, influential pieces of legislation passed by the U.S. Congress in the past 50 years. The statute helped dismantle the system of legalized discrimination in voting and public accommodations in America and served as a model for subsequent civil rights law. The Act helped fashion the America we know today, a nation that recognizes the equal rights of the disabled, women, the elderly, minority citizens and other groups as valuable contributors to our society. "It is fitting and appropriate," said Rep. Lewis, "that the U.S. Congress celebrate the distance we have come in the continuing journey toward equal justice in America. It took many years of struggle on the part of a disciplined and organized movement to create the climate for action that enabled the President to introduce and the Congress to pass the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Only 40 years ago, it was against the law for black people and white people to sit together on city buses, for them to share the same hotels. It was against the law for black people to sit down and be served in restaurants where they bought their food. There were separate restrooms and water fountains, separate entrances for black and white people. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 helped change America. It helped liberate, not just African Americans, but all Americans from a system that denied our true democratic destiny." "I am elated that the 1964 Civil Rights Act," said Rep. Pryce, "will be forever immortalized with this commemorative coin, as will the courage of the men and women who fought fearlessly for the passage of this landmark bill. I am also honored to be joined in this effort by Congressman Lewis, a man whose advocacy and leadership in the struggle for civil rights speaks for itself. His brave leadership of the first Selma to Montgomery march, and his support for peaceful demonstration in the face of the brutal attacks of that fateful Sunday are the very acts of courage the coin seeks to honor for future generations. The funds raised through the minting of this coin will benefit the United Negro College Fund, and serve as a reminder that the fight for civil rights in education and elsewhere is far from over." Commemorative coins are authorized by Congress to celebrate and honor American people, places, events, and institutions. While the coins are legal tender, they are not minted for general circulation. As well as memorializing important aspects of American history and culture, commemorative coins help raise money for important causes. A portion of a coin's cost is collected as a surcharge that benefits community organizations. Under H.R. 4770, the Civil Rights Commemorative Coin is expected to raise up to $2.5 million for the United Negro College Fund, which provides scholarships and internships for minority students and assists our nation's historically black colleges and universities.
02.06.2006	January 6, 2006 - Rhythm and Blues singer Lou Rawls died today in Los Angeles after a long bout with cancer at the age of 72. The following are Rep. Lewis's remarks on the passing of this great artist. "Lou Rawls was one of a kind, a man with a velvet voice. His singing not only inspired us, it lifted our spirits. But he was more than a musician, more than a performer. Lou Rawls was a humanitarian, and he should be remembered, not only for his musical gift, but for lending his talent to raise millions upon millions of dollars for the United Negro College Fund. His inspired voice and his committed generosity changed the lives of people young and old all over America and around the globe. He will be missed."
01.31.2006	January 31, 2006 - Congressman John Lewis made these comments when he learned of the death of Mrs. Coretta Scott King this morning: "The passing of Coretta Scott King is a tragic loss for the movements for peace, justice, and equality around the world. She was more than the devoted wife of a great minister, but for those of us who worked with Dr. King, she was a leader in her own right. Long before she married Dr. King, she was an activist for peace and non-violence. "She was the glue that held the Movement together. When you go back and look at those old photographs, she was right there with Dr. King, marching for the cause of civil rights. She marched with us from Selma to Montgomery. She marched with us during the March on Washington. And in1971 when I worked with the Voter Education Project, I invited her to travel with us throughout the South, through the heart of Mississippi, through the Black Belt of Alabama, through North Carolina and South Carolina. She would speak sometimes four or five times a day, encouraging people to register to vote. She was deeply committed to the cause of equal justice in America. "Coretta Scott King was a beautiful person. She was smart, determined, and she acted with poise, grace and dignity. She was a leader, a friend, a citizen of the world. She traveled all over the world-to Europe, Africa, Asia and all over America-preaching a message of hope, love and peace. I do not know where this nation would be without the work of Dr. King and Coretta Scott King. What they believed and what they accomplished made me a better person. We are all a better people and a better nation because Coretta Scott King passed this way."
01.30.2006	January 30, 2006 - Rep. John Lewis was delighted to hear that the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution determined to follow the leading recommendation of the Presidential Commission to locate the site on the National Mall. Congressman Lewis worked for 15 years to gain passage of the bill that would authorize the museum. He submitted legislation in every session of Congress to establish the museum, and the bill finally passed the House in 2001. It was signed into law in December of 2003. A prestigious founding council has been chosen to lead the efforts to build the museum, and today, after much speculation, a prominent site was chosen to house the museum. "I am so gratified. I am very pleased," said Rep. Lewis, "that the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution decided to place the National Museum of African American History and Culture on the National Mall. The National Mall is the front door of America. It is a symbol of our democracy. And by placing this museum on the Mall along with other important national landmarks, the Board of Regents has acknowledged to the nation and to the world that African Americans played a major role in the founding and sustaining of this great country. We helped build America, and we have contributed in every way to its stature in the world community. "We have made contributions in science, politics, medicine, education, art and so much more. Above all, the African American struggle to be included has helped to expand the reach of our democracy and helped America meet the challenge of its own destiny. I want to thank all of our friends who contributed to the bi-partisan effort that brought us to this day. I will do all I can to work along with the Smithsonian and the other major interests and groups involved to insure that this important museum becomes a reality."
01.25.2006	January 25, 2006 - Atlanta, GA. - Congressman John Lewis, himself a former subject of unwarranted FBI surveillance as a leader in the Civil Rights Movement and an outspoken critic of the recently revealed NSA domestic spying program, was highly critical of alleged covert Pentagon initiatives that targeted peace activists in Atlanta. He made the following statement in light of this new evidence: “It is unreal. It is unbelievable that the federal government would waste its time and the hard-earned tax dollars of American citizens spying on peace groups in Atlanta. The Georgia Peace and Justice Coalition and other peace activists in Atlanta are working to build pockets of the Beloved Community in America. They are trying to create a better society by addressing the challenges of this nation through nonviolent action. There is nothing within the long, rich history of these organizations that would justify surveillance by the Pentagon. I have said before, and I maintain that in my opinion these domestic spying programs seem to clearly violate of the right to privacy protected by the U.S. Constitution, that these actions must be completely and extensively investigated, and if it is determined that the law has been breached, those who are responsible, regardless of status or position, should be made fully accountable. In our democracy, no individual is above the law.”
01.23.2006	January 23, 2006 - Ford Motor Company announced today that it would lay off 25-30,000 workers in 14 plants across the country, including the auto assembly plant in Hapeville, Georgia. Representative John Lewis made these comments after hearing the news: "I have visited with the dedicated workers at the Ford Motor Company in Hapeville on many occasions. I am proud of their accomplished record for high quality production and the frequent corporate recognition for their excellence. I regret that the leaders of Ford could not see their way clear to save this successful plant. I want to assure these employees that metropolitan Atlanta will continue to need their talents and expertise and that they will have my help and support as they redefine their roles in the workplace."
01.18.2006	January 18, 2006 - Washington, D.C. - Rep. John Lewis applauded the unveiling of the "Honest Leadership, Open Government" Act, an aggressive reform package developed to reverse the excesses of a Republican-dominated U.S. Congress and help restore public confidence in the integrity of the federal government. "There is a crisis in Washington," said Congressman Lewis, "and millions of Americans are paying the price. Most tragically, the poor, the elderly, the sick, the disabled, the most vulnerable Americans are being sacrificed to serve the interests of the rich. Every American is suffering from the neglect of a unilateral federal legislature and executive branch dominated by one single political party. We must find our way to greater integrity and greater balance in Washington and ensure that a variety of opinions are heard as legislation is developed. We must clean-up the culture of corruption that has crippled the democratic process and is eroding the confidence of the American people. Together we can do better. We can find a way to inject a new sense of ethics, discipline, morality and commitment into the chambers of Congress. That is why today Democrats are offering a reform agenda that we believe will help clean house in Washington." The "Honest Leadership, Open Government" Act was unveiled at the Library of Congress today, where Members were joined by an audience of groups seeking to shift national legislative priorities toward the bedrock of hard-working Americans and their families, not just a privileged few. The Honest Leadership and Open Government Act will focus reforms on four key areas. It will strengthen the ban on lobbying after Members of Congress and senior government officials leave politics to work in the private sector, and when law-makers are negotiating private-sector jobs, it will require their full disclosure to expose potential conflicts of interest. It will fix the gift and travel rules that allow political operatives like Jack Abramoff to buy legislative influence in Congress, ensuring that laws will never again be written by industry lobbyists. It will put an end to the K Street project which limited political access to Republican leadership to only those corporations and lobbying firms who hired Republicans and contributed heavily to Republican campaigns. It will increase bi-partisan accountability in government and allow constituents to more clearly perceive what their elected representatives are doing in Washington.
01.13.2006	January 13, 2006 - "As many celebrate the contributions of a great American, Martin Luther King, Jr., there are some who question whether the vision that Dr. King so eloquently described is still alive today," said Rep. Lewis. "But the assassins of Martin Luther King, Jr. could not kill the dream of peace. They could not kill the dream of an open society. They could not, and they did not kill the dream of the Beloved Community. The movement that Martin Luther King, Jr. led was too right, it was too necessary to be buried with his body. We know that his voice is stilled today, but his message must continue to be heard. "If Dr. King were alive today he would be speaking out against the war in Iraq in the same way that he was speaking out against the war in Vietnam. He would say that ultimately humankind must choose between nonviolence and nonexistence. He would say that we should start using our limited resources to build and not to tear down, to heal and not to kill, to love and not to hate. He would say that war is obsolete as a tool of our foreign policy. It is important that on this day, this nation and the peoples of the world take some time to reflect upon Martin Luther King Jr.'s message of peace and his teachings on nonviolence. "He would also be protesting the injustice of the Georgia photo ID bill and others like it around the country calling them a new form of poll tax. He would be organizing people to ensure that certain sections of the Voting Rights Act are not only reauthorized but fixed so that they retain their original power to thwart discriminatory voting practices throughout America. He would be discussing the pressing need for moral, ethical leadership in Washington and the culture of corruption. He would be saying that together as a nation, we can do better. "On this day of observance, it is our task to renew our commitment to this dream and continue to push and pull to move this society forward. We used to say in the Movement that our struggle was not for one day, one month, or one year. Our struggle is not for one presidential term or the length of one judicial appointment. Our is the struggle of a lifetime, and each generation must do its part to bring this nation closer to fulfilling his vision of the Beloved Community, a truly interracial democracy, a nation at peace with itself."
01.13.2006	January 13, 2006 - Rep. Lewis was invited to participate in the annual state observance of the Martin Luther King, Jr. day of service today at the State Capitol in Atlanta. He decided not to participate for the following reason: "I believe it was too great a contradiction," said Rep. Lewis, "to celebrate the legacy of Dr. King in one hour and pass the Georgia photo ID bill in the next. The photo ID bill is a modern-day poll tax, and the insistence of Georgia Republicans in passing legislation that will disenfranchise thousands of elderly, disabled, rural, poor and minority voters in Georgia is a stain on our democracy. It shows no true regard for the legacy, life, and sacrifice of Dr. King or for all those who struggled during the Civil Rights Movement to bring greater justice to the ballot box in America."
