12.11.2018	As of Monday, December 10, 2018, all of Congressman Paul Ryan’s offices will be closed as the House of Representatives transitions operations to the New Member-Elect for Wisconsin’s First District. If you require immediate assistance, we would encourage you to contact either Senator Baldwin’s office at (414) 297-4451 or Senator Johnson’s office at (414) 276-7282. It has been a pleasure to be of service to you the past 20 years. Thank you.
09.26.2018	On September 12, Wisconsin's First District Congressman and House Speaker Paul Ryan joined WisPolitics President Jeff Mayers in the Rayburn Room of the U.S. Capitol for a conversation that included questions on tax reform, his tenure as House Speaker, and the state of civil society. You can watch the full discussion here, or catch some highlights from the event below: On tax reform: "It's what I worked on for 18 years on the Ways and Means Committee, and it's something I've been working on since before I was a Member of Congress. I've long believed we needed to overhaul the U.S. tax system if we're going to get faster economic growth - if we're going to be globally competitive. We did that, and exactly what we were hoping would happen is happening: much faster economic growth, faster wage growth, jobless rate at a 49 year high, the lowest Latino unemployment rate in history, we had great wage data just come out the other day, and more importantly: internationally there’s no reason not to be an American company anymore because of our tax laws." On his time as speaker: “I am really honored to have had this job. I am honored to have been able to get our team to put together an agenda, to take it to the country, then to have unified government, and the opportunity to put this agenda in place…We got tax reform done, we got regulatory relief done, we rebuilt the military, we overhauled the VA, we got career and technical education done, we got the poverty stuff I’ve been working for years on, like poverty zones and social impact bonds, done. We’re this close on opioids, we’re this close on our infrastructure bills, so I really feel like we’ve had an enormously productive legislature, and it’s making an enormously positive difference in people’s lives, which is why we have these jobs." On the state of civil society: “The deinstitutionalization of critical, core institutions of civil society are under duress right now, not just government. As people, we have to do more on our own, with our families, and our communities, and our churches, and our governments, and every other institution to build up those institutions and teach our kids how important these institutions are. As a conservative, I believe we need to do more to free up space for civil society to reassert itself in its rightful place in that big expansive space between ourselves and our government, which is where we lead our lives. Go to Janesville. I can tell you the Rotarians, the Optimists, the Kiwanis, the Key Club, the Golden Key guys, all the groups – that’s civil society – and these things are shrinking, they’re deinstitutionalizing, and we need to do more as a society and a culture to breathe life back into those things…as a limited government conservative, I want to make sure that I preserve that space so the government doesn’t try and encroach upon it and push it out and deinstitutionalize it. But also as a conservative, we need to stand up for things we believe in and make sure that we are civil with one another as we engage in a public debate. That identity politics and tribalism is an affront to that.” ICYMI: In July, Congressman Ryan discussed this issue at length with Jonah Goldberg at the American Enterprise Institute. You can watch that discussion with Jonah Goldberg here. After his conversation with WisPolitics concluded, Congressman Ryan visited the Rayburn House Office Building to attend Milwaukee Night, which is an annual event that highlights the contributions of the Milwaukee Region to the economic strength of the nation. At the event, Congressman Ryan was able to greet the Wisconsinites attending, and of course, discussed the upcoming Packers-Vikings game with fellow Packers fans (hint: he didn't think the game would end in a tie.)
08.16.2018	Lately, there's been no shortage of good news about the American economy. Just a few weeks ago, we saw the economy grow at its fastest pace in nearly four years. Then, we learned worker pay and benefits rose to the highest level in a decade. Retail sales are rising, worker productivity is the strongest it has been in three years, and let's not forget that we are experiencing near-record consumer confidence and record small business optimism. In fact, right now our economy actually has more jobs available than job seekers. Congressman Ryan discussed this "new, sort of good" problem at a recent House Republican Leadership press conference after completing a tour of several manufacturing businesses: "One thing I heard about is the need for more workers and especially workers with the right skills…we have jobs, but we need workers with skills to fill those jobs." This isn't just a problem facing businesses in the midwest. Congressman Ryan has heard about the need for workforce development across the country, including at countless visits to First District businesses. The bottom line is: our education system is not properly equipped to help people adjust to this changing economy. That's why Republicans have been working hard to make sure Americans have the skills they need to fill the jobs of the 21st century. Just last month, the House passed the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, which is a critical piece of our Better Way agenda. By enhancing skills training, refocusing programs on student outcomes, and providing funding and flexibility to promote career and technical education at a state level, this bipartisan bill takes tremendous steps to help close the skills gap, and is now the law of the land. But the federal government doesn't move at the speed of our ever-changing workforce, and can't always regulate changes to prepare students for jobs in different regions across the country. That's why the respect for local solutions, like partnerships between companies and local schools, is now more pressing than ever. For example, take the partnership between Foxconn and Gateway Technical College. In his address to The Economic Club of Washington, D.C., Congressman Ryan discussed their shared efforts to develop a special curriculum designed to ensure workers have the skills Foxconn needs for the thousands of good-paying, high-skilled jobs they will create. Gateway Technical College is even building a new campus right next to Foxconn to train this workforce. This isn't the only example of these types of partnerships in Wisconsin's First District. Last year, the congressman toured Allis-Roller to learn about how they support local education initiatives and help high school and college students gain the skills they need to benefit in future manufacturing careers. He also visited New Berlin High School's career learning facilities designed to prepare students to be "lifelong learners," in addition to Elkhorn Area High School's Technical Education Department, where he met with students and instructors to learn how they use training and equipment to prepare students for manufacturing and trade careers. These are just a few of the many businesses and schools coming up with innovative ideas to tackle this issue head on. We can't expect to fix 21st-century problems with 20th-century tools, and with recently expanded resources for these programs, this is exactly the kind of work we hope to see more of across Wisconsin, and the country. Workers are better off now because of House Republican policies, and with all this good economic news, there's no better time to ensure Americans have the skills they need to climb the ladder of opportunity.
07.13.2018	Summary: Earlier this week, Republican leaders talked about how the American people are Better Off Now because of the House Republican agenda that has ushered in an economic resurgence and strengthened communities. While there is more work to be done, Speaker Ryan shared how policies passed during this speakership have put the country back on the path to a future full of promise. Speaker Ryan's Opening Statement: "This is a really, really good story to tell. It’s about hard work and the resilience of the American people. "In 2016, we offered the American people a positive agenda. We offered, in 2016, the American people A Better Way. "We said, here is what we need to do to get the country back on track. "And we have delivered on these promises. And the American people are better off now. The country is on a better path now. "At home, tax reform has opened the door for an economic resurgence that we are now witnessing. "Unemployment is at historic lows. Just yesterday, we saw that new hires hit the highest level in 17 years. "Wages are growing. Workers are seeing more money in their paychecks. All of this fuels more confidence and it fuels more economic growth. "We're encouraging people to come off the sidelines and join the workforce. "We are making communities safer and stronger as well. "We have put unprecedented resources toward fighting the opioid epidemic from all sides. "We have worked to end human trafficking. We have worked to end—the target of human trafficking because this is modern slavery in the 21st century. "We are targeting dangerous criminals, we’re making schools safer. "And, after years of being hollowed out, our military is finally getting the resources that it needs to rebuild itself. "This also means recognizing the sacrifice of service: from giving our troops the biggest pay raise they've received in over nine years, to giving our veterans better care through the much-needed VA reforms that are now the law of the land. "More work remains, and we will continue to work on our agenda, to help get people on a better path, on the path of their lives, so that they can reach their destinies. "The American people are better off now. And we have a good reason to be optimistic that better days are ahead. "So I'm pleased to be able to say, just go to better.gop and learn more. "You've heard us talk about this website before—it was when we were proposing these ideas. Now that these ideas are the law of the land, we are seeing the results of these ideas. "The country is better off, people are better off. Go to better.gop"
06.28.2018	First District Congressman and House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) today released the following statement after breaking ground at the location of Foxconn’s 20 million-square-foot facility in Racine County. "As we break ground today, we embark on a new era of manufacturing in the State of Wisconsin. This is a great day for the Badger state, and I want to thank Governor Walker for his help bringing this unprecedented project to Wisconsin, President Trump for his vision and leadership, and Chairman Gou for his commitment to Wisconsin. “I’m thrilled that this project will not only create thousands of good, family-sustaining jobs, but ensure that Wisconsin is at the cutting-edge of this important industry. Today, we demonstrate to the rest of the world that Wisconsin will be a manufacturing powerhouse for generations to come, and I am excited to see the far-reaching economic impact Foxconn will have on the state and district I call home.”
06.08.2018	On Friday, June 8, First District Congressman and House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation awarded a grant of $160,000,000 for Wisconsin’s I-94 North-South Freeway Project. "This is huge news for Wisconsin and our economy. I’m thrilled that the Trump administration has seen the value of this project, and I also want to thank Secretary Chao for her support. With these resources, we can continue to make this area an even better place to live and work. We know that Foxconn’s arrival is going to be a boon for our region, and this grant will help ensure we have the infrastructure needed to welcome the new jobs coming to southern Wisconsin."
05.15.2018	Last week, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Speaker Paul Ryan joined Steve Scaffidi on WTMJ’s The Steve Scaffidi Show to discuss the remaining House agenda and the news of the day. You can listen to the full interview here, and read excerpts from his interview below. On North Korea: Congressman Ryan: “The President’s pressure campaign against North Korea has been working, is working, and I think it gave the North Koreans, Kim Jong-un in particular, it made him pause and think, ‘is this the path I want to do down or not?’ We’ve got a ways to go here and the North Koreans are notorious for not necessarily keeping their ends of bargains, but I think the positive developments we have had, including this piece of news today, really is because the President put a lot of pressure on this regime and made them think twice about their activities.” On Iran: Congressman Ryan: “Well, I think the risk of staying in the deal was that we we're going to bless, effectively, Iran eventually becoming a nuclear power. And the mistakes of the deal were that they were more or less silent on all the other things that Iran was doing, with ballistic missiles, with all their malign activities, meaning funding proxy wars around the region to try and topple governments. And that is basically what Iran has been doing.” Congressman Ryan: “So, I think, you know, obviously we—myself included—the Republicans, we did not like the deal to begin with. We thought it had enormous holes and gaps. What I wish our allies would have done is work with us within the deal to make it stronger, tighter, and more effective to truly prevent Iran from ever getting a nuclear weapon.” On entitlement reform: Congressman Ryan: “If you want to deal with the debt, you’ve got to deal with the drivers of the debt. And the drivers of the debt are our entitlement programs. And the point that I keep making to people...is: We can do a better job of meeting the mission of these programs—health and retirement security for all Americans—without jeopardizing that mission. But we have to reform these programs so that that mission is better fulfilled. We can do a better job of making these goals be realized without bankrupting the country, without driving us into a mountain of debt that our kids can’t get over. Congressman Ryan: “. . . . The good news is because of innovation, and our free enterprise system, and using the power of choice and competition in health care, you can actually make good on the mission of these programs and avoid bankrupting the country at the same time.”
05.11.2018	On Saturday, April 28, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Speaker Paul Ryan announced East Troy High School senior Rachel Gilpatrick as the winner of the 2018 First District Congressional Art Competition. Rachel’s piece, titled Self-Pointret, is a portrait of herself using black artist pen. Her teacher is Lori Puls. Rachel was honored during a ceremony held at the Monte Carlo Room in Elkhorn. The ceremony was attended by the student artists, their families, their art teachers, and the judges of the First District Art Competition. "Since launching the First District Congressional Art Competition 20 years ago, I have been fortunate to witness hundreds of high school students develop their rich artistic talents and be recognized at local and national levels. I want to congratulate Rachel on her well-deserved achievement, and I look forward to seeing her artwork displayed at the United States Capitol. This year’s 20th annual competition marks my last as the First District Congressman, and it gave me the opportunity to reflect on how this program has grown and developed over the years. The one element that hasn’t changed is the incredible artistic talent that exists at First District public and parochial high schools. It was also especially moving to see over 100 people show up to support these 17 talented student artists at the ceremony. Every year, I am in awe of the students’ artistic abilities, and I remain thankful for the invaluable support that art teachers and parents have provided these students” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan poses with Rachel Gilpatrick and her winning piece, titled Self-Pointret Since 1999, Congressman Ryan has invited high schools students in the First District to participate in the congressional art competition. The winning artwork is selected by a panel of judges comprised of local artists, and is then submitted to represent Wisconsin’s First District in the national “Congressional Art Competition: An Artistic Discovery.” This nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by members of Congress, gives high-school artists the opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity. The winning artwork from each district is put on display within the U.S. Capitol for an entire year where it can be viewed by the millions of visitors who pass through the Capitol throughout the year.
05.08.2018	Recently, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Speaker Paul Ryan sat down with Charles Benson to discuss his accomplishments in the House and decision to leave Congress after 20 years of serving Wisconsin’s First District. You can watch the full interview here, or read excerpts from Congressman Ryan’s “walk down memory lane” below. Charles Benson: “History will always say he was the kid who grew up in Janesville to become the 54th Speaker of the House…Ryan is the youngest of four children. At age 28 he was the second youngest member of the House when elected in 1998. At age 45 he was the youngest elected House Speaker in nearly 150 years.” Charles Benson: “Why did it come down to this moment in time?” Congressman Ryan: “You know, it’s because I got a lot done...It’s the ticking time of the family…It's my kids are 13, 14, 16, and on this job, I travel so much more than an ordinary member of Congress.” Charles Benson: “The to-do list included cutting taxes, which was accomplished in December.” Congressman Ryan: “Ninety percent of Americans are getting bigger paychecks because of the tax cuts. They are starting to see that."
04.25.2018	Last week, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Speaker Paul Ryan appeared on WISN’s The Mark Belling Show and WCLO’s Your Talk Show with Tim Bremel to discuss his decision to retire and the accomplishments he has achieved during his 20 year career of serving Wisconsin’s First District. Excerpts from his remarks are listed below. The Mark Belling Show: “Anybody who knows anything about me, or knows me personally, knows that the causes that I’ve been fighting for all the years I’ve been in Congress, I’ve achieved much of them. And they know that I’m a guy who adores my family and wants to have more than just a weekend dad posture with my family…I feel gratified and satisfied that I’ve been able to make a big difference. Particularly in rewriting the tax code for the first time in 31 years—that’s something I’ve been working on all my time here. And I just feel 20 years in Congress is a perfect period of time to have served.” “I’m honored to have done this. I feel like we’ve done a great deal in a short period of time. Whether it’s rebuilding the military, deregulating the economy, putting us on a path for finding cures for things like cancer, to overhauling the entire tax system. So there are so many things. Enterprise zones is something that people don’t really know is done, but it’s in law now. I worked on that when I was a Jack Kemp staffer. So I’ve gotten so many things done that I came to do.” Your Talk Show: “I’m very pleased with all the things that we’ve done. I got our party to run on an agenda in ’16, and we’re executing that agenda. And we’ve gotten most of it through, into law already. We’ve got a few more things to do still this year with respect the Farm Bill and workforce development, and career technical education, and infrastructure. So we’ve got more to do just this year.” “I’m a Janesville guy. I live on the block I grew up on. My backyard touched the backyard I grew up on. I always just believe you serve the district and this isn’t your thing. All the political people say what you should do Is run for reelection, make everyone think you’re staying and then just resign the week after the election, which means lie to everybody, be dishonest…That would have been so disrespectful to this district and to my employers that I just could not in good conscience do that.”
04.25.2018	This past Friday, Congressman Ryan made his first visits in southern Wisconsin since announcing that 2018 will be his last year serving as a member of the House. At the Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce (WMC) luncheon, Congressman Ryan made a point of expressing his sincere gratitude to the people of the First District. Congressman Ryan said, “I am so thankful to the people of the First Congressional District who took this risk on a 28-year-old guy from Janesville to go represent them in Congress for 20 years. It’s been the honor of my life professionally and it’s been phenomenal to have these opportunities -- and I’m just so thankful. This State produces those kinds of opportunities and gives people those kind of chances. So just as a Wisconsinite, it’s something that I am extremely humbled and honored by, and I just wanted to come by and say thank you so much and I really appreciate it. For more coverage of Paul’s remarks, please visit: WISC-TV3: 'It's been the honor of my life': Paul Ryan thanks constituents from 1st Congressional District MacIver Institute: Ryan Turns Attention to Welfare Reform After Tax Overhaul Success WMTV: Rep. Paul Ryan working on key measures
03.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Paul Ryan spent last week traveling around the First District meeting with constituents. One of his stops included a meeting with the leadership of Precision Plus in Elkhorn, Wisconsin. The company recently gave bonuses and raises to workers as a result of tax reform. Executives spoke with Congressman Ryan about how the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will allow them to increase investments in new equipment, their employees, training programs, and the community. Founded in 1982 as a family-owned and operated American manufacturer of precision machined parts, Precision Plus serves as a global industry leader in precision machining. Following Congressman Ryan’s visit, Precision Plus executives stated, “We appreciated the opportunity to meet with Congressman Ryan and discuss ways that tax reform will help our business and our employees. As a result of new pass-through deductions, 100 percent bonus depreciation and reduced tax rates, Precision Plus will be able to reinvest funds into our business and our employees. After the tax cuts bill passed, our employees received bonuses and raises, as well as bigger paychecks and more take home pay to support their families. We are also pleased that Precision Plus will be able to invest more funds into charitable giving, which will positively impact the Elkhorn community and its residents.” After meeting with Precision Plus executives, Congressman Ryan said, “I am pleased to learn of both the immediate and future benefits that Precision Plus and its employees will experience as a result of these historic tax reform measures. Precision Plus’ projections reflect what other manufacturers and small businesses are telling me. Thanks to tax reform, businesses are able to increase investments, expand operations, take risks, and give bonuses and raises to their employees. Already, four million workers (and counting) have experienced bonuses and pay raises as a result of the tax cuts bill. Tax reform is soaring economic confidence and helping millions of American workers.” Ryan’s visit last week follows the news that over 350 companies nationwide have been able to increase wages, bonuses, hiring, and investments as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, after eight weeks after being signed into law.
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Friday, January 12, Congressman Paul Ryan spent the day traveling around the First District. One of his stops included a tour of a business that will be able to invest more funds into their facility as a direct result of the recently signed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. At Zero Zone in North Prairie, Wisconsin, executives spoke with the Congressman about how the bill will allow them to reinvest funds into their operations, purchase more equipment, and hire more employees. Founded in 1961, Zero Zone, Inc. is a leading manufacturer of refrigerated display cases and systems for retail, commercial and industrial use in domestic and international markets. Congressman Ryan tours Zero Zone’s Technology Center. Congressman Ryan speaks to employees at Zero Zone’s lab facility. Following Congressman Ryan’s visit, Zero Zone executives stated, “We appreciated the opportunity to meet with Congressman Ryan and discuss ways the new tax law will help our company and our workers. As a result, Zero Zone will be able to purchase more equipment, create more jobs, and increase economic activity with U.S. equipment manufacturers.” After meeting with Zero Zone executives, Congressman Ryan said, “I am pleased to learn of both the immediate and future tangible benefits that Zero Zone and its employees will experience as a result of these historic tax reform measures. Zero Zone’s tax reform projections echo what other manufacturers throughout the country are saying in terms of expanding operations and hiring more workers. And soon, workers will begin to see bigger paychecks as new withholding tables take effect. That is what this is all about: helping people earn more and keep more of what they earn.” Ryan’s tour on Friday follows the news that over 160 companies nationwide have been able to increase wages, bonuses, hiring, and investments as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, three weeks after being signed into law.
12.22.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, announced the 16 students in the First District who would be receiving nominations for appointments to the U.S. service academies. Young men and women who wish to attend a U.S. service academy must obtain a nomination from an authorized nominating source, such as a member of Congress. Of this year’s nominees, Ryan said: “Military service is an honorable calling. America’s service academies have the highest standards of excellence, and I am proud to nominate these students from Wisconsin’s First District. I am more than confident that they will rise to the challenge. Should they be accepted, they will represent their state and their nation with pride. Selecting these nominees was a very tough job, and for that reason, I want to thank the members of my Service Academy Nomination Advisory (SANA) Board for their advice and hard work.” The SANA Board interviewed and evaluated applicants from the First District early this month. Consisting of veterans, academy graduates, and educators, the SANA Board was appointed by Ryan to assist him with identifying the most qualified applicants. First District applicants are typically in the top tier of their class, are active in their communities, and demonstrate great potential for leadership. A list of the students nominated by Congressman Ryan follows (photographs available upon request): Kenosha County Mason French – attends Tremper High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD) Paul Gierl – attends St. Joseph Catholic Academy, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD) Colten Greenhill – attends Westosha Central High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD) Fredrick Zuehls – attends Wilmot Union High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD) Milwaukee County Aaron Craig – attends Oak Creek High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO) Corrine Kurz – attends Oak Creek High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY) Racine County Morgan Heeren – attends Waterford Union High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO) Joshua Stroo – attends Union Grove High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO) Walworth County Carson Hillier – attends Badger High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD) Waukesha County Clarice Adams – attends Mukwonago High School, nominated for appointments to the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD), the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (Kings Point, NY), and the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY) Jacob Bane – attends Norwich University (2016 graduate of Mukwonago High School), nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD) Madison Black – resides in Mukwonago and attends Catholic Memorial High School, nominated for appointments to the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD) and the U.S. Military Academy (West Point, NY) Aliyah Brown –attends Eisenhower High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO) Liam Dolan –attends the University of Wisconsin-Madison (2017 graduate of Mukwonago High School), nominated for appointments to the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO) and the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, MD) Jack Rohlinger –attends Muskego High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO) Mason Schoof –attends Muskego High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, CO)
11.02.2017	Today you finally get what you’ve anxiously been awaiting: The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (we’re excited, too). Paul has been talking about how tax reform will help middle- and lower-income earners, whether it’s in Massachusetts, Oregon, Pennsylvania, or Washington. When Paul meets with his employers, hardworking taxpayers tell him that their taxes are too high, filing their taxes is too complicated, and the current code punishes businesses of all sizes who make things in America. That could soon all change with the introduction of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. With this bill, a typical middle-income family of four, earning $59,000 (the median household income), will receive a $1,182 tax cut. This bill will also: Lower individual tax rates for low- and middle-income Americans to 0%, 12%, 25%, and 35% so people can keep more of the money they earn throughout their lives and maintains the 39.6% rate for high-income Americans; Significantly increase the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what you earn each year from taxes – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples; Keep retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts unchanged so Americans can continue to save for their future; Continue the deduction for charitable contributions so people can continue to donate to their local church, charity, or community organization and preserve the home mortgage interest deduction for existing mortgages and maintains the home mortgage interest deduction for newly purchased homes up to $500,000 – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. And for businesses like the many Paul has toured in recent months, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will: Reduce the tax rate on the hard-earned business income of Main Street job creators to no more than 25% – the lowest tax rate on small business income since World War II. Establish strong safeguards to distinguish between individual wage income and “pass-through” business income so Main Street tax relief goes to the local job creators it was designed to help most. Allow businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers – unleashing the growth of jobs, productivity, and paychecks. Earlier this week, Paul toured Royal Basket Trucks and HyPro and met with his employers in Wisconsin’s First District to talk about how the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will improve their lives: Paul greets an employee at Royal Basket Trucks in Darien, WI Paul tours HyPro in Waterford, WI
10.30.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan joined WTAQ’s Jerry Bader and WTMJ’s John Mercure to talk about the benefits of tax reform. Check out excerpts below: Lowering rates for families and individuals: “The point of tax reform is to make the code simpler and to lower people’s tax rates and increase people’s take home pay. It’s all about getting bigger pay checks, it’s all about fairness and simplicity . . . doubling the standard deduction means more people don’t have to itemize their deductions and they can fill out their taxes on a tax form the size of a postcard. And so it just dramatically simplifies the tax system for everybody so that tax day is an easy thing.” “The postcard form that we’re proposing and the framework that Congress put out already says we will double the standard deduction to make it easier for people to fill out their taxes on a form the size of a postcard. That’s something that we think is very, very important. And that, to me, is the biggest thing you can do to make the tax system so much simpler for most people. By doubling the standard deduction, you basically make it so that the vast majority of Americans can do their taxes on a postcard-type form and they don’t have to navigate all the different loopholes and deductions. You can just take one big, easy standard deduction and that actually lowers people’s taxes. As far as tax rate reduction, the tax cuts in this bill are aimed at the middle class. The reason the President has mentioned having a fourth rate is so that millionaires don’t have a big income tax cut, but that the tax rate reduction and the big tax relief is squarely focused on middle income taxpayers.” Recent interviews on tax reform: Reuters Newsmakers Life Matters CBS This Morning Your Talk Show
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Earlier this week, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan appeared on WLKG’s Life Matters to discuss tax reform: “Lowering people’s tax rates so they can keep more of what they earn in the first place means they have more money in their pocket, bigger paychecks, more take home pay, and . . . Number two, by lowering tax rates across the board on all of our businesses, we put businesses in a much, much better position to grow and to thrive and to compete.” “Well, first of all from the individual side, the tax cut is for the middle class. It’s dropping tax rates for middle class taxpayers, raising the per child tax credits for people who are having families. So that is where the tax cut goes. . . . And you can’t escape the fact that people own businesses, and if you’re lowering the tax on those businesses, you’re lowering the tax on those people. But that’s the whole point of all of this and that’s where I think this sort of left-wing rhetoric misses the point, which is: Do you want American businesses to grow and thrive and stay in America and to be competitive, or not? And that is really the simple question.” Recent interviews on tax reform: Your Talk Show CBS This Morning Scaffidi and Bilstad The Dan O’Donnell Show The Laura Ingraham Show The Skimm
10.17.2017	WASHINGTON – This morning, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan joined WCLO’s Andrea Morrow to discuss ongoing efforts in Congress to reform the tax code: "We are taxing American businesses, especially here in Wisconsin, at much, much higher tax rates than our foreign competitors are taxing theirs, and as a result, it puts us at a disadvantage. So what we want to do is two things: We want to lower taxes for middle class families so they can keep more of what they earn. That means bigger paychecks, better take home pay. . . . Giving people relief on their paychecks we think is really important in these high-anxiety economic times. Number two, we want to help American businesses stay in America . . . lower their tax rates, and we want to encourage businesses to invest in their businesses in America.” “Some companies use a lot of loopholes to lower their taxes. But most companies don’t get all those loopholes. . . . It’s kind of a rigged system where you’ve got people and businesses that are very sophisticated, high-income earning people in really big companies that navigate all these loopholes and as a result, they can lower their taxes. Everybody else pays artificially higher tax rates as a result. So you get rid of these loopholes, you plug those loopholes, you can lower everybody’s tax rates and it’s a fairer system.” “What we’re saying here is by lowering taxes on the middle class, by letting people keep more of what they want to earn, and then, by simplifying the system so you don’t have to pay all this money for tax preparation, we make it much easier, much simpler, and we give people a break.” Recent interviews on tax reform: Scaffidi and Bilstad The Dan O’Donnell Show The Laura Ingraham Show The Skimm Hugh Hewitt
10.16.2017	Tax reform is probably Paul Ryan’s favorite thing to talk about; after all, it is one issue that will touch the lives of nearly every American in all walks of life. The goal of tax reform is simple: More jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks. Paul is taking the message of tax reform not only to Wisconsinites, but employees around the country. In the last couple of months, he's visited with workers in: Wisconsin Massachusetts Oregon Pennsylvania Washington Today Paul spoke at the WMC Foundation's State of Wisconsin Business & Industry luncheon about these proposed reforms. A tax code that’s simpler, fairer, and more competitive and would allow most individuals to fill out their taxes on a postcard. A tax code that will let Wisconsinites keep more of their own money. A tax code that encourages small businesses to hire Americans and expand their businesses. Paul spoke more about tax reform on WTMJ’s Scaffidi and Bilstad this afternoon: “[By] broadening the base and closing loopholes, when you close the loophole, more income is subject to taxation, which allows you to lower tax rates on that income. So that means people get to decide what to do with their money, not special interest groups that manipulate loopholes that decide what you do with your money. So that’s principle number one: Less loopholes, lower tax rates. . . . We believe were going to get stronger economic growth out of this. We’re convinced that lowering tax rates on job creators and jobs and families will lead to a healthier economy.” “You take those two things and that gets you a stronger economy, a healthier middle class, more successful American businesses making more things in America, paying more salaries and wages in America, and that gets you a stronger economy.”
10.04.2017	This morning, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan joined WISN’s Dan O’Donnell to discuss ongoing efforts in Congress to reform the tax code. Excerpts follow: “The whole purpose of this [framework] is to lower taxes for people who are middle-income and low-income. By doubling the standard deduction [and] increasing the child tax credit, that helps all middle income tax payers. People in the 10% bracket will now be in the 0% bracket. So, that is clearly a tax reduction for middle-income tax payers.” *** “I have to tell you, I think people are ready for some tax relief. I think people are ready to have a system where 9 out of 10 of Americans can fill their taxes on a post card because we clean out the crud, we close the loop holes, we make the system more fair, and we lower people’s tax rates. I think that’s the kind of system people want.” *** “These businesses in Wisconsin are competing in a global economy where the average tax rate on businesses is 22.5%. Canada is 15%, and that’s one of our biggest competitors. So we’re taxing our businesses in this global economy at nearly, in some instances, double the rate that other countries tax their business. How do we get prosperity and jobs when we do that? How do we keep American manufacturing in America? How do we make it so we make it so that you want to keep businesses in America, grow businesses in America, invest in America, and hire people in America? Well, you don’t do it by having much, much higher tax rates than our foreign competitors have on their businesses. . . . if we get this passed, I really believe we are going to get 3% growth, and that means bigger pay checks, more take home pay, faster economic growth, you know, higher wages. That’s what we are trying to achieve here.”
09.21.2017	Earlier this week, Paul toured the Harley-Davidson factory in Menomonee Falls to talk about something at the top of Congress’ to-do list: Tax reform. A tax code that’s simpler, fairer, and more competitive and would allow most individuals to fill out their taxes on a postcard. A tax code that will let Wisconsinites keep more of their own money and bolster businesses small and large alike. Those are the kind of bold reforms Paul advocated for around the country, and, this week, at Harley-Davidson here in Wisconsin. Here are some of the highlights from his visit on Monday: Fox 6: Ryan toured the factory in Menomonee Falls on Monday, held a round table discussion with company leaders and then took questions from reporters. He focused on issues impacting manufacturing, including tax reform and free trade. . . . Ryan has been out front making the pitch to modernize the tax code for the first time since 1986. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Ryan toured the facility and met with company executives and union leaders. "We are taxing American manufacturers, American businesses and American jobs at a much, much, much higher tax rate than what our foreign competitors are taxing theirs, and as a result American businesses and American jobs are being put at a big competitive disadvantage," Ryan said. "Tax reform can fix that. Tax reform can stop punishing companies for making things in America and selling them overseas." Washington Examiner: Additionally, Ryan said taxes would be simplified and stated dramatic simplification was possible. "We want to simplify the system for Americans, for families, for workers. We want to simplify the system so much that 96 percent of American workers can fill their taxes on a postcard," he said. AP: Republicans are determined to overhaul the nation’s tax code after more than three decades, delivering on a top legislative priority for President Donald Trump. Ryan has been out front making the pitch to modernize the tax code for the first time since 1986. He said Monday that Republican leaders plan to present an outline of GOP plans for tax reform next week.
09.20.2017	In between events in Wisconsin and working in Washington, Paul has been taking tax reform on the road from coast to coast. This week, he did so at Harley-Davidson in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin. Paul recently spoke to WISN’s Vicki McKenna, making the case for tax reform: “We’re going to release an outline of what tax reform looks like that is a consensus from the House and the Senate. And then our committees, Ways and Means and Finance—the two tax writing committees—are going to go and fill in the details of that outline and put together that tax reform bill. And this is a tax cut and comprehensive tax reform. So . . . a complete overhaul of the system, to scrap the kind of system we have today. So by raising the standard deduction and keeping just the basic middle income deductions like charity and mortgages, you dramatically simplify the tax code such that 96% of Americans can put their taxes on a postcard. That is our plan.” But that wasn’t all. Paul toured the New Berlin School District & Eisenhower School, to answer questions from stakeholders and students to discuss, among other topics, reducing the skills gap and creating a “strong talent pipeline” in Wisconsin. Our economy has changed, and so too have the necessary skills to be effective in that economy. There are jobs available, but too many businesses cannot find employees with the training needed to fill those positions. It is a problem that extends from businesses large and small to high school students, and everyone in between. That’s why this summer, the House unanimously passed the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, a key piece of legislation in the House’s Better Way agenda. This bill promotes and modernizes career and technical education (CTE) programs. In doing so, we increase the number of applicants who possess the right skills for a given job—and narrow the skills gap—while also ensuring the students of today are the well-equipped workforce of tomorrow. The work happening in Washington—much of it bipartisan, and much of it under the radar—matters to people all around the country. And that’s why we won’t stopping putting Americans’ priorities first. Read more: Fox 6: House Speaker Paul Ryan touts tax reform at Harley-Davidson factory Journal Sentinel: Speaker Paul Ryan talks taxes at Harley-Davidson WMTV: Paul Ryan to tout tax reform at Harley-Davidson factory Channel 3000: Paul Ryan discusses tax reform at Harley-Davidson
09.01.2017	Opioid addiction is a national crisis and it's a having a heart-breaking impact right here in southeastern Wisconsin. That’s why Paul hosted an opioid roundtable, featuring health care professionals, law enforcement officials, first responders, human services officials, and former opioid addicts and their loved ones. These people, all in their own way, are on the front lines combatting opioid abuse and overdoses. By working together, in conjunction with local, state, and the federal government, we can fight this scourge on our communities. Local leaders battle the opioid epidemic in WI every day. Congress is 100% committed to aiding them in this fight. #OverdoseAwarenessDay pic.twitter.com/SklFUWsjCG — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) August 31, 2017 After hosting this roundtable, Paul visited Kinetic in Greendale, Wisconsin, to meet with employees and discuss the tax reform plan currently being developed by the House, Senate, and Trump administration. Fundamental tax reform is not only beneficial for the small businesses who are put at a competitive disadvantage with the current code, but also their employees. Hard working Wisconsinites should be able to keep more of the money they earn. The tax code should be simple and fair, not obtuse and complicated. Businesses should be incentivized to make things here in America, and invest here, too. After discussing the merits of the Republican tax plan, Paul took questions from Kinetic’s employees. Employee Q&A sessions, like telephone town halls, constituent office hours, and in-person town halls, provide yet another way for Paul to hear from his employers in the First District about the issues that matter most to them. A pro-growth tax code is crucial to the manufacturing industry in WI. Enjoyed speaking with the hardworking employees in Greendale today. pic.twitter.com/99H4pPKthH — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) August 31, 2017
08.14.2017	RACINE — On Monday, August 21, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan will join CNN’s Jake Tapper for a town hall live from the Racine Theater Guild in Racine, Wisconsin at 9:00 p.m. ET/8:00 p.m. CT. Speaker Ryan will take questions from an audience of Wisconsin First District constituents. Recently, Speaker Ryan traveled around the First District to talk about the need for transformational tax reform. “I’m always looking for new opportunities to hear from the people I work for here in the First District,” said Speaker Ryan. “Their priorities and concerns inform the work I do in Washington, and I’m excited to continue the dialogue at this event.” The town hall will air on CNN, CNN en Español, CNN International, and will be carried by CNN’s SiriusXM Channel 116 and the Westwood One Radio Network. CNN will be in charge of attendance for this event and is inviting people of Wisconsin's First District to fill the audience. Details: CNN Town Hall with Speaker Ryan, hosted by Jake Tapper Monday, August 21, at 9:00 p.m. ET/8:00 p.m. CT Learn more here.
08.10.2017	Last week, Paul participated in the SHINE groundbreaking ceremony, toured Blain’s Farm and Fleet with Agriculture Secretary Perdue, answered questions from Blain’s store managers, and toured businesses around Wisconsin to take questions from constituents and promote tax reform. In between those tours and meetings, Paul frequently holds office hours with constituents; one more way to hear from his employer’s in the First District. Below are some highlights: Ed & Peggy Kures Paul meets with Ed & Peggy Kures to discuss Medicare, an important program for seniors in Wisconsin and across the country. Dr. Joy Ngobi and representatives from the Hope Institute of Uganda Dr. Joy Ngobi, Dr. Patricia Garner, Dr. Greg Denison, and Dr. Dorothy Newmark from the Hope Institute of Uganda meet with Paul to discuss their perspective on international development. Dr. Jill Green of MedLogic Paul and Dr. Jill Green talk about the importance of price transparency in health care and the associated cost-savings for patients. For information on submitting a scheduling request, click here.
08.05.2017	JANESVILLE — Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, offered the following statement to mark the five-year anniversary of the tragic shooting at the Sikh Temple in Oak Creek. “Five years ago, Oak Creek was rocked by a heinous attack on the Sikh Temple, and today we look back on that act of violence with solemn remembrance of those who were lost.” “Over the last five years, the people of Oak Creek have proved they’re stronger than hate and division. My thoughts and prayers remain with the victims and the families of this tragedy.”
08.04.2017	Something special happened in Janesville yesterday—SHINE Medical broke ground on Building One, where they will begin to build prototype machines and train employees. They will produce a medical isotope to assist with treating cancer and other medical conditions, something we currently have to import from other countries. Paul remarked at the groundbreaking: “Isn’t it kind of crazy that we have to rely on foreign countries to supply us with these medical isotopes . . . why would we want to have to rely on another country to supply something so precious and important as this?” “Right here in America, in Janesville, Wisconsin, we will be providing this really crucial medical technology. Right here so we can rely on ourselves.” Paul also visited Blain’s Farm and Fleet with Secretary Perdue to hear from Blain’s store managers about issues dairy and crop farmers are facing. In case you missed it, here are some highlights: Janesville Gazette: The event was part of Perdue's "Back to Our Roots" tour, a five-state RV journey across the Upper Midwest. Perdue is meeting with farmers and other agriculture industry leaders to gather input on the upcoming 2018 farm bill. Ryan championed the state's connection to farming as he introduced Perdue. “We are America's Dairyland,” Ryan said. “Don't listen to California.” WMTV: The tour focuses on getting input from people who work in the agriculture business on how policies in Washington could benefit the industry. It's also focused on the 2018 Farm Bill. In his opening remarks, Secretary Perdue said the USDA would work closely with Congress and farmers as it creates the 2018 Farm Bill. Speaker Ryan and Secretary Perdue held a closed question and answer session with employees, getting input on their role as distributors for farmers. Janesville Gazette: SHINE CEO Greg Piefer told The Gazette on Thursday that SHINE hopes the prototype, which it's calling "Building One," can be completed by the end of 2017, and that SHINE could be using it to test and demonstrate its low-enriched uranium particle accelerator technology “from tip to tail” by early to mid-2018. *** Ryan called Piefer “dogmatic” and "tenacious," and he said SHINE’s prototype facility is proof of “a concept and an idea coming to fruition” after years of research, development and the at-times daunting processes of private fundraising and federal regulatory approval. Ryan had scheduled several stops in the area Thursday and Friday. He said he sees SHINE as a company that’s helping Janesville "lean forward” toward opportunity and innovation and reinvent its economy after the 2008 loss of General Motors. *** Ryan also praised research programs in Wisconsin’s university and technical college systems, which he said spawn and encourage home-grown companies such as SHINE. The rest of the world is taking note that a Wisconsin startup is trying to bring domestic production of the crucial medical testing drug mo-99 to the U.S., Ryan said.
08.04.2017	This week is already shaping up to be busy in Wisconsin’s First District. Paul’s employers in the First District care about jobs, so that’s his focus too. On Thursday morning, Paul attended the groundbreaking of Building One for SHINE Medical. The opening of SHINE’s first facility—where they will begin to build prototypes and train employees –is just the latest example of Wisconsin being open for business. Foxconn, Dollar General, and now SHINE are diverse businesses—a high tech manufacturer, a retailer, and a developer of medical isotopes—and they have all chosen to create jobs here in Wisconsin. As Paul said at the groundbreaking, the Badger State has the best workers in the world, and they are the core of what makes Wisconsin so attractive to businesses of all types. Paul maintains that “’the key is to keep ahead of the curve, and land the kind of high-skill manufacturing jobs that are as close to irreplaceable as possible, so when our kids get out of school, they will want to stay here. That does not happen by accident … We have great research, a great educational system here in Wisconsin, from Ph.D. engineering to really good skills training’ from technical colleges.” (The whole groundbreaking ceremony can be viewed here). After the SHINE groundbreaking ceremony, Paul joined Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue at Blain’s Farm and Fleet as part of the Secretary’s five-state RV tour: The ‘Back to Our Roots’ Tour. Paul answered questions and heard from Blain’s store managers from around the Midwest, learning more about issues facing Wisconsin’s agricultural community. Like manufacturing, agriculture is a cornerstone of Wisconsin’s economy. It represents 10 percent of total employment in the state. There are tens of thousands of family farms in the state which contribute tens of billions of dollars to the state’s economy. Wisconsin’s not just a great place to make things—look no further than Foxconn for that—but it’s a great place to grow things. Rather than importing vegetables and dairy from overseas, it is vital to support a robust agricultural industry so Americans can eat homegrown products. And that’s not all. Today, Paul will tour a number of businesses around the First District and participate in employee Q&A sessions to hear from his employers directly. To stay up to date, follow along on Paul’s Instagram.
07.27.2017	You may have already heard the news, but yesterday Foxconn officially announced its intent to open a facility in southeastern Wisconsin, creating thousands of good jobs right here in our community. As Paul said, this is a ‘game-changer.’ That’s why he was so interested helping this proposal become a reality. This project is a huge win for Wisconsin, and the First District in particular. So in case you missed it, here’s some of the coverage: Wisconsin State Journal: Ryan’s office said in a statement that since June, Ryan has worked with Foxconn officials and governmental officials, including Trump and Priebus, to bring Foxconn to his district. “Foxconn had potential sites across the country, but the speaker persistently and effectively made the case for Wisconsin and its workers,” the statement said. Bloomberg: The factory, which will produce LCD display monitors, will open in the home district of House Speaker Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican who personally lobbied Trump and White House chief of staff Reince Priebus to help secure the plant. The White House’s Office of Innovation, led by Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner, led administration efforts to land the $10 billion facility, according to a White House official who requested anonymity to discuss the deal before the announcement. Cap Times: The deal is the result of a "tremendous team effort" involving Walker, Ryan, President Donald Trump, the White House Office of American Innovation, senior adviser Jared Kushner, chief of staff and Kenosha native Reince Priebus . . . Foxconn is best known for manufacturing Apple iPhones. The Wisconsin facility will produce liquid-crystal display, or LCD panels. Racine Journal Times: House Speaker Paul Ryan said the company will benefit from Wisconsin workers, who he said are “the best in the world.” Ryan, who represents Racine County in Congress, and his staff met several times with Foxconn executives, Walker, state officials and the Trump administration to help make the deal happen, according to Ryan's office. WisPolitics: According to a fact sheet . . . the credits would include: up to $1.5 billion in state income tax credits tied to job creation, up to $1.35 billion in state income tax credits for capital investment and a sales and use tax exemption of up to $150 million. Walker’s office says a special session of the Legislature would be needed to approve the incentive package. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan, whose district in southeastern Wisconsin would be home to the facility, praised Trump and Walker for working to make it happen, calling the plant a "game changer."
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan released the following statement after Foxconn’s announcement to open a factory in southeastern Wisconsin. "I often say that Wisconsin’s workers are the best in the world and that the Badger State is a great place to do business. I’m thrilled that Foxconn agrees and has decided to build their new factory in southeastern Wisconsin. This decision will create thousands of good jobs, and I’m excited for all the Wisconsinites who will benefit. I’m grateful that I was able to be a part of this process, working the state leaders like Governor Walker, to make it a reality. This is an exciting day for our community, and we look forward to working further with Foxconn as we begin a new era of manufacturing here in Wisconsin.”
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON – Today Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, sent a letter along with Eighth District Congressman Mike Gallagher, to the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, David S. Shulkin, regarding questions about VA grants under the Housing Provider Grant and Per Diem program. “I am committed to working with stakeholders to ensure Wisconsin’s veterans continue to receive the care they need. This letter will help clarify outstanding issues surrounding these grants, and will help everyone involved chart a path forward to ensure these veterans receive the assistance they deserve,” said Congressman Ryan. “Our veterans put themselves in harm’s way to defend our country, and ensuring that they receive the quality care they need and deserve is our moral obligation. I look forward to working with Secretaries Shulkin and Zimmerman to ensure we both modernize important initiatives like the Housing Provider Grant and Per Diem program and improve the lives of veterans across Wisconsin,” said Rep. Gallagher. Text of the letter follows: Dear Secretary Shulkin: On behalf of Wisconsin’s veterans, we are writing to inquire about the future of the Veteran Housing and Recovery Programs (VHRP) through the Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs (WDVA). Currently, the WDVA operates three veterans’ homes for homeless and at-risk veterans in Union Grove, King, and Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, serving approximately 79 veterans. Last week, the veterans housed at the Union Grove and King locations were notified that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will not be renewing the grants for those programs, which will result in the closure of these facilities by the end of this calendar year. As you can appreciate, this unfortunate news has caused a significant amount of anxiety among the veteran residents who are currently housed in these facilities. In 2016, the VA announced its intent to terminate grants awarded between Fiscal Years 1994 and 2016 to transform the Housing Provider Grant and Per Diem (GPD) program into a competitive, time-limited grant process. We support efforts to continually modernize VA programming to meet the changing needs of veterans and communities. And, while we agree that having measurable metrics and criteria to better determine success are critical for any grant program, and that supporting an emphasis on accountability and outcomes is important, given the critical need for the services these particular facilities provide to at-risk and homeless veterans, we are seeking additional information to better understand why the homes at Union Grove and King did not qualify for this federal funding for the first time since 1995 and 1997, respectively. In particular, your efforts to identify any specific attributes of these facilities’ service delivery models or components of their applications that contributed to the VA’s decision to terminate these grants would prove beneficial to these entities and the WDVA, should the WDVA pursue grant funds through this program in the future. If the VA believes there are ways that provider organizations can evolve to become better aligned with the GPD program as its transformation moves forward, organizations will benefit from information about how they might do so. As published in the Federal Register in December 2016, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs states that, “VA now has at its disposal additional homeless programs that were not in existence previously and is working in conjunction with other Federal agencies to address homelessness among Veterans.” We would respectfully request – in a manner consistent with all laws, rules, guidelines and regulations – that you give prompt attention to the concerns of the displaced veterans from these VHRPs in Wisconsin. We also ask that you make every effort to work with the WDVA and community partners to ensure that acceptable arrangements can be secured as soon as possible to promptly assist the impacted veterans in receiving appropriate housing assistance through the other homeless programs referenced above. Additionally, your efforts to identify alternative funding resources that may be available to the WDVA to continue operations at these facilities is also appreciated. Lastly, it would be appreciated if you could provide regular updates to these veterans, their families, and to our congressional delegation as the VA moves forward with these efforts. Please respond to the inquiries contained within this letter by close of business on Friday, July 28. We appreciate your attention to these concerns and remain committed to working together with the VA, State, and local officials to ensure that these veterans continue to receive the housing and care they vitally need. We look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Speaker Paul D. Ryan Congressman Mike Gallagher A PDF of the letter is attached.
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON – This morning, Congressman Ryan joined WTAQ’s Jerry Bader, WTMJ’s Jeff Wagner, and WBEL’s Stan Milam to discuss the House’s focus on doing work for members’ constituents. Excerpts of these interviews follow: “The House has been active: We’ve passed two big down payments on the military; we’ve passed Kate’s Law; we had a huge down payment on border security.” *** “We passed a lot of veteran’s bills this year already, but the one we passed and is now in law is the [VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act]. If you remember, because of a congressional investigation, we uncovered these waiting lists . . . and the VA was telling us there’s no waiting list. They basically were lying to Congress and the public about this. So, we’ve passed a new law to hold people accountable, to be able to fire people for malfeasance, to protect whistleblowers, to streamline the VA and to get these waiting lists under control. That bill is done, that’s in law.” *** “We passed a complete overhaul on career and technical education. I think one of the important parts of getting people out of poverty is getting people skills they need to get a vocation, to get a career. And we have to emphasize that you don’t have to go to a four year college and get a Bachelor’s degree to be successful in life. You can go and get a good skill at Blackhawk Tech, at DeVry, at Parkside for two years if you want to. . . . I mean just over at United Alloy in Janesville they’re training welders themselves and after a few years you can get a really good living. You know, I was talking to the people over at Seneca Foods just the other day. They’ve got openings over there that can give people good starting wages with benefits, [and] 401ks, but we’ve got to make sure that people can get the skills they need to get those kinds of jobs.” *** “We passed opioid legislation that is now being deployed and up and running. The day Jim Comey testified in the Senate was the day the House passed the bill to repeal and replace Dodd-Frank. In Wisconsin, our economy is financed by community banks. You name the town: Kaukauna, where my grandma’s from, or Fond du Lac where my mom’s from, or Janesville where I’m from—Community banks are what make those communities go. And Dodd Frank is just strangling these banks and strangling credit in our economy. We said to these banks: Get a nice conservative reserve ratio of 10 percent, and then you’re out of Dodd frank. We passed this.” *** “What matters at the end of the day are results. Whether we get credit or not or whether we get attention or not, it really at the end of the day, doesn’t matter as long as we deliver. And that’s what we’re focusing on doing.”
07.12.2017	Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke to thousands of Racine County residents during a telephone town hall meeting. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers to constituents follow: On health care reform: “Obamacare was supposed to lower the cost of health insurance and make it more available for people. It’s done the opposite. Instead of lowering the price of insurance, the cost of insurance since the law took place has more than doubled. And . . . the insurers are leaving the market because the system is collapsing. It’s not working because what the law basically tried to do is force people to buy a health insurance plan they didn’t like, didn’t want, or couldn’t afford. And this is all for people in the individual market. The individual market are people who don’t get health insurance from their job or don’t have Medicare or Medicaid. So that’s a person who goes out and buys their own insurance by themselves.” “We’re saying: Let people buy the kind of insurance they want to buy. . . . In the bill we passed in the House, we will give everybody in the individual market who has to buy their own health insurance a refundable tax credit—a voucher, money—regardless of whether you pay taxes or not, to go buy a health insurance plan. But you buy a plan of your choosing. And if you buy a plan that has a deductible—most plans do—you can save tax-free in health savings accounts for that out of deductible expense.” *** “But the thing I think matters most in our bill is . . . we fund the cost of care for people with catastrophic illnesses. My dad died when I was a kid and my mom and I just lived together and my grandma got real sick with Alzheimer’s and she moved in with us and my mom and I were caretakers. That’s one of the values and lessons that I learned directly growing up is my life and my family in Janesville. This is one of the reasons why I am a passionate believer in having financing for high risk pools.” “By having high-risk pools cover the cost of your insurance, two things happen: you’re going to get the care you need when you need it without going bankrupt, and then because the insurance kicks in to cover you and your illness and anyone else in your category, then the insurance pools for everyone else does not have to cover those costs and it’s therefore much more affordable for everybody else to have insurance.” *** “I’m on Obamacare because we made sure when [it] passed we would put ourselves on Obamacare as well. . . . If we’re going to write the laws we got to live under the laws we write. And I absolutely believe that. You’re not a citizen legislator unless you do that.”
07.10.2017	Last Thursday and Friday, Paul traveled around Wisconsin’s First District—from Janesville to Racine to Burlington—to speak with his employers in southern Wisconsin, as he often does (check out these links). In case you missed it, here are the high points: Racine Journal Times: Tax reform is one of a number of measures the Republican-controlled Congress hopes to get to President Donald Trump’s desk this term. Any reform of the tax code needs to cut tax rates for businesses and simplify tax returns for families, Ryan said, adding businesses like Burlington Graphics are at a competitive disadvantage with its high tax rate. Allowing businesses to immediately write off major costs like equipment purchases would lead to more investment and economic growth, Ryan said. “Our job and our goal is to get tax reform done in 2017,” said Ryan, who represents Racine County in Congress, “so that when we roll into a new year in 2018, we roll into having a new tax code.” Kenosha News: When questioned about health care, Ryan said the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) is collapsing. He said employees at Burlington Graphics won’t be affected by the Republican plan to repeal Obamacare. “You get your health care here,” Ryan said. He said the employer-sponsored market is not affected by the Republican plan. “Obamacare is the individual market — that’s roughly 10 percent of Americans who have to buy their own health insurance,” he said. Wisconsin Public Radio: Later, at another company in Racine, Ryan said he remains optimistic about getting most of the Republican agenda through Congress. He tried to shrug off media coverage of controversies in Washington. "I always tell people, don't turn on the news all that often," Ryan said. It sounds like it's depressing, distracting. Candidly, I just don't let it distract me. I know what we need to do. We need to fix this tax code." Ryan also said the U.S. needs to improve its energy policy and get rid of unnecessary regulations. TMJ4: Ryan also visited Burlington Graphic Systems in Racine where he toured the plant and stayed on the same message; catapulting the manufacturing industry into the next decade with a renewed focus on technical education. “It’s not the case that you need to go to a four-year college to have a good livelihood,” he said. Wisconsin Radio Network: He said tax and regulatory reform are twin priorities. “We want to have smart regulations that work, that don’t make American products so prohibitively expensive that we can’t make it here.” As promised, one inspiring meeting: Between these tours, Paul visited Bob Webster Sr., a World War II veteran who participated in the Stars and Stripes Honor Flight. Heroes like Mr. Webster made America the great nation it is today. At the request of Mr. Webster’s son, Paul flew a flag over the United States Capitol in honor of Bob’s service, and presented that flag to him last Thursday:
07.07.2017	Over the last week, Paul held employee town halls in Wisconsin’s First District. The first was at WPC Technologies. Some excerpts of Paul’s answers below: Reforming the tax code: “The biggest issue we’re working on right now is our tax system. Right now we tax American manufacturers at much higher tax rates than our foreign competitor’s tax theirs. You guys are an LLC so the top tax rate on WPC is 44.6%. So if you have a good year, you’re paying a 44.6% federal tax rate. Guess what the Canadians would be taxing themselves, same kind of company? 15%. The English are 18%. The Chinese are 25% and going down from that. The Irish are 12.5%.” *** “So we are taxing American manufacturers in many cases at double the tax rate that our foreign competitors are taxing theirs and that makes us really uncompetitive. So one of the reasons we are doing tax reform this year is to not just have more jobs and faster economic growth, but put American businesses and manufacturers on a competitive scale globally.” Assessing the threat of North Korea: “North Korea tested what they claimed to be an ICBM. There is always a question about what is it that they actually test fired and what they didn’t. But the problem basically is North Korea bracing to have a nuclear weapon that they can deliver on a long range missile. That is something that we cannot accept as a nation if we want to preserve our own safety. This is not a regime that we want in possession of nuclear weapons because: Number one, they could use it themselves; and number two: If they want to do this, they could sell it to somebody that will use it. . . . And so, it is a real problem. *** “So it is a big concern. Quite frankly it’s my number one current foreign policy concern.” Afterwards, Paul visited Burlington Graphic Systems for another employee town hall. Excerpts of Paul’s answers are below: Repealing and replacing Obamacare: “..The employer market, it is not affected by this bill. This bill, what we call Obamacare, is in the individual market. That’s roughly ten 10% of Americans . . . who buy their own insurance because they don’t get it through their job.” *** “The problem is that marketplace is collapsing. And more and more insurers are leaving the marketplace so there are fewer and fewer choices and their premiums are going up double digits and so there is a collapse of the individual market and that’s what this is all about. It doesn’t affect the employer based market. 150 million people get their insurance from their job, so this doesn’t effect that at all. Anybody else? Getting things done for the American people: “We are actually very optimistic. . . . I know what we need to do. We need to fix this tax code. We need to make sure that we get this energy policy right, so America will be the dominant energy producer in this world. We need to get our regulations in check. . . . We are not focusing on getting credit, we are focusing on getting the job done.” *** "Because we have a real chance of getting all of this done, it is the first time in a long, long time we have felt this optimistic.”
06.29.2017	This morning, Congressman Ryan joined WISN’s Dan O’Donnell and WCLO’s Tim Bremel to discuss meaningful reforms and policies passed by the House of Representatives during the 115th Congress. Passing important bills for the American people: “We’re busy passing lots of bills and lots of reforms like we campaigned on and said we would. This congress, we’ve passed 158 bills. Compare that to the Obama administration where they were rocking and rolling in their first 150 days where they passed 131 bills.” “Thirty seven of those are already in law. We have repealed and replaced Dodd-Frank. . . . We passed an overhaul of career and technical education. This week: Kate’s Law, sanctuary cities, medical liability reform.” “What matters to me is we deliver results, we improve peoples’ lives, and we make good on the promises we made when we campaigned.” Instituting regulatory reforms to unleash our economic potential: “There is this tool called the Congressional Review Act where Congress can go and look at a recent regulation and rescind it if it is bad for jobs and business. . . . Rolling back harmful regulations; things that open up energy . . . for example. But we’ve also passed the Financial CHOICE Act. The community banks in Wisconsin are pretty much where most of our businesses get their capital. The problem we have is . . . Dodd-Frank [has] resulted in making big banks a whole lot bigger. It codifies this too-big-to-fail doctrine where we will have tax payer bailout of massive banks if they go down, which we think is wrong. And it makes it really hard for small community banks to stay in business to survive the regulations. Wisconsin is a small community bank state.” “A lot of time—and this is a Janesville story—you will have a rotary or a member of the Kiwanis Club who is a banker who knows a small business person who is a person of good character, who is working hard, who needs to get a loan to expand their business, and that banker will take the risk on that person. Dodd-Frank makes it almost impossible to do that, so it is really drying out capital and hurting job creation.” Progressing on health care reform: “We are going to have another round of double digit premium increases next year, just like last year. [Obamacare] is collapsing and so we have to step in front of that and rescue people from the failure of this law. That is what this debate is about: How do we lower premiums, give people more choices, and make sure that those protections for people with pre-existing conditions are maintained? And we, in Wisconsin, had a good risk pool system in place and we want to return to that so that we can have comprehensive, affordable coverage for people with catastrophic illnesses.” “They get good coverage when they get sick without going bankrupt, and by having that kind of coverage in place, you dramatically lower the price of insurance for everybody else, and make it more competitive.” “What we’re saying [is] everyone in the individual market [gets] a refundable tax credit, meaning it doesn’t matter what your tax liability is or if you have one. We’ll give you a tax incentive like a health savings account to pay for out-of-pocket under deductible costs. And then we’ll have extra money for the high-risk pools as I just described to cover the costs of people with catastrophic illnesses. And we think that’s just a smarter way to go because it will make sure everyone can get affordable care and access to care, including a person with a preexisting condition.” “So that’s what we are trying to get right, and that’s what this is really all about. So I have confidence that the Senate is going to get it done. We just want to get it right because it is very, very important.”
06.22.2017	Earlier this week, Paul delivered a major address on tax reform at the National Association of Manufacturers Summit. Paul’s remarks and Q&A session focused on reforming the tax code for individuals, families, and businesses. In addition to discussing the significant regulatory reforms already passed by the House and the importance of reforming and simplifying our tax code, Paul mentioned the need to make our workforce more resilient by closing the skills gap. Our economy has changed, and so too have the necessary skills to be effective in that economy. Industries vital to our economy—like manufacturing and health care—have vacant jobs to fill, but not enough qualified applicants to fill them. This is not due to a lack of willing applicants, but rather a lack of applicants who possess the right skills for the job. Later today, the House will be voting on the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, a key piece of legislation in the Better Way agenda. Representative Thompson, sponsor of the legislation, said his bill will “[help] people get good-paying jobs. We are providing an exit strategy from poverty, for people to attain the American Dream.” The bottom line is this: By promoting and modernizing career and technical education (CTE) programs, we increase the number of applicants who possess the right skills for a given job while also ensuring the students of today are the well-equipped workforce of tomorrow. For the benefits of CTE, look no further than Wisconsin. In the Badger State, two out of every three high schoolers participate in some form of CTE and have a higher graduation rate. This is even more vital considering approximately 21% of Wisconsin’s high school graduates go directly to the job market after high school. The young women and men participating in CTE programs will gain skills to help them be college or career ready—whatever path they decide, they will have the knowledge to achieve their dreams. A four-year degree is the path for some, but it isn’t the right choice for everyone. By offering a wide range of options through CTE programs—apprenticeships, two- or four-year degrees, and more—we can enact policies at the federal level to empower state and local officials, helping them ensure students have the tools for success. Like many other things in life, education is not a one-size-fits-all scenario. Each student should have the opportunity to take the path that best suits their situation and needs. Last Congress, the House passed the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act by a vote of 405-5, and we are likely headed for a similar outcome today. And if you want to know more, the Education and Workforce Committee has all the facts here.
06.06.2017	Over the last week, Paul toured a number of businesses in Wisconsin’s First District. These business owners are entrepreneurs, and their hard-working employees are vital to their success. On Saturday, Paul attended the official ribbon-cutting ceremony for Dollar General’s new warehouse opening. Photo Credit: Martika Photography Some highlights: The Janesville Gazette: “This is fantastic. This is the work of our plan here in Rock County and the Janesville-Beloit area to bring jobs—good, family-sustaining jobs—right here,” Ryan said. WISC: The facility employs more than 500 people and the discount retail company has plans to continue to grow up to 700 workers. . . . Dollar General invested around $100 million into building the distribution center. Janesville economic development director Gale Price said it was largest single economic development project in the city’s history. WIFR: Nearly 1,000 visitors toured the facility where employees had the chance to show their families around. Representatives from the company as well as House Speaker Paul Ryan spoke about the facility and its impact. And earlier this week, Paul visited Case IH, agricultural equipment manufacturers, which was celebrating its 175th anniversary. There, Paul said: “I’ve got to tell you, from watching this factory and the surrounding jobs that are right here in Racine, 4500 really good, family-supporting jobs . . . then to see the great legacy that comes from that, just makes those of us who serve this community, beam with pride.” Afterward, Paul toured Gordon Foods Distribution Center and participated in a question and answer session with Gordon Foods employees.
06.02.2017	When Congress isn’t in session, Paul spends his time meeting with his employers in the First District. Sometimes this means taking questions from students or touring a business and participating in an employee Q&A. Other days, Paul holds office hours with constituents. Below are four photos from some of his meetings today: The Greater Milwaukee Foundation Paul meets with the Greater Milwaukee Foundation, which is a 102 year-old community organization focusing on philanthropy and charitable giving in the greater Milwaukee County area. This foundation gives grants to local charitable organizations to meet the needs of their neighborhoods and communities. Milton School District Officials Paul listens to officials from the Milton School District about the importance of technology in educating young Americans. Kathy and Wayne Heglund, and Lorraine Rohleder Kathy and Lorraine’s brother, US Marine Corps CPL Kenneth McGuire was wounded (for the third time) in action on September 20, 1968 from a gunshot wound to the right arm. He was evacuated to a hospital in Okinawa, Japan where he died on September 28, 1968. Finally, and with assistance from Paul and our constituent services team, CPL McGuire’s name was added to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall on Memorial Day 2017. Wisconsin Hospital Association (WHA) Paul discusses health care reform with the WHA. To submit a scheduling request, click here.
05.23.2017	Last week on the Hugh Hewitt Show, Paul remarked that “we’re busy doing our work,” here in the House. That remains true this week, with a focus on bipartisan bills to help our veterans. These initiatives may not garner a lot of attention in the press—there’s no conflict here—but they matter. Consider the Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act: Did you know the VA estimates that it will take approximately five years to resolve the backlog of appeals that are currently pending? That’s nearly 500,000 appeals—that’s too many veterans waiting far too long for resolution. Veterans who have a disability as a result of their service to our country should not have to deal with a fundamentally broken system. The Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act would create three “lanes” for veterans’ appeals, a marked improvement over the current system. By streamlining the process, VA can give veterans the certainty they deserve. Another bill, the No Hero Left Untreated Act, focuses on treating veterans with mental health issues or chronic pain. Here’s what you need to know: -- Nearly 20 veterans commit suicide every single day; and -- In 2001, 27 percent of veterans suffered from a mental health condition or substance abuse disorder; in 2014, that number rose to 40 percent. It’s no secret that fighting the opioid epidemic is a priority for Paul. Opioid abuse is a particular scourge among veterans, and is a prominent problem in Wisconsin: Over the last ten years, deaths from opioid overdose in the state have almost doubled. The No Hero Left Untreated Act would create a pilot program to explore Magnetic Resonant Theory—an FDA approved treatment for depression—which has been used to treat post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injuries with success, and can help reduce the VA’s reliance on subscription medication to treat chronic pain or mental health issues (between 2001 and 2014, the number of prescription opioids subscribed by VA providers has jumped over 250 percent). There are more bills (you can get the full list here), like the VA Scheduling Accountability Act, which would help rectify the poor scheduling practices that led to serious scandals and even veteran deaths, or legislation to give veterans a cost-of-living-adjustment. Paul’s predecessor, John Boehner, used to say that about 90 percent of what Congress does is bipartisan. It’s the other 10 percent that tends to get all the attention. Bipartisanship is not rare. It is just rarely noted.
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke to thousands of Kenosha County residents during a telephone town hall meeting. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers to constituents follow: On health care reform: “Let me give you a backstop. First of all, we’ve got a real problem in that Obamacare is basically collapsing.” *** “To restore a viable health insurance market . . . what [the American Health Care Act] does, is an older person, because they have more health care costs will pay more for their insurance, but not on an unlimited basis. They will get a tax credit based on their age to help them pay for that health insurance. So the bill that we passed has what we call age-adjusted tax credits, and it says: The older you are, the more tax credit you will get. The Senate is adding to that right now to help cover those additional costs that the older person would get for health insurance. . . . So we are going to give bigger tax credits to older people. Then the second thing we do—which I think is the smartest thing—instead of trying to force young people to pay for stuff they don’t need, we are going to cover the cost of catastrophically ill people.” “We did this in Wisconsin before Obamacare. We had a thing called the high risk pool . . . The state said: We will cover the excessive cost of health care for people with catastrophic illnesses like heart disease or cancer so that they can buy affordable care. It’s subsidized. They’ve got seven plans to choose from. . . . And by covering those people with excessive illnesses, the other insurance pools don’t have to do that, and you lower everybody else’s insurance costs.” “And then if you cover catastrophic illnesses like I just described, that is the biggest thing we can do to lower prices and premiums for people and that’s why our bill, we think, will make sure we cover people with pre-existing conditions and get them good, comprehensive care, but do it in such a way that you’re not cranking up everybody else’s health insurance premiums. That you can actually lower everybody else’s health insurance premiums. That’s the entire objective of the American Health Care Act.” On higher education: “There are two things were trying to do here. Number one, the student loan industry is a big monopoly that was taken over in 2010 and basically it is run by the federal government. The default rates are higher, and there is no competition in the student loan industry. And so, we would like to undo that nationalization of the student loan industry, and let there be more competitive products in the market place to lower costs of loans, people have more choices, and get people the ability to have more customized loans, that can be customized to their unique situation.” “That is on the loan side, but the question is the cost side. Why is tuition inflation so much higher than ordinary inflation, which is also a question with health care? Health care and education the prices go up so much faster than they do than anything else we buy in society, and one of the things we are trying to figure out and look into is to get more transparency among colleges about where the money goes. It is so easy for colleges to crank up grants and loans and to keep feeding tuition inflation and its putting kids more and more in debt. So, more transparency on colleges, on how much money it costs, and also metrics that say: What do you get for this degree? Do students actually get the careers they want, the jobs and their majors they are studying for?” *** “We can bring more competition among higher education and then use metric measurements to let students know what bang for your buck you get for buying this education from this school.”
05.16.2017	Last Thursday Paul crossed Wisconsin’s First District—from Janesville to Racine to Burlington—to speak with his employers in southern Wisconsin. Paul has been discussing tax reform with everyone from WIBA’s Vicki McKenna to employees at local business InSinkErator. But those weren’t Paul’s only visits last week; below are more highlights: Now more than ever it is important to encourage younger Americans to be politically and civically engaged. Paul is no stranger to doing question and answer sessions with students, regardless of age. Last Friday, that continued with visits to Edison Middle School and Badger High School, to discuss, among other topics, the importance of civility and respect. Paul takes questions from students at Edison Middle School Paul also met with the founders of Geneva Supply and toured Prestige Paints. Afterwards, Paul answered questions from students who were at Geneva Supply as part of Biz Tank, a program that gives students hands-on experience in the business world. Paul takes questions from students at Geneva Supply And Paul participated in the Community State Bank 2017 Business Economic Forum lunch to provide an update on tax reform in Congress.
05.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WIBA’s Vicki McKenna. Tackling the country’s big problems: “That is why we spent you know the better part of the year working on an agenda—I’m talking about 2016, to be executed in 2017—and now we are in the middle of executing it. We passed our health care bill last week; we’ve got a lot of regulatory reforms done; we are bringing our Dodd-Frank bill through the system now; and then we are back to work on tax reform. So there are so many things we are doing because we are executing the plan that we ran on.” *** “We showed the country what an agenda that fixes the country’s problems looks like, we won the election, and now we feel we have an obligation and a duty to [do] those things.” Fixing the American health care system: “The individual market, the Obamacare system is collapsing. And we have to rescue people from this collapsing law and that is why we are replacing it with a patient center health care system. We think [that] gets us a far better system so people can get lower premiums, including people with preexisting conditions.” *** “We maintain multiple layers of protection for people with preexisting conditions in this bill. And we also gives states, like Wisconsin, the ability to customize the insurance market so that we can lower premiums for everybody but require a state like Wisconsin, if we were to get a waiver, that they have a risk system in place to protect that very person with a catastrophic illness, with a preexisting condition. You can’t be denied healthcare because of your preexisting condition. You have continuous coverage so you can move from plan to plan without having a problem with rates. And more importantly, what these waivers allows us to do is go back to a system we like is Wisconsin which is the risk share program; we had a really good high risk pool.” *** “So we have shown in Wisconsin that we know how to have a more competitive insurance market so that we have more choices and lower premiums, including making sure that everyone with a catastrophic illness gets good affordable coverage. That’s what we want to get to, that’s not what we’ve got in Obamacare.” Wielding the Congressional Review Act: “There is one tool that we have in Congress called the Congressional Review Act that we can use to go after recent regulations to get rid of those regulations. . . . And we have used it 13 times this year . . . to get rid of job killing regulations that came near the end of the Obama administration. Things from you know, killing coal country jobs and energy jobs, to things that effect small business.”
05.11.2017	Obamacare’s failings are piling up and last week the House passed the American Health Care Act to give Americans across the country the relief they deserve. Paul has been discussing tax reform on a national stage, and today, he took that message to his employers in Wisconsin’s First District. He visited InSinkErator to meet with employees and take their questions. Later, Paul held a listening session with representatives from businesses with a presence in Wisconsin’s First District—large and small—to have a conversation about the Republican tax reform plan. Paul greets an InSinkErator employee Paul participates in a Q&A with InSinkErator employees Paul details the Republican tax reform plan and path ahead
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON – This morning, Congressman Ryan joined WTMJ’s Jeff Wagner and WCLO’s Tim Bremel to discuss ongoing efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare, reforming the tax code, and wins in the government funding legislation. Government funding legislation: “We finally severed this Obama rule that if you want to help the military, for every dollar you give the military you have to give a dollar to wasteful domestic spending, we do not do that in this bill. We [have] . . . the biggest border security funding increase in a decade, $21 billion increase in military [spending] to help [them]. . . . There are other wins in there like school choice programs in DC, reauthorized [and] we kept all the pro-life riders, so there are a lot of good wins in here.” Health care reform: “Obamacare is failing: Double digit premium increases; insurance companies are pulling out of market places; people are left with one or even fewer choices, meaning no choices. We have to replace [Obamacare] with a law that works, with one that gives people more choices, lower prices, lower premiums, and we can do that while still protecting preexisting conditions.” *** “There are multiple layers of protections for people with preexisting conditions in [the American Health Care Act]. . . . but it also gives states like Wisconsin the ability to get a waiver to do it our own way, on how we best think we can maintain protections for preexisting conditions [and] get premiums down. I met with the Wisconsin Insurance Commissioner, Ted Nickel, yesterday. And he was walking me through the HIRSP, the high risk pool we had in Wisconsin. It was a very good system. 10% of the people who bought their own health insurance—we call that the individual market—were in the HIRSP. What it did was it made it much cheaper for everybody else, the other 90% of Wisconsinites to buy more affordable health insurance. And so, we in Wisconsin had a better way of actually making sure that everybody had affordable healthcare coverage.” *** “[The American Health Care Act] says states like Wisconsin can go do those kinds of things again, making sure you take care of people with preexisting conditions. And [there] is federal financing for your risk pools, something we’ve never had before in Wisconsin. And [there’s] a refundable tax credit for people in the individual market to go buy a plan of their choosing.” Tax reform: “American businesses, American employers are being taxed at much higher tax rate than our foreign competitors. The key thing is to simplify the code, make it easier for families and small businesses to comply with, and lower tax rates on businesses, so we can get faster economic growth [and] create more jobs. We tax our businesses at much, much higher tax rates than our foreign competitors tax theirs, and that is costing us . . . and it’s slowing down our economy. And so we really think that [tax reform] is the crown jewel of an economic growth agenda. Regulatory relief and regulatory reform, which we’re deep into doing, is a big part of this, but nothing holds a candle to the power of tax reform and what it can do to grow our economy.”
04.26.2017	Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke to thousands of Rock and Walworth County residents during a telephone town hall meeting. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers to constituents follow: On health care reform: “What’s happened here with [Obamacare], in the last few years, is fewer and fewer people who consider themselves healthy are buying the insurance, so the bulk of the people that are left are people that have to have insurance because they have health care costs, health care problems, issues, and that is cranking up the [cost] of health care. They call it a death spiral . . . which means sicker people are joining the pool and fewer healthier people are buying it because the prices are getting so high. And therefore the pool is getting more and more expensive and they are having to raise premiums and prices, and it’s basically kind of collapsing.” “So what’s happening is health insurance companies are pulling out of the marketplace. That is a serious problem. And so our approach says: Don’t force the younger healthier person to pay a lot more to cross subsidize the sicker person, because there obviously they are not doing that. Let’s have risk pools instead.” “So if we subsidize the cost of care to that one to five percent of the people in this marketplace, [what] you end up doing is dramatically lowering the cost of care for everybody else, because the insurance doesn’t have to guard against that potential catastrophic cost. And that lets everybody else get cheaper premiums. It [gives] the younger healthier person, who we want to buy into the insurance pool, the ability it buy at a price they can afford. What we’re trying to do is get more competition, more choices, and more insurers into the marketplace.” On tax reform: “So Alice, in her small business in Wisconsin, pays taxes on her business on the individual level, not like a corporation pays at the corporate level. So, think Harley Davidson—that’s a corporation, so they pay a corporate tax. That tax rate is 35 percent. Alice, with her business, pays the individual tax rate. The top rate, now, is 44.6 percent. And nine out of ten Wisconsin businesses are like that—they don’t necessarily pay 44.6 percent, but they pay the individual tax rate. The ones that are successful, that have 20 to 200 employees, like the businesses that are in our industrial parks and towns all pay taxes like that. So what we’re working on getting those tax rates on small businesses down.” “For individuals, we propose a dramatic simplification of the tax code. Keep deductions for things like mortgages and charities, but get rid of the other deductions and increase the standard deduction so that people have a bigger standard deduction for families, for kids, for filing as a single person or couple. And by doing that, we can fill out our taxes on a postcard.” *** “Let’s just take Johnson Controls, a company that we all kind of know. It’s a company up in Milwaukee. Johnson Controls buys a foreign company like Tyco in Ireland, and then Johnson Controls becomes an Irish company. Now, Ireland has a 12.5 percent tax rate on businesses, not a 35 percent tax rate. And so, they basically repatriated and became a foreign company. What they’re doing is they’re either getting bought by a foreign company or they are buying a foreign company and then moving their headquarters to that foreign country. They are paying that foreign country tax which is a lower tax rate. We need to remove the incentive that tells a company: You should move overseas, you should move your product overseas.”
04.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Today Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, sent a letter spearheaded along with Congressman Sean Duffy and cosigned by the entire Wisconsin Congressional delegation, to Commerce Secretary Ross, Acting U.S. Trade Representative Stephen Vaughn, and Acting U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Michael Young regarding concerns about recent actions by Canada that are restricting American milk exports to the Canadian market. “Exports are critical to the viability of Wisconsin’s dairy farms. These families rely on them for their very livelihood. I am encouraged by this bipartisan effort and will continue to work with my colleagues and impacted stakeholders to break down these trade barriers and reach a practical solution,” said Congressman Ryan. Text of the letter follows: Dear Secretary Ross, Acting Trade Representative Vaughn, and Acting Secretary Young, On behalf of Wisconsin’s dairy farmers, we are writing to raise our concerns about recent actions by Canada that are restricting American milk exports to the Canadian market. Dairy farmers in Wisconsin and across the country rely on exports to remain viable. Last year, the United States dairy industry exported roughly 15 percent of its milk production. In Wisconsin – America’s Dairyland – the dairy industry contributes more than $43 billion on average to the economy each year. Canada has recently taken steps to implement targeted milk pricing programs that have compromised the ability of Wisconsin dairy farmers to access the Canadian market under existing trade agreements. These changes have caused the displacement of current imports from the United States, including ultra-filtered milk processed in Wisconsin. Canada traditionally used five classes to price its dairy products. In April 2016, Ontario province implemented its own additional sixth class, which has significantly restricted the exports of Wisconsin’s dairy farmers into the Canadian market. Further exacerbating these trade barriers, Canada implemented a Class 7 National Ingredients Strategy, further displacing American exports and processors’ ability to accept milk supplies. In addition, Canada’s lack of transparency regarding these policies compounds the problem that our dairy industry is facing. We are greatly concerned that these programs appear to violate Canada’s existing trade obligations to the United States. Just last week, more than 75 Wisconsin dairy farmers were notified that the processor they sell to would no longer purchase their milk effective May 1, 2017, as a direct result of Canada’s restrictive trade policies. This situation underscores how Canada’s new pricing policies are not only undermining trade with the United States but are displacing fresh milk produced by hard-working dairy farmers in Wisconsin and around the country. We urge you to take immediate action to address this dire situation where apparent unfair trade practices are putting Wisconsin dairy farmers’ livelihoods at risk. We look forward to working with you to break down these trade barriers, enforce existing rules, and improve Canadian market access for our producers in any future trade negotiations. Sincerely, Speaker Paul D. Ryan Congressman Sean Duffy Governor Scott Walker Senator Ron Johnson Senator Tammy Baldwin Congressman Mark Pocan Congressman Ron Kind Congresswoman Gwen Moore Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner Congressman Glenn Grothman Congressman Mike Gallagher A PDF of the letter is attached.
04.11.2017	The last six weeks have been busy. Congress has now passed more than a dozen measures to roll back excessive regulations, empowering American employees and business owners alike. Progress to repeal and replace Obamacare with patient-centered care continues. During those six weeks, Paul addressed 18,000 pro-Israel activists at AIPAC and took questions from Wisconsinites at the 2017 WisPolitics Luncheon. At AIPAC, Paul talked about recent uptick in anti-Semitic incidents around the country, including at the Jewish Community Center in Whitefish Bay. On Friday, Paul visited the JCC to meet with its leaders and say hello to students preparing for Passover. Later in the day, he visited Landmark Credit Union, to discuss regulatory and financial issues. Below are four photos from those visits: Paul talks to JCC Milwaukee’s President and CEO Mark Shapiro Paul listens to JCC leadership during a roundtable discussion Paul poses with students from the JCC K4 class Paul tours Landmark Credit Union
04.06.2017	ELKHORN, WI — On Saturday, April 1, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, announced Christian Life School junior Filip Saitis as the winner of the 2017 First District Congressional Art Competition. Filip was honored during a ceremony held at the Monte Carlo Room in Elkhorn. The ceremony was attended by the student artists, their friends and families, their art teachers, and the judges of the First District Art Competition. “The amount of artistic talent here in Wisconsin’s First District never fails to impress me. Filip should be proud of his achievement—we received a number of stunning pieces this year. I want to congratulate Filip, his family, and his teacher, Kristie Nixon, on this accomplishment, and thank all the other young artists who submitted pieces for consideration in this year’s competition,” said Congressman Ryan. Winner Filip Saitis with his piece Expunged Runners-up for the 2017 First District Congressional Art Competition include: Second place finisher Rachel Gilpatrick, with her piece Great Grandmother, from East Troy High School Rachel Gilpatrick, with her piece Great Grandmother Third place finisher, Violet Grinder, with her piece Colour, from Paul’s Alma Mater, Craig High School in Janesville Violet Grinder, with her piece Colour Fourth place finisher, Lexi Ganong, with her piece Music In Me, from Paul’s Alma Mater, Craig High School in Janesville Lexi Ganong, with her piece Music In Me Each year, Congressman Ryan invites high schools students in the First District to participate in the congressional art competition. The winning artwork is selected by a panel of judges comprised of local artists, and is then submitted to represent Wisconsin’s First District in the national “Congressional Art Competition: An Artistic Discovery.” This nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by members of Congress, gives high-school artists the opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity. The winning artwork from each district is put on display within the U.S. Capitol for an entire year where it can be viewed by the millions of visitors who pass through the Capitol. A photo of Congressman Ryan with Filip Saitis and his winning piece Expunged can be viewed here.
04.05.2017	Earlier today, Speaker Ryan took questions at an event held by WisPolitics.com. In case you missed our livestream, here are a few highlights from the 45-minute session: Syria There is no justification for the events that occurred in Syria. pic.twitter.com/hkKt97TQWB — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) April 5, 2017 Russia We need to stand up to Russia and help our allies stand up to Russia. pic.twitter.com/3jZrgecHkJ — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) April 5, 2017 Infrastructure We want to create a 21st century infrastructure system that's a good foundation for solid economic growth. pic.twitter.com/8aJPYdoeWm — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) April 5, 2017
03.17.2017	Things have been busy in Washington: The House passed bipartisan bills to reform the VA, and a third House Committee, through an open and transparent process, approved the American Health Care Act, because seven years of Obamacare is enough. Paul hosted the Friends of Ireland Luncheon, complete with Irish beer and Irish jokes (you can watch that here). Whether it’s meeting with a young lady who survived cancer and now hosts fundraisers to treat and cure cancer in Wisconsin or with veterans in Washington, Paul’s priority has always been his employers in Wisconsin’s First District. Here are some other highlights from Paul’s time in Wisconsin this week: Paul met with members of the Wisconsin Manufacturers and Commerce to talk about reforming the tax code and the health care system in America, two of the most important issues facing our nation. Paul heard from members of the WI Agri-Business Association to discuss regulatory reform—a key to unleashing economic growth in America—and trade agreements, which are vital Wisconsin’s farmers. Paul spoke with Disability Rights Wisconsin about Medicaid, and other constituents about immigration reform. But perhaps the best meeting was this one: Paul was able to visit St. Patrick’s elementary school and answer some questions from very special students. Via the Janesville Gazette: “Speaker Paul Ryan likes rainbows. Also, he has three dogs and enjoys pheasant hunting and economics. . . . [Most] of the questions were about his career, how he got there, what he does and what he likes about it. “The basic part of my job is to make sure that the laws we have are good laws, and if we have bad laws, I try to fix them,” Ryan said. As the speaker of the House, Ryan said it was his job to "make sure that Congress functions.” He told kids that he originally wanted to be an economist, but he found his calling in public service. “My favorite part of my job is that you can make a huge difference in people's lives,” Ryan said.
03.16.2017	There is a lot in the news right now about the discussion over the future of health care in America, and it’s an important one. Obamacare has failed the American people: Premiums are skyrocketing and deductibles are soaring. Americans are left with fewer choices—just ask the Wisconsinites who live in one of the 16 counties in the state with a duopoly, meaning there is only one or two insurers available to Wisconsinites in that county. It is our job to provide a system where people can get universal access to affordable coverage if they choose to do so or not. That’s what we’re going to be accomplishing with the American Health Care Act. But there is another area of the American health care system that’s in serious need of reform: The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). You know about the number of incidents at the VA facility in Tomah, but there are—heartbreakingly—examples of that kind of negligence all around the country: One VA nurse operated on a veteran while drunk, and another was reinstated at her job at the VA despite complicity in an armed robbery. Our veterans deserve better. Last year, the House—in overwhelming bipartisan fashion—passed the Jason Simcakoski Promoting Responsible Opioid Management and Incorporating Scientific Expertise (PROMISE) Act. That bill makes it safer for veterans to seek opioid therapy and pain management care. But the PROMISE Act was just one reform of many that are needed. That’s why this week, the House will consider the VA Accountability First Act. We know the vast majority of VA employees are honest, hard-working, and committed to serving our nation’s heroes. It is unfair to those men and women, as well as those in uniform, when the bad actors at the VA are not held accountable for their actions. This bill gives the VA Secretary increased flexibility to remove, demote, or suspend any VA employee for poor performance or conduct. The House will also consider legislation to establish staffing, recruitment, and retention programs at the VA. Veterans deserve high-quality care, but they can’t get that unless the VA has all the tools they need to hire high-quality employees. And the best news? Both of these bills are bipartisan. Former-Speaker John Boehner used to say that ‘about 90 percent of what Congress does is bipartisan. It’s the other 10 percent that tends to get all the attention. Bipartisanship is not rare. It is just rarely noted.’ And this week, Congress proved that once again. These VA reforms are worthy of attention.
03.13.2017	You’ve already received a ton of information on the American Health Care Act, explaining how it will repeal and replace Obamacare with a truly patient-centered system that increases access to quality, affordable coverage. Here’s a brief recap: 1) The facts; 2) Details on the four-committee process; 3) The truth about refundable tax credits; and 4) Paul in his element: Sleeves rolled up, delivering a 30-minute presentation on the American Health Care Act. And last Friday, Paul spoke with Wisconsin’s own Vicki McKenna about why the American Health Care Act is right for Wisconsinites and Americans across the country. But we know how it goes: On Fridays, everyone is wrapping up their work week, ready to enjoy their weekends. So in case you missed Paul’s interview with Vicki, here are some of the highlights: What the American Health Care Act achieves: “This is what [the American Health Care Act] achieves, so you see the forest through the trees. We are defederalizing one entitlement and capping its growth rate; that’s enormous. We’re repealing another entire entitlement—that’s Obamacare taxes and subsidies—and replacing it with Republican tax policy [and] Republican tax benefits that we’ve been talking about for years.” “And, we’re reviving a market-based . . . patient-centered health care [system]. That is what we’re here to do.” How health care reform will move through Congress: “And so there are three parts to this play: [Act] one, the American Health Care Act, which is repealing the Obamacare spending, the Obamacare taxing, the Obamacare mandates, and replacing [it] with Republican health care policy that’s been longstanding Conservative policy for decades.” “Act two: Tom Price has enormous discretion, because that’s the way Obamacare worked, to deregulate the marketplace and then turn it back to the states, so that the states take over regulating health insurance.” “Act three: The other bills that we want to pass that’s part of our agenda in health care but you can’t put in reconciliation. . . . That’s the Association of Health Plans; let the Wisconsin farmer buy her insurance through the American Farm Bureau. Let the small business person buy their insurance through the NFIB and use the bulk buying power of millions of small business owners. Let people buy insurance across state lines so that you have regulatory competition. Go after medical liability, tort reform. Those are things you cannot put in a budget reconciliation bill . . . so we are passing those separately.” Why the tax credits in the American Health Care Act work: “A tax deduction, which you get at the end of the year only works for high income tax brackets who make enough money where they have a big tax liability, [so] they get a refund check because they have a big deduction at the end of the year.” “If you’re [lower income], there is nothing for you in the tax code. Advanceable refundable tax credits says ‘you get this tax benefit up front, at the beginning of the year and the month, so that you can go buy health insurance.’” “The way to get a viable, free market in health care, to have real price pressure, real consumer pressure, is to have a viable individual market, and tax credits with [health savings accounts] do that.”
03.08.2017	We’ve told you the facts about Obamacare: Americans are paying more money for less care; premiums are rising by double digits in 31 states; deductibles are increasing; and Americans have fewer choices. This week, the relevant House Committees began processing The American Health Care Act, the Republican legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare. But unlike Obamacare, you don’t have to pass the bill to find out what’s in it: If you want to read the American Health Care Act, click here, or visit www.readthebill.gop Paul already spoke about the American Health Care Act at two press conferences (one and two), and the third will be tomorrow at 11:30 am ET: Tune in at Speaker.gov/live Making the repeal and replacement of Obamacare a priority is with good reason—costs are increasing for hardworking Wisconsinites across the state. For “the tens of thousands of people throughout [Wisconsin] who don’t qualify for federal subsidies. . . . They will pay the full cost of double-digit premium increases. Several insurers, including at least four in the Milwaukee area, are raising premiums by more than 20%.” Wisconsinites also have fewer choices. “Several insurers, including UnitedHealthcare and Humana, are no longer selling health insurance directly to individuals in Wisconsin.” 16 counties in Wisconsin have a duopoly, meaning there is only one or two insurers available to Wisconsinites in that county. You’ve heard it before; there is a better way to give Wisconsinites and Americans across the country access to affordable health care. And that better way is here: The American Health Care Act.
03.06.2017	The House continues to do its work on behalf of the American people, whether it be moving ahead on the repeal and replacement of Obamacare, rolling back harmful regulations to jumpstart our economy, or restoring the separation of powers and giving the people a voice. Amidst all that, Paul had the chance to meet with a number of Wisconsinites in Washington recently. Here are some of the best moments: Paul greets members of Veterans of Foreign Wars Wisconsin Paul and Disabled American Veterans Wisconsin Commander John Polk Paul meets with John Dickert, Mayor of Racine Paul shares a laugh with members of the Wisconsin American Legion Paul’s guests to the Presidential address: Representative Steve Naas, Speaker Robin Vos, Representative Samantha Kerkman, Representative Amy Loudenbek, and Representative Tyler August.
02.16.2017	February has been off to a blistering pace here in Congress. Already, we’ve seen House committees continue their work on the repeal and replacement of Obamacare; Dr. Tom Price was confirmed as Secretary of Health and Human Services; the House worked to protect America’s students from poorly-crafted, harmful Obama-era regulations; and the House continues to make progress on tax reform and regulatory reform, two keys to unleashing job creation and wage growth in America. And earlier this week, Paul met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. While these meetings in Washington get a lot of attention—and it’s well deserved—Paul met with some folks back home whose stories may not be as well-known, but are worth sharing. Here are some of the highlights: Lauren, Molly, Scott, and Cole Sharp & Brian Sladek with the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Lauren is a brave young lady; she was diagnosed with leukemia at the age of 6 and has been in remission for 3 years. Lauren donates all of her allowance—and has fundraisers—to various organizations dedicated to treating and curing cancer. Last year she was the honorary chair for Relay for Life in Kenosha. Lauren truly defines charity. She uses her hardship to help others, and she is inspiring to so many people every day. Paul presented Lauren with a certificate, which read, in part: In recognition of not only being a survivor of Leukemia, but also of your hard work [which] . . . has been instrumental in [the] efforts [to find] cures, celebrating survivorship, and raising critical funds for research programs. . . . Your service is greatly appreciated by the residents of the Kenosha community, the State of Wisconsin, and the United States of America. Greta Johnson, Nikki Payne, and David Reilly with the American Cancer Society Paul met with Greta, Nikki, and David to discuss the repeal and replacement of Obamacare, and they all agree: It’s important to put the patient first throughout this entire process. And Paul has consistently said just that: “However long [the] transition’s going to take, we`re going to make sure that the rug doesn`t get pulled out from under people—and that`s something we want to make very clear.” Another topic raised was the importance of ensuring Americans with pre-existing conditions cannot be denied coverage because of their health status, which is part of Republicans’ Better Way health care plan. Pastor Melvin Hargrove, Bishop James E. Dukes, Dr. Leon Finney, Bishop Roosvelt Watkins, and Ernest Nia Paul also met with Pastors, Bishops, and community leaders to discuss economic development, education, and workforce training, all of which are issues of serious importance to Wisconsinites across the state. It is vital that Congress support policies that allow small business and their employees to thrive; ensure America’s children, regardless of their zip code, have access to a quality education that provides them the skills they will need to be successful later in life; and support job training opportunities for young adults, like the bipartisan SKILLS Act signed into law in 2014.
02.15.2017	Earlier today, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WRJN’s Mike Clemens about Congress’s work on health care, education, and regulatory policies. Fixing health care in America: “I did office hours in Racine on Friday with a lot of healthcare advocates; people with severe preexisting conditions. And I think that’s where most the concern comes from. And I want to put people’s minds to rest that everyone agrees, virtually, Republicans and Democrats, and myself included, that we have to have the critical protections for people with preexisting conditions so they can get comprehensive coverage without going bankrupt.” *** “The problem with Obamacare is it is literally in the middle of a collapse right now. Humana yesterday announced that it is pulling out its Obamacare plans. United already pulled out; Aetna already pulled out. . . . So we believe that, if this was a law that worked really well and everybody liked it and there was choice and competition and prices were going down, that would be one thing, but that is not what people are experiencing now. Because of the collapse of law, we feel the need to rescue this. We feel the need to step in and replace it with a better system that actually focuses on the goal to lower costs and make it easier for people to get affordable coverage. And that means don’t give people monopolies; that means have more choice, more competition. And yes, you need to have important provisions to guarantee people with preexisting conditions can get affordable coverage as well and that’s basically what we’re working on right now.” *** “Let the farmer buy his or her insurance through the Wisconsin or the American Farm Bureau; let the restaurateur buy through the National Restaurant Association; [let] the independent businessperson buy it through the National Federation of Independent Businesses. These are the kinds of things that we are advocating. . . . We also believe we can have better policies to make it easier for people to go buy insurance, like letting states compete on an interstate basis. And then let [Americans] save tax free for their health savings account for their under deductible spending. I think there are good answers for fixing what was and is broken in healthcare without breaking what was working in healthcare. Obamacare did the opposite. Obamacare broke what was working and did not fix what was broken. And so that’s what we have to fix and that’s what we’re focused on here.” Helping children get a quality education: “I am a product of Janesville public schools. What I think is important . . . give the parents the power. Let the parents decide what’s best for their child, because it is kind of as you described: In some places you have fantastic public schools. I think Janesville is a perfect example of that. I can speak with firsthand knowledge of that. In some cases, as you mentioned, like Milwaukee, you’ve got failing public schools, and what you don’t want to do—and this is my opinion—is force a family to send their child to a school they know is failing. Their child gets one crack at a good education while they are growing up. You want to give that parent the ability to send their child to a school that actually teaches them; that actually performs.” Rolling back harmful, burdensome regulations: “There’re a lot of regulations, especially at the end of the Obama Administration, particularly on energy—they went after energy production. Whether it was clean coal, or natural gas, and by over-regulating . . . you kill energy jobs and you also increase the costs of energy: Heating your home, things like that.” *** “And so what the Congressional Review Act is, for recent regulations, Congress can bring those up and vote on whether to disapprove of those or not, and [they] can’t be filibustered in the Senate. President Obama, on the way out the door, pushed out a lot of regulations which will cost us jobs, economic growth, hurt small businesses; they were rushed, they weren’t well considered. . . . And so what we’re doing now is going through these regulations, bringing them up for a vote, and saying we, Congress, who are supposed to be the writers of the laws, not the Executive branch, disapprove of the regulation. I went to the White House yesterday, in the President’s office, who signed [one of] them into law.”
02.02.2017	Today Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WCLO’s Tim Bremel and WISN’s Jay Weber about the challenges Congress is currently tackling and what lies ahead on the legislative agenda. Rolling back burdensome regulations: “We’re just doing our work. We’re busy getting our job done. We’re in the middle of what we call our CRA season, the Congressional Review Act. We have a tool, a procedural tool that can block filibusters and repeal recent regulations by the last administration . . . so we’re focused on doing it right now. *** “[Like the] stream buffer [rule], which is an Obama regulation he put out there at the last minute that basically shuts down coal mining. It would wipe out tens of thousands of coal mining jobs, and it was a regulation that was rushed . . . there are some others ones that we put through dealing with energy. And so we’re going through and getting rid of these regulations that he did at the last minute that he didn’t even go through the proper process. *** “We don’t [really] have coal mines in Wisconsin. We get our power from coal—over 60% of our power, our electricity comes from coal—so [this rule] would have given us a huge price shock on our utility bills and that’s how it would have affected us.” Describing the 200 day legislative plan: “We have a 200 day plan that we’re working off that Senator Mitch McConnell and myself and President Trump worked on together, for the priorities of the legislation that we want to pass this year. It is: Repeal and replace Obamacare . . . the regulatory stuff I just described . . . [and] doing comprehensive tax reform. *** “We’re on path. We’re on track. We have our timeline [and] we’re in the middle of drafting our bills. . . . Remember, we’re in a rescue mission here. Our healthcare system is collapsing. . . . Our economy is not growing like it needs to [and] we’ve [got to] get it going. That’s regulations, that’s tax reform; there is so much work to do to make people’s lives better and we’re not going to be daunted from doing it.” Contacting Paul: “As far as our phone lines are concerned, we prioritize constituents. When you have a lot of calls coming in, with only so many staff [members] to answer the phones, it can take some time to get to those calls. My priority is doing my job as the 1st Congressional district Congressman. . . . And again, because our phone lines get clogged sometimes, I encourage our constituents to just email us, that’s the easiest way to get to us. Just go to paulryan.house.gov. "I’m Paul Ryan, the same person I’ve always been: living, raising my family in Janesville, Wisconsin, serving as the first Congressional district Congressman, but also as Speaker of the House. I think it’s a great privilege that my colleagues wanted me to become the Speaker of the House. . . . I take this responsibility very seriously, and I see it basically as a huge opportunity to get the policies done that we’ve been fighting for and trying for so many years, which I think are really important to get our country back on the right track.”
01.31.2017	Make no mistake: Obamacare is failing. We’ve heard all about the broken promises, increased costs, and decreased choices; the evidence is overwhelming. You don’t have to look far to see evidence of Obamacare’s failures: Wisconsinites’ premiums are increasing by an average of 16% this year, with deductibles increasing too. Overall, the two largest health insurance companies will be leaving Wisconsin’s individual health care marketplace, with the third largest pulling out of Milwaukee, Racine and Kenosha counties, and will substantially reduce plans available in other counties across Wisconsin. Republicans have proposed repealing and replacing Obamacare, while allowing a stable and realistic transition period. Paul has said just that: “However long [the] transition’s going to take, we`re going to make sure that the rug doesn`t get pulled out from under people—and that`s something we want to make very clear.” Obamacare is failing. Rather than defend the law’s merits, its supporters have turned to cheap scare tactics. They say Republicans want to make America sick again or take away someone’s health care. This is nonsense. In reality, the plan included in A Better Way, the Republican agenda, would allow give people more choices, lower costs, and greater control over their coverage. What’s more, dependents up to the age of 26 to stay on their parents’ plan and ensure those with pre-existing conditions are not denied coverage because of their health status. Replacement of Obamacare should be a Committee-driven process, so members—and their constituents—have input. And that’s just what’s happening: Later this week, the Energy and Commerce Committee will hold a hearing on legislation to codify protections for people with pre-existing conditions. We don’t have to accept the status quo. People deserve more patient-centered care, not more bureaucracy. Wisconsinites deserve freedom and the flexibility to choose the care that’s best for them. At every step, the patient should be in the driver’s seat. There is a better way.
01.24.2017	Global and technological advances have made the modern economy more complex and dynamic. It is imperative that Americans have access to a high-quality education. A key facet of a high-quality education is allowing parents, teachers, and local communities—not federal government bureaucrats—to best decide what’s best for their students. That means returning control of the curriculum and academic standards to the states (pro-tip: we did that already). It also means empowering parents with more school choice options by continuing support for magnet schools and expanding charter school opportunities. And there’s no better time to recognize this than School Choice Week. Wisconsin has robust school choice options. Parents can choose the school best for their children, regardless of location. Wisconsin allows charter schools, online learning options, and private school choice programs. Sometimes—but not always—these voucher and charter programs outperformed their traditional public school counterparts in Wisconsin. At the end of the day, it’s less about who did better where and more about giving parents the option to choose. School choice is a lifeline for students trapped by their zip code. School choice thrives because it shifts power away from government and unelected bureaucrats and instead embraces local reform and empowers people on the front lines. School choice isn’t just something we ought to simply talk about this week—it’s something we should fight for and support every day. And just in case you missed it (and you shouldn’t), Paul spoke at a National School Choice Rally here in DC.
01.11.2017	You hear a lot about regulatory reform: If we could get rid of overly burdensome regulations, it would help workers employed by small businesses—the backbone of Wisconsin’s economy. Last week, with the support of President-elect Trump, the House passed the REINS Act, which would ensure Congress has an up-or-down vote on any major regulation that would have an annual economic impact of $100 million or more. Today, the House will consider the Regulatory Accountability Act. An idea from our Better Way agenda, this bill will increase transparency in the rule-making process, giving the public more input. And it will require agencies to choose the least costly option, unless they can show a costlier option is needed to protect health, safety, or welfare. Why does that matter? Let’s take a look at some numbers: 1.2 million: The number of Wisconsinites who work for small businesses. 90 percent: The percentage of small business owners who support reforming the regulatory process. 3,028: The number of regulations finalized by the Obama Administration since 2009. $875 billion: The burden costs of the 3,000+ regulations issues by the Obama Administration in 8 years. 120,849,512: The number of paperwork hours as a result from the regulations finalized in 2016 alone. 97.7 percent: The percentage of businesses in Wisconsin that can be considered small businesses. Those numbers are the facts, but they don’t tell the whole story. The truth is that Wisconsin is full of hard working taxpayers. It isn’t big business that’s hit hardest by regulations; it’s the small business owner or the family farmer, and the Wisconsinites who work for them. Make no mistake: sensible regulations are important. But this administration has taken regulating to an extreme that has resulted in a system that favors big government and big business over hardworking Wisconsinites. The 115th Congress has begun by providing Wisconsinites and Americans across the country regulatory relief, demonstrating House Republicans’ commitment to empowering the American worker and renewing the American dream.
01.06.2017	This week, Governor Walker has convened a special legislative session to combat opioid abuse and heroin addiction in Wisconsin. As reported by the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Gov. Scott Walker on Thursday called for a special legislative session to fight heroin addiction and ordered state agencies to ramp up their response to a drug that kills hundreds in Wisconsin each year. *** “This is a public health crisis, and that’s why I’m calling a special session of the Legislature and directing state agencies to ramp up the state’s response,” Walker said in his statement. In Wisconsin and around the country, opioid abuse is a serious problem. Action isn’t just being taken on the state level; Congress is doing its part too. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA)—bipartisan legislation to tackle America’s opioid epidemic—was signed into law on July 22, 2016. CARA puts private- and public-sector experts on the case to identify best practices for pain management. In other words, it keeps an eye on what’s working and gets rid of what isn’t. This bill will require the government to promote education and awareness of opioid abuse. Knowledge is power. By better educating our communities, government officials, and health care professionals alike, we can work toward a safer, healthier America, less plagued by opioid addiction and abuse. But CARA isn’t the only important piece of legislation passed by Congress to fight opioid addiction. Funding for the 21st Century Cures Act of 2016, signed into law on December 13, included $500 million—all of which was fully offset—for states to respond to the opioid abuse crisis. If we work together, we can defeat this scourge on our communities.
01.05.2017	Wisconsin has over 400,000 small businesses, which employ over 50 percent of Wisconsinites. When government bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. write overly burdensome regulations it is these small businesses, and the hard working taxpayers they employ, who are hit the hardest. Make no mistake: Regulations are important. They help protect our health, safety, and well-being; and they provide firm rules for us to live by. But taken beyond their initial purpose—and to an extreme—regulations can result in a system that favors big government and big business over hardworking Wisconsinites. In 2016 alone, the Obama Administration issued more than 3,800 regulations, over 600 of which were, “flagged by agencies as having notable effects on small businesses.” Today the House acted to reverse that trend by passing the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act. The REINS Act—a key component in the House Republican agenda, A Better Way— would ensure Congress has an up-or-down vote on any major regulation that would have an annual economic impact of $100 million or more. The idea behind this bill is simple: If a regulation from a federal agency is going to have a major impact on the economy, then Congress—the people’s duly elected representatives—ought to have a say. This is legislation that is supported by our incoming president as we work to stop Washington from strangling job creation through burdensome regulation. And that’s just what the House did today by passing the REINS Act. This bill puts Wisconsinites and Americans all across the country, not Washington bureaucrats, at the center of the rule-making process.
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WTAQ’s Jerry Bader about the plan to repeal and replace Obamacare: This law is hurting people right now. We need to deliver relief to Americans hurting under #Obamacare. pic.twitter.com/kpaSSOVjkM — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) January 5, 2017 "What I think the Democrats are trying to do—they’re trying to scare Americans into trying to keep Obamacare. They’re trying to scare Americans into thinking that this February, your health care plan is going to go away. That’s not true. That’s not happening. Let’s take a step back and remember a couple of things.” “This law is a failed law. The largest health [insurer] in America, United . . . pulled out. Aetna pulled out. The law is failing very quickly, and that means people have nothing. Or, if they have health insurance, their deductable is so high it doesn’t even feel like you have insurance. And their premiums are going up double digits. . . . So, we have an obligation to protect our country from a failing health care system which is Obamacare.” “And yes, ideologues on the left are going to try and keep this because they want government to run health care. . . . And, we will pass a repeal and a replacement of this bill, and we will have a suitable transition time period so that there is a better place for people to go, and we don’t pull the rug out from under anybody while this transition period occurs. What I think the Democrats are trying to put in the impression of Americans is that . . . ‘you’re going to wake up one morning this year and you’ll have nothing. Your plan will be cancelled and you’ll be out on the street and out in the cold.’ That’s not true. Those are just mere scare tactics from ideologues on the left who are simply trying to keep this law in place, and that’s not what the American people want, it’s not what they deserve, and honestly . . . it’s an unsustainable law."
12.14.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, announced the 19 students in the First District who would be receiving nominations for appointments to the U.S. service academies. Young men and women who wish to attend a U.S. service academy must obtain a nomination from an authorized nominating source, like a member of Congress. Of this year’s nominees, Ryan said: “Military service is an honorable calling. America’s service academies have the highest standards of excellence, and I am proud to nominate these young students from Wisconsin’s First District. I am more than confident that they will rise to the challenge. Should they be accepted, they will represent their state and their nation with pride. Selecting these nominees was a very tough job, and for that reason, I want to thank the members of my Service Academy Nomination Advisory Board for their advice and hard work.” The Service Academy Nomination Advisory (SANA) Board interviewed and evaluated applicants from the First District in December 2016. Consisting of veterans, academy graduates, and educators, the SANA Board was appointed by Ryan to assist him with identifying the most qualified applicants. First District applicants are typically in the top tier of their class, are active in their communities, and demonstrate great potential for leadership. A list of the students nominated by Congressman Ryan follows: Kenosha County Andrew Burrow – attends St. John’s Northwestern Military Academy, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy Alexandra DuChene – attends George Nelson Tremper High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Thomas Hamm – attends St. Joseph Catholic Academy, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy Tyler Mortensen – attends Indian Trail High School and Academy, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy Evan Taber – graduated Harborside Academy, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy Milwaukee County Nathaniel Cramer – attends Oak Creek High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy Brandon Kawczynski – attends Oak Creek High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy Amelia Litynski – attends Franklin High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy Racine County Michael Fischer – attends Franklin High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy Michael Porter – attends The Prairie School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Olivia Seymour – attends Shoreland Lutheran High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Rock County Dylan Brown – graduated Milton High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Logan White – attends Joseph A. Craig High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Walworth County John Czerwinski – attends Catholic Central High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy Nicholas Robison – attends Williams Bay High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Trevor Stumpfoll – attends Badger High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Waukesha County Jacob Klenz – attends Marquette University High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy Alexandra Noles – attends KM Global School for Leadership and Innovation, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Travis Wiese – attends Kettle Moraine High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy
12.06.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WPR’s Rob Ferrett on Central Time. The scandal at Tomah VA Medical Center: “Tomah has been under such a microscope and yet they still have these terrible problems. We see persistent management failures here. And what is frustrating to [me] and to Ron Johnson and others is lack of accountability at the VA at large, but especially at Tomah. They cannot have the kind of discipline and management restructuring that is necessary to get this place whipped in to shape. And that is why we think we need to have more wholesale reform at the Veterans Administration. . . . We need to hold people accountable. The bureaucracy is bloated, and it is inefficient and unaccountable, and we need to bring accountability to the VA so that our veterans get the care that they deserve.” Building a stronger economy: “Well, we’ve got a lot of number-one priorities, I guess I’d say. The first we’re going to do is start working on a budget. And in that budget we’re going to try and bring Obamacare relief.” *** “But also [cutting back] the regulatory state, which is really putting a chilling effect on jobs, and reforming the tax code to make American businesses, particularly our manufacturers, much more competitive globally so we can grow more jobs here at home and increase take home pay, and just get faster economic growth.” *** “What we ought to be doing is cleaning up our economic policy so that we’re the best . . . with a healthy economy, with strong companies that are in America, building, selling, exporting and engaging in the world, and pushing the values of freedom and free enterprise. That to me is what American leadership needs to look like.” Discussing health care reforms: “Right now, Medicare Advantage is a very popular program that seniors get to choose from among private plans for their comprehensive Medicare benefits. That’s something seniors today enjoy. The federal employees get to choose among competing comprehensive private plans for their benefit so that they have more choices and lower prices. Those are the kinds of reforms that are being discussed for younger people. It’s very important to note that any discussion of Medicare, those changes do not affect anyone in or near retirement. So anybody who’s on Medicare today or about to go on Medicare is not a part of this conversation.”
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan issued the following statement after news that almost 600 veterans who received care at the Tomah VA Medical Center may have been infected with various diseases following a breach of VA regulations. “This news is not just heartbreaking; it’s outrageous. How can our veterans be treated so carelessly and where is the accountability? The individual in question has not even been fired—a truly stunning show of bureaucratic impunity. This demonstrates once and for all that the VA needs a complete overhaul, so that our veterans finally get the care—and the respect—they deserve.”
11.30.2016	It’s 2016, and our society is saturated with technology more than ever before. From smart phones to smart appliances and everything in between, technological advances have made our lives much more convenient. So why hasn’t innovation in health care kept pace? Enter the 21st Century Cures Act. This bill will make significant reforms to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), and other federal agencies with one goal in mind: Getting cures to patients faster. #CuresNow means we won't give up on anybody. No matter how dire the situation, there can & should always be hope. https://t.co/noFisRyNVq — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) November 30, 2016 These aren’t nebulous ideas. These are real changes to help real people. Consider the tens of thousands of cancer patients in southeast Wisconsin alone. The 21st Century Cures Act, in consultation with Vice President Biden’s “Cancer Moonshot,” provides $4.8 billion to NIH to fund research for various diseases, including cancer. That said, this money will also go to research projects to help medical professionals understand all sorts of neurological diseases, like Alzheimer’s. This investment will spur research, innovation, and entrepreneurship to tackle major medical problems facing our country. The 21st Century Cures Act includes funding for the FDA to approve drugs and medical devices for patients more quickly, while maintaining the level of safety Americans have come to expect. For Wisconsinites, opioid and heroin abuse are a serious issue. It is a scourge on our communities. And this bill includes $1 billion for grants to states to fight opioid abuse. If that wasn’t enough, consider the positive economic impact the 21st Century Cures Act will have on Wisconsin. There are over “6,500 medical device companies in the United States. . . . More than 80 percent of medical device companies have fewer than 50 employees” and many of those small businesses call the Badger State home. Wisconsin’s medical device industry provides thousands of good-paying jobs, manufacturing and exporting billions of dollars’ worth of medical and scientific devices each year. Also included in this bill is H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, which reforms the nation’s mental health care system. Back in July, Paul praised initial passage of H.R. 2646, saying that “we need to make sure that the people who suffer from mental illness—just like any other patients—get the care and medications they need.” The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act is a much needed step in the right direction. The bottom line is this: The 21st Century Cures Act is a strong, bipartisan win for Wisconsin, Wisconsinites, and Americans across the country.
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Today Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WCLO’s Tim Bremel about implementing House Republicans’ agenda, A Better Way, in 2017. Outlining legislative priorities for next year: “The first priority is to get the economy growing, get the economy moving. Regulatory relief is a huge part of that. Just go talk to any small-business person . . . and you’ll hear an earful about regulations that are holding them back. So that’s one of the things an incoming administration can bring some immediate relief to, in addition to bills in Congress that we’re working on.” *** “The health care law is really doing a lot of harm in that people have much fewer choices—some have no choices—and extremely high premiums. . . . So Obamacare relief is something we think is really high and early on the agenda.” *** “Reforming the tax code is soon thereafter. That we think is extremely important for economic growth. We’re losing American companies. We’re losing jobs. And we think we can get far faster economic growth and wage growth by reforming our tax system.” “The tax code is so messy, it’s such a special-interest cesspool, and we want to clean that up. And then, we’ve got all these other issues—like foreign policy, rebuilding the military—that we need to address. . . . Securing the border is a high priority. Take a look at the heroin epidemic we have in Wisconsin. Take a look at some of the crime that comes from . . . a porous border. *** “And then while we work on that, we want to work on poverty and restoring our constitutional separation of powers, which is part of regulatory relief and regulatory reform. So those are effectively the six pieces that we’ve been talking about. And the incoming administration, we see eye to eye on these things. And so now, we’re just figuring out how to execute this agenda so that we can get people safe, get people in good jobs, and get this economy growing.”
09.27.2016	In recent years, America has seen an energy boom. Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, and other new technologies have allowed American energy developers to tap into the vast resources at our disposal. Regulations are important. They help protect our health, safety, and well-being, and provide firm rules for us to live by. But taken beyond their initial purpose—and to an extreme—regulations can do more harm than good. We can harness our domestic energy potential safely and responsibly. And we have an obligation to enact policies that will allow us to do so. Ninety percent of Wisconsinites’ electric power comes from “low-cost sources: coal, natural gas, and nuclear.” Manufacturers benefit from low-energy costs. Small businesses benefit, too. But most importantly, when America reaches its energy potential, you pay less at the pump and you pay less for your power bill. Earlier this spring, Paul was in Lake Geneva speaking with local Wisconsin business owners about opening up our energy markets: “[The government is] not taking advantage of it. We’ve got an opportunity. One law we did pass in December [of 2015] was we lifted the ban on exporting crude oil, so that America can become the number-one producer and exporter of oil and gas. So that Europe, instead of having Putin dictate terms to them, can buy it from us . . . so that our friends can buy our oil and natural gas instead of having China mess with them. "Not only is it really good for our foreign policy, but it’s good for our jobs. Because then, when we go to the pump or we pay our electric bill, we’re not sending the money to Saudi Arabia. We’re not sending the money to OPEC. We’re not sending it to the Middle East. It’s going to North Dakota, Texas, it’s going into our own country. Thirty thousand jobs in this state alone are tied to this industry. They’re mining sand. They’re building pipelines. They’re making engines. So this is an enormous opportunity for us.” The nonpartisan Congressional Research Service agrees. The federal government is not taking advantage of the resources available to American consumers in America: “Since fiscal year 2010 oil production on federal lands is down by 10 percent and natural gas production on federal lands is down 31 percent. This contrasts to oil production on non-federal lands, which is up by 89 percent, and natural gas production on non-federal lands, which is up by 37 percent since fiscal year 2010.” Without the energy revolution, Wisconsin would have lost over 45,000 jobs and $3.8 billion in economic activity. The repeal of the crude oil ban was a start, but there is more the federal government could and should be doing—and the current administration isn’t getting the job done. Fortunately, there is a better way. We can and should strike a balance between economic growth and environmental stewardship. Efforts to reduce pollution should achieve real benefits for the environment and be compatible with real benefits for our economy. And House Republicans have a plan to do just that. Click here to learn more.
09.14.2016	All Americans owe a debt of gratitude to our armed forces—the brave men and women who have dedicated their lives to the defense of freedom. After serving our nation, our veterans deserve easy access to quality care. Unfortunately, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is rife with serious problems that have cost veterans their lives. Veterans have died on waiting lists. Meanwhile, the VA has spent $16 million dollars on art during the Obama administration. And as of July of this year, the VA stopped sharing data on the quality of care they provide. But now Congress has taken action, passing a number of bipartisan bills to give the administration the tools it needs to clean up the VA. Today the House passed H.R. 5620, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act. Introduced by Chairman Miller, this bill will make it easier to remove or punish VA employees whose misconduct hurts our veterans, and it will strengthen protections for whistleblowers. Transparency and accountability: The core tenets of this bill are two things the VA desperately needs. But most of all, the VA needs to listen to those who are most affected—in this case, the veterans. Earlier this week, Paul met with Charlene Cobb from the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Wisconsin and discussed a wide range of issues facing America’s heroes, including the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act.
09.08.2016	Southern Wisconsin’s families continue to work hard to make ends meet in an uncertain economy, but too many—94 million all across America—aren’t looking for a job or have given up trying. That translates to a nationwide labor-force participation rate of 62.8 percent, the lowest since 1978. That’s a record low that the economy has hit multiple times throughout this presidency. As of 2015, Wisconsin’s labor-force participation rate was 68 percent in 2015. Although Wisconsinites are doing better than the national average—a testament to the work our state officials are doing—our economy can do better. The backbone of Wisconsin’s economy is small businesses. Wisconsin has over 100,000 small businesses and they make up nearly 98 percent of all employers in the state. And today, the House passed H.R. 2357, the Accelerating Access to Capital Act. This bill is part of A Better Way, the House Republican agenda to tackle our country’s biggest problems, including a plan to grow our economy. Upon passage of the Accelerating Access to Capital Act, Paul said: “Small businesses cannot grow if their resources are swallowed by the government. This bill simplifies redundant regulations so businesses can spend less time on paperwork and more time hiring workers and expanding their companies. Our economy is nothing without productive small businesses—this bill offers a better way to encourage success by expanding capital access and removing unnecessary burdens. I’m proud to support it.”
09.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WBEL’s Stan Milam about House Republicans’ plan to fight poverty included in A Better Way: This isn't just about saving money. It's about saving lives.https://t.co/jOKHhRH1O4 #BetterWay — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) September 5, 2016 Emphasizing assistance to low-income families: “We have to work on restructuring our welfare programs so they aren’t trapping people in poverty; so that we are really transitioning people from welfare to work. And that’s going to take a lot more reform, and that’s a big part of our Better Way product. Our whole Better Way strategy for poverty is to always make work pay and to give local poverty fighters—those who are successful on the ground in our communities—more latitude and discretion to fight poverty person to person, eye to eye, soul to soul, and to go with what works. The problem in Washington on fighting poverty is we keep funding the status quo and the status quo isn’t working. We need to measure success based on what is actually working to get people out of poverty.” Highlighting local poverty fighting efforts like the Joseph Project: “It’s a phenomenal project; it works. It’s helping get people out of poverty. It’s helping people get to jobs where they need it. We have a big skills gap in Wisconsin. We have jobs that are available and people who don’t get the skills to get those good-paying jobs, and we have to close those skills gaps. And the Joseph Project is a big part of that. So go around your communities, [and] you’ll see actual, successful programs. And so our whole philosophy is, let’s not have government work in tension with the charitable sector, the private sector, [and] let’s not have government compete with or displace [them]; let’s get everybody working on the same page, pulling in the same direction. Private sector, charities, government, all should be singing from the same song sheet and pulling in the same direction to fight poverty [by] treating the person’s particular problems and creating the right set of incentives to get people from welfare to work.”
09.06.2016	Today, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WBEL’s Stan Milam and WRJN’s Glenn Klein about national defense and foreign policy. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers follow: Condemning the Obama administration’s ransom payment to Iran: “The last thing you want to be the lasting impression of America is that we will pay cash for hostages because all you’re doing is encouraging more hostage taking. This had been long-standing American policy and . . . now [we] have learned that they actually paid this cash and they didn’t let the pallet money go off on the airplane until they knew the hostages were . . . leaving Tehran. This is more than appeasement. This is more than accommodating what I think was a really bad agreement. They’re bending over backward to accommodate Iran. Let’s just remember who they are. They are the world’s No. 1 sponsor of terrorism. They finance terrorism all across the world. This is the country that created the really lethal IEDs against our soldiers in Iraq. This is the kind of country we’re dealing with and this is the kind of country our government just gave $400 million in cash to; our country just signed a deal, which I think legitimizes them as a nuclear power. Even if they stick to the deal and don’t cheat, which we have no reason to believe they won’t cheat, we’re basically telling Iran that you can become a nuclear power in the near future. I think it was a colossal mistake.” Discussing the administration’s political strategy to veto the defense bill: “This is pretty much the same old playbook you’ve seen from the Obama administration for years. We’re very concerned that our men and women in uniform are not getting what they need to do their jobs. . . . Not to mention the fact that we do have troops over in Afghanistan and they also need to be funded. . . . The Pentagon is actually trying to spend less money on the basic things that our troops need—a pay raise for example—and they want to hold hostage spending more money on domestic government agencies in exchange. I think it’s shameless and political. . . . And what the political leadership at the Pentagon seems to be doing, based upon this memo, is politicizing this in an effort to try to leverage more domestic spending, which has nothing to do with the men and women serving in our military.”
08.08.2016	Today, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, visited local businesses to speak with employees in southern Wisconsin. Excerpts of Congressman Ryan’s answers to employees’ questions follow: Discussing A Better Way, the House Republican Agenda: Great to take questions from A&E Tools employees in #Racine & talk about #TaxReform, a #BetterWay & the @Packers. pic.twitter.com/WXjNk2bc1w — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) August 8, 2016 “If you don’t like the direction the country is going . . . then don’t just complain about it. . . . So what we’re trying to do is show our solutions. And if you take a look at our agenda that we’re putting out there . . . it’s called A Better Way. We spent this year basically building an agenda in Congress, going out and doing town hall meetings, visiting with manufacturers and employers, listening to employees, [and] listening to our constituents. And looking at all the best ideas from every corner and putting [out] an agenda on the key things that are confronting our country.” Reforming the tax code: “So you’ve got lots of different loopholes in the tax code. What happens in the [current] tax code is . . . more special-interest carve-outs for a specific group or industry means less income is subject to taxation and you have to have higher rates on everybody. Close up the loopholes and you can lower tax rates on everybody.” *** “If we actually give businesses the incentive to expand domestically, to buy more machines, to buy more buildings . . . they’ll put more people to work and that will increase the economy. So there are some things we do that we think will give us better economic growth. Either we stick with the current code, [and] it is the worst one in the industrialized world . . . which says, ‘You send your money to Washington and then if you engage in some kind of activity or behavior that Washington approves of, they’ll let you have some of your money back after you do that.’ That’s the current thinking in the tax code. Our thinking is, ‘No, let’s reject that. Let’s stop that and just lower the rates and you keep [your money] in the first place; you decide what you want to do with your money, whether you’re a family or a business.’ [If] you do that, and you’ll have fast economic growth; you’ll have less tampering with the tax code . . . and as a result, I would strongly argue you’ll have faster economic growth.”
07.27.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Yesterday Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with RightWisconsin’s Kevin Binversie. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers follow: Passing legislation to provide funds to combat the Zika virus: “House Republicans passed our bill back in the beginning of July [at the] funding the level that had been agreed to . . . and also removing the regulatory barriers to spraying against mosquitoes. We have passed extremely responsible legislation . . . and for political reasons, Harry Reid has been blocking it in the Senate. For the life of me, I don’t understand why they decided to do that. They just need to pass the legislation, because we passed exactly what they said was needed—they being the experts—in order to address and confront the virus.” *** “We recently saw a report that the money that had already been appropriated, about $600 billion dollars . . . only one sixth of that money has been spent. . . . So there [are] still available funds in the pipeline for Zika. And the Democrats, I think for purely political reasons, have been trying to block it. . . . They don’t like that fact that we have . . . spending offsets and that for the life of me, I don’t understand that objection. We found money that was not being spent in accounts elsewhere in the federal government. . . . We decided to take that money to spend on better purposes, like Zika, and we think that’s just the responsible thing to do. Discussing health care reform in the House Republican Agenda, A Better Way: “One of the reforms we have is break[ing] down these barriers . . . which end up basically reducing competition and raising prices. We have several reforms that we propose in our full replacement of Obamacare, [which] is part of our Better Way agenda, [which] is interstate shopping. When you are selling insurance across state lines you can sell it at a much cheaper price, the prices come down because when a person becomes uninsurable, subsidies kick in from the risk pools, so that we stabilize prices for the other 95 percent of Americans and make it much more affordable.” *** “So you combine that by taking up the extremely high cost incidents, a person who gets really sick. . . . Right there . . . those two reforms, and there are many others, which [make] more competitive and lower priced health insurance. What the Democrats did is they basically [took] over the entire healthcare insurance system. They mandated exactly what you must buy, they make you buy all sorts of benefits that you probably don’t want to buy, and make it much more expensive. . . . So that has created this dynamic where health insurance in America is almost prohibitively expensive . . . unless you are getting massive subsidies, which by the way are breaking the bank and giving us part of the debt crisis.” *** “This system has got to go and we have a better way to replace it. That’s what our Better Way agenda is all about.”
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WTMJ’s Charlie Sykes. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers follow: Discussing tax reform in the House Republican Agenda, A Better Way: “The tax reform [plank] is the key. . . . We will drop the tax rate on . . . small business to no higher than 25 percent. Right now it is almost 45 percent effectively. We will give businesses . . . the ability to write off their investments in the year in which it takes place so they will be hire more people. We believe this is . . . pro-growth tax reform. The estimate from the Tax Foundation says it will create millions of jobs, it will create faster economic growth [and] more take-home pay. Tax reform . . . is one of the crown jewels of . . . unleashing economic growth, getting wages up, getting out of the doldrums of the Obama administration’s slow-growth policies. This tax reform plan, we think, hits it just right way. We think it’s fiscally responsible and it’s an engine for economic growth, opportunity, and higher wages.” Passing mental health reforms: “This is a bill that has been three years in the making. Tim Murphy, congressman from Pennsylvania, a clinical psychologist, has been working on this issue for years. So we believe that . . . dealing with mental health reform is very important. . . . We think we have huge gaps in our mental health laws that need to be fixed.” “We want to make sure terrorists don’t get guns without infringing on citizens’ rights. We want to make sure our mental health laws are modernized, and they haven’t been for decades, so that we can early intervene in case there is someone who is really unstable so they don’t get weapons.”
06.28.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, recently spoke with WBEL’s Mike Daly and WGTD’s Greg Berg about A Better Way. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers follow: Detailing the House Republican Agenda, A Better Way: “The key thing I wanted to do is make sure we become a proposition party, not just an opposition party . . . that we actually put an agenda out for the country to see, and I’m very pleased to say that that is exactly what we spent the year doing, culminating in June as our rollout month of our Better Way agenda. And because of the job I have, I was able to get this done, and I’m grateful for that opportunity.” *** “This was my No. 1 priority upon becoming speaker. I wanted to make sure that we in the majority . . . don’t just oppose, but we propose. So I set forth with my colleagues all year long to work on finding solutions to the big problems facing Americans today.” *** “It has six main components. Number one: We need to do a better job of getting people out of poverty. There are people stuck in a system of poverty, and our programs to address it are not working. Number two [is] foreign policy, security, terrorism. . . . We have a 67-point plan on how to keep us safe, how to combat terrorism, how to address homegrown jihad, like we saw in Orlando, how to protect our border, and how to fix our military. Number three: Regulations are just crushing our small businesses. They’re keeping our economy down, and they’re hurting wages. So we wanted a regulatory reform platform. Number four: How do we restore self-government? There’s this new branch of government . . . which is effectively unelected bureaucrats, writing our laws, the rules, and regulations. The laws we live under are supposed to be written by our elected representative that we duly elect in Congress. Well, that’s not the case anymore. Number five: everybody knows we’re against Obamacare. We need to show what we would replace it with. What’s a better system that could actually lower health care costs, lower health care premiums, give people more choices, and make sure that we still have good protection for people with pre-existing conditions? We did that. And then . . . we rolled out a plan to overhaul our tax code. Lower tax rates for families and small businesses. Make the tax code simpler. . . . The tax form that Americans will fill out is a postcard-sized plan. . . . Dramatically lower our taxes on business, so they can provide more jobs.” Discussing the House Republican replacement for Obamacare: “Competition and choice drives down cost. If you have a choice of where you take your business for whatever it is you want, people who produce what you want have to compete against other people to get your business. That is the classic principle of a market economy. What Obamacare did was it pushed those principles outside of the health care arena, and as a result we have much more expensive healthcare.” *** “So my point in saying this is, we can have a system where we lower the cost of insurance, lower the cost of health care, give them the resources they need to buy health care, and have the important, necessary protections you need so that people with pre-existing conditions can also get affordable care. You can do that without a government takeover, which is basically what Obamacare is.”
06.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, announced that the First District mobile office will continue its regularly scheduled visits through southern Wisconsin for the rest of the summer. A list of scheduled stops for the mobile office follows this advisory and is available here. At each stop, a staff member of Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet with residents to address concerns they have about legislation before the House of Representatives or answer questions about federal agencies. In announcing the mobile office schedule for July and August, Congressman Ryan said: "If somebody has a problem with a federal agency, they can come to us for help. A huge part of my job is being an advocate for people of our district. The mobile office is also a great way to connect with my employers in the First District. Hearing from them is essential to my job, and this provides an opportunity for residents of southern Wisconsin, who do not have access to one of my permanent offices, to share their thoughts and opinions with me.” Residents of the First District can access the latest mobile office schedule by checking their local paper or by visiting Congressman Ryan’s website – paulryan.house.gov. Congressman Ryan established the mobile office to serve as an extension of existing First District Constituent Service Centers. Since 1999, the mobile office has made over 3,000 visits to area communities and has provided assistance to thousands of residents over the years. The schedule below indicates days, times, and locations for each mobile office tour stop, including where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or in an adjoining parking lot). *** First District Mobile Office Schedule July & August 2016 (by community) Milwaukee County Greendale: Tuesday, July 5th, Thursday, July 21st, and Wednesday, August 10th from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot at the Greendale Community Center, 6200 South 76th Street. Hales Corners: Tuesday, July 5th, Thursday, July 21st, and Wednesday, August 10th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Hales Corners Village Hall, 5635 South New Berlin Road. Franklin: Tuesday, July 5th, Thursday, July 21st, and Wednesday, August 10th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of Franklin Police Department, 9455 West Loomis Road. Oak Creek: Tuesday, July 5th, Thursday, July 21st, and Wednesday, August 10th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Oak Creek Police Department, 301 West Ryan Road. Waukesha County Big Bend: Thursday, July 14th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Big Bend Village Hall, W230 S9185 Nevins Street. Dousman: Tuesday, July 12th and Thursday, August 25th from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot of the Dousman Village Hall, 118 South Main Street. Eagle: Tuesday, July 12th from 11:00am-12:00pm, and Thursday, August 4th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Eagle Fire Department, 126 East Main Street. Town of Genesee: Thursday, August 4th from 11:00am-12:00pm, and Thursday, August 25th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the Town of Genesee Town Hall, S43 W3191 Highway 83, Genesee Depot. Mukwonago: Thursday, July 14th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Mukwonago Police Department, 627 South Rochester Street. Muskego: Tuesday, July 12th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the Muskego Police Department, W183 S8150 Racine Avenue. North Prairie: Thursday, August 4th from 1:00-2:00pm, and Thursday, August 25th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the North Prairie Village Hall, 130 N. Harrison Street. Town of Vernon: Thursday, July 14th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the Town of Vernon Fire Department, W223 S7475 Woodland Avenue, Big Bend. Wales: Thursday, August 4th from 9:00-10:00am, and Thursday August 25th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Wales Village Hall, 129 South Main Street. Walworth County Darien: Wednesday, August 2nd and Tuesday, August 23rd from 1:00-2:00pm, street parking outside the Darien Village Hall/Police Department, 24 North Wisconsin Street. Delavan: Wednesday, August 2nd and Tuesday, August 23rd from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Delavan Municipal Building, 123 South 2nd Street. East Troy: Thursday, July 14th from 9:00-10:00am, and Tuesday, July 19th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the East Troy Police Department, 2015 Energy Drive. Elkhorn: Tuesday, July 19th from 1:00-2:00pm, and Tuesday, August 2nd from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot of Walworth County Sheriff’s Department, 1770 County Rd NN. Genoa City: Tuesday, July 19th from 9:00-10:00am, street parking outside the Genoa City Village Hall, 715 Walworth Street. Lake Geneva: Tuesday, July 19th from 11:00am-12:00pm, and Thursday, August 11th from 9:00-10:00am, municipal parking lot across from the Lake Geneva Police Department, 626 Geneva Street. Sharon: Tuesday, August 2nd from 11:00am-12:00pm, and Thursday, August 11th from 3:00-4:00pm, street parking in front of the Sharon Village Hall, 125 Plain Street. Walworth: Tuesday, August 2nd from 1:00-2:00pm, and Thursday, August 11th from 1:00-2:00pm, street parking in front of the Walworth Village Hall, 227 North Main Street. Williams Bay: Tuesday, August 2nd from 1:00-2:00pm, and Thursday, August 11th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Williams Bay Police Department, 250 Williams Street. Racine County Burlington: Thursday, July 7th from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot of the Burlington Police Department, 224 E. Jefferson Street. Union Grove: Thursday, July 7th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Union Grove Municipal Building, 925 15th Avenue. Sturtevant: Thursday, July 7th from 2:00-3:00pm, parking lot of the Sturtevant Police Department, 2801 89th Street. Village of Mount Pleasant: Thursday, July 7th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Mount Pleasant Police Department, 8811 Campus Drive. Waterford: Tuesday, July 12th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Town of Waterford Police Department, 415 N. Milwaukee. Kenosha County Twin Lakes: Wednesday, August 24th from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot of Twin Lakes Police Department, 920 Lance Drive. Silver Lake: Wednesday, August 24th from 11:00am-12:00pm, street parking outside the Silver Lake Village Hall, 113 South 1st Street. Bristol: Wednesday, August 24th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the Kenosha County Center, 19600 75th Street. Pleasant Prairie: Wednesday, August 24th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Roger Prange Municipal Building, 8600 Green Bay Road. Rock County Milton: Wednesday, August 2nd and Tuesday, August 23rd from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot of the Milton Police Department, 690 South Janesville Street. Clinton: Wednesday, August 2nd and Tuesday, August 23rd from 11:00am-12:00pm, rear parking lot of the Clinton Village Hall, across from the Police Department, 301 Cross Street.
06.20.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, recently spoke with WCLO’s Tim Bremel about A Better Way. Let’s face it: people know what Repubs are against. Now we're giving you a plan to show what we're for. → #BetterWayhttps://t.co/hLqEIpAyIO — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) June 3, 2016 Excerpts of Ryan’s answers follow: Detailing the House Republican Agenda, A Better Way: “We’ve rolled out about four of our six proposals. Number one, our plan for combating poverty and getting people from welfare to work. Number two, our plan for national security, including 67 recommendations for how to keep our homeland safe, how to keep ourselves safe and win the war on terror. Number three, our regulatory relief agenda, which is really stifling small businesses and job creation. Number four, how do we restore the separation of powers? How do we make sure the government works for us and is accountable to us?” *** “Next week, we’re going to roll out our vision for patient-centered healthcare. What can you replace [Obamacare] with? And how do you clean up the tax code? How do you give citizens, small businesses, and families a simple and fair and pro-growth tax system? These are the things we want to take to the country. . . . That’s what our agenda is going to be. We call it A Better Way. You can go to www.better.gop.” *** “This isn’t a 30-second sound bite. This is real substance that we want to engage our constituents and our fellow citizens with, which is what we think are [the] reforms that are necessary to give us a government that’s accountable, to give us a government that’s efficient, and also to give us the kind of policies we need to get our economy growing, to get wages growing, to get people out of poverty and keep us safe. It’s a border-security plan. It’s a plan to modernize our military. It’s a plan to give us patient-centered health care so we don’t have double-digit premium increases every year like we’re having these days. It’s a new tax system, so that we can actually have faster economic growth that helps manufacturers and makes it easier for families to fill out their tax forms. And it’s also, regulatory, constitutional reforms which amount to [this]: Congress should write laws, not unelected bureaucrats.” *** “The point is, these are big problems, and we have very specific solutions. We have to show people our solutions to problems that improve their lives.”
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WISN’s Jay Weber about A Better Way and the House Republican initiative on national security. America has to set the standard on #nationalsecurity—a #ConfidentAmerica will keep us safe. #BetterWayhttps://t.co/TojdftagYd — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) June 9, 2016 Excerpts of Ryan’s answers follow: Detailing the core tenants of the House Republican National Security Agenda: “Number one: Strengthen our military. The military has been cut. They’re taking parts off of planes in bone yard to keep planes flying. Number two: homeland security. That means securing our border, fixing our immigration laws, and making sure we have what we need to go after jihadists. And number three, let’s have a foreign policy doctrine strategy that actually keeps us safe and prevents groups like ISIS from materializing in the first place. . . . Right now, if you describe the War on Terror, it’s completely reactive.” *** “So the president has a failed foreign policy, where ISIS now controls Iraq. They’re staging plots and attacks against us and other Western nations. So we are in a bad place, with respect to foreign policy. We’ve got to get ourselves in a good place; deny safe havens, keep ourselves safe, give the military what they need to do their job, secure our borders, and deal with the ideology in the first place that creates these jihadists. . . . Our allies don’t trust us, and our adversaries don’t fear us. This is the problem with the current foreign policy, and that is why we’re rolling out . . . a very specific and coherent and comprehensive agenda for how to restore national security.” *** “And so that’s what we’re articulating today. Here’s what a 21st century military looks like. Here’s how we respect our veterans and our many men and women who are currently wearing the uniform with the kind of equipment and posture they need. Here’s what a foreign policy strategy looks like that in the long term keeps us safe.” Criticizing the Iran nuclear deal: “And you [have] Iran now, [and] the president said that he’ll never let them have a nuclear weapon, and he just signed a deal that all but guarantees they’ll have nuclear weapons. In addition to that, Iran, the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism, is about to take $150 billion in cash as a result of the Obama deal. . . . This is why our allies are scratching their heads saying, ‘Where is the America we knew? Where is the leadership?’ The point we’re trying make is: The president has created a huge void. That void is being filled by people and nations that do not share our values and compromise our national security. That is what we’re addressing.”
06.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with Big AM 1380’s Stan Milam about A Better Way and the House Republican initiative on poverty. Excerpts of Ryan’s interview follow: Stan Milam: I have been following your efforts and ways to deal with poverty. It is a component of what you call ‘A Better Way: Our Vision for a Confident America.’ Give us a quick overview and then maybe we can get into a few specifics on what you think needs to be done to successfully address poverty. Paul Ryan: We think we need to streamline the federal poverty bureaucracy and the programs to focus them on what works, to focus on outcomes, which is getting people out of poverty, restoring upward mobility, and helping transition people from welfare to work. *** We need to make sure that those who are in our local communities, those groups and individuals who are successfully fighting poverty . . . we shouldn’t push them aside; we should back them up. We should learn and listen to them. And so that means, we need more of a community, bottom-up approach, where clearly government plays a role in providing resources. But we have right now a sort of Washington-knows-best, top-down bureaucracy system that is basically treating the symptoms of poverty but not breaking the cycle of poverty. And . . . the success of such a plan should always be measured on outcomes. Are we getting people out of poverty? And let’s find out what works and fund what works. Stan Milam: I am predicting that you’re going to get some pushback on this. . . . What is your response to that kind of criticism? Paul Ryan: I’d say a couple things. It isn’t about saving money. It’s about saving lives. The more people we get out of welfare, the more we get them jobs and out of poverty, the less money you spend on these programs. That’s where the savings would be . . . by making sure that people actually get out of poverty. What you’ll find, Stan, and what I’ve learned over years of working on this is that the defenders of status quo will say those things. People who want no change and the status quo to continue will have those kinds of attacks on those of us who see the status quo and don’t like it. . . . The poverty rates in America are not much lower than they were when we started the war on poverty, so we need the new approach. That is what we are pushing for. Stan Milam: And it seems like the success now is measured by the amount of money you spend and the number of programs. How do you ratchet that or get it into a different metric or some other way of measuring success? Paul Ryan: Success needs to be measured by results. Are people actually getting out of poverty? What actually works in our communities? And back those programs, back those people. That means streamlining and consolidating government and respecting communities, respecting local solutions. The people close to the problem often have the best answers on how to solve a problem. It’s also important to note that not everybody faces the kind of poverty. Not everyone facing poverty is in the same situation. So we shouldn’t have a one-size-fits-all, top-down government approach.
06.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WTAQ’s Jerry Bader and WCLO’s Tim Bremel. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers follow. Stopping unlawful payments by the administration to insurance providers: “That’s a deposition from a Ways and Means investigation that is ongoing about the Internal Revenue Service and Obamacare and how they’re misapplying taxpayer money, going around the Constitution, and violating . . . the Anti-Deficiency Act. That was a testimony from an IRS employee who was interviewed at the time. [We] took the administration to court. We won this latest court round . . . which says, ‘Yes, the administration illegally moved money around Obamacare to basically subsidize insurance companies.’” *** “[The administration] basically gave billions of dollars, taxpayer dollars, to insurance companies, to try and make Obamacare look better than it is [and] to try to make the premium increases not as high as they otherwise would be. They did this without an appropriation of Congress . . . and Congress controls the power of the purse. You can’t spend money that Congress does not authorize or appropriate, yet that is what the IRS did. What the deposition shows you—and this is part of an ongoing investigation—is that they circumvented the law. That is why we took the IRS and the administration to court, and we have so far won; the court has said we do have standing; we are suing the president for our Article I powers, the power of the purse, the legislative-branch powers. And in the ruling, the judges agreed that they have violated this. . . . We believe that the executive branch has so far exceeded its authorities, and that means we’re losing self-government.” *** “We’re losing the principle of government by consent. So we in Congress, whether through investigations, whether it’s through the power of the purse, whether it is through lawsuits at federal court, are doing everything we can to hold this administration accountable for trampling on the Constitution. It’s a very important principle. We want to make sure that going forward . . . we make sure the Constitution is respected, so that we maintain one of the critical principles of conservatism, which is self-determination. We’re holding them to account, [and] we’re succeeding in court.” Rolling out the House Republican agenda: “It’s going to be a plan to grow the economy, things like tax reform [and] regulatory relief. It’s going to be: How do you replace the Affordable Care Act, which has proven to be very unaffordable? What do you to move people from welfare to work? That’s going to be our first rollout. We think we have a better idea on how to fight poverty in America; not just to fight poverty by treating the symptoms but getting people out of poverty. That requires welfare reform. Our welfare laws aren’t working. We need to have a system that actually moves people from welfare to work.” *** “And then, national security is another issue that is very paramount. Not just fixing the military and its readiness problems, but having a national security doctrine that keeps us safe, that goes after ISIS, [and] that secures the border. The Constitution is another issue we talk about quite a bit, because we believe that the executive is overextended in reach beyond its powers. . . . Whether you’re a Democrat or a Republican, you should still be concerned about the principle of self-determination and self-government in America. It really is whether or not we have a government that is accountable to us as people, and that is one of the biggest issues that we seek to address as well. So, yes, over the course of June, we’ll be rolling these ideas out.” Providing our military with the resources they need: “The Administration . . . does not have the same vision we have with national security and defense. Again, we’re going to lay out exactly what we think we need to do to rebuild our military and to give our men and women in uniform the equipment they need and the standards we expect. That’s the bill we just passed. It’s also part of the national security strategy we’re going to be rolling out in June. Because we really do believe that we are on the cusp of a dilemma here in this country, and we want to give the country a very clear, meaningful choice. Those kinds of things are what we’re discussing with our presumptive nominee. We want to make sure we give the country a choice. We want to run on these issues and earn ourselves the mandate to make this right. Restore the Constitution, rebuild our military, replace Obamacare with patient-centered healthcare."
05.27.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WISN’s Mark Belling. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers follow. Drafting the House Republican agenda: “First of all, we decided [on this agenda] in January. . . . I always wanted to have a choice and I always want to be clear, bold, and specific. We’ve got six things we’re going to roll out in June. What would we replace the tax code with? How do you rein in the regulatory state? What do you replace Obamacare with? What does patient-centered health care look like? . . . How do you get people moving from welfare to work? How do you fix national security? How do you restore Article I of the Constitution and reclaim the separation of powers? Those are the basic questions that we will be supplying answers to, and then going to the country, going to the public . . . saying: ‘Here is our plan for fixing this country [and] getting it back on track.’" Stopping the president from transferring detainees from Guantanamo Bay: “We passed a bill two weeks ago again guaranteeing and reaffirming the present law that [the president] cannot do this. So we have now passed a law a number of years in a row . . . specifically saying that he cannot transfer these Guantanamo people back here domestically. I have already retained counsel as speaker of the House to go to court with him if he tries to do that. And I am equipped with a fresh law—that he signed into law—that denies [the president] the ability to do that.”
05.23.2016	To the Class of 2016: Forget the plan. https://t.co/rFklrRYroq — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) May 23, 2016 Yesterday, Paul Ryan delivered the commencement address at Carthage College. Below are his remarks: Thank you very much. To the class of 2016, congratulations. This is a big moment in your life. And no matter how much fun you have tonight, you’re bound to remember some of it. If you forget this speech, well, that’s no big loss. I’ll get over it eventually. Just remember one thing: Remember the people who got you here. There’s an old saying which I might have made up a few minutes go . . . that marriage is for the couple; the wedding is for the family. I’d think of your graduation the same way. It is their achievement as much as it is yours. And yet they have gladly given you all the credit. So if your mom or your dad or your brother or your sister or your grandparents or your cousins . . . if they get a little teary-eyed . . . or let out a few sniffles . . . or just break down and sob . . . bear with them. Thank them. Appreciate them. They love you more than you will ever know. So to all the faculty, to all the family, I just want to say to you, “Job well done. Fantastic." This is what gives us all hope for our country, our society, our community. You know, it has been ten years ago since I spoke at this commencement the last time. The last time I was here was basically my first encounter as a Catholic with our new then bishop, His Eminence Timothy Cardinal Dolan, who was then the archbishop of Milwaukee. He did the prayer; I did the speech. I wanted to keep things casual, so my topic was the need for truth in the modern world. As expected, it was a total hit. I got wild applause. I mean cheering, shouting, crying—and that was just from the archbishop. Later, he came up to me . . . and said, “I loved your speech. It was so . . . short.” We’ve been great friends ever since. So if you’re feeling a little stir-crazy right now . . . rest assured: I will get right to the point. The biggest piece of advice that I’d give to all of you is this: Don’t worry too much about the plan. Go where you can make a difference. Sometimes fulfillment lies in very unpredictable places. All your life people are going to hound you about the plan, the plan, the plan . . . Have you found a job? Are you going to graduate school? Where do you see yourself in 20 years? It will seem like nobody cares what you do so much as where you end up. And you will start to wonder whether you shouldn’t care either. But beware: Careerism, in the wrong way, is cynicism in perpetual motion. Before donor services drags me off the stage, let me clarify what I'm saying here: I am not telling you to reject that job offer and move into your parents’ basement. What I am saying is, wherever you end up, the work itself is the reward. Treat it that way. Because the truth is, life can put your best-laid plans through the paper shredder. You may never get that dream job—or if you do get that dream job, it may turn out to be a nightmare. But maybe you’re meant to do something else. What seems to you like catastrophe could end up becoming opportunity. Don’t be so quick to dismiss that opportunity if it doesn’t fit into the plan. When you come to a fork in the road, and you are deciding between two paths, instead of thinking, “How do I stay on course?” think to yourself, “Where can I do the most good? Where do I get real fulfillment?" If you realize it is the detour, then take it. That, in a nutshell, is my advice. But it would be rude to give a three-minute commencement address, so let me just proceed to elaborate. When I was your age, I had a plan. 1992. It seems like yesterday, doesn't it? I thought I had a plan . . . I wanted to be an economist—which goes to show just how much fun I was in those days. The plan was, work in public finance for a few years. . . . Get some experience. Go to grad school. Get my PhD. Join a think tank. And then I’d give policymakers advice. . . . A few years in, everything was going according to plan. I was working in economic policy . . . getting ready for grad school. And then, life intervened. The congressman who represented my home district decided to run for Senate. . . . He asked me to be his campaign manager. That's just not my thing. I'm a policy guy, not a political guy. When I declined, he said, “In that case, you should run for my seat.” I said, “Run for your seat? That’s crazy. I’m 27 years old.” He asked me, “Why not?” I told him I was young and no way could I win. It wasn't my plan. And he said, “You know, if I listened to all the people who told me what I could not do, I’d never get anything done in my life. What do you care about? What do you believe in?” I told him I believed in the principles of our founding fathers. I loved public policy because I wanted to solve problems. Well, that was all he needed to hear. He told me, “Then, run.” But I still wasn’t convinced. I called my mentor. I lost my father when I was a kid, so I grew up with mentors. One of my best mentors was a guy named Jack Kemp, a former congressman from New York. I asked him, “Should I do this?” And he said, “Absolutely. You can make such a difference. You're a Wisconsinite, but you're a public policy guy. Go do it. ” Then I called another mentor of mine, a guy named Bill Bennett. And I asked, “Does this pass the laugh test?” And he said, “Yes . . . barely.” Actually, he was quite encouraging. Then I called my mom and I told her what I was thinking. She thought I was crazy. She said, “. . . really? You would want to do that?” So ultimately, I ran and I won. But soon, I had another plan. Soon, I realized in the House of Representatives, where I wanted to go, where I wanted to carve my space and make my difference. The issues I cared so much about, the issues my employers were telling me they wanted me to work on were the issues in front of the House Ways and Means Committee: the tax code, health care, retirement security, poverty. My goal was to become the chairman of that committee because I thought I could . . . at least make a big difference in these areas that I cared about. So I worked for years to achieve that goal. And finally, last year, in 2015, I became chairman of that committee. But seven months in, the speaker of the House, John Boehner, resigned unexpectedly. The next in line . . . Kevin McCarthy, dropped out of the running. And my colleagues drafted and asked me to run. I never wanted to be speaker, and I had said so in no uncertain terms many times before. I was a policy guy. I didn’t like the idea of spending my time on other things. I live with my family in Janesville. Every weekend I am here with my family. Yesterday was turkey hunting and track meet and then dinner at my mom's. Today, here in Kenosha with you. I couldn't give those weekends up. But John told me, if you don’t like the job, then change it. Keep your weekends at home. Focus on policy. Make it work. Turn it around. So, I took his advice, and soon I realized: I can do this. I actually liked the job. Now, I feel like the dog that finally caught the car that I wasn’t chasing it in the first place. And you see? We have something in common: At the beginning of your senior year, I also didn’t know what I’d be doing after graduation. This job isn’t anything I ever expected—or even wanted. And yet I’m still doing what I love: public policy. I learned eventually in my journey that public policy was my vocation, public service was where I found fulfillment.Through all the twists and turns, that has been the consistent theme of my life. Now you have to figure out what is yours. It may change as you get older, but the only way you will find out is if you take your work seriously. It is your contribution to our country. Now, when I say this, I'm not saying that your work is what you get paid for. Your work is all of your responsibilities, like your family and your friendships and your community. It is funny but as life gets more complicated, it gets a whole lot simpler as well. Status will matter less, and doing your part will matter more. So don’t worry too much about the plan. As I was preparing these remarks, I had a mild panic attack that my advice wasn’t sufficiently practical. So, for good measure, let me put it in a quick three-part postscript. First, a lot of people will tell you not to fear failure, but learn from it—and that is a great piece of advice. I would also say that you need to forgive it too. You will make mistakes, and so will other people—your friends, your coworkers, your family. Don’t sweat the small stuff. Take it in stride. It is good life advice. It is also good professional advice. Nobody likes a Debbie Downer. Nobody likes somebody that is lecturing all the time. There are lots of smart, young, talented, hardworking, ambitious people in society—you among them. Attitude is everything. Have a good attitude. Be an uplifter. Fill the glass, don't take from the glass. Second, read as much as humanly possible. John Adams once told his son, “You will never be alone with a poet in your pocket.” I was always more of a history and economics guy. But the lesson still applies. The greatest asset you have is your mind. But it really is like a muscle. You have to keep it in shape. Don't forget that. Third, if you’re believer, keep going to church. Don’t let that fall by the wayside. I know that might sound a little preachy or even a little cheesy. But you don’t have to make a big show of it. Just go. Prayer has sustained me in many difficult moments of my life. I think it will do the same for you. Because as you get older, you realize that life does actually follow a plan. It just may not be your plan. It is God’s plan. And coming to accept that fundamental fact—not begrudgingly but peacefully—that is the essence of faith. You might not be able to make all the changes you wanted. The question is, did you make a difference wherever you could? Did you meet the moment? Did you look yourself in the mirror that morning or that evening and think "Yeah, okay. I am doing this the right way." Are you endeavoring to be fulfilled and be a good person . . . in all of your works of life? So if you remember one word from this speech, let it be “faith.” That should be all the planning you need. May God bless you and keep you in His care. Congratulations once again. And thank you all very much.
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with Big AM 1380’s Stan Milam. Stan Milam: “One of the projects you’re working on, one of your initiatives . . . I will call it the poverty initiative. To me, [this] signaled an opportunity where there could be some bipartisan cooperation. . . . Can you give our listeners an idea of your plans with [the] poverty initiative?” Paul Ryan: “Sure, two of the issues we are working through the process now. One of them we already passed, which is a bill [Senator] Patty Murray and I actually wrote together—it passed, it’s now law—changing the way we measure the effectiveness of poverty programs. In the past we based it on effort, inputs; how much money are we spending? . . . How many people are on the programs? Now, we’ve changed it to . . . measure the effectiveness of these programs based on outcomes. Are we actually getting people out of poverty? Do these programs work to achieve their objective of [lifting people up] and on their own feet, out of poverty? And changing the way we measure programs will change the way programs work. That bill is already passed and into law.” *** “Criminal justice reform is part of our poverty plan, and those bills are working their way through Congress. We also have a poverty and upward mobility taskforce that is working its way in the House that will be making more comprehensive reforms. We think we need to rework the welfare system so that it is producing work incentives, not work replacement. . . . It needs to become a work incentive system [to] pull people into work. It’s not doing that right now. It’s in many ways encouraging people not to work, and we think that’s a real detriment to people and to the welfare system. That is going to take a bigger, more wholesale reform, and that is what our poverty taskforce is working on.”
05.09.2016	JANESVILLE, WI — Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, announced that Congressman Ryan’s mobile office will once again visit communities all across Wisconsin’s First Congressional District starting in May and running through early September. A list of scheduled stops for the mobile office for the first half of the season (the months of May and June 2016) follows this advisory and is available here. At each stop, a staff member of Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet with residents to address concerns they have about legislation before the House of Representatives or answer questions related to federal agencies. In announcing the mobile office schedule for May and June, Congressman Ryan said: “The mobile office is a great resource for constituents who don’t live near one of the three permanent congressional offices in the First District. At any of the mobile office’s scheduled stops, my employers in southern Wisconsin can come and speak to a member of my staff about issues before Congress or request assistance with a government agency. It’s my job to hear from and be accessible to those I serve in Wisconsin’s First District, and the mobile office is a great tool to do this.” Residents of the First District can access the latest mobile office schedule by checking their local paper or by visiting Congressman Ryan’s website – paulryan.house.gov. Congressman Ryan established the mobile office to serve as an extension of existing First District Constituent Service Centers. Since 1999, the mobile office has made over 3,000 visits to area communities and has provided assistance to thousands of residents over the years. The schedule below indicates days, times, and locations for each mobile office tour stop, including where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or in an adjoining parking lot). *** First District Mobile Office Schedule May & June 2016 (by community) Milwaukee County Oak Creek: Thursday, May 26th, Tuesday June 7th, and Thursday, June 23rd from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Oak Creek Police Department, 301 W. Ryan Road. Franklin: Thursday, May 26th, Tuesday June 7th, and Thursday, June 23rd from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of Franklin Police Department, 9455 W. Loomis Road. Greendale: Thursday, May 26th, Tuesday June 7th, and Thursday, June 23rd from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot at the Greendale Community Center, 6200 South 76th Street. Hales Corners: Thursday, May 26th, Tuesday, June 7th, and Thursday, June 23rd from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Hales Corners Village Hall, 5635 South New Berlin Road. Waukesha County Muskego: Thursday, June 2nd, Tuesday, June 14th, and Thursday, June 30th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Muskego Police Department, W183 S8150 Racine Avenue. Mukwonago: Thursday, June 2nd from 9:00am-10:00am, Tuesday June 14th from 11:00-12:00pm, and Thursday, June 30th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Mukwonago Police Department, 627 South Rochester Street. Eagle: Tuesday, May 24th, Thursday, June 9th, and Tuesday, June 21st from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Eagle Fire Department, 126 East Main Street. Big Bend: Thursday, June 2nd and Tuesday, June 14th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the Big Bend Village Hall, W230S9185 Nevins Street. North Prairie: Tuesday, May 24th, and Thursday, June 9th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the North Prairie Village Hall, 130 N. Harrison Street. Town of Vernon: Thursdays, June 2nd from 11:00am-12:00pm, and June 30th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the Town of Vernon Fire Department, W223 S7475 Woodland Avenue, Big Bend. Town of Genesee: Tuesday, May 24th, and Thursday, June 9th from 11:00am-12:00pm, Tuesday, June 21st from 1:00pm-2:00pm, parking lot of the Town of Genesee Town Hall, S43 W3191 Highway 83, Genesee Depot. Wales: Tuesday May 24th from 9:00-10:00am, and Tuesday, June 21st from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Wales Village Hall, 129 S. Main Street, Wales. Dousman: Thursday, June 9th, and Tuesday June 21st from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot of the Dousman Village Hall, 118 S. Main Street, Dousman. Walworth County East Troy: Tuesday June 14th, and Thursday, June 30th from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot of the East Troy Police Department, 2015 Energy Drive. Elkhorn: Tuesday, May 31st from 9:00-10:00am, Thursday, June 16th from 3:00-4:00pm, and Tuesday, June 28th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of Walworth County Sheriff’s Department, 1770 County Rd NN. Delavan: Wednesdays, June 1st, June 15th, and June 29th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Delavan Municipal Building, 123 South 2nd Street. Darien: Wednesdays, June 1st, June 15th, and June 29th from 1:00-2:00pm, street parking outside the Darien Village Hall/Police Department, 24 North Wisconsin Street. Genoa City: Wednesdays, May 25th, and June 22nd from 9:00-10:00am, street parking outside the Genoa City Village Hall, 715 Walworth Street. Lake Geneva: Thursday, June 16th, and Tuesday June 28th from 9:00am-10:00am, municipal parking lot across from the Lake Geneva Police Department, 626 Geneva Street. Williams Bay: Tuesday, May 31st from 3:00-4:00pm, Thursday, June 16th from 11:00am-12:00pm, and Tuesday, June 28th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Williams Bay Police Department, 250 Williams Street. Sharon: Tuesday, May 31st from 11:00am-12:00pm, Thursday, June 16th from 1:00-2:00pm, street parking in front of the Sharon Village Hall, 125 Plain Street. Walworth: Tuesday, May 31st, and Tuesday, June 28th from 1:00-2:00pm, street parking in front of the Walworth Village Hall, 227 North Main Street. Racine County Burlington: Wednesday, June 8th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Burlington Police Department, 224 E. Jefferson Street. Waterford: Wednesday, June 8th from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot of the Town of Waterford Police Department, 415 N. Milwaukee. Union Grove: Wednesday, June 8th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the Union Grove Municipal Building, 925 15th Avenue. Sturtevant: Wednesday, May 25th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Sturtevant Police Department, 2801 89th Street. Village of Mount Pleasant: Wednesday, June 8th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Mount Pleasant Police Department, 8811 Campus Drive, Mount Pleasant. Kenosha County Bristol: Wednesday, June 22nd from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the Kenosha County Center, 19600 75th Street. Silver Lake: Wednesdays, May 25th from 1:00-2:00pm, and June 22nd from 11:00am-12:00pm, street parking outside the Silver Lake Village Hall, 113 South 1st Street. Pleasant Prairie: Wednesday, June 22nd from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Roger Prange Municipal Building, 8600 Green Bay Road. Twin Lakes: Wednesday, May 25th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of Twin Lakes Police Department, 920 Lance Drive. Rock County Milton: Wednesdays, June 1st, June 15th, and June 29th from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot of the Milton Police Department, 690 South Janesville Street. Clinton: Wednesdays, June 1st, June 15th, and June 29th from 11:00am-12:00pm, rear parking lot of the Clinton Village Hall, across from the Police Department, 301 Cross Street.
05.05.2016	JANESVILLE, WI — On Saturday, April 30, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, announced Craig High School junior Norah Swenson as the winner of the 2016 First District Congressional Art Competition. Norah was honored during a ceremony held at the Olde Towne Mall in Janesville. The ceremony was attended by the student artists, their friends and families, their art teachers, and the judges of the First District Art Competition. Norah’s piece, using pen and ink entitled You Must Be Brave, is a portrait of Malala Yousafzasi, made entirely of the phrase, “You must be brave.” Malala Yousafzasi was an outspoken advocate of women’s education in the Middle East. As a result, the Taliban repeatedly threatened her life until one day she was shot. Amazingly, Malala survived, and she continues to be a strong advocate for education and an opponent of terrorism. Her quote, “You must be brave,” is what Malala reminded herself throughout her efforts to receive an education. “I'm always impressed by the amount of young artistic talent we have right here in southern Wisconsin. We received very impressive entries this year, and that’s why Norah, from my alma mater, Craig High School, and her family should be proud of her accomplishment. I want to congratulate her on her well-deserved victory, and thank all the other young artists who submitted pieces in this year’s competition,” said Congressman Ryan. Each year, Congressman Ryan invites high schools students in the First District to participate in the congressional art competition. The winning artwork is selected by a panel of judges comprised of local artists, and is then submitted to represent Wisconsin’s First District in the national “Congressional Art Competition: An Artistic Discovery.” This nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by members of Congress, gives high-school artists the opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity. The winning artwork from each district is put on display within the U.S. Capitol for an entire year where it can be viewed by the millions of visitors who pass through the Capitol throughout the year. A photo of Congressman Ryan with Norah Swenson, and her winning piece You Must Be Brave can be viewed here.
05.04.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Earlier this week, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WCLO’s Tim Bremel. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers follow: Crafting an agenda for a #ConfidentAmerica: “It’s coming [along] very well. It is five categories: What do you do to grow the economy? What do you replace Obamacare with to deal with the massive premium increases people have experienced? How do you move people from welfare to work? What are better strategies for combating poverty? How do you rebuild our military and secure our national security? and . . . How do you restore self-government—which is government by the people, for the people—through our elected representatives? “This is an agenda. Members of Congress are engaged, working with each other to put this together. . . . And then we roll out [in] early summer around June, before the Cleveland convention. [We will] show an agenda to the country on what we think are the big fundamental issues to get our country back on track. . . ." "And I think one of the crown jewels is tax reform. I was at the Chamber of Commerce with the folks from Mukwonago Saturday night talking about this issue. You’ve got all these businesses that are competing with other countries—Canada, England, Mexico, China—and we tax our businesses at such higher rates than they tax theirs, and it’s putting us at a huge competitive disadvantage.” Doing the people’s work: “I feel good about unity in the House Republican Conference. We’ve already been able to pass the biggest transportation legislation in a decade, K-12 education reform. We rewrote our trade export laws, our trade accountability laws. We made tax policies permanent for businesses at the end of the year. We are in the middle of moving opioid reform, and we’re moving criminal justice reform soon after that—all based on consensus in the House. So, we’ve been showing we can get some pretty good things done. . . . We already know what we believe in, we know what the country’s problems are, we listen to our constituents, and so that’s why we are working on this agenda now and not waiting.” Standing up for retirees and savers by blocking the administration’s fiduciary rule: “This [rule] is classic big government helping really big businesses and hurting the small guy. Go across the street to the Hayes Block, and [ask] those men and women who are selling investment advice, setting up 401ks and IRAs for middle-income Janesville [residents]. This is the government writing a new rule that makes it nearly impossible for businesses to offer investment advice to their clients and therefore they won’t continue to do so. [This] is a rule nobody in Congress gets to vote on whether it goes into place or not. That’s why we did something extraordinary called the Congressional Review Act, to say ‘This is something Congress does not approve of. It exceeds the executive branch’s authority.’ *** “Everybody is in favor of disclosure, everybody is in favor of making sure the interest of the investment advisor is aligned with the interest of the client; nobody opposes that. But it’s the kind of rules they are putting in place that will make it impossible for low- and middle-income people to get investment advice to save for whatever they want to save for—retirement, a kid’s college fund, a rainy day fund—they will go out of business because of this rule.”
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Earlier this week, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan spoke to thousands of Kenosha County residents during a telephone town hall. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers to constituents follow: Health care reform: “[Obamacare] forces you to buy the government insurance plan which has given us massive premium increases [and] huge deductibles. . . . One of the major problems is it makes you buy the insurance they design, not the insurance you necessarily need or want. And it is done in such a way that it was supposed to drop our health care premiums on average $2,500 a year in premiums and it’s done the opposite. And I would argue the reason is they have taken away all competition. Now we basically have a big insurance monopoly, with government-run, government-mandated health insurance. The law basically turned these insurance companies into public utilities . . . and it has made it really expensive and is making people buy coverage they don’t want, need, or can afford. I would argue we should make these insurers compete against one another for our [business], more competition, and more choice, and let you buy what you want to buy, and subsidize people with pre-existing conditions. Let’s create funds in our states that subsidize the high-cost health insurance for people with pre-existing conditions, so that everybody else, which is about 90 percent of our population under the age of 65, can have really affordable, lower-priced, lower-cost health insurance. We are going to offer another plan [and] say to the country, ‘Here is what we want to replace the law with if we get permission at the ballot box.’” Education reform: “We did reauthorize Pell Grants. The education savings account is in law, which means you have the ability to save in an IRA for education just like the 529 law, which we passed and prevented the administration from taking over the 529 plans. I think the real issue is tuition inflation itself. This is an area where there is a lot of work to be done. Number one, we need to have more transparency to make education more competitive for the value we get for that education.” *** “Combine [inflation] with the fact that the administration nationalized the student loan industry in 2010, so we no longer have competitive student loan products. . . . We used to have banks who were subsidized to give direct lending to students who competed for students’ business for loans, and would customized loans per the student’s ability to pay. I got my student loans at Great Lakes in Madison. I worked three jobs after college to pay my loans. When I went down to two jobs they adjusted my payments; when I went back up to three jobs they adjusted them back up, and the system used to work like that. Now, the Department of Education runs the entire student loan system. We have more and more kids having more debt. The solution to this, to me, is to de-nationalize the student loan industry, make it more competitive, and break up the college monopoly. Let people get credit online; let people take credit from high school; let people go to a two-year technical college or a two-year in the UW system and [take] that in.”
04.25.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WTMJ’s Charlie Sykes and WRJN’s Glenn Klein. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers follow: We need a different kind of politics that is aspirational & inclusive. https://t.co/OYCJ8mrEaK — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) April 25, 2016 Previewing his town hall at Georgetown University: “[There is] a different kind of politics I think we ought to be looking at, that is different in tone and temperament; that is aspirational and inclusive. Also, I want to acquaint millennials with conservatism; how our principles applied to the problem of the day . . . [will] give young people more control over their lives and their destiny and guarantee a more prosperous future.” *** “[Conservatism] gives people in our community more power and more control over their lives, their destiny, and their communities and it’s the best way for a prosperous future so that people can have the most opportunities going forward. And I think we as conservatives should be happy to share this with young people because they are our future. That’s cliché to say, I know, but I just don’t think young people have been well acquainted enough with the tenets of conservatism which is really natural law, natural rights, freedom, and free enterprise, limited government, self-determination, [and] upward mobility.” Crafting an agenda to take to the country: “This is what our five point agenda is all about. The first . . . plank is economic growth, and the cornerstone of that is tax reform. The Ways and Means Committee, with its task force, is working on a tax reform plan to present, that we would run on. In order to do really big and bold things in 2017, we believe we need to ask permission from the country, and make it really clear what it is we would do so we could earn the right and mandate to do it, and tax reform will be a piece of that.” Addressing President Obama’s comments on “Brexit” in London: “I think it was a big mistake. I think he should not have done that. I don’t think we should butt our noses into other countries’ internal decisions like that. We will support our relationship with Britain regardless of what they do. England is our greatest ally. We have a special relationship, and you can air quote ‘special relationship’ because it truly is a special relationship. And our relationship with England will be just as strong and deep in ties if they stay or go, whether they leave or stay, regardless. And we should leave this up to the British people, and we should keep our nose out of their business.” Perfecting the #SpeakerSelfie: “I have really long arms and I’ve become acquainted with everybody’s brand of cell phone and how to take these things. I find most people don’t know how to flip the image to do a selfie so it’s just easier if I do it anyway. It’s just one of those things that’s kind of come with the territory.”
04.25.2016	The key to restoring opportunity in America is reinvigorating volunteer work at the community level. That was the message Congressman Ryan took to the Racine Area Manufacturers and Commerce, the Kenosha Area Business Alliance, and the Shalom Center last week. Great to be back in Racine, #WI with the #Racine Area Manufacturers & Commerce. https://t.co/MkBm9yV5My — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) April 23, 2016 Speaker Paul Ryan sounded anything but partisan as he spoke Friday to a meeting of volunteers for the Shalom Center in Kenosha. Ryan, who has been speaking in recent months about fighting poverty by revamping government programs, spoke at the agency’s annual meeting honoring its volunteers. “Every community needs an organization like the Shalom Center, every community needs men and women who are dedicated to community service like you are,” he said. Ryan said community agencies and volunteers who work with the poor are a key to a civil society. “Only if you have a good society of caring and loving people willing to take and sacrifice time and everything else to help those in need, only with that can you have a good society, only with that can you have a society where everyone can try to meet their potential,” Ryan said. (Kenosha News) There was plenty of policy talk but very little politics from House Speaker Paul Ryan during a trip home to Wisconsin. Ryan made several stops in Kenosha to talk about some of the same things he talks about in Washington, but he stayed largely away from the presidential race. Ryan talked about a five-point Republican Party platform that includes reforming welfare, changing health care and tightening national security. "Which prevents a debt crisis, which balances a budget, which grows the economy," Ryan said. "We think [if] we get these things right, we're going to be great." (WISN) Donning a purple tie in honor of Prince, the music icon who was found dead earlier in the day, Ryan’s speech to RAMAC came six months after he ascended to the House’s top spot. . . . But repeating his oft-stated mantra, Ryan said Republicans must become a “proposition party” and not just an “opposition party.” “If you don’t like the direction that something is going, you have to offer an alternative,” he said. “So that’s what we’re in the middle of doing.” Ryan also touted legislative accomplishments at the end of last year, including a highway bill and a re-write of education laws. (Racine Journal Times) Speaker of the House Paul Ryan was the keynote speaker for Friday’s KABA luncheon. His remarks were generally nonpartisan and focused on recent success in Congress that have not made headlines. “We've made some pretty good progress in half a year,” Ryan said. “We rewrote our job training laws,” said Ryan. “We had 46 different job training programs from nine different agencies. We weren't even measuring if they worked, or if people were getting the skills to get the jobs they wanted. We collapsed and consolidated [the programs] and sent them back to the states.” (Kenosha News) Much of the Janesville Republican's speech at the Woman's Club was focused on what he called the "American idea," and community efforts to lift people out of poverty. "This country was founded on an idea," Ryan said. "We call it the American idea." He stressed the importance of members of the community working together to help people escape cycles of poverty, rather than relying on the government. "So that we can reclaim and rekindle this beautiful idea, the American idea," Ryan said. "The condition of your birth doesn't determine the outcome of your life." (Milwaukee Journal Sentinel)
04.22.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — This week, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan spoke to thousands of Racine County residents during a telephone town hall. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers to constituents follow: Addressing comprehensive tax reform: “Johnson Controls, which is up in Milwaukee, [is] buying an Irish company so they can become Irish. Why is Johnson Controls, a Milwaukee business, which has thousands of jobs there, all of a sudden becoming an Irish company? Because the Irish tax rate is 12.5 percent. The U.S. tax rate on a company like Johnson Controls is 35 percent. Twenty percent of American businesses are what we call corporations; that tax rate is 35 percent. Eighty percent of American businesses are what we call pass-throughs, like sub-chapter S corporations. They file their taxes as individuals. The top individual tax rate in America is 44.6 percent, effectively.” *** “And this is worse: Take Case New Holland. I know Case very well because I go to that factory about twice a year. Case sells a product that they make in Racine overseas; say they sell it in France. They pay the French tax right then and there. If they want to take the money back to America that they made in selling that Racine-made red tractor in France, then they have to pay the American tax on it, which is 35 percent. No other country does this. We’re saying to American companies: ‘We’re going to tax you a lot more than your competitors are being taxed, so a) your product will be more expensive, and b) if you are competing and selling overseas, you’re going to pay a tax when you bring it back home,’ so they never do it.” *** “So one of the things I am working on this year is to put out a tax reform plan to show how American businesses can stay in America, and how we need to lower our tax rates on our businesses so they are competitive with the rest of the world. It is a global economy whether we like it or not. And if we keep this idea that we can keep taxing American manufacturers at a much higher rate than our competitors tax theirs, they are going to keep moving overseas. When you see a corporate headquarters moving overseas . . . this to me is one of the biggest threats to our economy.” Doing the people’s work: “What I am trying to do as your representative is get us [in Congress] busy doing our jobs. It might not be sexy and it might not be in the newspaper every day. A lot of people don’t know we passed the biggest education reform in [a decade], a new five-year transportation bill, new customs laws; we’ve passed a lot of things. What I am trying to do, just like Wisconsinites are; put your nose down, get your job done, do your work, and offer the country comprehensive solutions to the big problems facing us.”
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WISN’s Jay Weber and WTAQ’s Jerry Bader. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers follow: Helping create a #ConfidentAmerica: “I believe . . . I have a unique opportunity and duty to help . . . prepare a conversation [to] take a clear and compelling choice to the voters by saying, ‘Here is an agenda that gets America back on track. Here is an agenda using our conservative principles and applying them to the problems of the day,’ so that the country gets a really clear choice on how to get us back on track and go in a better direction. That to me is a very important role that needs to be played and I believe because of the trust that’s been given to me by my colleagues.” *** “This agenda project has got to get done and I think it needs to get done now so we can have the kind of fall that we want. And so what I think I can contribute to this cause is regardless of who that nominee is going to be.” *** “[We need] an optimistic vision. We need to be the alternative party; a proposition party, not just an opposition party. When my colleague entrusted me with this job, I was making [the point] that we have to transition from simply being the opposition party showing what we’re against to showing what we are for. Showing what we are for will bring us to a better place. That to me is the role I can play.” Restoring Article I powers: “This is one of our big items on our agenda this fall. We call it the Article I project. How do we restore government of the people and by the people by restoring Article I of the Constitution so that it is Congress, the representative branch of government, which actually writes our laws, not the executive branch? This is a piece of that narrative; a chapter of that story, which is, this administration, and previous administrations, have abused their powers. And what that means to us as citizens is our government doesn’t actually work for us. We want our government to responsive to us and if we don’t like our government we can actually impact change at the ballot box, and unfortunately, with the executive going like this, this is less and less the case. And so that’s what we’re trying to do here by standing up for the Constitution.” Visiting American allies in the Middle East: “So I wanted to go, number one to show solidarity and support because we have a common cause, we have a common enemy. And number two, learn about what we need to do to have a more comprehensive strategy to actually defeat ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism. That’s exactly why I chose to do this. This I think is a front-and-center issue on the campaign and we need to do more because I don’t think the current strategy—not that we actually have one—is working.”
03.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WIBA’s Vicki McKenna. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers follow: Addressing the major issues facing the country: “We see the country going in the wrong direction . . . and we so desperately want to get the country back on the right track and fix these big problems before they get out of our control. What I can do about that as a person who works for the people of the First District of Wisconsin, as a guy who’s a leader in Congress, in a position, quite frankly, I wasn’t planning on doing, but I’m in and I’m eager to do, is roll out an agenda to show our fellow citizens what it’s going to take to turn the country around. We [will] take our conservative principles, apply them to the problems of the day, show people that the real solutions, [and] run on those solutions. And that’s what we’re doing in the House. That’s what I’m working with House Republicans . . . to lay out there. We’re going to lay it out before the convention. How do you grow the economy, what do you replace Obamacare with, how do you move people from welfare to work and get at the root causes of poverty, how do you keep us safe with a good national security, have it restore the Constitution and the concept of representative self-government and limited government? We’re going to put details on all of those points and show the country how we can get back on track.”
03.25.2016	Last week, Congressman Ryan spoke with local Wisconsin business owners and employees about the work of House Republicans on a bold agenda to restore a Confident America. His remarks focused on rebuilding the economy to provide Wisconsinites with good-paying, stable jobs. Assembling a bold, bottom-up agenda: “What I’m doing is making sure that we go from just being an opposition party to a proposition party. And so our task forces are busy working and putting together our agenda that we’re going to take to the country and show you what we think is necessary." Reforming the tax code: “Number one, this tax code has got to be rewritten. We have a tax code that puts America in an extremely uncompetitive position. Johnson Controls is the one that everyone talks about these days. Because they’re buying Tyco so they can become an Irish company and their tax rate will be 12.5 percent instead of 35 percent. But it’s not just big companies like Johnson Controls. They’re a corporation. That’s 10 percent of Wisconsin businesses.” “Ninety percent of Wisconsin businesses are not corporations. They file their taxes as people, as individuals. The top effective marginal tax rate in America today [for them] is now 44.6 percent. Drive to any industrial park in Wisconsin, and 9 out of 10 of those businesses paid their taxes this way. Manufacturers, retailers, service industries. Our friends overseas on the other side of Lake Superior tax all their businesses at 15 percent. So if you’re a Canadian manufacturer . . . you’re getting a 15 percent tax rate. If you’re Precision Metals, 44.6 percent. If we tax our job creators and our businesses at much higher tax rates than our foreign competitors, they win and we lose. We’ve got . . . to make America more competitive, and to make American companies stay American companies.” Unleashing America’s energy potential: “We’ve got to open up our energy markets. But for our government . . . we’re not taking advantage of it. We’ve got an opportunity. One law we did pass in December was we lifted the ban on exporting crude oil, so that America can become the number one producer and exporter of oil and gas. So that Europe, instead of having Putin dictate terms to them, can buy it from us . . . so that our friends can buy our oil and natural gas instead of having China mess with them.” “Not only is it really good for our foreign policy, but it’s good for our jobs because then, when we go to the pump or we pay our electric bill, we’re not sending the money to Saudi Arabia. We’re not sending the money to OPEC. We’re not sending it to the Middle East. It’s going to North Dakota, Texas, it’s going into our own country. Thirty thousand jobs in this state alone are tied to this industry. They’re mining sand. They’re building pipelines. They’re making engines. So this is an enormous opportunity for us.” Repealing and replacing the President’s health care law: “The premium increases are out of sight. The deductibles are even higher. The choices are even fewer. This law isn’t working, and it’s going to blow up our budget. It is a big huge bankrupt system. So we’ve got to replace it with patient-centered healthcare. Let’s stop making it harder and harder for our employers to offer health insurance to their employees, and let’s stop cranking up the premiums of these bad laws.” Moving from welfare to work: “We’ve got a labor problem. They’re doing a good job in Wisconsin dealing with this. They’ve got some innovative ideas they’re putting together so that employers themselves can set up curriculums to be able to teach would-be employees the skills that they need so they can get good high-paying skills-based manufacturing jobs. We took a look at our job-training programs: 46 job training programs just coming out of Washington, spread across 9 different government bureaucracies. We consolidated these programs, got rid of the bureaucracies, and we’re sending the money back to the states to go to the person so that they can go into the education job market and go to Blackhawk Tech, or Gateway, or to an employer, whatever [Representative Voss] and the state legislature decide the job training system is to meet the skills gap in Wisconsin.” “But here’s the other problem. We’ve got tens and tens of millions of people who are able-bodied in America, many people in Wisconsin who aren’t working. . . . We’ve got a lot of people on welfare in a system that, as well intended as our welfare system has been, it is a system that tells them don’t work. So if you ask, who’s paying the highest tax rate in America? You’re thinking you know it’s Aaron Rodgers, right? No. It’s actually the single mom making, you know, $24,000 in benefits with two kids, who will lose 80 cents on the dollar by taking a job. Or if she’s got a job and is making minimum wage and she’s got two kids and she gets offered, you know, a raise and a better promotion she’ll lose 90 cents on the dollar going up from minimum wage. So we’ve got to fix our welfare system to make it always pay to work, to make it easier to transition to work, to help people with the soft skills and the hard skills and the educational skills they need to go get a job.” Restoring the Constitution: “We have a principle that we’re a self-governing people, and that we believe in government by consent of the governed. If we don’t consent with our government then we will fire these people who write these laws and hire new people at the ballot box to write better laws, because the government is supposed to work for us, not the other way around. That’s the whole concept. What has emerged over years and has accelerated tremendously in the last few years is this new fourth branch of government. Unelected bureaucrats, career bureaucrats in Washington agencies are effectively writing the laws that we experience through rules and regulations.” “So anybody in the investment or advising industry, you ever heard of the fiduciary rule? Anybody in agriculture, you ever heard of waters of the USA? Anybody involved in franchised business, Ace Hardware or Culvers? You ever heard of the new labor rule on that? All these new rules are coming out that affect exactly how this economy works, how our businesses operate, the kinds of fees we pay, the kind of costs we incur . . . our economy, and our businesses are being written by people who you never vote for, who never face election.” “All these major rules need to come back to Congress, the law writers, for a final vote of approval and amendment for this rule before they go under effect. They do something like this in Madison. Thirty-two state legislatures do this; it’s not a novel idea. Because what we want is a government that is actually accountable to the people. What we want are laws that are written by representatives of the people so that [if] the people don’t like the laws that are written or living under, they themselves can change them. That is not what’s happening.”
03.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Today Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WLIP’s Bill Lawrence and RightWisconsin.com’s Collin Roth. Excerpts of questions and Ryan’s answers follow: Q: Let’s talk about some other things that are going on with the speaker of the House. I know we’ve got your anti-poverty bill going on. A: Yeah, I was really happy about that. . . . So Patty Murray and I drafted legislation, now passed, and it’s on the way to the president’s desk. We have been measuring success in the war on poverty by how many programs we create, how many inputs, how much spending. We don’t measure success in the War on Poverty by outcomes—are we actually getting people out of poverty?—by results. So our bill creates a commission to design a new measuring system metrics, on how to measure the effectiveness of our poverty-fighting programs, with a goal toward measuring the effectiveness of the result. *** What we wanted to do was get a commission . . . of statisticians, of experts, of people who can help us objectively decide: ‘How do we measure the effectiveness of government program? . . . Because we spent 51 years and trillions of dollars on this War on Poverty, [and] we’ve barely moved the needle. This will . . . rework and reorient our entire approach to fighting poverty from the government’s perspective so that we can get behind what works in our communities. My whole goal of this is to see what works in our communities and back those up so that we are actually success-oriented. . . . I want to highlight those successes, measure those successes, and then amplify those successes. And I think this bill will help us do that. Q: Last week, Secretary of State John Kerry finally labeled the atrocities in the ISIS campaign against Christians and other ethnic and religious minorities, genocide. This came after pressure from the House of Representatives, interest groups, and NGOs. What is the significance of labeling this action genocide? A: [Secretary Kerry] did, because it is genocide. This was being swept under the rug for too long. We need to call it for what it is so we can respond accordingly. Now that the administration has agreed with Congress that genocide is being committed against Christians and other religious and ethnic minorities, now we have to step up and do something about it. That’s why we have to call it for what it is, have a strategy to deal with it. . . . We, in the last defense bill, called the president to come up with a strategy to defeat ISIS [and] gave him a deadline for that. He missed that deadline and still has not presented a plan to defeat ISIS. . . . But by calling it genocide—because it is . . . we can get on the offensive on this issue and also hold people accountable. Q: Also last week, the House of Representatives voted to authorize you . . . to file an amicus brief in the U.S. Supreme Court in the United States v. Texas case, better known as . . . President Obama’s executive amnesty. Why is this step so extraordinary, and what do you hope to accomplish? A: You have to remember, President Obama declared this executive order, effectively rewriting immigration law and declaring an executive amnesty. That is not his job to do that. Congress writes laws, and the president is supposed to faithfully execute those laws. *** And so, what you have here, is a very rare court fight, and it’s described as being Article I and Article II. Article I of the Constitution: Congress writes the laws. Article II of the Constitution: The executive branch executes and implements the laws written by Congress. This is the executive branch trying to take over Article I powers. This really isn’t just about policy. . . . What this is about is, who writes the laws of the land: unelected bureaucrats at executive agencies or our elected officials, the people we vote for, people in Congress who are tasked under the Constitution with writing the laws? So I think it’s extremely important that Congress, in this day of the president bending the rules and stretching the Constitution beyond its limits, speak with one voice and asserts its Article I authority.
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, recently spoke with WLKG’s Dave Michaels and Gail Lewis, WRJN’s Mike Clemens, and WISN’s Jay Weber. Excerpts of Ryan’s remarks follow: Addressing voter anger: “Look, people are angry. People have looked at the last seven years, and they are understandably very anxious, very upset, and hurting. But the solution isn’t to call names. It isn’t to stoke anger for political gain. The solution, I think, is to channel that passion into solutions. That’s basically what . . . we’re doing in Congress. We are working on an agenda of solutions to channel this frustration and anxiety into positive emotions about how we can fix problems and the need to get on our game as a country and get these problems fixed before it gets out of control.” *** “That is why I have every committee in Congress working overtime on taskforces to lay out an agenda this spring to tell the American people: ‘This is the agenda we think gets our country back on the right track, wages up, jobs created, faster economic growth, people out of poverty. [It] puts you back in charge of your health care, reduces the cost of education and health care, and keeps us safe; [it] builds a durable economy of prosperity and a strong national security strategy that actually keeps Americans safe here and abroad.’” Preserving the American Idea: “Our nation is facing a very historic crossroad, so to speak, on the direction we head. Our national security is going to be determined in this election. The economic agenda . . . [is] going to be decided. Whether or not we can confront the fact that we have a debt crisis in our future will be decided. I think our freedom, whether or not we choose to deviate from the Constitution, which is really a self-governing republic type of government to one where we have unelected bureaucrats more and more calling the shots on a day-by-day basis and writing our rules and our laws." *** “I really worry about the future for our kids and our grandkids and the kind of country we’re going to be leaving them and whether or not we’re preparing ourselves for prosperity or they’re going to dump our unpaid bills on the next generation, which basically guarantees that they have a lower standard of living than we do. " Halting the President’s proposal to close Guantanamo Bay: “I’ve got Paul Clement, one of the best litigators in America, a Wisconsinite, who is former solicitor general ready with a lawsuit . . . which we will take straight to the Supreme Court. The President cannot [unilaterally close GITMO]. It is . . . against the law that he signed, a bipartisan law, that he cannot take those Guantanamo inmates, close it down, and send them to America. He sent us a plan. We will not act on that plan, and if the president does so, we will be in court with him and get an injunction.” Condemning ISIS for genocide: “We will pass a resolution labeling these [atrocities] as what they are, genocide. . . . Congress has called the spade a spade. There is genocide, particularly against Christians, and we say it for what it is. And . . . it would call upon the president then to up his game and actually have a strategy for defeating ISIS and protecting these vulnerable minority populations . . . and he is not doing that.”
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Yesterday evening, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke to thousands of Rock and Walworth County residents during a telephone town hall. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers to questions follow: Addressing executive overreach: “In two weeks [we] are bringing to the floor what we call an amicus brief. [We] will pass a resolution filing a brief at the Supreme Court on the president’s executive amnesty, because this is a case where the Supreme Court has said: ‘Congress’s Article I powers . . . is being called into question by the executive branch.’ The president, through an executive order, tried to unilaterally rewriting law. And that bleeds into the legislative branches prerogatives.” *** “And so, [Congress] is actually making a very important statement, I think . . . that the executive branch has [attempted] to usurp the legislative branch’s powers by unilaterally writing law, which is not the power of the executive branch. I will be bringing this case through Congress. We will be voting on it in two weeks, and presenting it to the Supreme Court, because we believe the president has gone so far that he has actually crossed over into the jurisdiction the Constitution sets up for the legislative branch.” Reining in government spending: “We’ve put the plans out there on how you cut spending; how you get our spending to equal our revenues. . . . We have an $18 trillion dollar debt now. [The next generation] is going to inherit a mountain of debt that is unlike anything we’ve seen in this country before. What that means is, they will get a lower standard of living than we have today. We have never, in the history of this country, severed the legacy of leaving the next generation better off. But, if we do stay on this fiscal path that we are on, we will be racking up deficits and debt in our generation that we will give to [the next generation]. My kids are 11, 12, and 14, and we live in Janesville, Wisconsin. Your nieces are in high school. They are going to have to pay our bills for us when they are adults paying taxes.”
02.22.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — This morning, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with the Big 1380 AM’s Stan Milam. Excerpts of Ryan’s remarks follow. Visiting Craig High School, Ryan’s Alma Mater: “Being there on stage in the auditorium . . . it keeps me so thankful for the opportunities I’ve been given by this community, the Janesville community. As you know, high school wasn’t easy for my family. We had some tragedy and hardship. Really, Craig High School—the teachers, the students—were so good to me, so helpful to me in a very hard time; it is a big part of [my] life and a big part of my upbringing. I was happy to be there and it makes me feel at home and very comfortable to be able to share just a few tips and points. Only in America can a kid growing up a half of a mile from Craig High School, who still lives a half of a mile from Craig High School, go and do this type of job. That just speaks to how great of a country we have and how you can focus hard, and realize your dreams and goals in this country. And that’s just the kind of story I wanted to relay to the kids at Craig.” Fighting Poverty: “There are people who really do cling to the status quo, who don’t want to see any changes to poverty-fighting efforts as they are currently constructed. Many people refer to this as the poverty-industrial complex. . . . We’re not getting people out of poverty. More importantly, the programs that are designed to do this, have this backfire effect where they actually incentivize people not to work; it pays people not to work because you lose more in loss of benefits if you get a job or take a raise, so it holds people back.” *** "What we’re doing is trying to figure out how do you construct a poverty-fighting policy where it always pays to work. . . . Let’s measure success on results, outcomes. Are we actually getting people out of poverty? Is it working to move people from welfare to work? Instead of measuring success based on efforts or how much money are we spending or how many people are on programs.” *** “We’re basically going around the country meeting a variety of poverty-fighting groups. We have learned a lot, just like the Salvation Army in Janesville or Catholic Charities or United Way. There are some really amazing heroes in our communities who are in the front lines fighting poverty, very effectively. We should get behind those effective poverty-fighting forces that are in our communities and make them more successful.” Creating a Bold Agenda for a Confident America: “We have a number of task forces led by our committees to come up with ideas that . . . solve basically the big problems confronting our country. How do you grow the economy and get higher wages through tax reform and energy development and regulatory reform? What do you replace Obamacare with? How do you prevent these entitlement programs from going bankrupt and prevent a debt crisis in this country? How do you get people out of poverty? How do you get people from moving from welfare to work? How do you rebuild our military to make sure we have a 21st century foreign policy that keeps us safe?” *** “These are the basic, big issues that are confronting our country and so we have a number of task forces working on developing, from the bottom up, an agenda that attempts to fix these problems. . . . We ought to give people a very specific agenda on what it takes to rebuild a confident America and get this country growing again.”
02.17.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — On Monday morning, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WCLO’s Tim Bremel. Excerpts of Ryan’s remarks follow. Appointing a Supreme Court Justice This Year: “Let me say on a personal level: I knew Antonin Scalia and I really looked up to him, so it’s really sad and shocking. And Maureen, his wife, is just a wonderful woman, and so, my prayers and sympathies go to them.” *** “It is the President’s right to nominate somebody; he clearly has that right. Remember, the Senate also has [its] . . . advice-and-consent right to decide whether to pass someone on or not.” Developing a Bold Agenda for a Confident America: “We don’t think the country is headed in the right direction. We think job growth is flat. We think income growth is flat. We think poverty is stubbornly high, and we think people are having a hard time getting out of poverty. We have a debt crisis in the future. Obamacare is giving people double-digit premium increases and even higher deductibles. Our national security is a mess, and the world and America [are] less safe. And we are losing control of our representative government. The government is supposed to work for us, not the other way around. . . . This is giving us a flat economy, [and] it’s draining opportunity from people who need it.” *** “It’s not enough to complain or oppose. We need to show what we would do differently. We believe it is our obligation to offer the country a really clear choice. Give people an agenda on what we think it will take to get us back to being a confident country . . . a confident America where people can rise, people can earn, people can do well . . . where we are safe, and where our government responds to us as people. If we give people a clear choice and if we win . . . then we have an obligation and a mandate to put those reforms in place and get America back on the right track.” Bringing the Agenda to the American People: “This will be House Republicans saying: ‘This is our agenda. Give us a president that will work with us to put our agenda in place.’ I really believe . . . we are the engine room of reforms in the country in the House of Representatives and we need to . . . give the people a clear choice. I really believe that’s how we get this country [out] of the malaise we are in.”
02.16.2016	Just after Congressman Ryan had been sworn in as Speaker of the House, he emphasized his priorities: his employers, the constituents of Wisconsin’s First District. “I am still Paul Ryan and I’m going to be living in Janesville, being with constituents and family each week.” “I will still be traveling back and forth from the 1st District on a weekly basis.” Ryan made it clear that those for whom he works will not see much of a difference when it comes to his engagement in Wisconsin's 1st District. On Monday, Ryan visited Craig High School, his alma mater, and spoke to an assembly of students about the American idea, what Janesville means to him, and the importance respecting one another. “I learned at a young age that in this country, if you apply yourself, if you focus, you can make a huge difference in people's lives. You can make a huge difference in whatever it is you want to do. That's what's so great about freedom. So many people who are 15, 16, 17 and 18 in the rest of the world, they don't get to choose where they want to live and what they want to do with their lives. You do. It's a great gift.” “I kept having Janesville pull, pull, pull at me. You don't see it, because you're here living it. But when you leave, you realize just how special a community this is.” "So take a pause, be respectful, and what you'll find is that if you use reason, you use deep thinking, not just emotion, that you'll be able to persuade more people to your point of view. But more importantly, by being respectful of others you might learn a thing or two." In addition to the Congressman’s other District events and business visits on Monday, Ryan also toured the Castle Metals facility in Janesville. Afterwards, he participated in a Q&A session with Castle Metal employees. “It really feels good to see jobs here, to see good manufacturing jobs here. It really feels good.” "We have to have a level playing field so that we have trade laws where we respect the rule of law, where we honor our contracts and we don't subsidize currency or devalue currencies to give other countries and other companies unfair trading advantages." Ryan also talked about the need to reduce the country's corporate tax rate in order to spur more manufacturing growth.
02.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, recently spoke to thousands of Milwaukee and Waukesha County residents during a telephone town hall. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers to constituents follow: Reforming the tax code: I think we need to lower our tax rates. Let me give you an explanation why. 80 percent of American businesses [and] 90 percent of Wisconsin businesses file their taxes as individuals. The top effective tax rate for these businesses is 44.6%. That’s the federal tax rate. You throw the Wisconsin income tax on top of it and we are taxing Wisconsin businesses at over 50 percent. *** This is a huge problem for America and for Wisconsin because the average tax rate on businesses in the industrialized world is 25 percent. So we are taxing American businesses at almost double the tax rate our competitors tax theirs. Canada taxes all of their businesses at 15 percent and we are at nearly 50 percent. This is making it really hard for American businesses in this increasingly global economy to be successful, to compete, to have good wages and good jobs . . . so we’ve got to lower those tax rates. Reducing the regulatory burden on American energy and manufacturing: 62 percent of all the electricity in Wisconsin is coal power generated. The Obama Administration has [regulations] that affect us. Number one—and the Supreme Court just put a stop on this—they have a new power plant regulation . . . that puts 62 percent of the way we currently generate electricity in jeopardy, where we can’t [produce] it. That would be an enormous and extremely expensive shock to our system and our ability to have abundant and affordable energy. *** I don’t think the answer is to so over-regulate the economy that we lose our manufacturing jobs or we pay so much more for our basic costs of living. Our manufacturers are telling us they can’t compete in the global economy . . . we will lose jobs to countries that don’t have these same kinds of regulations. *** One of my best friends from Janesville is a pipe fitter. These kinds of regulations kill manufacturing and construction jobs. But we need more pipelines to have pipe fitting jobs. The Keystone pipeline . . . the president vetoed that. Now, because of oil and gas technology, we have the ability to export natural gas to other countries. The Obama Administration is slowing down the permitting and approval of these natural gas exports. We believe we could have as many as a million good paying, private sector jobs—a lot of them pipe fitting jobs—if we actually could open up our natural gas production and export. But because of the administration we are not able to do that.
02.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — This morning, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with Right Wisconsin’s Collin Roth and WGTD’s Greg Berg. Below are excerpts of Ryan’s conversations. Setting expectations for Congress in 2016: “We have to therefore also become a better proposition party, and that is what 2016 is all about. It’s going to be a year of ideas. We are launching our task forces through our committees this week about putting together an agenda to present to the country. We know this agenda cannot be accomplished with Barack Obama’s presidency. It is an agenda for 2017 on what we can accomplish to turn this country around, get us on the right track, reclaim the Constitution, re-limit government, and unleash free enterprise, so that we can get this country working again, so that we can get our country safe again.” *** “That is what our alternative agenda will be about, and we’re going to roll this agenda out throughout the spring. . . . This to me was the primary reason why I agreed to take the speakership in the first place. We have to show the country that there is a better way, and we have better ideas and that if they elect us this is what we’ll do.” Providing opportunity for all Americans: “Look I’m a conservative, and I’m not angry about it. I’m a happy person because I am a conservative—because I believe that the tenets of conservatism, the principles that built the government—liberty, freedom, free enterprise, government by consent, self-determination, limited government, the Constitution—these are things that are exciting. These are things that are inclusive. These are things that are hopeful. These are principles that when applied to the problems of the day, give every single person more opportunity. It’s an inclusive, optimistic, inspiring agenda that . . . give[s] us what we uniquely call the American Idea: that the condition of your birth doesn’t determine the outcome of your life.” Finding common ground: “The way I describe it is, let’s go figure out what we can get done. We’ve got to make government work, and there are things like criminal justice reform as one of the issues we talk about. . . . We have people in deep poverty coming out of prison and not having any chance at getting a lifeline or getting a life back together. I think there are things we can do to make that better." *** “Let’s get that done. But there are a lot of issues where we just do not agree, and that’s the challenge, which is [why] we think we should offer alternatives . . . and opposing by having better proposition. But also, where you can find common ground, you can get that done too. You don’t have to choose one or the other."
01.27.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — On Monday morning, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WTAQ’s Jerry Bader. Excerpts of Ryan’s remarks follow. Promoting bottom-up leadership in Congress: “More importantly, members . . . want a fair process and they don’t want a Congress that bottles up the process or a leadership that concentrates power, pre-determines the outcome of everything, and does not give them a fair chance at legislating.” *** “So I think they understand that . . . I’m doing that and opening up the process so people have a fair crack at making their points made. Maybe they won’t win today, but at least they have a fair chance and it’s really that process that the Freedom Caucus was yearning for, which is only natural if you believe in the constitution and the competition of ideas.” Unifying Republicans: “What unifies Republicans and unifies conservatives is being for something, is having an agenda. It is taking the principles that we all believe in and applying those principles to the problems of the day and producing solutions and advancing those solutions. They will not go into law this year. I can guarantee you that. Why? Barack Obama is president. Harry Reid has 46 senators, enough to mount a filibuster. But that shouldn’t stop us from moving forward and offering the country our alternatives and ideas so they can see that if the people in the election remove these roadblocks by giving us a Republican president and maintaining a Republican Senate then what we can achieve and that’s what we’re trying to do this year.” Having a mandate and providing a choice: “I think people deserve a choice in this country. I just think that those of us who are very upset with the direction America is headed—we need to show people tangible results and a tangible plan to get our country back on track . . . . We need to put a plan out there and show this is what we can and will do if you give us the ability to do so. So it’s basically asking the country for permission for putting an agenda in place so if we win this election, we earn a mandate.” *** “I just think it’s an honest election: tell people who you are, what you believe, and what you’ll do if elected, and then do it. And because the consequences are just so high, from a national security standpoint, from an economic security standpoint, from the future of America to the legacy of what kind of country we want to leave our children and grandchildren; these are the stakes of this generation defining moment. We should honor it for what it is and give the people a clear choice so that we can earn the ability to get this right; to fix this.”
01.11.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — This morning, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WTMJ’s Charlie Sykes. Excerpts of Ryan’s remarks follow: Anticipating the State of the Union Address: “I think there will be a lot of straw men. I think there will be a lot of demagoguery on guns and things like that. And then I think you’ll see a lot of lofty rhetoric. I would say revisionist history and lofty rhetoric. . . . And I think he sees himself in that pantheon with progressives, and he's trying to say how great it is.” *** “And then he’ll basically say ‘look at what I’ve done, look at how much progress we’ve made, let’s keep going.’ My guess it is will be a speech like that.” Fighting poverty in America: “Conservatives have so much to offer. I think conservatives, if we take our principles and tour and travel to poor communities and listen to people on the ground fighting poverty, you will find that if we apply our principles by respecting people, bringing government closer to people . . . we can make a huge difference. The War on Poverty—we're 50 years into it. It’s a stalemate because it’s a big-government, status quo problem. And our principles are more needed here, I would argue, than anywhere else in America. And so, I think we can, as the party of Reagan and Kemp, so that we have ideas that apply to everybody, solutions that help everyone . . . and reignite this idea of upward mobility.” Providing an alternative agenda and replacing Obamacare: “We will put [a replacement] out there. We will show [people]—this is what we will replace it with. I really believe, fundamentally, that we’ve done a good job this year already . . . of showing where we are different and how we will oppose. Then we’ve got to kick into proposition mode. Being an alternative party and putting alternatives out there for things like Obamacare. And that’s something we will engage with our colleagues on, and the early parts of this year, to put out a plan to show what replacing Obamacare looks like for the country." Celebrating the Packers victory: “I am doing great after last night. . . . It was nice to see Aaron Rodgers back to normal.” To listen to the interview in its entirety, click here.
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Today Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, announced the 17 students in the First District who received nominations for appointments to the U.S. military service academies. Young men and women who seek a nomination to attend a U.S. service academy must obtain a nomination from an authorized nominating source, like a member of Congress. Ryan said of this year’s nominees: “I am honored to nominate these young students from Wisconsin’s First District. Military service is a noble calling, and these service academies demand the highest standards. I am confident that every one of these nominees, should they be accepted, will represent the Unites States and Wisconsin with pride. I also want to thank the members of my Service Academy Nomination Advisory Board for their advice—selecting nominees is a rigorous process. ” The Service Academy Nomination Advisory (SANA) Board interviewed and evaluated applicants from the First Congressional District for nomination to the U.S. service academies at the end of 2015. Consisting of veterans, academy graduates, and educators, the SANA Board was appointed by Ryan to assist him with identifying the most qualified applicants. First District applicants are typically in the top tier of their class, are active in their communities, and demonstrate great potential for leadership. A list of the students nominated by Congressman Ryan follows: Kenosha County Danielle Gassie – attends Indian Trail High School and Academy, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy John Holeman – attends Badger High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point Kyle Richter – attends George Nelson Tremper High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. Evan Taber – attends Harborside Academy, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, and the U.S. Air Force Academy Emily Walter – attends Wilmot Union High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point Milwaukee County Jordan Garivay – attends Oak Creek High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, and the U.S. Air Force Academy Ryan McDermott – attends Oak Creek High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy Charles Pond – attends Franklin High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Racine County Luke Herman – attends Waterford Union High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Evan Humphreys – graduated Jerome I. Case High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy James Jamias – attends Washington Park High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy Sawyer Kaye – attends Christian Life High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy Monte Koerner II – graduated The Prairie School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Walworth County Kyle Brossard – graduated Faith Christian School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Zachary McClenathan – attends Catholic Central High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy Waukesha County Jacob Bane – attends Mukwonago High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy Keanu Komar – attends Mukwonago High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, released the following statement in response to President Obama's announcement of his executive order to restrict American gun ownership: "From day one, the president has never respected the right to safe and legal gun ownership that our nation has valued since its founding. He knows full well that the law already says that people who make their living selling firearms must be licensed, regardless of venue. Still, rather than focus on criminals and terrorists, he goes after the most law-abiding of citizens. His words and actions amount to a form of intimidation that undermines liberty. "No matter what President Obama says, his word does not trump the Second Amendment. We will conduct vigilant oversight. His executive order will no doubt be challenged in the courts. Ultimately, everything the president has done can be overturned by a Republican president, which is another reason we must win in November. "We know that the president wants to spend this year offering distractions from his failed record. We will not allow this strategy to take us off course from giving the American people a clear choice with a bold policy agenda."
12.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — On Friday, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with Kenosha News’s Joe Potente. Excerpts of Ryan’s remarks follow: Q. How are you balancing your time between D.C. and your district these days? A. I’ve kept my same routines, actually. That’s been pretty good. I’ve been very pleased with it. Now with this budget agreement, I’m probably going to stay longer. But I come home at the end of the week’s session. I spend a day in the district doing district work, and then Saturdays and Sundays at home. Typically, I do some constituent events along with my kids’ sporting events on Saturdays, and then Sundays are family days. So last Saturday, for instance, I went to Elkhorn to meet the kids that we’re going to nominate to the military academies. I did that on Saturday, then went to one of my kids’ ball games. Then Sunday, I went to the Rock County Historical Society holiday fundraiser, which is something we do in Janesville, and had a family dinner. So, basically I’m finding that I have a similar routine, which I’ve been really vigilant at keeping, which is to keep constituents and family as part of my weekly routine like I always have, and I’ve been able to maintain that. The other thing is that technology helps. I can do a lot on a phone and a computer. So I do a lot of conference calls, a lot of texting and emailing — you don’t have to be physically present to do a lot of work. I do spend a lot of my weekends on the phone. Q. You’ve been in the speaker’s job now for about a month and a half. How does it compare with what you thought it was going to be? A. I’ve been in Congress for a while; this is my 17th year. So I’ve always observed the job; I’ve always felt like I had a pretty good sense of what it is. But you never know these things until you actually do them yourself. So, it is different in a number of ways. I find myself doing more macro then micro policy, and I’ve always really enjoyed the nuts and bolts of policy, and I find I do more macro than micro. I think I knew that, but now I’m experiencing it. I will find a way that I can get back involved in policy formulation, but for now I haven’t had that chance. There are a lot more ceremonial duties than I expected. They’re pleasant — you know, I meet with heads of state when they come into town. I do a lot of ceremonial things. I met with the president of Israel yesterday. Q. You don’t seem rattled by these budget deadlines. How are you keeping your cool about this? A. I’ve been around the block. My experience as Budget chair and Ways and Means chair gives me a pretty good perspective on these things. So, no, I am not rattled by these things. I’ve seen this situation before. By the way, I don’t want it to keep going like this. My goal as speaker is to return to what we call regular order, where we don’t have these brinksmanship deadlines. My goal is try and de-escalate the situation, so that Congress works more smoothly, and more democratically. Q. What do you feel are your greatest accomplishments since becoming speaker? A. I basically feel like I have helped turn the battleship back to regular order, meaning it takes awhile to change the culture of any big institution like Congress. But in 10 days — today being the 10th — we will have passed three conference reports. In all of the last Congress, in 2014 and 2013, we passed three in the entire two-year period. And what a conference report is, is in the regular system of how a bill becomes a law, you pass a bill through the House and then you pass a bill through the Senate, and then you go to a conference committee consisting of House members and senators where you iron out the differences, get a reconciled bill and then pass it through both houses and onto the president. That’s the system the founders envisioned. That’s regular order. That is small “d” democratizing Congress so that everybody can participate in the process, and we only did that three times in 2013 and 2014. We have now done that three times on big issues in the last 10 days. That I think is my biggest accomplishment. To read these articles online, click here and here.
12.07.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — This morning, Wisconsin’s First District congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with the Big 1380 AM’s Stan Milam and Wisconsin State Journal’s Mark Sommerhauser. Excerpts of Ryan’s remarks follow: On the President’s remarks and combating ISIS: “What I heard more was a defense of his containment strategy—not an adjustment to a new strategy. We should not try to defend what has been our failing policy.” *** “And, I do believe we need a new strategy. That’s not just my opinion—an overwhelming bipartisan vote in the House and the Senate as part of the defense authorization bill called on the Obama administration to present to Congress a comprehensive strategy to defeat ISIS. My concern is that the president more or less resuscitated what he had been saying and what he had been doing, which clearly has been inadequate. . . . What I was hoping to hear were the elements of a new strategy that was actually focused on defeating ISIS. I’m hoping that the president, as now required by law on a bipartisan basis, actually comes up with a more comprehensive plan to defeat ISIS.” *** We will be bringing a bill to the floor this week, cracking down on the loopholes in the visa-waiver program. There are 38 countries that are in the visa-waiver program. What does that mean? That means a radical with a French passport or a Belgian passport can get on a plane in Brussels or Paris today and come to America, no questions asked, and be here for 90 days without us knowing anything. And so, there are loopholes—gaps in our system—that need to be dealt with. We’ve identified this with our taskforce in Congress, and we are working on bipartisan legislation to plug that loophole, just like we did two weeks ago on the issue of Syrian refugees.” On recent bipartisan accomplishments in Congress: “We have a full, completed five-year [highway bill] that paid for five years and it’s 10 percent above where spending was for highways. . . . And why this is important is, take a look at Rock County. Widening the interstate, I-90, from the state line up to Madison, is a multi-year project. In order to have the commitments by the Wisconsin Department of Transportation, they need multiple years of funding for the transportation trust fund. Well, now we have that, and it’s the first time we’ve done that in a decade. We had something like 37 short-term extensions over the last number of years. Being able to unlock a bill that we haven’t been able to pass in a decade, getting a multi-year, five-year highway bill is one of the big accomplishments that I’m very happy about.” *** “Well, we have replaced No Child Left Behind. And I, along with lots of educators and concerned parents in the First District of Wisconsin had big of problems with No Child Left Behind. I think we fixed those programs, and we had an enormous bipartisan vote—359 out of 435 voted for a new Title I bill. We have now replaced No Child Left Behind, given more power to the states and the school districts to customize our primary and secondary education plans to meet the needs of our community. We are very happy with this; it’s been years in the making. It’s a huge accomplishment. No Child Left Behind was written in 2002. This is the biggest rewrite of this area of education law in 25 years, and it was a very big bipartisan accomplishment. Just those two things—two big issues: transportation, education—these have been thorny issues that haven’t been acted on for a long time. We finally delivered some big, comprehensive solutions.”
11.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — This morning, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WISN’s Jay Weber. Excerpts of Ryan’s remarks follow: On moving the country forward: “What matters to me as a citizen . . . is someone who will offer an alternative, not just a criticism of the status quo; we’ve got that down. We can’t just be an opposition party, we have to be a proposition party.” *** “I don’t like divisive identity politics, I don’t like . . . dividing people and appealing to people [based] on what divides us. I want us to unify; I want us to inspire; I want us to be optimistic; I want us to get back to who we are and renew the American Idea . . . . That’s the kind of leadership I think we need.” On the Syrian refugee crisis: “When ISIS is telling us that they are trying to infiltrate the refugee population, it’s only reasonable and practical to put a pause on the program and make sure the proper security guards are in place, especially when our own security people [are] telling us they don’t have those proper security safeguards in place. On a bipartisan basis, we passed with overwhelming support, this [refugee] bill . . . . I’m hopeful that the president sees it our way. I’m hopeful that the president comes around and listens to his own security people, so we can get this done.”
11.19.2015	“This should not be about Republicans and Democrats—this should be about keeping America safe,” House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) said last night during an appearance on Fox News’s Hannity with Sean Hannity. Here are excerpts from their conversation on the Syrian refugee crisis and eliminating the threat of ISIS. On the president’s threat to veto Congress’s refugee legislation: “I don’t for the life of me understand this. He just said he is going to veto our bill putting a pause on the refugee program. I can’t imagine why one would do that. Our bottom line is very, very clear—and it’s the first responsibility of the federal government—secure the homeland. Keep people safe in America." “So here’s what we’re doing. We obviously know that ISIS wants to infiltrate the refugee population. That’s very clear. So we need to put a pause on this program and have higher standards placed upon it so that we can verify on a person-by-person basis, each and every single refugee, whether or not they pose any security risk." On putting politics aside and finding a bipartisan solution: “This should not be a partisan issue. Democrats agree with us here in Congress, and I think we’re gonna have a pretty big bipartisan vote tomorrow. Because this should not be about Republicans and Democrats. This should be about keeping America safe.” “This is our national security. It shouldn’t be politicized like the president is politicizing it. And that is why we are asking all of our colleagues to support fixing this, pausing this, and getting this right.” On raising the standards of the refugee program: “We’re a compassionate country. The refugee laws are important laws. And we don’t want terrorists to dictate how we run—whether we have a law or not. But we don’t think—in this particular case with respect to ISIS trying to infiltrate the Syrian and Iraqi refugee program—that the standards are anywhere near where they should be.” On the president’s failure to devise a strategy to defeat ISIS: “The reason we’re having this conversation about refugees, the reason we’re having this conversation about ISIS, is because we don’t have a plan to defeat ISIS. It’s because the president and his foreign policy—particularly with respect to Iraq and Syria—is so abysmal, so lacking, it didn’t contain ISIS, and we don’t have a strategy to defeat ISIS. So let’s not forget the big picture here, which is we have terrorism, worldwide, knocking on our door, and we do not have a plan to defeat this terrorist threat.”
11.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — This morning, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan spoke with Charlie Sykes on WTMJ’s Midday with Charlie Sykes and Tim Bremel on WCLO’s Your Talk Show. Paul Ryan Discusses ISIS with WTMJ’s Charlie Sykes - Paul Ryan Discusses Life in Janesville as Speaker with WCLO’s Tim Bremel - Excerpts of Ryan’s interviews follow: On balancing time in Wisconsin and Washington: “I’ll be here every weekend, because this is where we live. I commute back and forth like I’ve always done.” *** “I am trying to keep the same cadence of life, which is home on the weekends, doing community events on Saturday, kids’ sporting events, and then Sundays are our family days. And so, you will see us around just like we always have been . . . . We [were] able to catch dinner at Whiskey River down on Main Street on Saturday night. We love that place. Good BBQ. So that’s the kind of life we have, and it’s the kind of life I want my family to have and kids to have and we’re going to continue to have; because it’s a lot like the way I was raised here.” *** “So, I think I can walk and chew gum at the same time: Be a Janesville family guy, be an effective speaker of the House, unify our conference, make Congress work, get things done. And yes, I will do some travel, but I have always done some travel.” On the president’s plan to contain ISIS: "This requires a strategy, which we do not have. And ‘containment’ is the last thing you need to describe the strategy that we need. We sent [the president] the Defense Authorization bill that requires . . . the president to submit a plan to have a strategy to actually defeat ISIS. But this war started in the Middle East, it’s come to Europe, and we’ve got to do everything we can to make sure it does not come here.” *** “This is a terrorist organization that is very well organized. They have their own land. They have an organization. And we do not have a comprehensive strategy to . . . eradicate them, to defeat them. This is going to take a long, comprehensive strategy—one we do not now have, that we need.” On the Syrian refugee crisis: “I don’t know if we have time to reevaluate all of our policies with refugees—people coming from other parts of the world. But I think right now we have an issue with Syrian refugees that we need to address immediately. *** “We are looking at all of the options. We’re still gathering a lot of the facts. We need to evaluate what tools we have right now to make sure that something like [Paris] does not happen here.” *** “I’ve asked the intelligence community to brief our members in a classified briefing as we return to Washington today. The issue of Syrian refugees is an . . . . issue we have to take on. So this weekend, I basically started our committees—our intelligence committees, our defense committees, our immigration committees, our appropriations committees—to put together a list of options . . . to make sure that we’re doing everything we possibly can to prevent something like [Paris] from happening.”
11.13.2015	WASHINGTON – House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) tonight issued the following statement regarding the attacks in Paris: “Our first thoughts tonight are for those lost and those risking their lives to save others. We are united and unbowed in our support for the French people. It will take time to grasp the scale of this horror, but there is one thing we already know. Terror will not prevail. We will.” Flags at U.S. Capitol Fly at Half-Staff U.S. State Department - Security Message for U.S. Citizens: Terrorist Attacks
11.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today announced a number of personnel changes within his Washington, D.C., and District offices. The changes will take effect immediately. Andrew “Andy” Speth, Senior Advisor — Speth is a Janesville, Wisconsin, native who graduated from UW–Whitewater in 1992. For seven years he served as an aide in the Wisconsin state legislature. Speth was Ryan’s press secretary during Ryan’s first congressional campaign in 1998, and he has subsequently served as Ryan’s chief of staff for nearly 17 years. A veteran of multiple tours in the Middle East—including Iraq—Speth was a member of the U.S. Air Force Reserves and Wisconsin Air National Guard from 2002–2013. Speth will work in the Speaker’s Office and continue to call the First District home, living in Janesville with his wife, Katy, and their five children. Danyell Tremmel, Chief of Staff — Tremmel is a Hartland, Wisconsin, native, and she previously served as Congressman Ryan’s district director and most recently as the district chief of staff. She graduated from UW–Whitewater in 1996, and she has been with the House of Representatives for nearly 19 years, having served residents of Wisconsin's First District her entire career. Allison Steil, Deputy Chief of Staff — Steil is a native of Janesville, Wisconsin, graduating from the University of Notre Dame in 2009. Allison has worked for Congressman Ryan since 2009 in a number of capacities, most recently serving as his policy director. She too has worked for the residents of Wisconsin's First District her entire career. Katie Donnell, Legislative Director — Donnell graduated from UW–Madison in 2012, and she is a Brookfield, Wisconsin, native. Before joining Congressman Ryan’s office in January as a legislative assistant, she worked for Congressman Tom Petri (WI-06) and the Foreign Policy Initiative.
11.04.2015	The following op-ed by Speaker Ryan appears on page 7A of today's USA TODAY: Paul Ryan: 'Get serious about enforcing our laws' The House of Representatives will not vote on comprehensive immigration legislation as long as President Obama is in office. And the reason is simple: The American people can’t trust him to uphold the law. He has tried to go around Congress by ordering his administration to create a new legal status for undocumented immigrants. Even a federal district court says he has overstepped his bounds. The first principle of any immigration reform has to be securing our border and enforcing the laws already on the books. But that is the very principle the president has violated. Americans have every right to be skeptical. They don’t think the federal government will keep its commitments. The last time Congress passed a comprehensive bill — in 1986 — it was supposed to stop illegal immigration. And yet the number of undocumented immigrants more than doubled to 11 million. So the people are rightly asking themselves, “Why will this time be different?” Especially with this president. Instead of working to build trust, he has destroyed it. Last November, after his party lost control of the Senate, the president decided to circumvent the legislative process by unilaterally granting legal status to 5 million people. He has already demonstrated he is not serious about enforcing the law. Passing comprehensive reform during his presidency would merely render it meaningless. This is not an argument for inaction — far from it. In fact, only concrete action can rebuild credibility. If Congress secured the border and strengthened enforcement, that would show Americans that the federal government is more trustworthy. As speaker, I’ve promised a new way of doing business. Don’t pass thousand-page bills in the middle of the night. Do it all out in the open. Take it step by step. And get serious about enforcing our laws. That’s the way to fix our immigration system.
11.02.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — This morning, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, spoke with WLIP’s Bill Lawrence and WRJN’s Glenn Klein. Excerpts of Ryan’s remarks follow: Serving the people of Wisconsin’s First District: “You know, the best conversations I have with constituents are typically at a cross-country meet with other parents or at a volleyball tournament with other parents or . . . the Italian-American club, talking with people at the Columbus Day dinner. . . . I get really good organic feedback from constituents. It makes me understand what’s going on in people’s lives, and with kids at home, you have other responsibilities other than just [the speakership]. And I think we want well-balanced people in positions of leadership, and that’s what I’m going to do.” *** “You know, I was home this weekend, and I’m going to be home in a weekend traveling the district and being with my family—and then working in Washington.” Rethinking the speakership: “I’m redesigning the way the job works so that it can be done more effectively, and we can get better results out of Congress. That’s my goal. We have divided government right now, and . . . it’s difficult to see the big things getting done. But we still have to get things done, and I want to make sure that that happens.” *** “Right now, I just want to make sure that we fix what’s broken in Congress. I want to heal the institution. I want it to truly be the people’s House and get it working again. Let’s just have honest . . . debates so that we can put forth honest solutions so that the people of this country get to choose what kind of country they want to have. That’s a moment I’m looking forward to. It’s very clarifying, and I think it’s what people want and need.” *** “I’ve always been about the cause that I care about: these issues, these principles, this country, working families who are not strong right now and need to get strength. The country’s got to get its mojo back, and right now, we don’t. And we’ve got to put together an agenda to make sure we do.” *** “What I want these bills to do is work their way through the congressional committees like Congress is supposed to work. I chaired two [committees]—the Budget Committee and the Ways and Means Committee—so what I don’t want to do is sit around playing Caesar or dictator in the House deciding what bill goes and what bill doesn’t. I think you have to have more of a bottom-up legislative process where the House can work its will, and that means you aren’t sitting in the speaker’s chair predetermining the outcome of everything because, you know, I wasn’t elected dictator of the House. I was elected speaker of the House, and I want the House to work its will. Providing a vision for the Republican Party: “I believe that [in] 2016, we as a country are going to have to have as clear a conversation with [each] other as citizens about what direction do we want the country to go, what kind of country do we want to have. Not just for people who are struggling and raising families, but for the next generation. And those are the big issues that I think we need to deal with and that I think we need to present. And if we don’t like the direction the country’s headed—which, I and most of my colleagues don’t—I think we have an obligation to offer people a very good, bold alternative. And so now I’m eager and excited.”
10.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan spoke with members of the Wisconsin press corps in his first interview since assuming the role of speaker of the House. Excerpts of Ryan’s remarks follow: On how the speakership will affect his work in Wisconsin’s First District: “I am still Paul Ryan, and I am going to be living in Janesville, being with constituents and family each week. I see the First District as my family. It is where the people I represent—my friends, my family—live. And it is where I am going to continue living and working and representing this district. I think this gives me a great opportunity to make a huge difference—not just for Wisconsin, but for our country. I was very humbled by the fact that my colleagues here in the House on an overwhelming basis elected me speaker of the House. It’s something that I never thought I would do or never sought, but it’s something that I’m honored to have: this opportunity to serve in this capacity.” *** “I live in Janesville. I am going to stay living in Janesville. I am going to continue to be a part of the community and serve this congressional district. So, as far as constituents are concerned, I don’t think they will see any difference.” *** “I commute; I live in Janesville. I just work here. I work here, but I live in Janesville. I am going to continue working in Washington—living in Janesville. That means a weekly commute. Nothing is going to change from that perspective. So, I will still be traveling back and forth from the First District on a weekly basis, and that’s not going to change.” *** “And so, I start a new day today in a new position. But I’m the same person, and I think you’ll see the kind of service I provide the country and Wisconsin continuing like I have in the past.” On his vision for his speakership: “We do not have time to be timid. We believe the country is headed in the wrong direction. . . . That means we can’t simply be an opposition party. We have to be an effective alternative party offering the country a clear vision and a different way forward. That is something I believe we can absolutely unify around. . . . to stop being timid, to be bold, to be specific, to lay an agenda out there in 2016 . . . so that we can give the people of this country a very clear choice. That is something I believe we can absolutely unify around, and I think that’s exactly what Republicans of all kinds and backgrounds are hungering [and] yearning for.” *** “Once I basically decided this was something I had to do, I wanted to do it in a way where I could be successful. And so, I wanted to make sure that I could take this job in a way that’s redesigned. . . . I turned from no, to skeptical, to willing, to eager. And now, I am excited. The way I said it to my colleagues was ‘if I’m in for a dime, I’m in for a dollar.’ I’m going to dive into the deep end of the pool, and be happy and joyful, and do this job well. I believe that in our conference we have rallied around a newly designed speakership that is good for Congress and good for conservatives, so that we can offer the country a bold agenda going forward.” *** “I come at this job from a different path than most people do. I come at it as a committee chairman, who believes in the committee process, in the legislative process that the Founders envisioned . . . which is a more participatory, consensus system where policy is written in the committees. I want to open the process up. I believe in a bottom-up, participatory approach to legislating in Congress. And then I also am going to work on making us, and helping move us to being an alternative party, a proposition party—going on offense on bold ideas. I believe that we must owe the country a very clear and compelling vision for a better way forward than the path we are now on.” *** “I’ve helped move our party to be the party of fiscal responsibility and tackling the drivers of our debt, offering a balanced budget and a plan to pay off our national debt so that we can grow our economy and give our children and grandchildren a more prosperous future, and not saddle them with our debts. This is obviously one of the biggest issues of our time, and this is an issue that must be dealt with. If we do not tackle these challenges soon, they will tackle us. So obviously I bring to this job with me the policy experience background and initiatives that I’ve been championing since I have been here.” *** “I believe we have an obligation to look for common ground where we can find it, and I think my career shows that. Am I spirited in defense of my principles and offering alternatives when I think the other party and the president’s going in the wrong direction? Absolutely. But that doesn’t mean to say that we can’t find common ground to advance good ideas for the good of the country. And so, I think you can do both. I can walk and chew gum at the same time. And so I believe that you can find common ground without sacrificing principle for the good of the country. But if there are areas you do not agree, if you think the country is headed in the wrong direction, you have an obligation to say how you would do things differently. I think that’s what people deserve, and I think that’s what people want.”
10.29.2015	Washington, DC — House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) delivered the following remarks following his election as the 54th Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives: Thank you, Madam Leader. Before I begin, I want to thank the family and friends who flew in from Wisconsin and from all over to be here today. In the gallery, I have my mom, Betty; my sister, Janet; my brothers, Stan and Tobin; and more relatives than I can count. Most important of all, I want to recognize my wife, Janna, and our three kids: Liza, Charlie, and Sam. I also want to thank Speaker Boehner. For almost five years, he led this House. And for nearly 25 years, he served it. Not many people can match his accomplishments: the offices he held, the laws he wrote. But what really sets John apart is he’s a man of character—a true class act. He is, without question, the gentleman from Ohio. So please join me in saying, one last time, “Thank you, Mr. Speaker.” Now I know how he felt. It’s not till you hold this gavel and stand in this spot and look out and see all 435 members of the House—as if all of America was sitting right in front of you. It’s not till then that you feel it: the weight of responsibility, the gravity of the moment. And standing here, I cannot help but think of something Harry Truman once said. The day after Franklin Roosevelt died and Truman became president, he told a group of reporters: “If you ever pray, pray for me now. . . . When they told me yesterday what had happened, I felt like the moon, the stars, and all the planets had fallen on me.” We all should feel that way. A lot is on our shoulders. So if you ever pray, pray for each other— Republicans for Democrats, Democrats for Republicans. And I don’t mean pray for a conversion. Pray for a deeper understanding, because—when you’re up here, you see it so clearly—wherever you come from, whatever you believe, we are all in the same boat. I never thought I’d be the speaker. But early in my life, I wanted to serve in the House. I thought the place was exhilarating—because here, you could make a difference. If you had a good idea and worked hard, you could make it happen. You could improve people’s lives. To me, the House represented the best of America: the boundless opportunity to do good. But let’s be frank: The House is broken. We are not solving problems. We are adding to them. And I am not interested in laying blame. We are not settling scores. We are wiping the slate clean. Neither the members nor the people are satisfied with how things are going. We need to make some changes, starting with how the House does business. We need to let every member contribute—not once they have earned their stripes, but right now. I come at this job as a two-time committee chair. The committees should retake the lead in drafting all major legislation. If you know the issue, you should write the bill. Open up the process. Let people participate. And they might change their tune. A neglected minority will gum up the works. A respected minority will work in good faith. Instead of trying to stop the majority, they might try to become the majority. In other words, we need to return to regular order. Now, I know that sounds like process. But it’s actually a matter of principle. We are the body closest to the people. Every two years, we face the voters—and sometimes face the music. But we do not echo the people. We represent them. We are supposed to study up and do the homework that they cannot do. So when we do not follow regular order—when we rush to pass bills a lot of us do not understand—we are not doing our job. Only a fully functioning House can truly represent the people. And if there were ever a time for us to step up, this would be that time. America does not feel strong anymore because the working people of America do not feel strong anymore. I’m talking about the people who mind the store and grow the food and walk the beat and pay the taxes and raise the family. They do not sit in this House. They do not have fancy titles. But they are the people who make this country work, and this House should work for them. Here’s the problem. They’re working hard. They’re paying a lot. They are trying to do right by their families. And they are going nowhere fast. They never get a raise. They never get a break. But the bills keep piling up—and the taxes and the debt. They are working harder than ever to get ahead. Yet they are falling further behind. And they feel robbed—cheated of their birthright. They are not asking for any favors. They just want a fair chance. And they are losing faith that they will ever get it. Then they look at Washington, and all they see is chaos. What a relief to them it would be if we finally got our act together—what a weight off their shoulders. How reassuring it would be if we actually fixed the tax code, put patients in charge of their health care, grew our economy, strengthened our military, lifted people out of poverty, and paid down the debt. At this point, nothing could be more inspiring than a job well done. Nothing could stir the heart more than real, concrete results. The cynics will scoff and say it’s not possible. But you better believe we are going to try. We will not duck the tough issues. We will take them head on. We are going to do all we can so working people get their strength back and people not working get their lives back. No more favors for the few. Opportunity for all—that is our motto. I often talk about the need for a vision. I’m not sure I ever said what I meant. We solve problems here—yes. We create a lot of them too. But at bottom, we vindicate a way of life. We show by our work that free people can govern themselves. They can solve their own problems. They can make their own decisions. They can deliberate, collaborate, and get the job done. We show self-government is not only more efficient and more effective; it is more fulfilling. In fact, we show it is that struggle, that hard work, the very achievement itself that makes us free. That is what we do here. And we will not always agree—not all of us, not all of the time. But we should not hide our disagreements. We should embrace them. We have nothing to fear from honest differences honestly stated. If you have ideas, let’s hear them. I believe a greater clarity between us can lead to a greater charity among us. And there is every reason to have hope. When the first speaker took the gavel, he looked out at a room of 30 people, representing a nation of 3 million. Today, as I look out at you, we represent a nation of 300 million. So when I hear people say America does not have it—we are done, we are spent—I do not believe it. I believe, with every fiber of my being, we can renew the America Idea. Now, our task is to make us all believe. My friends, you have done me a great honor. The people of this country have done all of us a great honor. Now, let’s prove ourselves worthy of it. Let’s seize the moment. Let’s rise to the occasion. And when we are done, let us say we left the people—all the people—more united, happy, and free. Thank you.
10.27.2015	Washington, DC — Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan delivered the following remarks in opposition of H.R. 597, legislation to reauthorize the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. "Mr. Speaker, I want to express my strong disapproval for this bill for the Export-Import Bank. "This is a pretty profound debate we are having. It's about what kind of economy we’re going to have. Are we going to reward good work or good connections? "I think there are plenty other ways to expand opportunity in this country, and corporate welfare is not one of them. The biggest beneficiaries of this bank, two-thirds of their money go to 10 companies. Forty percent goes to one company. "And this bank does cost money—just ask the Congressional Budget Office when they use real scorekeeping. Remember Fannie Mae? Remember their accounting? Remember when they told us they weren't going to cost any money—until they did? And it cost us billions. "The other excuse that I just don't buy is, 'other countries do this, so should we.' We shouldn't acquire other countries' bad habits. We should be leading by example. We should be exporting democratic capitalism, not crony capitalism. "There is this criticism by those against the free enterprise system who compare it to competition, like a sport. Where the critics of free enterprise say there’s a winner and there’s a loser, just like a boxing match or a football game. Well, that's true when it comes to crony capitalism. That is the case when it comes to corporate welfare. Because in that case, the winner is the person with connections. It's the company with power. It's the company with clout. "The loser is the person who is out there working hard, playing by the rules, not knowing anybody, not going to Washington, hoping and thinking that the merit of their idea and the quality of their work is what will win the day. That's what is rewarded under a free enterprise system. "Free enterprise is more about collaboration. It's more about transactions of mutual benefit where everybody benefits, and the rising tide lifts all boats. Equality for all. Equal opportunity. That's free enterprise. That's small d, democratic capitalism. This thing is crony capitalism, and I urge it be rejected."
10.22.2015	Congressman Ryan sent the following letter to members of the House Republican Conference. Dear Colleague: Over the past few days, I’ve been thinking a lot about our country, and it’s clear to me that we’re in a very serious moment. Working families continue to fall behind, and they are losing faith in the American Idea: the belief that if you work hard and play by the rules, you can get ahead. At the same time, a weaker America has led to a more dangerous world. Our friends and rivals alike wonder whether we will pull ourselves out of this stupor. Instead of rising to the occasion, Washington is falling short—including the House of Representatives. We are not solving the country’s problems; we are only adding to them. But now, we have an opportunity to turn the page, to start with a clean slate, and to rebuild what has been lost. We can make the House a more open and inclusive body—one where every member can contribute to the legislative process. We can rally House Republicans around a bold agenda that will tackle the country’s problems head on. And we can show the country what a commonsense conservative agenda looks like. That’s why I’m actually excited for this moment. I’ve spoken with many of you over the past few days, and I can sense the hunger in our conference to get to work. I know many of you want to show the country how to fix our tax code, how to rebuild our military, how to strengthen the safety net, and how to lift people out of poverty. I know you’re willing to work hard and get it done, and I think this moment is ripe for real reform. That’s because, whatever our differences, we’re all conservatives. We were elected to defend the constitution. We share the same principles. We all believe America is the land of opportunity—the place where you should be able to go as far as your talents and hard work will take you. We all believe in empowering every person to realize his or her potential. And we have the know-how to apply these principles to the problems of today. I never thought I’d be speaker. But I pledged to you that if I could be a unifying figure, then I would serve—I would go all in. After talking with so many of you, and hearing your words of encouragement, I believe we are ready to move forward as a one, united team. And I am ready and eager to be our speaker. This is just the beginning of our work. There is a long road ahead. So let’s get started. Sincerely, Paul Ryan
10.20.2015	WASHINGTON, DC —Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan delivered the following statement. "Tonight, I shared with my colleagues what I think it will take to have a unified conference and for the next speaker to be successful. "Basically I made a few requests for what I think is necessary, and I asked to hear back by the end of the week. "First, we need to move from being an opposition party to a proposition party. Because we think the nation is on the wrong path, we have a duty to show the right one. Our next speaker needs to be a visionary one. "Second, we need to update our House rules so that everyone can be a more effective representative. This is, after all, the people’s house. But we need to do it as a team. And it needs to include fixes that ensure we don’t experience constant leadership challenges and crisis. "Third, we, as a conference, should unify now, and not after a divisive speaker election. "The last one is personal. I cannot and will not give up my family time. I may not be able to be on the road as much as previous speakers, but I pledged to make up for it with more time communicating our message. "What I told the members is, if you can agree to these requests, and I can truly be a unifying figure, then I will gladly serve. And, if I am not unifying, that is fine as well. I will be happy to stay where am, at the Ways and Means Committee. "Here is how I see it. . . . "It is our duty to serve the people the way they deserve to be served. It is our duty to make the tough decisions this country needs to get back on track. "The challenges we face today are too difficult and demanding for us to turn our backs and walk away. "Global terror . . . wars on multiple fronts . . . a government grown unaccountable, unconstitutional, and out-of-touch . . . persistent poverty, a sluggish economy, flat wages, and a sky-rocketing debt. "But we cannot take them on alone. Now, more than ever, we must work together. "All of us are representatives of the people—all the people. We have been entrusted by them to lead. "And yet the people we serve do not feel that we are delivering on the job they hired us to do. We have become the problem. If my colleagues entrust me to be speaker, I want us to become the solution. "One thing I’ve learned from my upbringing in Janesville is that nothing is ever solved by blaming people. We can blame the president. We can blame the media. We can point fingers across the aisle. We can blame each other. We can dismiss our critics and criticism as unfair. "People don’t care about blame. They don’t care about effort. They care about results. Results that are meaningful. Results that are measurable. Results that make a difference in their daily lives. "I want to be clear about this. I still think we are an exceptional country with exceptional people and a republic clearly worth fighting for. It’s not too late to save the American idea, but we are running out of time. "Make no mistake: I believe that the ideas and principles of results-driven, common-sense conservatism are the keys to a better tomorrow—a tomorrow in which all of God’s children will be better off than they are today. "The idea that the role of the federal government is not to facilitate dependency, but to create an environment of opportunity . . . for everyone. "The idea that the government should do less. . . . And do it better. "The idea that those who serve should say what they mean and mean what they say. "The principle that we should determine the course of our own lives . . . instead of ceding that right to those who think they are better than the rest of us. "Yes, we will stand and fight when we must. And this presidency will surely require that. "A commitment to our natural rights. A commitment to common sense . . . to compassion . . . to co-operation—when rooted in genuine conviction and principle—is a commitment to conservatism. "Let me close by saying: I consider whether to do this with reluctance. And I mean that in the most personal of ways. "Like many of you, Janna and I have children who are in the formative, foundational years of their lives. "I genuinely worry about the consequences that my agreeing to serve will have on them. "Will they experience the viciousness and incivility that we all face on a daily basis? "But my greatest worry is the consequence of not stepping up. Of some day having my own kids ask me, when the stakes were so high, 'Why didn’t you do all you could? Why didn’t you stand and fight for my future when you had the chance?' "None of us wants to hear that question. "And none of us should ever have to. "I have shown my colleagues what I think success looks like, what it takes to unify and lead, and how my family commitments come first. I have left this decision in their hands, and should they agree with these requests, then I am happy and willing to get to work. Thank you."
10.08.2015	Washington, DC - Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan offered the following statement regarding the election for Speaker of the House: “Kevin McCarthy is best person to lead the House, and so I’m disappointed in this decision. Now it is important that we, as a Conference, take time to deliberate and seek new candidates for the speakership. While I am grateful for the encouragement I’ve received, I will not be a candidate. I continue to believe I can best serve the country and this conference as Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.”
10.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — On October 2 and 5, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan held a series of eight listening sessions across southern Wisconsin. During the meetings, Ryan talked with over 650 constituents about the key legislative items before the House of Representatives and answered questions about a variety of federal issues. Excerpts of Ryan’s answers at the listening sessions follow. More information about the sessions can be found here. Supporting comprehensive tax reform: “I am a fan of tax reform. It’s one of the reasons why I chose to be the Chairman of Ways and Means Committee. We’re trying to get partial tax reform done given the government we’ve got. The biggest problem I have with tax reform right now is that the President of the United States and I just really disagree on how to do it. 90% of Wisconsin’s businesses are what we call ‘pass-throughs.’ They file their taxes as individual people. We refer to them as partnerships or S-corporations or sole proprietors. Only 10% of Wisconsin businesses are corporations like Harley or Rockwell Automation. Those are the big ones. The top effective rate on these folks is 44.6% right now and [the president] wants to go higher, so that is just killing our [competitiveness].” *** “So my argument is to take away the loopholes and deductions and just lower everybody’s rates so that we can be competitive internationally, and so the small business owner that makes the same kind of income should pay the same kind of tax. And right now that’s not really how our tax code works. So that’s our ultimate goal with tax reform.” Bringing money back to the U.S. from overseas: “What are inversions? An inversion is when a company changes their address for the purpose of lower taxes. For example, an American company that goes and becomes a foreign company, because if you’re paying 45% in America and then you go and become Irish, you are paying 12.5%. And so we’ve got all these companies doing this. So, how do they do it? Burger King is a perfect example. You still see a lot of Burger Kings, right? Burger King didn’t all of the sudden go away. Burger King was an American company. Burger King bought a company called Tim Horton’s — you know, like Starbucks but in Canada. It was much smaller than Burger King, but Burger King bought this Canadian company, and as a result they moved their headquarters to Canada and became a Canadian company. And so this is a real problem.” Backing Kevin McCarthy for Speaker of the House: “I think Kevin McCarthy is very likely going to be our next Speaker. He’s our current Majority Leader. He is conservative. I have watched him take very difficult pieces of legislation and shepherd it through the process. I have watched him get [legislation] from Point A to Point B to Point C to Point D more effectively than many other leaders I’ve seen since I’ve been in Congress. So he is very good at actually making the place work. And I get that at the end of the day, we will say who we are and what we believe, but being able to get it into law – it takes the Senate and the president, and right now, we’re constrained in the Senate and we don’t even a president that we want to work with on these things.” Helping Americans move from welfare to work: “We’ve got to come up with a solution to redesign the safety net, because the safety net is not doing what it was supposed to do. It’s supposed to help people who are able-bodied, who are down on their luck, get back on their feet, and then be there for people who are not able-bodied so that they can catch them completely from the cracks of society. We’re trying to find ways of easing the transition from welfare to work, and removing some of these obstacles so that people can get out of it to a better life.” Discussing the negative effects of the President’s health care law: “This year’s increases are going to be bigger than all the prior few years’ increases in health insurance premiums. The law was advertised to lower people’s premiums by an average of $2,500 a year. It’s going the opposite direction. The employer mandate is beginning to kick in now, and that ends up encouraging employers to drop health insurance for their employees and put people into the Obamacare exchange where you get those kinds of premium increases.”
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — This afternoon, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan appeared on MSNBC’s Meet the Press Daily with Chuck Todd to discuss his support of Kevin McCarthy for Speaker, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and the importance of offering solutions to the challenges facing our nation. Excerpts of Ryan’s interview follow. Click the image below to watch the complete interview. Supporting Kevin McCarthy for Speaker: “I don’t want to do anything to begrudge John Boehner, who, in a very selfless act, is stepping down, but Kevin is a very different person. Why is he different and how is he different? He basically comes from the new generation of young, conservative leaders; he is a very good consensus builder, he is a very good listener, and I think he has the skills to unite our conference... I think he has demonstrated that he has the skills to unite our conference around a common cause and being an effective conservative. What I want as speaker is someone who is an effective conservative at bringing a positive agenda forward for the country, so that we can show the country how we would do things differently if we had the ability to get all of these reforms we want to pass into law.” *** “That’s the number one thing I think Kevin has as a gift; he’s very good at listening, he’s very good at consensus building, and if you’re Speaker of the House that is one of the top skills required of the job.” *** “We will have a vibrant election tomorrow. There are three people as of now running for Speaker: Jason Chaffetz, Daniel Webster and Kevin McCarthy. That’s where the contest should take place, and whoever wins that contest goes to the floor. And when we go to the floor, the vote is for the Republican or the Democrat; it is for the Republican nominee, whoever that is.” *** “We need to show the country how we would do things different, how we would save this country from the dangerous track that it’s on, and that’s the kind of majority I think we need to have, and I think that’s the kind of majority Kevin McCarthy will help lead us to.” Reining in federal spending: “We cut actual spending; like less one year to the next. That is a big accomplishment. For five years in a row now, we have actually passed a budget out of the House – now out of the House and Senate – that balances the budget and it actually pays off our national debt.” Reviewing the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP): “I wrote TPA so that Congress would have the tools and the public would have the ability to see what’s in this agreement. I am for free trade agreements, but I’m for very good free trade agreements. I have yet to decide... if this is a very good free trade agreement because I haven’t read it yet, so I just do not know the answer to your question, Chuck. But I’m holding judgment; I’m hopeful, but there are some concerns I have with some of the provisions in here, and quite frankly, we want to see what it is on net,… but it’s going to take some time to scrub through this agreement, to render final judgment.” *** I find it interesting that a person who is seeking to run for the Presidency of the United States, who was in favor of it before, say Hillary Clinton, that she hasn’t even read yet. It’s an enormous agreement and I think we need to be cautious about it. I think we need to do our jobs and read what’s in here.” Offering a positive vision for America’s future: “I think we should be offering voters a positive vision for what we would do to save the country. I think what really matters and what people really care about is: how are you going to solve poverty? How are you going to grow the economy? How are you going to get wages from being flat and help increase take home pay? How are you going to fix our foreign policy and the military? How are you going to restore the American idea? How are you going to get America back on track? Are you offering solutions? Are you taking our conservative principles, applying them to the problems of the day, to give people solutions that actually matter?”
10.07.2015	Washington, DC — Earlier today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan met with Josh and Rachel Steele of Union Grove, Wisconsin to congratulate them for being selected as Angels in Adoption by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI). The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute sponsors the Angels in Adoption program and honored individuals at an awards ceremony in Washington, DC this week. The Angels in Adoption program is an awareness campaign that allows Members of Congress to recognize constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. “Josh and Rachel have had an amazing journey to grow their family through international and domestic foster care-based adoptions. Their willingness to open their hearts and home to six adopted children—four from foster care and two international adoptions—in addition to their two biological children, is truly heart-warming. I was honored to meet them and recognize them as Angels in Adoption,” Ryan said. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute is a non-profit organization that raises awareness about the needs of children to be adopted. CCAI was founded in 2001 and seeks to engage with and connect policymakers and individuals with adoption experience.
10.06.2015	Washington, DC — Last week, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) spoke at the Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation Annual Banquet in Washington, DC. A former Co-Chair of the Congressional Sportsmen's Caucus from 2007-2011 and an avid outdoorsman, Ryan outlined the need to protect the rights of sportsmen and thanked those who are working on these legislative issues. Highlights of Congressman Ryan’s remarks are below. To watch his complete remarks, click here. “This is my 17th year as a member of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus, which is obviously backed by the Foundation and Jeff Crane. By the way, I served as the Chairman of the Sportsmen’s Caucus for two terms, and Jeff does a good job for you guys out here on Capitol Hill.” *** “These days, we play a lot of defense because we have an Administration [that is] kicking out regulations left and right, trying to get it all done and out the door before they leave. And so, of all times when a Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation and Caucus needs to be engaged, it’s a time like this.” *** “[The Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus] is the biggest, most bipartisan, bicameral caucus in Congress. This is what unites us! We have anglers, hunters, conservationists. It’s about protecting our rights, our habitat, and our access. And all three of those have been under duress lately…. So having a ready-made caucus on a couple hours notice to be able to say, ‘alert, this is an amendment that goes after our rights,’ they tried taking trapping away on federal lands not too long ago. We pounce on it and are able to defeat a lot of these onslaughts.” *** “It’s time to be thankful for what we’ve got in this country - our freedom - and make sure that we can continue to exercise it.”
10.06.2015	Washington, DC — On October 2 and 5, Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) held a series of listening sessions throughout southern Wisconsin to speak with his employers about the key legislative items before the House of Representatives and to answer questions about a variety of federal issues. Over the two days of the sessions, Congressman Ryan addressed over 650 constituents in Eagle, Franklin, Milton, Janesville, Elkhorn, Burlington, Racine, and Kenosha. During those meetings, Ryan discussed the need to fix our tax code, the threat of rising debt, the benefits of free and fair markets, and the failure of the Obama foreign policy. Racine Journal Times: With PowerPoint slides at his disposal, Ryan called for tax and immigration reform and health care changes and slammed President Barack Obama on ISIS, the national debt and other issues. *** He even took a question from his Democratic challenger in next year’s election, Tom Breu, who asked Ryan to name his biggest policy achievements. The nine-term congressman pointed to budgets passed under his leadership and his work to address poverty. *** “This is why I’m staying in the job I have right now and not trying for something else,” said Ryan, whose district includes all of Racine County. “Because I think it can make a big difference in the next presidency … a lot of these issues are not going to be solved now but they must be solved soon.” Janesville Gazette: Defended his record on immigration, noting he has advocated for reform of the immigration system. He criticized Obama, saying that if the president hadn't unilaterally issued an order giving legal status to people who were brought here illegally as children, Congress might have worked on legislation to solve the problems. But the executive order sent the issue to the courts, postponing any legislative solution, Ryan said. *** Criticized Obama's “catastrophic mistakes” in Syria, including failure to act after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad dropped chemical weapons on civilians. Obama had drawn a line in the sand regarding the use of chemical weapons but failed to act when it happened, Ryan said, which led to the current problems. *** Said the nuclear deal with Iran is bad for a number of reasons, including that it removed sanctions against Qasem Soleimani, commander of Iran's Quds Force, who many see as a prime supporter of terrorist groups. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: "I think it's horrible that these workers are being laid off at GE and I can't help but think that there have to be other reasons. Canada has a 15% tax rate and we have a 35% tax rate to name one reason," the Janesville Republican said Monday afternoon following a town-hall meeting with constituents at Snap-on Tools. *** "I can't imagine a company the size of GE that had tens of billions in revenue can't finance some of its own purchases. This is a bank with a lot of political clout where 10 companies get two-thirds of its money. Most small businesses don't get that, most people don't get to have federally funded loans for their sales overseas. So I've got to think there are other issues at play here. I don't think we should sit in Washington and pick winners and losers." Kenosha News: The list of things Ryan wishes Congress could tackle is long: Immigration, Planned Parenthood funding, the tax code, foreign policy, environmental regulations and overturning the Affordable Care Act, to name a few. *** “The only real substitute for fixing an abuse of power or bad decisions is to win an election,” Ryan said. “Elections have consequences. If you can’t win an election, you can’t fix these things.” Fox 6: "Our tax laws are so messed up, it's pushing American jobs overseas, and we've got to fix that."
10.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — Last week on The Jay Weber Show Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan talked about the major legislative items considered by the House of Representatives in the last week. During the interview, Congressman Ryan discussed his vote to fund the government through December, the Ways and Means Committee’s legislation to dismantle the worst parts of Obamacare, and why fixing our tax code is critical for economic growth. Excerpts of the interview follow. Funding the Federal Government and Defending Life: “I voted for [the continuing resolution] because, number one, shutting down the government does not help the pro-life movement. Just ask National Right to Life who asked us not to have a shutdown because they thought it would set back the efforts to educate people and to advance the pro-life cause. And by the way, it wouldn’t have stopped Planned Parenthood. The dirty little secret in this is, had we had a shutdown or cut discretionary spending on Planned Parenthood, most of their money doesn’t come from this pot of money. Most of their money comes from Medicaid, which is not involved in a government shutdown. And so that is why we’re using the one bill we get a year that can avoid a filibuster in the Senate and get it to the president’s desk, called reconciliation. And we are next week bringing that bill to the floor, which actually more comprehensively defunds Planned Parenthood. We won’t have a shutdown, we will advance the cause of life, and we will be able to avoid a filibuster and get it on the President's desk.” Regarding Kevin McCarthy’s Comments on the Select Committee on Benghazi: “[Kevin] made a mistake, clear and simple. And I spoke to him about it this morning. He knows he made a mistake. And by the way, that wasn’t why this Benghazi committee was selected. It was put together because we weren’t getting answers about why we had four dead Americans. I mean, that is what it was for, that’s what it is, and that’s what it’s doing.” Unraveling Obamacare via Reconciliation: “I brought a bill Tuesday out of the Committee on Ways and Means, a bill to basically gut and unravel Obamacare. We’re going to merge that with the Planned Parenthood defunding, and those two issues—Obamacare and Planned Parenthood—we’re moving through reconciliation so we can avoid a filibuster and get it on the president’s desk. And that to me is a smarter way to go, because at least we have clarity as to who’s for what and who’s not.” *** “We looked at how much of Obamacare can we get that really basically unravels the law; that goes at the core of Obamacare. So we’re repealing the individual mandate. We’re repealing the employer mandate. We’re repealing the Independent Payment Advisory Board—these 14 bureaucrats that are in charge of ultimately rationing Medicare. We repeal the Cadillac tax. We repeal the medical-device tax. Those are we think the big moving parts of Obamacare that if we repeal them will guarantee that we must replace it with a new law. And by writing it this way, we can get it to the President’s desk. If we added all these other parts of Obamacare in there, they can filibuster it, and you can’t get it to his desk. That’s the story.” Fixing the Tax Code to Build a Healthy Economy: “I think the most urgent issue is all of these U.S. companies moving overseas are getting bought by foreign companies and becoming foreign companies. I mean look at Milwaukee: Miller is no longer a Milwaukee company, it’s a Canadian company. I mean, I could go on and on and on about the loss of our corporate taxes and of our corporate headquarters. And so what we’re trying to do is let these companies bring their money back home, reinvest in America, and switch our system over to one that is more internationally competitive because I think that there is a real sense of urgency here. And Europe is trying to take advantage of that, and they are actually trying to come up with new schemes to tax American companies. They’re trying to come up with new enticements to entice U.S. companies to move overseas and to become Irish or English companies, and we have to, we have to have an answer for that, and that’s what I am trying to do right now. Maintaining Oversight of the Administration: “We are fighting on many fronts. We are using the power of the purse to go after regulations, the EPA, the Department of Labor. We are fighting with our oversight—whether it’s our oversight on Planned Parenthood with the new select committee we’re creating, or Benghazi, or what we’re doing on the IRS.” *** “We’re extremely frustrated, but frustration is an emotion, it’s not a principle. We have to be effective conservatives, so we can actually get what we want done into law.” Uniting the GOP through Conservative Principles: “I think it’s important to take a breath and realize the disagreement that is occurring among the conservative moment is largely over tactics. It’s not over principles or endgames or what we’re trying to achieve. It’s over tactics so I think it’s important to put that in perspective.” *** “We should not be baited into being angry reactionaries. We need to make sure that we are offering the country a principled vision based on our conservative principles, and [explain] how they’re going to fix things and unify the party and the country.” *** “I think the problem we have today in Congress and in the conservative movement is we have not done a good enough of a job explaining the horizon we’re going for and showing in detail what the country will look like that we’re trying to get to, and then showing how every little tactical decision and move we make is in fulfillment of that broader vision on the horizon. If you don’t know where we’re going, then you don’t know what we’re doing.” *** “We need to show who we are, what we believe, and what we are trying to accomplish, and what it looks like specifically. And then people will understand why we make any given decision in fulfillment of that, that we’re being in prudent in taking an incremental step in the right direction or, when we have a chance of taking a big step in the right direction, we’re going to take that big step.”
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — On Monday, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) spoke to WCLO’s Tim Bremel about fixing the tax code. Leveling the playing field for American businesses: “This is part of the problem we are having, where U.S. businesses, because of our tax code, are becoming put into such an anti-competitive position versus our foreign competitors, that our businesses are becoming foreign businesses. They’re inverting and becoming foreign companies, or they’re being bought by foreign companies. And so what we’re trying to do with these provisions and tax law is try to put American businesses on a level playing field with their foreign competitors, and that’s what these provisions do.” Providing certainty in the tax code: “These provisions are in law right now. If they go away, we will make American businesses, particularly financial services businesses, so uncompetitive that they’ll have to become foreign businesses. That’s our concern—that these kinds of businesses won’t be able to compete with foreign businesses overseas.” *** If we let [these credits] expire, we would lose American jobs. That’s the whole point. So the things that we’re trying to make permanent in what we call the extender package—like Section 179, which lets a farmer buy his equipment and write it off in the year in which he buys it—are things that we think should be a permanent feature of the tax code, which make American businesses more competitive.” Treating all Americans equally: “[What] I want to do is just treat everybody the same. Don’t pick winners and losers. Don’t try and hurt some industry just because you don’t like it, or help some industry because you do. Treat them all the same and give them the same kind of equal treatment. And if we do that, which is what I think is tax reform is about, we can lower the tax rates for everybody.” *** “Some of the extenders that we don’t think are good for the tax code or make American businesses more competitive we want to expire, so that we can lower everybody else’s tax rates with those revenues. That’s basically what tax reform is all about.”
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, the House Ways and Means Committee passed reconciliation legislation to repeal five core parts of Obamacare: the individual mandate, the employer mandate, the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), the medical device tax, and the “Cadillac tax.” Upon passage, Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) issued the following statement. "This bill is a big step toward dismantling Obamacare. Through reconciliation, we have the opportunity to get a repeal bill not only through the House—but actually to the president's desk. By tearing down many of the worst parts of the law—like forcing people to buy insurance only to later tax them for it—we could stop Obamacare in its tracks and start working toward a more affordable, higher-quality, patient-centered system. With contributions from three House committees, this reconciliation package will give American families the relief they need from such a disastrous law. It's time to confront the president with the failings of Obamacare, and that's just what this bill will do."
09.28.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — This morning Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) spoke to WTMJ’s Charlie Sykes, WLIP’s Bill Lawrence, and WRJN’s Mike Clemens about a range of topics, including: Listening sessions happening throughout southern Wisconsin in the coming days, Pope Francis’s address to Congress, and Speaker Boehner’s resignation. Holding listening sessions to answer questions from Wisconsinites: “This Friday and Monday we are having listening sessions [throughout the district], so please check out our website: paulryan.house.gov, or give us a call at 888-909-RYAN. We are doing them in every corner of the district just to hear what people have to say.” Repealing unpopular provisions of Obamacare: “I will be marking up Obamacare legislation in the Ways and Means Committee tomorrow which we will use the Budget Act so we can [circumvent] the filibuster in the Senate and get it on the President’s desk. That is one of the assurances of the Republican conference. We begin that process tomorrow, dealing with Obamacare.” Addressing Speaker Boehner’s Resignation: “John basically just decided in a very selfless act not to even attempt a vote on his speakership, which would have been very divisive. I think there are so many people frustrated with what we have not been able to accomplish, but it’s not because we haven’t wanted to accomplish these things. We have divided government, and it’s the limits of the Constitution, and more importantly the Senate filibuster.” Deciding not to pursue the Speakership: “I feel that I can do so much more for Wisconsin and the country as chairman of Ways and Means Committee, which is in charge of all the issues that I have focused my career on. I think the next presidency is going to be the make-or-break moment for America and I want to stay focused on that.” *** “The Ways and Means Committee is in charge of the issues that I’ve worked on so hard, economic growth, preventing a debt crisis, getting people from welfare to work, and I want to stay in the position I am in so I can make the biggest difference.” Experiencing Pope Francis’s address to a joint meeting of Congress: “I thought it was a fantastic visit — it was great. I got to participate in all of the Washington, D.C., events. As a Catholic, it was a very moving experience. And I think his visit was just spectacular. I think his message was on target. I think the symbolism, his own personal joy, and his unique nature was just great. And as Catholics we call it the ‘new evangelization,’ which is making the Catholic Church more inviting, more inclusive, and more attractive. I think he’s doing such a good job on that. It was a really good visit.” *** “I thought his message was beautiful. He gave a very good pastoral, unifying message. And so, I just thought it was a spectacular week and a great visit all around.”
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement on Speaker John Boehner (R-OH). "John Boehner has been a great leader of the Republican Party and the House of Representatives. This was an act of pure selflessness. John's decades of service have helped move our country forward, and I deeply value his friendship. We will miss John, and I am confident our conference will elect leaders who are capable of meeting the challenges our nation faces. I wish John and his family well as he begins the next phase of his life.”
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — Earlier today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan spoke to Jake Tapper, host of CNN’s The Lead, about the importance of fighting poverty, the Pope’s address to Congress, and his thoughts on Planned Parenthood. Excerpts of Ryan’s interview follow, and video is accessible by clicking the image below. Addressing poverty in America: “We must treat not just the symptoms of poverty, but the root causes of poverty, so that we can eradicate poverty. This is a dialogue we need in America. This is something that we as conservatives have a lot to offer.” *** “I like the Catholic Charities model quite a bit. A lot of my poverty reforms revolve around the Catholic Charities model and those ideas. We want to have a dialogue among people seeking the presidency to ask them: ‘What are your ideas about this?’ ‘How do you want to help improve upward mobility and get people out of poverty?’ ‘How do you reduce the 14.5 percent poverty rate and actually win the War on Poverty’? And so, I think this visit from the Pope is spectacular. It brings the right kind of attention to the right kind of issues in our country.” Reacting to Pope Francis’s speech: “I don’t think one should look at his speech as sort of a laundry list of policies — some Democrats like, some Republicans like. That’s not what this speech was. This speech was a pastoral speech. This was the voice of St. Peter, speaking to not just Congress, but to all Americans about important principles.” Discussing the upcoming poverty summit: “Senator Tim Scott from South Carolina and I, along with the Jack Kemp Foundation are hosting a poverty summit in South Carolina on January 9 to have all the Republican candidates come and discuss their ideas for fighting poverty. We want to have testimony from people who are fighting poverty and who have successfully help people overcome poverty. This is a very important debate, and I’m extremely excited that the Pope bringing this issue front and center to our attention. I think we need to have a good dialogue on how best to solve poverty.” Dealing with Planned Parenthood and government funding: “I think what they’ve done is vile. The more Americans that see just the grotesqueness of their procedures, the more they would agree that they don’t want their hard-working taxpayer dollars going to an organization like that. But I don’t think that the shutdown strategy is one that will help deliver on that goal.” *** “I think there are other ways of addressing this. We intend to put legislation on the President’s desk, and we can do that through our budget process. I want to make sure that we win. I want to make sure that we succeed in achieving our goals.” *** “Believe me, I share the frustration with this organization, but I think we ought to be honest with people about what we can actually achieve given the constitutional constraints we have, how we can best bring accountability to the federal government to groups like Planned Parenthood, and accountability to this administration given the Constitution. And just be candid. And try and find a strategy that has the best chance of success."
09.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan offered the following response after Pope Francis’s address to a joint session of Congress. “Pope Francis has called all Americans—and all people of good will—to build a more inclusive and more hopeful world. I have every belief our country will answer that call. “I could not agree more when Pope Francis says politics must serve the good of the human person. We must reject what he calls the 'throwaway culture' and embrace the marginalized and excluded. As he said in his encyclical, Laudato Si, 'We require a new and universal solidarity.' And we must always 'keep in mind the principle of subsidiarity, which grants freedom to develop the capabilities present at every level of society.' These twin principles should inform all of our political debates. “I was pleased that Pope Francis brought particular attention to the pressing issue of religious liberty, with his impromptu visit with the Little Sisters of the Poor. His statements and example in defense of our First Amendment freedoms are both timely and inspiring. “The Pope delivered a wonderful pastoral speech before Congress and invited a dialogue in which we must keep in mind our nation’s founding principles, which are rooted in our natural rights. I am deeply thankful for his presence. “Lastly, what I find most striking about Pope Francis is his great joy. In all that he has done, he has shown how a Catholic should speak and act. We all should follow his example. He is a great leader of the Catholic Church. He is the 'happy messenger' of the good news.”
09.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — Earlier today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan spoke to Raymond Arroyo, host of EWTN’s The World Over, about the importance of Pope Francis’s address and what the key takeaways should be for the American people. Excerpts of Ryan’s interview follow: Experiencing Pope Francis’s address to a joint meeting of Congress: “It was wonderful. As a Catholic, I can’t tell you how exciting it was just to be in the room, just to watch the Pope walk down the aisle, and give what I thought was a great pastoral speech. This wasn’t a policy speech; this was a speech from a pastor, from the voice of Saint Peter, the vicar of Christ. He’s been calling for a dialogue and talking about very important principles about the dignity of every human person and how we need to attend to this. And so, just as an American, as a Congressman, and as a Catholic, I thought it was just a great experience.” Applauding the Holy Father’s call for dialogue: “When [Pope Francis] talked about the spirit of enterprise, he talked about America’s founding principles, which are founded on natural rights and natural law. He spoke about how beautiful they are and what they’ve done for people, and that’s fantastic. . . . This is a speech that rises to a higher calling to have the kind of dialogue we really ought to have to try and improve the lives of everybody. He’s a special Pope. There is something in this Pope for everyone. He’s a unifying figure, and I think that’s very good.” Listening to Pope Francis’s remarks, rather than politicizing them: “I think it’s important to listen to the message, to actually read his comments. Listen to his words, and no side should try to politicize this. If a person tries to politicize this speech for some issue or partisan gain, that diminishes from the message itself.” Unifying Americans and beginning dialogues: “He’s a special Pope. There is something in this Pope for everyone. He’s a unifying figure, and I think that’s very good. And so, I think his goal is to start a dialogue. If you read his encyclicals, they are about starting dialogues—not settling debates, but starting dialogues. And I think his presence here, not just today but in Philadelphia and New York, will amplify that, and nothing but good can come from that as far as I am concerned.”
09.22.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – This October, Congressman Paul Ryan will host a series of listening sessions throughout Wisconsin’s First Congressional District. On Friday, October 2, and Monday, October 5, Congressman Ryan will visit eight communities to hear from residents of southern Wisconsin and to share his vision for spurring job creation and building a healthy economy. Upon announcing the October listening sessions, Congressman Ryan said: “These meetings are a great opportunity for me to hear directly from my employers about the issues that matter most to them. Whether it’s reforming our tax code, advancing trade agreements that spur economic growth, or making sure America and its allies are secure from threats abroad, Congress is dealing with a number of important issues this fall. That makes the feedback I receive from Wisconsinites more important than ever. I’m looking forward to traveling across the First District and talking with those I represent about the challenges our nation faces.” These meetings are open to the public and provide an excellent opportunity to ask questions and share thoughts with Congressman Ryan. A complete schedule of the upcoming listening sessions is below and is also available at PaulRyan.House.gov. Friday, October 2 Eagle: 9:00am to 10:00am - Village Hall, 820 East Main Street Franklin: 11:00am to 12:00pm- Polish Center of Wisconsin, 6941 South 68th Street Milton: 1:30pm to 2:30pm - The Gathering Place, Upstairs Dining Room, 715 Campus Street Janesville: 3:00pm to 4:00pm - City Hall Council Chambers, 18 N. Jackson St Monday, October 5 Elkhorn: 9:45am to 10:45am – Monte Carlo Room, 720 North Wisconsin Street Burlington: 11:30am to 12:30pm - Veterans Terrace, 589 Milwaukee Avenue Kenosha: 1:15pm to 2:15pm – Snap-on, Innovation Works Building, 2801 80th Street (Use 27th Avenue entrance) Racine: 3:00pm to 4:00pm - Racine Theatre Guild, 2519 Northwestern Avenue
09.21.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan spoke with WLIP’s Bill Lawrence about the upcoming address to Congress by Pope Francis, and about the bills marked up last week by the House Ways and Means Committee that would provide certainty to the tax code. Excerpts of Ryan’s interview with WLIP follow. On Pope Francis’s joint meeting of Congress: “As a practicing Catholic it’s something that’s very exciting. [It’s something] I’ve never experienced before. We did have the Pope come to D.C. before, but he gave Mass in the stadium that the Nationals play in, ended up staying at the White House, and never spoke to Congress. I am looking forward to the joint meeting of Congress on Thursday morning.” *** “Everybody is trying to figure out 'what is he going to talk about?' I think he is going to talk about lots of things, and from my discussion with a few cardinals, I think it’s going to be more of a pastoral speech. I’m sure he’s going to talk about issues, but I think it is going to go much farther than a list of issues; I think he will talk about healing, prayer, his faith, and helping the poor. That’s the kind of speech I’m hoping to hear, and I think that’s what we are going to hear.” On tax reform and tax extenders: “A tax extender means there are all these provisions in the tax code that are temporary and are set to expire. There are lots of tax credits that get extended every single year, like a farmer’s ability to write off a purchase of a tractor or something like that.” *** “We passed bills to make [some] tax extenders permanent last week—for instance, a teacher can spend money out of pocket to buy things for their classroom. We’ve had this tax break where a teacher can deduct $250 worth of out-of-pocket expenses on classroom supplies off their taxes, if they want to. That expired at the end of the year—so there are provisions like this that we think that are good, that ought to be extended and made permanent in lieu of holistic tax reform. You know, charitable giving, those kinds of things." *** “I am saying ‘Let’s just keep these things permanent,’ so that we give people certainty so that they can plan; you’re trying to encourage behavior with these tax credits.” *** “That’s what tax reform is all about. We are making provisions of the code permanent that we believe encourage positive behavior, and then we are going to try and let things expire that should go away to make the code much more simplified. But at the end of the day, we basically need to scrap this income tax code and start over.”
09.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Last week, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan spoke at the North Carolina Business and Economic Development Summit about the importance of welfare and criminal justice reform. Excerpts of Ryan’s responses to the summit attendees follow. On poverty and welfare reform: “We want to continue to make progress on moving people from welfare to work. Too many people are not sharing their talents with us and therefore are not hitting their potential in society. And we’ve got a lot of able-bodied adults that are on the sidelines. We’ve got to come up with better policies to get them in the game, get them into jobs, get them into work, get them on the ladder of upward mobility. And so we’re going to reauthorize and work on welfare reform this fall. That’s a huge priority of ours.” On criminal justice reform: “We need to make redemption cool again in society. And we’ve—I think we overcompensate—‘we,’ meaning the political system overcompensated in the 90s, with our sentencing [policies]. We’re looking at prison reform. We’re looking at sentencing reform with respect to the federal policy, and that’s just a small slice of what happens in criminal justice.” *** “I think the federal government can take the lead on having more discretion for judges on non-violent crimes. There are alternatives to incarceration that have proven to be more successful to getting people on the right path and into work. Then, we need prison reform itself within prisons, so that while people are incarcerated they have better opportunities, whether that is getting a GED, getting skills, or getting the kind of counseling they need. We want to maximize these alternatives like drug courts, which make it easier to help people get back into society.” *** “We should give people second chances. We’ve got to find a way to do this in society. I think the federal government can set the tone through reforms, which can give the states an incentive to [do] the same with their laws.”
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today released the following statement on the 14th anniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. “Fourteen years ago, our nation and the world changed. Thousands of lives were lost. And amid the chaos, we saw selfless acts of bravery from first responders and ordinary citizens alike. Today, as we did then, we offer our thoughts, prayers, and sympathies to the families of those who were lost. This anniversary is also a day to remember all the servicemembers who fought and died to defend our freedoms and the American way of life. Without the brave sacrifice of those men and women, our nation would not be what it is today. After 9/11, our nation responded to punish those responsible for the heinous and cowardly attack. We must remain steadfast in the face of terrorism and threats to the American idea, and continue our unwavering support of our servicemen and women. This anniversary of September 11th gives us a reason to be thankful for the freedoms and blessings bestowed upon us. We will continue to honor the lives of those we have lost by continuing to expand the freedoms and opportunities that define us as a people and nation.”
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan published an op-ed in the Racine Journal Times, which can be read here or below. Congressman Ryan also delivered remarks on the House floor outlining his opposition to the Iran deal, which can be read here and viewed here. A Terrible Deal As our world grows more dangerous and unstable each month, trusting a violent Iranian regime that has been nothing but hostile to America is an error we cannot afford to make. Nevertheless, throughout August, the President moved from defending a terrible deal with Iran to launching bombastic attacks at those who oppose it. When the President introduces such vitriol into a debate about national security, it is neither surprising nor conducive to finding the pathway forward. Today, the House of Representatives will vote on a series of bills on the Iran Deal. I will be voting against the deal; it is bad for the security of the United States and our allies. Notable Democrats have come out in opposition to the deal – Representative Eliot Engel, Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the heir apparent to Senator Reid as the top ranking Democrat in the Senate, among others. However, the President has secured the assurances of enough Senators – all Democrats – to withstand a veto override, in the event the bills pass both the House and the Senate. Despite that, moving forward with votes on the Iran deal is important, so voters know where their representatives in Congress stand. The security of our nation is not a partisan issue; it is an American one. The deal with Iran should be judged on its merits. The inspections and enforcement mechanisms included in the deal are far less than adequate. In April, Energy Secretary Moniz, a key player for the Administration in these negotiations, said: "We expect to have anywhere, anytime access in the sense of a well-defined process with a well-defined end time for access to places that are suspected of out-of-bounds activities." The importance of anytime, anywhere inspections as a safeguard against a regime that has done nothing to deserve our trust was considered a crux of the deal, up until the actual text of the deal was revealed. What did we get instead? 24 days; the Iranian regime has up to 24 days before any inspector can examine a site for wrongdoing or violations of the deal. Experts have said that this is more than enough time to hide or destroy evidence. Assuming 24 days is not too long to identify significant wrong doing, what enforcement measures are in place? Supporters of the deal laud the ‘snapback sanctions’ – if Iran cheats, the sanctions that will be lifted (providing the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism with an additional tens of billions of dollars because of sanction relief) will “snap” back into place. Snapback sanctions are a misnomer at best. First, I do not believe sanctions should be immediately repealed as a condition of the deal. However, the Obama Administration began these negotiations from a position of weakness, and the Iranian regime knew it. They knew their demands would be met, and they asked for immediate sanctions relief. The President, eager for a foreign policy legacy item in lieu of a foreign policy marred by failure, was eager to comply. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif rightly said that sanctions will not snap back for ‘minor’ violations, only major violations. If Iran only cheats in minor, incremental ways, the sanctions would never snap back. The deal also allows any businesses who sign contracts with Iran to continue to do business with them even in the highly unlikely scenario sanctions are reapplied, mitigating the effectiveness of the sanctions themselves. Combine these shortfalls with the American hostages still in Iran, the ability for the Iranian regime to acquire advanced technologies to allow their ballistic missiles to potentially carry a nuclear warhead within a decade, billions more dollars to sponsor terrorism that targets America and her allies across the globe, and the fact this deal will not stop Iran from getting a nuclear weapon, and you have what critics have said all along: a terrible deal.
08.31.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today spoke with WRJN’s Mike Clemens about his work on reducing poverty and upcoming welfare reforms, as well as tours around Wisconsin’s First District. Excerpts of Ryan’s interview with WRJN follow. On poverty and welfare reform: “Yes, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families; it’s basically what you think of as welfare. It is the program that was reformed in the late 90’s that now is coming up for renewal. And the idea back in the 90’s was, if you’re going to get welfare benefits, there’s a condition to it. That was what we call ‘welfare reform.’ And when that happened in 1996, it had enormous positive results. It was one of the greatest sources of the reduction of child poverty in a generation. It reduces child poverty rates precipitously; single moms went back to work and got out of poverty. We’ve had some backsliding since then.” *** “We don’t want to have a situation where a person is faced with a decision: Do I take this job—which is risky, or maybe I don’t want to do it, or it takes me away from home—or do I keep the benefits? We don’t want to have that dynamic, because it pays not to work. And so, we want to fix the way these benefits work so it pays to work, so that it always makes sense to take that extra step, so that you’re always making more money for yourself and your family by taking a job.” *** “And I also believe there are other groups out there, different charitable organizations, that have gotten so good at helping manage a person’s case, that we need to be able to customize the welfare benefits to a particular person’s needs, and we don’t do that right now. We treat everyone the same. It’s sort of cookie cutter, and you don’t get the kind of attention to the person fighting poverty that they really need. Some person might have an alcohol addiction problem. Some person might have a felony on their record, and they can’t get a job but they are trying to [make] ends meet, and they are trying to redeem themselves. Some people might have drug addiction. Some people might need some kind of transportation. Everybody has a different problem. And what we’ve learned is, if you can get these charities to work with these people—we call them wrap-around benefits—to sort of work on the entire person’s problem, and what they need to get to where they want to go in life—that kind of welfare customization is where we ought to go with how we fight poverty.” *** “We have lots of charities that can do that: Catholic Charities, Lutheran Social Services, America Works. And so, I want to involve the private-sector charitable organizations in the area of reforming welfare, helping getting people off of welfare into work.” Reaching out to First District residents via office hours and business tours: “I am doing office hours and business tours this week, so I’ve got a slate of office hours in Racine today with constituents coming in, just people who called to make an appointment who want to talk about different issues. But, one of the business tours I’m doing this week is the railroads. A lot of our rail needs to be upgraded. A lot of our rail needs to be expanded and freed up so that our manufacturers can get the products we make in Wisconsin to market.”
08.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday morning, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan spoke with WLIP’s Bill Lawrence and WRJN’s Mike Clemens about his concerns with the Iran deal and his excitement for Pope Francis’ upcoming address to a Joint Meeting of Congress. Excerpts of Ryan’s interviews with WLIP and WRJN follow. On the Iran Deal: “Well, it legitimizes Iran’s search for a nuclear weapon and all but guarantees that they end up getting a nuclear weapon, and they can march toward a nuclear weapon under the conditions of this deal. And it also frees up 150 billion dollars of cash right up front for them. Remember that Iran is the largest state sponsor of terrorism in the world.” *** “This is Iran; the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism. This is a country that has openly declared that its goal is to annihilate another country like Israel. This is a country that has a ‘death to America’ march every year – it is a holiday in their country. And we are now saying that if they fulfill the terms of the agreement they can have nuclear weapons. And, we are giving them cash up front to be able to procure the kinds of weapons that they want and to fuel terrorism. It legitimizes this country which should not be legitimized, and that to me, is the worst of it all. I think the President went into these negotiations too desperate for any agreement. That’s what he got, and I think they took us to the cleaners. And, I think the world is going to be much less safe if this agreement prevails.” On Pope Francis’ visit: “The Pope, as you know, is also the head of the Vatican, which is a state. And so, the Pope is addressing a Joint Meeting of Congress. This is the first time a Pope has ever done this. We’ve had papal visits before but I’m very excited about it myself as a practicing Catholic. I think it’s really exciting to see, and he’s coming in a few weeks.” *** “I worked quite a bit on issues of poverty. I have shared a lot of those [ideas] with people of the Church. Actually, my welfare reform proposal models are very similar to the Catholic Charities model for how to get people out of poverty and move them from welfare to work. I think Catholic Charities has one of the best ideas of how to do that, and it’s something that was one of the basis of my poverty plan for getting people out of welfare.”
08.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This morning, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) spoke with WRJN’s Ted Ehlen and WLIP’s Bill Lawrence about attending county fairs across southern Wisconsin and the importance of assisting constituents with problems they encounter with the federal government. During the interviews, Congressman Ryan also discussed the passage of H.R. 1831, the Evidence-Based Policymaking Commission bill, and a funding bill for the nation’s highways and transit programs. Excerpts of Ryan’s interviews with WLIP and WRJN follow. Competing in the Racine County Fair’s goat milking contest: “I’ve been doing [the goat milking contest] every year. Usually what happens is I go up against a young woman who’s got a sash and tiara, who is royalty, like the Fairest of the Fair. She’s been showing sheep, goats, and cows her whole life and she usually just kicks my butt. This year, I tied with the Fairest of the Fair, so this is a personal best for me and I did so while getting kicked in the face by a goat. I really feel like I got my game on this year.” Getting the Evidence-Based Policymaking Commission bill signed into law: “This is a bill I wrote and introduced last year. I just passed it last week and it’s a bipartisan bill I have with Senator Patty Murray that she’s passing in the Senate as well. We expect this to go into law. We never measure in the federal government, especially with poverty programs, how well the programs actually work to achieve their objective. I mean I had this insane idea that when we use hard-working taxpayer dollars to apply it to a program that’s created to do something like, say help get people out of poverty, get people off welfare, get a job, get work - that we should measure whether the program actually does that or not.” *** “So what I decided to do is to create a commission of people who do this - people who are statisticians, who know metrics, who know how to design measurements with privacy advocates as well - to get available all federal data so that researchers, academics, universities, and orators can get access to federal data of all federal programs so that we can actually measure whether or not the government is doing what it is trying to do – whether it’s achieving its objectives – so that we can have a debate in Congress, not between Republicans and Democrats or liberals and conservatives, but between what works and doesn’t work. And really that’s not the kind of debate we are having and that’s the kind of debate I think we ought to have.” *** “I’m saying let’s focus on does it actually work? Is it actually achieving its goal? And then let’s have that kind of debate about how to make sure we can achieve our objectives, but we don’t even have standard measurements – we don’t even try.” Working on a six year highway bill to provide certainty for transportation projects: “We’re spending all of August and then September trying to figure out how to finance a six-year highway bill because the problem is, gas taxes don’t cut it anymore. Our engines are too efficient – they’re more efficient, not too efficient, they’re more efficient – and therefore they don’t raise the kind of revenue to meet our needs. “And so we’re coming up with a way to fill that gap, but it’s going to take at least $100 billion to fill the deficit in the Highway Trust Fund because of the fact that the gas taxes don’t keep up anymore with wear and tear. So we need a couple months to figure it out. I’m leading the effort to figure out how to pay for it while the Transportation Committee is going to figure out how to spend all that money.” *** “The reason we need multiyear bills is, take the interstate here in Wisconsin for example: widening I-94, widening I-90, making them six lanes basically from the Illinois border up to Milwaukee and to Madison, and then on the way down to Beloit is one of our projects. That’s a multi-multiyear project, so we need to be able to plan accordingly and we just can’t if we don’t do long-term highway bills.” Reaching out to First District residents via the Mobile Office to help solve problems: “What [the mobile] office is, is it’s a mobile constituent services center. I have permanent offices in Racine, Kenosha and Janesville as well. We help thousands of people every single year with specific problems they have with the federal government. And so, I always tell people, if you’ve got a problem with disability, or veterans, or Medicare, or you name it – immigration, Social Security – come to us, because we have experts on my staff who do nothing but this. Their jobs are to help people. We’ve gotten really good at it. We know how to navigate the bureaucracy. And so, that is my job as a representative.”
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — This afternoon, as part of the Surface Transportation and Veterans Health Care Choice Improvement Act, the House voted to extend the authorization for our highways and transit program through October 29. The legislation also provides funding estimated to close the highway trust fund shortfall through December. Following House passage, Congressman and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) released the following statement: "We all want a long-term plan to fix our roads and bridges, but paying for it is a big challenge. Today’s action gives us the time we need to write a bill that provides the funding and certainty that our states and communities need. Getting this done will require all sides—Republican and Democrats, the House and Senate—to work together. We need to aim high, and that’s why I urge the Senate to pass this bill so we can get to work."
07.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, the House passed H.R. 1831, The Evidence-Based Policymaking Commission Act. In response, Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) issued the following statement: "Creating this commission is the first step in a long-term effort to change the mindset in Washington. When we’re making policy, we shouldn’t focus on effort, but results. And we need the best minds in evidence-based policy to figure out how we can use the data we already collect to improve how government works. That’s what this commission will do. So I want to thank the House for passing this bill and urge the Senate to do the same."
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) released the following statement after the House passed legislation by a bipartisan vote of 312-119 to authorize and finance our highway and transit programs through the end of the year. “The House has now taken the first step to providing the stability and predictability that our highway program needs. This plan gives us our best opportunity to produce and pass a long-term bill to rebuild America’s roads, bridges, and other infrastructure this year. This is the right approach, and the Senate should move quickly to adopt this extension—without any unrelated measures—so that we can provide some certainty and get to work on a multi-year plan.”
07.14.2015	Washington, DC – Wisconsin Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) issued the following statement after the Obama Administration announced an agreement on nuclear negotiations with Iran: “This is a terrible deal. It will not prevent Iran from expanding its nuclear programs, and it will only delay its development of nuclear weapons. The Administration has mishandled these negotiations from the start and agreeing to this deal will make the Middle East a more dangerous place. “Lifting the sanctions prematurely on Iran is a mistake, allowing the ban related to ballistic missiles to lapse is foolish, and trusting a violent Iranian regime that has been nothing but hostile to America is an error we cannot afford to make. In short, the deal between the Administration and Iran will make America and our allies less secure, and Congress should reject it.”
06.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) released the following statement after President Obama signed into law legislation reauthorizing trade promotion authority (TPA) as well as a bill extending trade preferences programs and trade adjustment assistance. Chairman Ryan was the primary sponsor of the TPA bill in the House. "America is now back in the game. With TPA in place, the United States can once again play a leading role in writing the rules of the global economy. This will help us create a healthier economy and bolster our foreign policy. It’s a big win, and I want to thank all those who worked so hard to make it possible, especially Representatives Tiberi and Sessions, as well as Senators Hatch and Wyden. I’m also pleased that our trade preferences bill has become law. This will strengthen our ties and promote market-based economics in important, developing nations. "With TPA in place, our attention shifts to the trade agreements currently being negotiated with our friends in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe. Just as TPA allows greater oversight of the process, it requires the administration to follow Congress’s priorities and achieve high-standard agreements. We have a great opportunity ahead of us, and Congress and the administration both must do their parts to seize it."
06.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) announced that the First District mobile office will continue its regularly scheduled visits through Southern Wisconsin during July, August, and September. A list of scheduled stops for the mobile office follows this advisory and is available here. At each stop, a staff member of Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet with residents to address concerns they have about legislation before the House of Representatives or answer questions related to federal agencies. In announcing the mobile office schedule for July-September, Congressman Ryan said: “The mobile office is a great resource, particularly for those who don’t live near one of the three permanent congressional offices in the First District. When the mobile office comes to their community, residents can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having with government agencies or share their views about issues before Congress. I need to hear from and be accessible to those I serve in Wisconsin’s First District and the mobile office is a great way to help me do this.” Residents of the First District can access the latest mobile office schedule by checking their local paper or by visiting Congressman Ryan’s website – paulryan.house.gov. Congressman Ryan established the mobile office to serve as an extension of existing First District Constituent Service Centers. Since 1999, the mobile office has made over 3,000 visits to area communities and has provided assistance to thousands of residents over the years. The schedule below indicates days, times, and locations for each mobile office tour stop, including where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or in an adjoining parking lot). First District Mobile Office Schedule July-September 2015 (by community) Milwaukee County Oak Creek: Tuesday, July 7th, Thursday July 23rd, Wednesday, September 23rd from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Oak Creek Police Department, 301 W. Ryan Road. Franklin: Tuesday, July 7th, Thursday July 23rd, Wednesday, September 23rd from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of Franklin Police Department, 9455 W. Loomis Road. Greendale: Tuesday, July 7th, Thursday July 23rd, Wednesday, September 23rd from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot at the Greendale Safety Center, 5911 W. Grange Avenue. Hales Corners: Tuesday, July 7th, Thursday July 23rd, Wednesday, September 23rd from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Hales Corners Village Hall, 5635 South New Berlin Road. Waukesha County Muskego: Thursdays, July 2nd and September 17th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Muskego Police Department, W183 S8150 Racine Avenue. Mukwonago: Thursday, July 2nd from 11:00am-12:00pm, Tuesday, July 14th 11:00am-12:00pm, and Thursday September 17th from 9:00-10:00am parking lot of the Mukwonago Police Department, 627 South Rochester Street. Eagle: Thursday, July 9th, Thursday, August 6th from 2:45-3:45pm, parking lot of the Eagle Fire Department, 126 East Main Street. Big Bend: Tuesday, July 14th from 3:00-4:00pm, and Thursday, September 17th from 1:00-2:00pm parking lot of the Big Bend Village Hall, W230S9185 Nevins Street. North Prairie: Thursday, July 9th from 1:00-2:00pm, Tuesday, July 21st from 2:45-3:45pm, Thursday, August 6th from 1:00-2:00pm parking lot of the North Prairie Village Hall, 130 N. Harrison Street. Town of Vernon: Thursday, July 2nd from 1:00-2:00pm, Tuesday, July 14th 1:00-2:00pm, and Thursday, September 17th from 11:00am-12:00pm parking lot of the Town of Vernon Fire Department, W223 S7475 Woodland Avenue, Big Bend. Town of Genesee: Tuesday, July 21st from 1:00-2:00pm, Thursday, August 6th from 11:15am-12:15pm parking lot of the Town of Genesee Town Hall, S43 W3191 Highway 83, Genesee Depot. Wales: Thursday, July 9th, Tuesday July 21st from 11:15am-12:15pm, Thursday, August 6th from 9:30-10:30am parking lot of the Wales Village Hall, 129 S. Main Street, Wales. Dousman: Thursday, July 9th and Tuesday, July 21st from 9:30-10:30am parking lot of the Dousman Village Hall, 118 S. Main Street, Dousman. Walworth County East Troy: Thursday, July 2nd from 9:00-10:00am, Tuesday July14th from 9:00-10:00am, Tuesday, September 22nd from 3:00-4:00pm parking lot of the East Troy Police Department, 2015 Energy Drive. Elkhorn: Tuesday, September 15th from 3:00-4:00pm, Tuesday, September 22nd from 1:00-2:00pm, and Tuesday, September 29th from 9:00-10:00am parking lot of Walworth County Sheriff’s Department, 1770 County Rd NN. Delavan: Wednesday, July 1st from 3:00-4:00pm, Tuesday, September 22nd from 11:00am-12:00pm, and Wednesday, September 30th from 3:00-4:00pm parking lot of the Delavan Municipal Building, 123 South 2nd Street. Darien: Wednesdays, July 1st and September 30th from1:30-2:30pm, street parking outside the Darien Village Hall/Police Department, 20 North Wisconsin Street. Genoa City: Wednesday, July 22nd, Thursday, September 24th from 9:00-10:00am, street parking outside the Genoa City Village Hall, 715 Walworth Street. Lake Geneva: Thursday, August 27th from 11:00am-12:00pm, Tuesday, September 15th from 9:00-10:00am, and Tuesday, September 22nd from 9:00-10:00am municipal parking lot across from the Lake Geneva Police Department, 626 Geneva Street. Williams Bay: Tuesdays, September 15th from 11:00am-12:00pm, and September, 29th from 3:00-4:00pm parking lot of the Williams Bay Police Department, 250 Williams Street. Sharon: Thursday, August 27th from 9:00-10:00am, and Tuesday, September 29th from 11:00am-12:00pm street parking in front of the Sharon Village Hall, 125 Plain Street. Walworth: Tuesdays, September 15th and September 29th from 1:00-2:00pm, street parking in front of the Walworth Village Hall, 227 North Main Street. Racine County Burlington: Thursday, August 27th from 1:00-2:00pm, and Wednesday September 16th from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot of the Burlington Police Department, 224 E. Jefferson Street. Waterford: Wednesday, July 8th from 9:00-10:00am and Thursday, August 27th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Town of Waterford Police Department, 415 N. Milwaukee. Union Grove: Wednesdays, July 8th from 11:00am-12:00pm, and September 16th, from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Union Grove Municipal Building, 925 15th Avenue. Sturtevant: Wednesdays, July 8thth and September 16th from 1:00-2:00pm parking lot of the Sturtevant Police Department, 2801 89th Street. Village of Mount Pleasant: Wednesdays, July 8th, and September 16th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Mount Pleasant Police Department, 8811 Campus Drive, Mount Pleasant. Kenosha County Bristol: Wednesday, July 22nd from 1:00-2:00pm, and Thursday, September 24th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Kenosha County Center, 19600 75th Street. Silver Lake: Thursday, September 24th from 1:00-2:00pm street parking outside the Silver Lake Village Hall, 113 South 1st Street. Pleasant Prairie: Wednesday July 22nd from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Roger Prange Municipal Building, 8600 Green Bay Road. Twin Lakes: Wednesday, July 22nd, and Thursday, September 24th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of Twin Lakes Police Department, 920 Lance Drive. Rock County Milton: Wednesdays, July 1st and September 30th from 9:30-10:30am, parking lot of the Milton Police Department, 690 South Janesville Street. Clinton: Wednesdays, July 1st and September 30th from 11:30am-12:30pm, rear parking lot of the Clinton Village Hall, across from the Police Department, 301 Cross Street.
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) delivered the following floor statement in support of H.R. 2146, the Trade Priorities and Accountability Act. “Welcome back, everyone. I have to admit, I’m disappointed that we have to be here today. Last week a bipartisan majority stepped up to pass trade promotion authority. That vote showed that Republicans and Democrats can still come together to do what is right for the country. It was a vote that I’m very proud of. “Unfortunately, many of our friends on the other side of the aisle would not stand with their president, and voted to sacrifice a program they support—a program that they asked for—in order to block our path. “It was disappointing, but we’re not going to be discouraged. Enacting trade promotion authority is critical for our economy and for our national security, and so we’re going to get it done here today. “Why do we need TPA? Because we need more trade. Ninety-five percent of the world’s consumers don’t live in America. They live in other countries. And if we want to make more things here and sell them over there, we need to tear down trade barriers that make American goods and services more expensive. “We know that trade is good for our economy. One in five American jobs are tied to trade, and they pay, on average, 18 percent more. “We also need more trade to bolster our foreign policy and national security. Stronger economic ties lead to stronger security ties. More market share means more influence. That’s why so many national security voices… former military leaders… former secretaries of state have all called on Congress to pass TPA. They understand what is at stake: no less than America’s credibility. “Because the rules of the global economy are being written right now. The question is who is going to write them. Will it be the United States and our allies? Or will it be other nations that don’t share our values or our commitment to free enterprise and the rule of law. “Our friends in Asia and Europe are getting ready to place their bets. They want to sign up for American-style free enterprise. But they need to know that the United States is going to stand strong as a reliable trading partner before they do. That’s what TPA is all about. “So, how does it work? We’ve heard all kinds of misinformation spread by free trade opponents. Crazy stuff, really. Let me, one more time, explain what TPA is—and what it isn’t. “TPA is a process, it’s not an agreement. It’s a process that gives us the best shot at getting good trade agreements. It’s a process—dating back decades—that Congress has used to insert itself into trade negotiations and provide accountability to the president. “And this TPA has more accountability and transparency than ever before. It lays out 150 guidelines that the administration must follow when negotiating a trade deal. These are our priorities, and if the president wants an agreement to pass, he must address them. “This TPA also requires the administration to consult with Congress during the negotiations: give us access to the text, provide timely briefings, even allow members to attend negotiating rounds as accredited advisors. “And, finally, and perhaps most important: this TPA ensures that the American people can read an agreement long before anyone is asked to vote on it. Sixty days. An agreement must be public and posted online for 60 days before it can even be sent to Congress. This turns fast-track into slow-track. “Mr. Speaker, it’s transparency; it’s effective oversight; and it’s accountability. Because if the president doesn’t meet these requirements, or doesn’t follow the negotiating objectives, we can turn off TPA for that agreement. We can cancel the vote, amend the agreement, to or stop it entirely. We, Congress, always have the final say, and no agreement takes effect unless we vote to allow it. “This process, TPA, creates a pact between Congress and the administration that allows our trading partners to know that we speak with one voice. It allows them to make their best offers, knowing that as long as the administration follows TPA, Congress won’t try to re-write an agreement later. It gives America credibility. And we need it right now. “Make no mistake, the world is watching us. The foreign policy failures of the last few years, not to mention the stunt pulled here last week, have capitals around the world wondering if America still has it. They want to know if we’re still willing to engage, willing to lead, or whether we’re in a nation in retreat and decline. “Well, we’re here again today to answer that question, Mr. Speaker. America doesn’t retreat. America leads. And that’s why I urge my colleagues to vote to vote yes for TPA. Let’s get it done.”
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan delivered the following floor statement in support of H.R. 1314, the Trade Act of 2015. "Mr. Speaker, the question before us today is pretty simple. Is America going to shape the global economy? Or is it going to shape us? "Mr. Speaker, 95 percent of the world’s consumers—they don’t in the United States. They live in other countries. So if we want to create jobs in America, we need to make more things here and sell them over there. "In fact, one out of every five American jobs already depends on trade. And that’s a good thing. Because they pay more—18 percent more on average. But while the world has been moving full steam ahead, we’ve been standing still. "We haven’t completed a trade agreement in years. There are now 262 FTAs in force all over the world. The U.S. is party to only 14. Since 2007 (when TPA expired), there have been more than 100 trade agreements signed. The U.S. is party to none. "And in the global economy, if you’re standing still, you’re falling behind. Because other countries are negotiating trade agreements without us. They’re tearing down barriers to their products and putting up barriers to our products. "For instance, between 2000 and 2010, the countries of East Asia negotiated 48 trade agreements. We were part of just two of them. As a result, our share of their imports fell by 42 percent. Meanwhile, China is negotiating trade agreements all over the world. "So the rules of the global economy are being written right now. The question is, are we going to write the rules . . . or is China? That’s why H.R. 1314, the Trade Act, would establish TPA or trade promotion authority. "There’s been a lot of confusion out there about what exactly TPA is. Let’s get right to it. TPA is not a trade deal; it’s a process for negotiating trade deals. Why should we care about a process? Because a good process will get us a good result. "TPA will give us the leverage we need to win a fair deal for the American worker. Because when other countries know the deal they agree to is the deal Congress will vote on, they’ll put their best offers on table. "Here’s how it works. Congress says to the President, 'When you submit a trade deal, we’ll give it an up-or-down vote on three conditions.' "First, you’ve got to pursue specific negotiating objectives—nearly 150 of them. "Second, you’ve got to regularly consult with Congress. Let us read the negotiating text. Give us regular briefings on the talks. Let us attend negotiating rounds. "Third, and perhaps most importantly, this bill requires the President to make the text of every trade agreement public 60 days before he signs off on it. "So the American people can read it themselves. This bill, for the first time ever, would put that requirement into law. And then at the end of the day, Congress gets the final say. No trade deal goes into effect unless Congress says so. "Now I understand a lot of our members don’t trust the president. Neither do I. That’s precisely why I support this bill. TPA puts Congress in the driver’s seat. "Mr. Speaker, the world is watching. If we don’t do this, we will send a signal to the world that America is not reliable. But if we do establish TPA, we will show the world that America is once again taking the lead."
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON — Earlier this morning, House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) spoke with Fox & Friends about tomorrow’s vote on trade promotion authority (TPA), legislation that will help open markets for our products and create good-paying American jobs. During the interview, Chairman Ryan explained how TPA is the necessary process by which Congress can hold the president accountable and make sure the public is able to see exactly what is in any trade agreements he negotiates. Excerpts from his answers follow: Holding the president accountable "This is why we need to pass trade promotion authority, because what we have in trade promotion authority is a prevention of any immigration changes, of any climate-change legislation going into a trade agreement. So, by passing trade promotion authority, we're putting Congress in the driver's seat, which is transparency. We've got to see the documents; the country needs to see these trade agreements 60 days. Oh, and you cannot put any immigration in here. You can’t put any climate change in a trade agreement. So this is why we want to pass trade promotion authority, so that we can determine the outcome of these trade agreements, not what's happening out there now. That’s why we're asserting our power and control here. Look, a broken clock’s right twice a day. The President is actually supporting trade, which is what Republicans are in favor of. That’s why we are where we are." TPA is a process, not a trade agreement "Trade promotion authority—which is what we're voting on this week—is a process. It's not a trade agreement. It’s the procedure for how you consider a trade agreement. The Trans-Pacific Partnership doesn't exist yet. The reason we can't see it is because it hasn't been negotiated yet. It doesn't exist yet. It’s been negotiated for years—Bush started these negotiations. . . . We’re voting on a procedure—how does Congress consider trade agreements. Then, in the fall, we’ll consider a trade agreement—which hasn't been completed yet. That's why we don't know what's in it, because it doesn't exist yet. That’s the whole point." Either America leads—or we fall behind "We have the votes we hoped to have. We are where we want to be and we were planning on being. But some Democrats are going to have to support this to get this over the finish line. We’ve been saying that all along. Look, it's really simple, Brian. Either we shape the global economy, as Americans, with trade agreements, or it shapes us. The rest of the world is moving. They’re getting trade agreements—China and Europe—and we’re not. That means we’re getting frozen out of the markets and other people are writing the rules of the global economy. And, as an American who wants to lead and see our country lead, this is why I'm trying to pass trade."
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday morning, First District Congressman Paul Ryan called in to speak with Charlie Sykes of Newsradio 620 WTMJ about his efforts to help pass trade promotion authority (TPA) legislation through Congress. During the interview, Congressman Ryan explained how TPA allows Congress to hold the president accountable, why we need to open up markets for American-made products, and why trade is so important to Wisconsin’s economic growth. Listen to the conversation here. Excerpts from Congressman Ryan’s answers follow: More transparency, more accountability [TPA] is really not even ‘fast track.’ It’s more like ‘slow track.’ We took over the process to put Congress in charge, to give Congress more control over the executive branch on how they consider these things . . . We’re adding more transparency, more accountability, and we’re putting Congress in charge in the process. Opening markets for Wisconsin-made products and services We need to lower barriers to American-made products so that we can sell them overseas. There’s going to be 3.2 billion people in the middle class [in Asia] in fifteen years, a perfect market for Wisconsin manufacturing goods, for our agriculture products, for our services. [Currently] a big company can just outsource jobs and set up a factory in another country to sell to that country. But with a trade agreement, you lower those trade barriers, lower those tariffs, get rid of those non-tariff barriers, so we can make this stuff right here at home in Wisconsin and send it overseas, because we have a trade agreement that allows that to happen. That’s what we’re trying to do. Why conservatives want TPA What really matters here is that we get more jobs, higher wages, [and] faster economic growth. Our economy is not growing well at all—it shrank last quarter. The only way—in this day and age, with this president—we can get something that gets our economy growing, and gets America back in a leadership position, is this. And that is why I think you see conservatives—whether it’s Charles Krauthammer, George Will, Red State, National Review—are all saying this is the right thing to do. ‘We’re sorry Barack Obama is president, but this is the right thing to do.’ Trade is good for Wisconsin Over 700,000 jobs in Wisconsin are tied to trade. We’re a big manufacturing, agricultural state. No state has more workers per capita in manufacturing than Wisconsin. And with manufacturing, we can’t simply produce to sell only to ourselves. We have to produce and export if we want more good jobs that pay better wages. And you have to open up markets to these exports. It’s a billion new customers we’re looking at possibly having in markets that we already getting frozen out of – in markets that we are losing market share and ceding to other countries who will out compete us. That’s what we cannot let happen.
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON — Last night, House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) went On the Record with Fox News Channel’s Greta Van Susteren to layout the conservative case for why Congress needs to enact trade promotion authority (TPA). Excerpts from the interview follow. TPA is not ‘fast track.’ It’s slow-track. “We’re happy that [the President] is embracing our principles and policies. This is a trade procedure. This just determines how does an administration go about getting a trade agreement and how does Congress consider it. It’s really sort of the opposite of the old ‘fast track.’ It’s slow track. We wanted more accountability, more transparency, so that we as legislators can see what’s going on. We can help determine how these trade agreements come out, and then the public needs to be able to see what’s in these agreements, and then Congress retains veto authority over these agreements, and only Congress makes a decision as to whether or not they go into force.” Doing it the right way, adhering to the Constitution. “[What] we’re trying to do . . . is make sure that Congress is involved in the front end, so we determine what is in a trade agreement or what is not. We make sure that we have access to all the negotiating documents—which is not the case right now during this process—and then, when there is an agreement, that it’s made public for 60 days so that the public can see what’s in an agreement. And then Congress makes a determination as to whether or not we want to accept or disapprove of a trade agreement . . . We think this is a good way of containing the executive branch and making sure that we can advance the cause of opening markets and creating jobs. This is really all about getting economic growth and jobs, but doing it the right way, to adhere to the Constitution.” On our terms “If [Obama] wants to get anything done, it’s going to have to be on our terms. And he does want to get a trade agreement done. And if he does, then it has to be done on our terms, as Republicans, and these are our terms . . . We want to get a trade agreement so that we can open up markets to our products, so we can make and grow more things in America and sell them overseas, and to create more jobs and get faster economic growth. Jobs based on trade pay more, and we want more of that.” Restoring transparency, accountability “Imagine if we had Trade Promotion Authority in place with Iran. If we had this kind of power with his Iranian negotiations, we would be able to see what actually the Iranians offered, what we, the Americans, offered; we could go to these negotiations, as members of Congress; and then, when an agreement is reached—but before it is signed—it’s made public for 60 days, and then it can’t take effect until Congress approves it. If only we had this power of Trade Promotion Authority for his negotiations with Iran. So, what we think we’re doing here is restoring transparency, accountability, and getting the legislative branch more in charge of this process, instead of, like you say, just waiting and watching the president go do what he wants and then throwing something to Congress. That’s not how we want to do this.”
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) spoke with Bloomberg News’ Peter Cook about trade promotion authority (TPA), which will be considered by the House of Representatives later this week. During the interview, Ryan laid out why Congress needs TPA in order to hold the president accountable and how new trade agreements will help America lead in the global economy. Video of the interview is available here. Excerpts of Congressman Ryan’s responses follow. Making the case for TPA’s passage [Trade] is good for the country; it’s good for jobs, good for the economy, good for getting people high-paying jobs, and as people realize that, I think they have decided this is the right thing to do. This Trade Promotion Authority is much different than all other earlier versions in that it puts more accountability and more transparency in the administration, and it’s Congress putting more constrictions on the power of the administration with respect to negotiating trade agreements and it gives Congress the final say-so, the final veto power over any trade agreement. TPA will hold the Administration accountable There’s a perception that the President will abuse the rules like he does on everything else, but we wrote this so much in a different way so that the President really can't abuse the rules, so that there's more transparency, so that we can see the text that’s being negotiated, so the country gets to see what these trade agreements are all about, and Congress sets what the parameters are. Congress says what needs to be in a trade agreement and, more importantly, what cannot be in the trade agreement, and Congress reserves the final power to decide whether or not we enter into a trade agreement with another country or not. The U.S. should lead, not lag behind, on trade If we don’t get TPA in the next session, that means we will have gone 12 years without negotiating a new trade agreement for our country. That means at the dawn of the 21st century, other nations – be it China or Europe – those countries will go around the world writing the rule book for the global economy instead of America and our allies. It’d be a travesty if we allowed that to happen. So I think that the consequences of not getting trade at the dawn of the 21st century, at a moment when the global economy is being formed – I think people understand those consequences, they sort of appreciate those consequences. It makes the petty political issues of the day pale in comparison. Trade agreements are good for the economy You add up all the countries that we have trade agreements with and we have a manufacturing surplus. You add up all the countries we do not have trade agreements with, and we have a massive deficit. So, the goal here is to get trade agreements with other countries so that they treat us like we treat them and we can have fair trade which means we can have more jobs.
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — All this week, First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan has been calling into radio stations across the country to explain just what trade promotion authority is all about and why trade is so important to America’s economy. Here are some highlights. WGN Radio, 720 AM – Chicago, IL “[With] this trade promotion authority bill we’re passing, we’re putting Congress in the driver’s seat. We’re telling the administration, ‘Here’s how you do a trade agreement. Here’s the new standard of accountability and transparency.’ The country has to see what’s in these agreements before you can even sign it, and then Congress decides whether it goes into place or not. And only Congress can change our laws.” KSL News Radio, 1160 AM – Salt Lake City, UT “It’s because I don’t trust President Obama that I am doing trade promotion authority this way. It is because of my distrust, and the power that they have tried to take in the executive branch, that the legislative branch, through trade promotion authority, is asserting its power over the executive branch.” WRJN News Talk, 1400 AM – Racine, WI “We’ve added more levels of accountability. Congress says, ‘Well, we want to see a trade agreement.’ Congress gets to participate in the negotiations if they want to, and see what’s going on. The country, the public sees the agreement 60 days before the president can even sign the agreement and send it to Congress. And then Congress has the vote, the final approval as to whether the agreement goes into place or not. So the president just negotiates the agreement. Congress decides whether the trade agreement is good or not, and whether it takes effect or not.” WLS, 890 AM – Chicago, IL “[TPA] puts Congress in charge of deciding how trade bills go. It puts Congress in charge of making sure that the administration is transparent and accountable to Congress on how trade works. Once we get trade promotion authority, then we can get trade agreements. And the whole deal here is to open up foreign markets to our products. Ninety-five percent of the world’s consumers don’t live in America—they live in other countries. And if we want faster economic growth, if we want more jobs with higher wages, then we need to be able to make and grow more things here in America and sell them overseas. That requires trade agreements.” KOMO News Radio, 1000 AM – Seattle, WA “Trade is . . . absolutely necessary for faster economic growth. . . . The kinds of agreements we’re trying to get now, in the 21st century—different than earlier agreements—are to get other countries to play by our rules, raise their standards to our standards. And if we don’t get these kinds of agreements that do that, then the standards are lowered across the world. Other nations like China write the rules for the global economy, and that does not play to our interests.” WLIP, 1050 AM – Kenosha, WI “The reason we need to do trade agreements is because the rest of the world is already going out and getting trade agreements, and that means they’re getting better access, lower tariffs to other countries markets and taking market share for their manufacturers, for their producers.” WTOP, 103.5 FM – Washington, D.C. “If we want to have more jobs that pay more wages, you have to open up markets to our products. If we want to make and grow more things in America and sell them overseas, you need trade agreements to do that. . . . In Asia, since the year 2000, there have been 48 trade agreements. We have only been a party to two of them. And, as a result, our share of exports into Asia has gone down 42 percent. And so we really have to realize that if you’re standing still on trade you’re losing.” WTMJ News Radio, 620 AM – Milwaukee, WI “The rules of the global economy are being written right now. There's no question about that. The only question is who’s writing the rules? Are we going to write them with our allies? Or are we going to disengage and allow China to write the rules of the global economy, which is not going to be in our interest?”
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON — Following the Senate’s passage of trade promotion authority (TPA), First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan has been continuing his push to get TPA passed by the House and enacted into law. Earlier today, he spoke with America’s Newsroom’s Martha MacCallum to reiterate why TPA is so important for getting new trade agreements, how it holds the president accountable to Congress, and how these new agreements could help grow our economy and create better-paying American jobs. Excerpts from Chairman Ryan’s remarks follow. ‘You’ve got to do it our way, Mr. President.’ “What trade promotion authority is, it’s just a process on how you get a trade agreement. And the reason you need trade agreements is we need to open markets to our products, so we can make more things in America and sell them overseas, especially since 95 percent of the world’s consumers don’t live our country—they live in other countries. And by not getting trade agreements, that means other nations are getting better agreements for their countries and then we lose market share; we lose markets to sell our products into. So, what TPA is, it’s a process on how you do it. And what we are saying as House Republicans, as Senate Republicans, is, ‘You’ve got to do it our way, Mr. President.’ The agreements have to be the kind of agreements that we want, people in Congress get to be able to see what’s in the agreements, and then, when there is an agreement, the country gets to see it for 60 days before it’s even considered, before a president can sign it. Then we vote on it, and then Congress decides, up or down, whether we do it or not.” Standing up for America’s credibility “Trade is America. This is an issue of American leadership, and, as Republicans, we want to be in favor of American leadership and engagement in the world. The rules of the global economy, they’re being written right now, Martha. The question is, ‘Who’s going to write them?’ Are we going to write them by getting trade agreements where we get other countries to play by our rules, to agree to our standards? Or do we do nothing and let China write the rules, which is not in our interest?” Think of it this way. . . . “We don’t like the Iran deal that President Obama is doing. Imagine if we had TPA for the Iran deal that he’s negotiating. If we had TPA for the Iran deal, we would know what’s in the deal, the country would see what’s in the deal, and Congress would have veto power over the deal before he even gets a deal. I wish we had TPA for this Iranian agreement because then we could stop this Iranian agreement. That’s why we’re doing TPA for these trade agreements.”
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON – This week, First District Congressman Paul Ryan held a telephone town hall meeting with residents of Rock and Walworth County to take questions on important issues facing Congress. During the call, he was asked explain his recent work to pass trade promotion authority (TPA) legislation through Congress. He also took time to discuss the current state of the Highway Trust Fund and federal infrastructure. In addition to listening sessions held throughout the First Congressional District, Congressman Ryan will hold telephone town hall meetings with constituents throughout the year to hear their concerns and answer their questions about federal issues. Excerpts from Congressman Ryan’s responses during this week’s telephone town hall meeting follow. TRADE A Better TPA What trade promotion authority does is it creates a process under which Congress considers any trade agreement that the administration might negotiate. In the past, they used to call this ‘fast track,’ and in the past I don’t think they did it the right way. Because the president—whoever the president was—would go out and negotiate a trade agreement, bring it to Congress really fast, and then Congress would vote on it up or down—no questions asked. That is not how we’re going to do it this time around. This trade promotion authority is very different now because we think we need to have a system that has more accountability and more transparency, and we want Congress to have more say-so in how trade agreements are being done. We want to make sure a trade agreement doesn’t hold us to the standards of other countries, which could hurt our businesses and our workers. Instead, we want to get other countries to rise to America’s standards. Opening Markets for American Products One of the reasons why we need to get trade agreements is because 95 percent of the world’s consumers don’t live in America—they live in other countries. And if we want to have good jobs and good wages, if we want to have a good manufacturing sector and a good agricultural sector—which is really important to Wisconsin—we need to open markets to our products. Not so that we outsource and make things in other countries, but so we can make things in America, grow things in America, and send them overseas and sell them overseas. Part of the problem with trade these days is that all of these other countries are going around the world getting better trade agreements, and that ends up denying America access to these markets. One example is Asia. If we get a TPP that’s good—and we reserve judgment until we see the agreement, because it hasn’t even been negotiated yet—a good TPP says to these Asian countries, ‘You give us equal access to your markets that we give you to ours. You give us fair trade, a level playing field, so that we can make things in America [and] sell them overseas.’ That’s what we’re trying to get, because one of the problems that we have already is that we already give these countries a lot of access to our markets. Trade Is Good for Jobs One thing that’s really important is that one in five jobs in America are tied to trade. With 95 percent of the world’s consumers living in other countries, we need to make more things here and sell them overseas. And so that is why it’s important for us to open up markets to our products and level the playing field. Not getting trade agreements is not a good idea for America. Because that means we lose markets, because that means other countries take over markets, and they sell their products. What we want to do is open up markets to American products so we can make things here and sell them overseas, because these jobs pay more, and there are so many jobs tied to trade to begin with. Stopping China China is desperately trying to take away America’s ability to write the rules of the global economy. They want to write the rules to meet China’s need, to help China. I believe that it’s very much in our interest that we, along with our allies, write the rules on the global economy instead of China. And you can’t do that if you don’t get trade agreements. If you add up all the countries that we have trade agreements with, we have a trade surplus. We do better. But if you add up all the countries we don’t have a trade agreement with, we have a big trade deficit. Accountability The question is, how do you get better trade agreements for American workers so that we can keep more jobs here, make more things here, and sell them overseas? And then how do you make sure America is leading the global economy, deciding the global economy, guiding the global economy, writing the rules of the global economy, instead of China doing it? And that’s why I think it’s important that we get the details right. This particular trade promotion authority says everybody in America needs to see what’s in it for at least 60 days before the president can even sign an agreement and send it to Congress. And if Congress doesn’t like what the president negotiated, if Congress doesn’t like the way it works, then we can vote it down and we can take away trade promotion authority for the president on any given trade agreement. TPA gives Congress the ability to dictate how trade agreements work, it gives Congress the final say on trade agreements, and it gives the public access to see what’s in these agreements before we even take a vote on them. HIGHWAY TRUST FUND We Can’t Tax Our Way Out of This Problem Our Highway Trust Fund is going bankrupt. We’re not interested in raising gas taxes because we think the low gas prices that consumers are experiencing are good for the economy. It’s good for people. It’s giving people more take home pay, and it’s giving us a foundation for our economy. And because of new drilling technology, we’re becoming an enormous producer of oil and natural gas, and we’re helping knock OPEC off of its pedestal so that it doesn’t have the kind of influence over our economy and our gas prices that it once did. And we want to encourage that development of oil and gas because it’s good for jobs. It means our money that we spend at the pump goes to our economy instead of foreign countries that don’t like us, and it means that we create jobs here in America. By having lowering energy costs, you make American manufacturers more competitive, which leads to more manufacturing jobs. And the problem for the gas tax as a funding resource for the highway trust fund is that it’s a dwindling revenue source. And you really can’t really keep raising taxes to keep up with that fact. And what I mean when I say that is look at engine technology. Just look at engine technology, or look at how many miles to the gallon you got on a car that you bought 20 years ago versus the miles per gallon you get on your car today. We’re far more efficient, our engines are more efficient, and some of our engines don’t even use gas. And what’s happening is we don’t pay nearly as much in gas taxes as we used to, so you have a huge drop in revenues going to the Highway Trust Fund, for good reason. We can’t just tax our way out of this problem. Developing an Alternative In the meantime, we’re coming up with alternative mechanisms to finance our infrastructure. That’s one of my jobs as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, to help come up with that mechanism. But ultimately society has to come up with a new way of financing our infrastructure on a user-fee basis, because we’re all riding the road just as hard. We all still need drive places, but we’re paying a whole lot less because our engines are more efficient. So we’re trying to figure out a way of raising revenues on a user-fee basis, so that the user of the highway actually pays for the highway. And that is something that we need to figure out, because if we just keep raising gas taxes it’s going to be self-defeating. It’s going to take more money out of paychecks, it’s going to make manufacturing more expensive, and it hurts our ability to wrestle control of the international oil markets away from OPEC. And so for those reasons and many others we’re trying to find another mechanism for financing our highways.
05.18.2015	WASHINGTON – This morning, First District Congressman Paul Ryan took to the airwaves to provide an update on trade legislation making its way through Congress. In an interview with WLIP’s Bill Lawrence, Ryan stressed the importance of opening markets for American products and leading in the global economy: This is more transparent than any other trade promotion authority has ever been. Congress sets the guidelines; the country gets to see what’s in the trade agreement before a president even signs it—let alone Congress even considering it. But it’s really important we get trade agreements because other countries are opening up markets to their products with other countries, and, if we don’t, we will lose these markets. And in order to have more jobs, you’ve got to open up markets. The rules of the road are being written right now for the global economy, and I think America should write them, rather than China, which is very quickly trying to assert itself as the arbiter of these things. And that’s not in our interest. And when speaking with WRJN’s Mike Clemens, Ryan spoke about the growing support in Congress for trade legislation: We have good, bipartisan support, [and] I feel like we’re in a very good position. Trade is never easy—it always produces anxiety—but if you do not get good trade agreements for your country—opening markets up for our products to go into those countries, to be sold in these countries—we don’t get the jobs that we need. It’s just that simple. And if we don’t write the rules of the global economy, to bring the world to American standards, then the world will go towards other standards, such as China’s. And that undercuts American jobs, and we can’t let that happen. ###
05.17.2015	WASHINGTON — On Sunday, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) appeared on CNN’s State of the Union with Brianna Keilar to discuss the importance of trade promotion authority (TPA) legislation currently being considered by Congress. During their discussion, Chairman Ryan explained why new trade agreements are so vital to our economy and why Congress must pass TPA as soon as possible to ensure that we get the best agreements for American workers and job creators. To read more about his remarks, click here. Excerpts of Chairman Ryan’s appearance follow: On TPA empowering Congress: There’s a misnomer—it’s really not granting the president authority. It’s actually Congress asserting its prerogatives, its authority, in how trade agreements are done. On leveling the playing field for American workers: We have 150 guidelines that are required to be in any trade agreements to basically bring other countries up to American standards. And, if they don't meet those standards, we have ways of getting our disputes resolved so that we can hold them to account. The key thing is: Are these countries that we want to trade with going to open their markets to our products just like we already now open to theirs? That’s question one. Question two: Will they come and work in American standards versus China trying to come and write the rules, which degrade the standards of trade? And so that’s really what’s happening here. On the opportunity that trade with Asia provides: The other part is there’s going to be 3.2 billion people in the middle class in Asia by the year 2030. It’s an enormous market for America. And if we want more jobs and better wages, you have to trade. On the need for TPA to close out good agreements: Every president since Franklin Delano Roosevelt has had this ability. There’s no way we’re going to be able to get other countries to give us the best offer and good trade agreement if after getting that agreement, we take it back to Congress and rewrite the whole thing. On Hillary Clinton’s support for TPA: I think she is just being more political and more worried about her political base. I would assume she is in favor of it, given her past comments, given her role, but my guess is she is worried more about her Democratic primary politics.
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON — House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) released the following statement after the introduction of legislation to authorize the highway and transit programs through the end of July. "While highway and transit program spending authority expires at the end of the month, the Highway Trust Fund has sufficient resources to fund its obligations through the end of July. It was our preference to move an extension through the end of the year, but we will need more time to reach a bipartisan agreement on offsets. This legislation will allow transportation spending to continue through July, while we work towards a next step to close the Trust Fund’s shortfall. Doing so will require our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to be constructive in working towards a solution. Only then will we be able to produce a plan that gives states the certainty they need to build the roads, bridges, and other infrastructure our communities and economy need to thrive."
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON – ​This past Sunday, First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan appeared on 'Up Front with Mike Gousha' to discuss why trade promotion authority (TPA) is essential for getting international trade agreements that will grow our economy and expand access for American-made goods. In the interview, Congressman Ryan also called for the federal government to rethink its approach to fighting poverty so that it empowers local organizations and focuses on outcomes, not inputs. Watch Congressman Ryan discuss the need for ‘Welfare Reform 2.0’ here. His comments on trade promotion authority are available here.​ And excerpts of the interview follow. Making the Case for Trade Promotion Authority and Trade Agreements: “First of all, I think it’s important for jobs and for more wages, for higher wages. 1 in 5 jobs in America is tied to trade. 95 percent of the world’s consumers live in other countries. So if we want more jobs and higher wages in America, we have to break down barriers so we can make and grow things here in Wisconsin, in America, and sell them overseas. And if you’re not doing this, then you’re falling behind. “I think the president has been late to the game on trade, but at least he’s doing it. Now there are a couple of misperceptions about this: This isn’t Congress granting the president new powers. This is actually Congress binding the president to Congress’ will on how trade agreements must be done - the kinds of trade agreements, the procedures for which they negotiate them, and the transparency requirements so that people see what’s in a trade agreement before they even consider them. So this is really Congress asserting its authority at the earlier stage of the process rather than waiting at the very end of the process.” Rejecting ‘Urban legends’ about Immigration Changes in TPA: “There is no immigration whatsoever in this. There’s no immigration law change in here. And by the way, what trade promotion authority says is that only Congress can change American law. Only Congress can change law, whether it is trade laws or immigration laws, and no immigration laws will be changed in these trade agreements. We make that very clear.” Bipartisan Support for America Writing the Rules of the Global Economy: “Ron Kind, a leader who runs the New Democrat coalition and a Wisconsinite, is helping pass this so it’s an interesting mix of Republicans and Democrats. I think we will get it, because here’s the deal: If America chooses not to get trade agreements, if America says we’re not going to have the kind of trade promotion authority that is necessary to get these trade agreements, then America is basically saying, we’re withdrawing from the world and we’re ceding the global economy to be run and designed by the Chinese, by the Europeans, and by others. I don’t think people are going to stand for that. “We want America to lead, and we want America to write the rules of the global economy. And you have to do things like this in order to do that, and if we choose to look inward, to enter a decline phase, and not get out there and write the rules of the global economy, that’s not in our interest. And I think that at the end of the day, people are going to realize this, and that’s why I think we’ll pass this.” Fighting Poverty by Empowering Local Communities and Focusing on Outcomes: “The best way to get out of poverty is to work. The best way to be able to chart your own destiny and find your version of the American idea and give your kids a better life is to get a job and a career that pulls you out of poverty. And so, what we look at when we see the federal government is, in many ways, and it’s not really intended to be this way, but in many ways it disincentivizes work. It penalizes people for taking that risk and getting a job, because people lose more in benefits by taking that step into work than they gain in pay. So what we need to do is figure out how to harmonize our federal safety net and our welfare programs so that they’re aimed at not keeping people on welfare, keeping people from work, or disincentiving people from work, but getting people to work. And so that requires an overhaul of our federal programs and our approach to poverty fighting. “It also requires a respect of local communities. It requires respecting groups that are actually successful in helping transition people to deal with the problems they might have in confronting poverty and getting people from welfare to work. And then what we’re trying to do is focus on outcomes. Let’s not be political or ideological, let’s just focus on what works. And that’s something we haven’t done very well in the war on poverty. That’s why we need a new welfare reform. I call it ‘Welfare Reform 2.0.’ “The Ways and Means Committee is in charge of this, so for the next 2 years we’re proposing a lot of hearings. We’ve done many already and we’re talking to community leaders in local communities about their success stories and how we can replicate that at the federal level so we can really get people out of welfare and into work.” Welfare Reform is Not about Saving Money, It’s about Saving Lives: “We’re not talking about saving money; we’re talking about saving lives. Welfare reform will end up saving money because fewer people will use welfare, but we’re not doing this as a budget cutting exercise. What I would argue is there is an enormous status quo group out there that wants to see no changes, that wants to stick with the status quo, to stick with the programs as they’re currently designed and just dump more money into them. And if you don’t agree to increasing spending as much as they do, then you’re actually cutting these things. I don’t agreement with that assessment, I disagree with it. “I think we need to reform our entire approach, reform these programs and for those who are stuck to the status quo, some people call it the ‘poverty industrial complex,’ I do oppose that status quo because it’s not working. We still have 45 million people in poverty so when I see local groups making a bigger difference, and they are doing so in the wake of barriers the federal government has put in front of them, I want to remove these barriers, reform these programs and transition people from welfare to work. And it’s not for budget cutting reasons.” Focusing on Poverty Programs that Work and Supporting Local Groups who are Succeeding: “I’m not suggesting that we have no poverty programs; I’m suggesting we have ones that work. I’m suggesting we have a successful system. We want a safety net that is there to catch the people who cannot help themselves so that they can lead dignified lives. Then we want to the safety net for the able-bodied person, not to keep them where they are in life, to keep them in poverty, but to transition them onto a better life. That’s the goal of a safety net, and that’s what a 21st century safely net should look like, and that’s not what our safety net looks like today.” “Go around Milwaukee. Look at Milwaukee Works. Look at Running Rebels. Look at Violence Free School Zones. There are great home-grown ideas, people fighting poverty eye to eye, soul to soul, person to person that I think ought to be empowered to do more, and right now there are so many federal rules and regulations and barriers and blockades that we need to clear so that we can see more of this. It’s organic, bottom up grassroots poverty fighting and that I think is a better approach than this heavy handed top down government knows best heavy handed approach that we know just doesn’t work.”
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON — In an interview with C-SPAN, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan made the case for Congress passing trade promotion authority explaining how it empowers the legislative branch in trade agreements. Ryan also argued that the U.S. must provide a counterweight to China and take the lead in writing the rules of the global economy. Audio of the interview is available here. Excerpts of Chairman Ryan’s responses follow. 150 Guidelines in TPA Give Congress a say in Trade Agreements: “To my friends who are very suspicious or untrusting of this administration—and I share many of those concerns—trade promotion authority binds the administration to Congress’s will. Trade promotion authority puts Congress in charge of the process. Because there’s nothing stops a president from going out and negotiating an agreement and then just sending it to Congress. What we’re saying is we’re putting out the guidelines for what an agreement need to include - 150 guidelines that Congress is imposing on the administration. New transparency requirements, making sure the text is made available to the public before we even vote on it. Those are the kind of things that we’re insisting upon in trade promotion authority. So I would very much argue that by passing trade promotion authority you have Congress asserting its prerogatives, asserting its control of the process at the front end, instead of just sitting back waiting for the president to go negotiate something in secret and then send it to Congress.” Bipartisan Agreement to Expand U.S. Access to Foreign Markets: “We have to make things and sell overseas. And without trade agreements what companies inevitably have to do is manufacture in foreign markets in order to sell in those foreign markets. By getting a trade agreement to lower the barriers we can make things here in America and send them overseas because those barriers have been lifted. So that’s the key, and this is why it’s bipartisan. This is why you have President Barack Obama pushing for trade along with Republicans in Congress, because we know in the final analysis, when you strip out all the uncertainties and all the misperceptions, it’s really in America’s interest to do this.” Why America Must Lead the Charge on Trade: “95 percent of the world’s consumers don’t live in our country, they live in other countries. And so it’s vitally important that we open up markets for our products. Because, after all, 1 in 5 jobs in America is tied to trade, and most of these jobs pay more on average than non-trade-based jobs. And so it’s really a function of getting more economic growth, more job creation, and better wages.” *** “The global economy is here, and it’s always constantly changing. The question is: Do we lead and guide that change or do others write the rule book? And right now, it’s really a race for whether or not America and our allies run and write the rules of the global economy, or does China? And I for one don’t want to see China writing the rules of the global economy, because I don’t think that’s in our interest. I think it’s important for America to be in the front seat, leading and guiding this, so that we can have more American jobs and higher wages.” Providing a Counterweight to China through Trade Agreements: “China rigs the rules in its favor because it takes our intellectual property rights. It [commits] cyber theft. It subsidizes government corporations from China to unfairly compete against American workers. And so for a whole host of reasons, China does not play by the ordinary rules, and what we get with trade agreements is getting other countries around China to play by our rules so that we can set the standards. The goal is not to lower American standards, the goal is to get the other countries to come and trade by American standards. And you can’t do that if you don’t get trade agreements.”
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON – This morning on MSNBC’s Morning Joe, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan joined Bob Woodson, president of the Center for Neighborhood Enterprise, to discuss the Comeback miniseries and how we need to rethink how we fight poverty in order to expand economic opportunity for all Americans. Video of the interview is accessible here. Excerpts of Congressman Ryan’s responses follow. “We believe in opportunity. We believe in upward mobility. We believe in redemption. These are our core principles. These are our country’s core principles. And we believe in the American Idea, which is the condition of your birth doesn’t determine the outcome of your life. And it’s our job, our goal, our aspiration as conservatives, as Republicans—and this shouldn’t be a Republican or Democrat thing—but it’s our aspiration to make sure that everyone gets that shot at the American Idea. We believe in equality of opportunity and upward mobility. And so what we’re trying to figure out is how best to achieve that, and what I’ve learned from my friend and mentor here is there are a lot of people who are actually doing this. So let’s go listen and learn.” *** “We have a problem with economic mobility. We have a problem of getting opportunity into the hands of the people who need it. So let’s figure out how to do that, and that’s what our argument is. We can have a statistical debate. The point is, it’s not good enough. Let’s just agree that 45 million people living in poverty today is wrong, and we should do something about it. And then let’s figure out what works and, in investigating what works, go with what works, and let’s make our efforts outcome-based. Let’s make our efforts results-based. Let’s make our efforts focused on actually getting people out of poverty, not by treating symptoms of poverty and making it more tolerable, but by breaking the cycle of poverty. And I would argue that there are people who are already doing that, there are heroes in communities. That’s what this Opportunity Lives Comeback series is all about- there are people we should learn from, that we should get behind, that we can benefit from their wisdom and experience so that we can focus on outcomes, getting people out of poverty. And that’s something we need to do.” *** “What I find is people with credibility can help get people out of poverty. People who have experienced these things themselves and have gone through the journey of getting themselves out of poverty can help people avoid the same kinds of mistakes they made in their lives, and they are some of the best people. So sending some PhD person in who thinks they have it all figured out because they took a great class is not the answer. It’s the people with credibility, who have skin in the game, can really help, and our goal is to empower them.” ###
05.08.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, First District Congressman Paul Ryan released the following statement in response to the April jobs report. "I’m glad to see more Americans found jobs and their paychecks grew last month. But there are still more than 8 million people looking for work, and there’s a lot we need to do to turn one strong hiring month into consistent, robust job creation. That’s why the Ways and Means Committee is pursuing reforms to open up markets to American job creators and fix our broken tax code, so we can create more opportunity for everyone in our country."
05.04.2015	JANESVILLE—Today, First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced the first half of the 2015 mobile office tour schedule. From early May through late June, Congressman Ryan’s mobile office will visit communities all across Wisconsin’s First Congressional District. A list of scheduled stops for the First District mobile office by community follows this advisory, and a list of scheduled stops by date is available here. At each stop, a staff member of Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet with residents to discuss concerns or questions they may have about federal agencies or other issues. In announcing the mobile office tour schedule, Congressman Ryan said: “The mobile office is a great way to connect with First District residents who don’t have direct access to one of my permanent offices. Hearing from my employers is essential to my job in Congress, so I’ve always placed a high priority on making sure I’m accessible. The mobile office is a big part of that, and I hope Wisconsinites come out to visit the office and share their thoughts and concerns with my staff.” First District residents can check their local paper or Congressman Ryan’s website— paulryan.house.gov —for the latest mobile office schedule. Congressman Ryan established the mobile office to serve as an extension of existing First District Constituent Service Centers. Since 1999, the mobile office has made over 3,000 visits to different communities and has provided assistance to thousands of residents over the years. The schedule below indicates days, times, and locations for each mobile office tour stop, including where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or in an adjoining parking lot). First District Mobile Office Schedule May-June 2015 (by community) Milwaukee County Oak Creek: Tuesday, May 12th, Thursday, May 28th, Tuesday, June 9th, and Thursday, June 25th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Oak Creek Police Department, 301 W. Ryan Road. Franklin: Tuesday, May 12th, Thursday, May 28th, Tuesday, June 9th, and Thursday, June 25th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of Franklin Police Department, 9455 W. Loomis Road. Greendale: Tuesday, May 12th, Thursday, May 28th, Tuesday, June 9th, and Thursday, June 25th from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot at the Greendale Safety Center, 5911 W. Grange Avenue. Hales Corners: Tuesday, May 12th, Thursday, May 28th, Tuesday, June 9th, and Thursday, June 25th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Hales Corners Village Hall, 5635 South New Berlin Road. Waukesha County Muskego: Thursday, June 4th from 3:00-4:00pm, Tuesday, June 16th from 3:00-4:00pm, and Tuesday, June 30th from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot of the Muskego Police Department, W183 S8150 Racine Avenue. Mukwonago: Tuesday, May 19th from 11:00am-12:00pm, Thursday, June 4th from 9:00-10:00am, and Tuesday, June 16th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Mukwonago Police Department, 627 South Rochester Street. Eagle: Tuesday, May 26th from 1:00-2:00pm, Thursday, June 11th from 2:45-3:45pm, and Tuesday, June 23rd from 2:45-3:45pm, parking lot of the Eagle Fire Department, 126 East Main Street. Big Bend: Tuesday, May 19th from 3:00-4:00pm, Thursday, June 4th from 1:00-2:00pm, and Tuesday, June 16th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the Big Bend Village Hall, W230S9185 Nevins Street. North Prairie: Thursday, May 14th from 2:45-3:45pm, Tuesday, May 26th from 11:15-12:15pm, and Thursday, June 11th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the North Prairie Village Hall, 130 N. Harrison Street. Town of Vernon: Tuesday, May 19th from 1:00-2:00pm, and Thursday, June 4th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Town of Vernon Fire Department, W223 S7475 Woodland Avenue, Big Bend. Town of Genesee: Thursday, May 14th from 1:00-2:00pm, Thursday, June 11th from 11:15am-12:15pm, and Tuesday, June 23rd from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the Town of Genesee Town Hall, S43 W3191 Highway 83, Genesee Depot. Wales: Thursday, May 14th from 11:15am-12:15pm, Tuesday, May 26th from 9:30-10:30am, Tuesday, June 23rd from 11:15am-12:15pm, parking lot of the Wales Village Hall, 129 S. Main Street, Wales. Dousman: Thursday, May 14th, Thursday, June 11th, and Tuesday, June 23rd, from 9:30-10:30am, parking lot of the Dousman Village Hall, 118 S. Main Street, Dousman. Walworth County East Troy: Tuesday, May 19th from 9:00-10:00am, Tuesday, May 26th from 2:45-3:45pm, and Tuesday, June 16th, from 9:00-10:00am, parking lot of the East Troy Police Department, 2015 Energy Drive. Elkhorn: Thursday, May 21st from 3:00-4:00pm, Tuesday, June 2nd from 9:00-10:00am, and Thursday, June 18th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of Walworth County Sheriff’s Department, 1770 County Rd NN. Delavan: Wednesdays, May 20th, June 3rd, and June 17th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Delavan Municipal Building, 123 South 2nd Street. Darien: Wednesdays, May 20th, June 3rd, and June 17th from 1:30-2:30pm, street parking outside the Darien Village Hall/Police Department, 20 North Wisconsin Street. Genoa City: Wednesdays, May 27th, and June 24th from 9:00-10:00am, street parking outside the Genoa City Village Hall, 715 Walworth Street. Lake Geneva: Thursdays, May 21st, and June 18th from 9:00-10:00am, municipal parking lot across from the Lake Geneva Police Department, 626 Geneva Street. Williams Bay: Thursday, May 21st, from 11:00am-12:00pm, Tuesday, June 2nd, from 3:00-4:00pm, and Thursday, June 18th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Williams Bay Police Department, 250 Williams Street. Sharon: Tuesday, June 2nd from 11:00am-12:00pm, and Thursday, June 18th from 1:00-2:00pm, street parking in front of the Sharon Village Hall, 125 Plain Street. Walworth: Thursday, May 21st, and Tuesday, June 2nd from 1:00-2:00pm, street parking in front of the Walworth Village Hall, 227 North Main Street. Racine County Burlington: Wednesday, May 13th from 9:00-10:00am, and Wednesday, June 10th from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Burlington Police Department, 224 E. Jefferson Street. Waterford: Wednesday, June 10th, from 9:00-10:00am, and Tuesday, June 30th, from 11:00am-12:00pm, parking lot of the Town of Waterford Police Department, 415 N. Milwaukee. Union Grove: Wednesday, May 13th from 11:00am-12:00pm, and Wednesday, June 10th, from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the Union Grove Municipal Building, 925 15th Avenue. Sturtevant: Wednesday, May 13th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of the Sturtevant Police Department, 2801 89th Street. Village of Mount Pleasant: Wednesdays, May 13th, and June 10th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Mount Pleasant Police Department, 8811 Campus Drive, Mount Pleasant. Kenosha County Bristol: Wednesday, June 24th from 1:00-2:00pm, and Tuesday, June 30th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Kenosha County Center, 19600 75th Street. Silver Lake: Wednesday, May 27th from 1:00-2:00pm, and Wednesday, June 24th from 11:00am-12:00pm, street parking outside the Silver Lake Village Hall, 113 South 1st Street. Pleasant Prairie: Wednesdays May 27th, and June 24th from 3:00-4:00pm, parking lot of the Roger Prange Municipal Building, 8600 Green Bay Road. Twin Lakes: Wednesday, May 27th from 11:00am-12:00pm, and Tuesday, June 30th from 1:00-2:00pm, parking lot of Twin Lakes Police Department, 920 Lance Drive. Rock County Milton: Wednesdays, May 20th, June 3rd, and June 17th from 9:30-10:30am, parking lot of the Milton Police Department, 690 South Janesville Street. Clinton: Wednesdays, May 20th, June 3rd, and June 17th from 11:30am-12:30pm, rear parking lot of the Clinton Village Hall, across from the Police Department, 301 Cross Street.
05.03.2015	click to watch video WASHINGTON —This morning, on CBS's Face the Nation, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) spoke with Bob Schieffer about getting beyond the violence in Baltimore and getting onto fixing the issues plaguing American cities. Congressman Ryan also made the case for trade promotion authority, which is a necessary step to securing the best trade agreements possible with European and Asian nations. Video of Congressman Ryan’s interview is available here. Excerpts of his responses follow. Passing TPA to get the best trade deals possible: “We need to pass something called trade promotion authority, which empowers Congress to make sure we get the best trade agreement possible. But in a world where 95 percent of the world’s consumers live in other countries, not our country, we have to break down trade barriers so that we can have more jobs here at home, making more things in America and selling them overseas. . . . “If you’re standing still on trade you’re losing, you’re falling behind. There were 48 trade agreements in Asia since 2000; we were a part of two of them. Only two! As a result, our share of trade in Asia has gone down 42 percent. . . . “The rules of the global economy are being written right now, there is no question about that. The question is: Who is going to write them? Are we going to write the rules with our allies? Or is China going to write them for China’s benefit, which is not in our interest? “Those are the kinds of things that are occurring and being decided right now. That is why we need, on a bipartisan basis, to engage on trade to make it fair, to make more jobs, to help America get ahead and to help us set the standards. And so the kind of trade agreements we’re trying to talk about here is bring other countries up to our standards so we can have a fair deal because these countries can already sell to America pretty much unrestricted. We don’t have the kind of access to their markets that they have to ours, and that’s what we’re trying to get with this trade agreement.” On the lessons learned from Baltimore: “Let’s try and understand the anxieties that are underneath the meaning of this. And that’s why I think all of us need to engage more as Americans in these communities where there is this anxiety, where there is this real despair. . . . “I’ve been trying to do a version of this myself over the last number of years and you can learn a lot and I think that there is a lot to be taken. So let’s use this episode as a teaching moment. That means Americans need to engage with each other and understand and listen to different perspectives so that we can try to come together and heal and find better answers for helping solve problems like poverty.” Restoring the American Idea for All: “The American Idea is: the situation of your birth doesn’t determine the outcome of your life. Anybody in this country can overcome their current circumstances and make a better life for themselves and their kids. We were taught to believe that. We believe that. But there are a lot of people who don’t believe that. I think that’s one of the lessons you get from Baltimore. . . . “We have an obligation to make sure that we can make sure that those ideals are experienced and expressed and realized in the hearts of America that aren’t seeing that. And so this should not be an electoral issue. This should be a fix for America’s poverty trap and I really believe we’re on the cusp of this. I really believe the country is ripe for this. We just had a hearing at the Ways and Means Committee yesterday on this issue and it was very exciting because we had Republicans and Democrats agreeing that the status quo isn’t working and we are listening from people fighting poverty in their communities and they are telling us how they’re doing a good job of doing it and how we can help them do more it. “That’s the kind of dynamic and thing we need to do. It shouldn’t be about getting votes, it should be about saving lives." Finding Inspiration from Poverty-Fighters across America: “There are incredible stories of redemption going on right now under our noses in the poorest communities in America that are just absolutely jaw-dropping and inspiring, and there is a lot we can learn from that. There’s a mini-series called 'Comeback' on OpportunityLives.com that you can watch to see these stories. And what these stories in my judgment are, are the classic American principles being applied to the problems of the day producing real solutions getting people out of poverty. “And so what I thought was after a 50 year war on poverty and trillions of dollars spent, we still have the same poverty rates. There are still 45 million people in poverty so I think what we as a country - and this isn’t a Republican-Democrat thing – it’s we as a country need to say: ‘That’s not good enough. We’re not getting the results we need. What do we need to do to get results?’ “And I think the best thing we can do is go listen to people who are fighting poverty right now, and especially those who are overcoming it.” Rethinking the Federal Government’s Role in Fighting Poverty: “What the federal government is good at doing is providing resources. What the federal government is bad at doing is dictating solutions. And so, what we have done at the federal government is we have measured success based on inputs - how much money are we spending, how many programs are we creating, how many people are on the programs - rather than measuring success based on results, outcomes, how many people we’re actually getting off of poverty. And what I think the federal government has done is displaced local problem-solving with top-down, one-size-fits-all, and it’s not working. “We need to go to an outcome-based approach and rework our poverty fighting strategies, overhaul our poverty fighting strategies to focus on results and outcomes, and that means listening to people on the ground fighting poverty.”
04.30.2015	This week, First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan has been making the case for swift Congressional consideration of the Bipartisan Congressional Trade and Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015, which will give Congress a say in trade agreements with Pacific and European nations, increase accountability and transparency, and ensure American workers and job creators get the best trade deals possible. On Saturday, Congressman Ryan delivered the Weekly Republican Address, saying in part: “Right now, the United States is negotiating two historic trade agreements—one with our friends on the Pacific Rim and another with our friends in Europe. We need these trade agreements so we can lay down fair and strong rules that tear down trade barriers and open markets to American products. "Ninety six percent of the world's consumers—they don't live in the United States; they live in other countries. We have to make more things in America and sell them overseas, so we can create more jobs here at home. And when we do, America's workers will benefit. Manufacturing jobs that rely on trade pay 16 percent more on average. "But today, the deck is stacked against our workers in far too many places. We let other countries sell their products over here. But they've put up trade barriers that make it hard to sell our products over there. “These trade agreements will level the playing field for America's workers. But to complete them, we need TPA.” This morning at IJReview.com, Congressman Ryan detailed precisely how Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) will make these trade agreements more transparent and how it will hold the President accountable: “Here are the top eight ways TPA will empower Congress: Read the negotiating text: Right now, nothing requires the administration to allow a member of Congress to read the negotiating text of an agreement. But under TPA, every member will be able to read the text of the agreement all throughout the talks. Receive up-to-date briefings: Sometimes, reading the text isn’t enough. A member of Congress wants to know where the talks are headed. TPA will require the U.S. trade representative’s (USTR) office to brief any member who asks on the status of the negotiations. Attend negotiating rounds: If that’s not enough, how about actually attending the talks? Under TPA, any interested member will be able to become a “congressional adviser” to U.S. negotiators. All designated congressional advisers will be able to attend negotiating rounds. Consult with negotiators: TPA will also create House and Senate Advisory Groups on Negotiations to oversee the talks and receive regular briefings, according to a fixed timetable. Any member will be able to submit his or her views to the group. Provide public summaries: Right now, there’s little public information about how an agreement is shaping up. TPA will require USTR to post up-to-date summaries of each chapter of the agreement so people can see what’s up. Create with a new transparency officer: TPA will create a chief transparency officer at USTR that will consult with Congress and the public on transparency policies. Make the text public: The ultimate judge is the American people, so they should be able to read the text themselves. For the first time ever, TPA will codify in law the public’s right to review the agreement before the President puts his signature on it. TPA will require the administration to publish the text of a completed trade agreement at least 60 days before agreeing to it. That’s even before Congress considers a vote. Tell Congress how he will implement the agreement: Finally, at least 30 days before Congress considers the final bill, the president must tell Congress how he intends to enact the agreement if Congress passes the implementing bill.” And yesterday, in advance of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s address before a joint session of Congress, Ryan penned a piece in the Washington Post calling for Japan to drop trade barriers and open agriculture and auto markets to U.S. products, noting: “If the United States and Japan lock arms, we can resist China’s bullying and reassert leadership in the Asia-Pacific. In the long term, a successful TPP would be a sign of renewed vigor in our alliance — in which all our allies could take comfort. And in the near term, the clearest sign of a successful state visit would be a firm commitment from Abe to eliminate the farm and auto barriers. The United States is waiting. The world is watching. And for both countries, the opportunity is huge. Shinzo Abe is a once-in-a-generation leader with a once-in-a-generation opportunity. He put it best when he said, “Without action, there can be no growth.” I can think of no better reason to drop the trade barriers and complete the TPP.” To find out more on why TPA and trade are so important for our economy growth, click here.
04.30.2015	JANESVILLE – On Saturday, April 25, First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced Westosha Central High School senior Rebecca Lawrence as the winner of the First District Congressional Art Competition. Rebecca, a native of Bristol, Wisconsin, was honored during a ceremony held at the Olde Towne Mall in Janesville. The ceremony was attended by the student artists, their friends and families, their art teachers, and the judges of the First District Art Competition. Rebecca states that the intent of her piece, an ink-based drawing titled “Outside The Lines,” is to illustrate the stigma survivors of domestic abuse face, particularly those who have more difficulty moving past these. Rebecca’s art teacher at Westosha Central High School is Vincent Kuepper. In announcing the results of the annual competition, Congressman Ryan said: “Every year we host this competition I am amazed by the amount of young artistic talent we have right here in southern Wisconsin. Though we’re only able to select one winner, we had a number of great entries by talented students across our district and they should all be proud of their work. I want to congratulate Rebecca on winning this year’s competition and thank all of the young artists who participated in this year’s competition.” Each year, Congressman Ryan invites high schools students in the First District to participate in the congressional art competition. The winning artwork is selected by a panel of judges comprised of local artists, and is then submitted to represent Wisconsin’s First District in the national “Congressional Art Competition: An Artistic Discovery.” This nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by members of Congress, gives high-school artists the opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity. The winning artwork from each district is put on display within the U.S. Capitol for an entire year where it can be viewed by the millions of visitors who pass through the Capitol throughout the year. A photo of Congressman Ryan, Rebecca Lawrence, and her winning entry “Outside The Lines” is accessible here.
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON – This morning, at a breakfast hosted by the Christian Science Monitor, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Committee Chair Paul Ryan (R-WI) spoke with reporters about Trade Promotion Authority, which would allow the U.S. to get the best possible trade agreements from European and Asian nations, fixing our broken tax code, and the importance of welfare reforms that expand economic opportunity for all Americans. Photo by Brian Dozier, CS Monitor The Christian Science Monitor covers Ryan’s approach to passing Trade Promotion Authority: Free trade. He expects the House to eventually pass “fast-track” trade legislation, which would give Congress an up-or-down say on trade agreements, but not the authority to amend a deal. Many Democrats and Republicans are against fast-track, saying free trade is a job-killer. The key to winning over the skeptics, he says, is educating them about the bill, which he says is much improved from the past. Ryan was a key negotiator on the bipartisan fast-track bill that’s now moving through both chambers. More from Ryan on Trade Promotion Authority and the Trans Pacific Partnership is available here. The Washington Examiner on Ryan’s desire for reforms to welfare programs: House Ways and Means Chairman Rep. Paul Ryan, responding to the troubles in Baltimore, said that another round of welfare reform is needed to help move the poor from government dependence to a job. "Just because we are for limited government, as Republicans, doesn't mean that we are for no government. We're for effective government, limited but effective government," he said in responding to the Baltimore riots during a breakfast roundtable sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor. Ryan said that the War on Poverty hasn't worked and a shift needs to be made to helping the poor out of poverty, not keeping them there. "We need to change our poverty fighting metrics, from measuring success based on inputs, effort, spending, programs, to outcomes, to results. Are we actually getting people out of poverty," he said the goal should be. “We need to change our poverty fighting metrics, from measuring success based on inputs, effort, spending, programs, to outcomes, to results. Are we actually getting people out of poverty." For more on how Congressman Ryan would address urban poverty, click here. McClatchy News summarizes Ryan’s views on the prospects of tax reform: “We realize it will be a limited tax reform. It won’t be a big, comprehensive across-the-board (revamp) because we have Obama,” Ryan told reporters at a breakfast held by the Christian Science Monitor. “We see tax reform – full and comprehensive tax reform – as a 2017 project. But a down payment on the project in 2015 is very possible. And it’s also part of fixing our international (tax) rules and financing the Highway Trust Fund.”
04.27.2015	In last week’s Republican Address, First District Congressman and Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan discussed advancing America's trade agenda with more accountability and transparency by establishing trade promotion authority. The address concluded a busy week, during which the Trade Priorities and Accountability Act was successfully passed by the committee and sent to the full House of Representatives. The full text of the Congressman Ryan’s address is available below. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery "Hi I'm Paul Ryan chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. "This week, our committee passed a bill that we are pretty excited about. It would establish what we call TPA—or 'trade promotion authority.' And soon that bill will go before Congress. "I think this is one of the most important things Congress can do for the country right now. So, here's the issue. "Right now, the United States is negotiating two historic trade agreements—one with our friends on the Pacific Rim and another with our friends in Europe. We need these trade agreements so we can lay down fair and strong rules that tear down trade barriers and open markets to American products. "Ninety six percent of the world's consumers—they don't live in the United States; they live in other countries. We have to make more things in America and sell them overseas, so we can create more jobs here at home. And when we do, America's workers will benefit. Manufacturing jobs that rely on trade pay 16 percent more on average. "But today, the deck is stacked against our workers in far too many places. We let other countries sell their products over here. But they've put up trade barriers that make it hard to sell our products over there. "These trade agreements will level the playing field for America's workers. But to complete them, we need TPA. "So what is it? "TPA is a process for getting the most effective trade agreements possible—and holding the administration accountable all along the way. "TPA puts Congress in the driver's seat—because it lets Congress set the agenda. We say to the administration three things. First, here are your negotiating objectives—150 of them. Tear down barriers to our products. Beef up protections for our intellectual property. Get rid of kickbacks for foreign-government firms. "Second, here are your transparency requirements. To name a few: You've got to let any member of Congress read the negotiating offers at any time. You even have to allow any member to attend the negotiating rounds. And 60 days before the administration even agrees to any agreement, you've got to publish the full text so the American people can read it for themselves. "And third, Congress gets the final say. If you meet all the requirements, we'll give the agreement an up-or-down vote—without amendment. This will give our trading partners the confidence they need to make their best offers. "But if the administration doesn't do all we've said, we can cancel the vote, change it, or stop it completely. In short, TPA will hold the administration accountable and get us the highest quality agreements possible. "The stakes are high—because in the global economy, if you're not moving forward, you're falling behind. China is negotiating trade deals all over the world, and they're trying to rig the rules in their favor. So it all comes down to this question: Is China going to write the rules of the global economy, or are we? "Are we going to rise to the occasion and provide American leadership in the world? "This is our challenge—and our opportunity. We have a chance here to write the rules on our terms. to raise other countries to our standards to create more opportunity for our people. "All across the country, people are coming together to support TPA: farmers, ranchers, manufacturers, Democrats, Republicans. Theyknow the stakes. They know what this means for our country. And Congress should not let them down. "We're the only country that can do this. We're the only country that can stand up for free enterprise and the rule of law. This is our moment. It's our chance to lead to restore American leadership in the world. "We've still got a lot of work to do. But it all begins with TPA and this vote. Thank you."
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, the House Ways and Means Committee favorably voted to send important trade legislation, the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act, to the full House of Representatives. The legislation passed the Committee on a 25-13 vote, with two Democrats joining all Committee Republicans in support. First District Congressman and Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan released the following statement. "Today we took an important step toward a healthier economy and stronger American leadership in the world. This bill will help us achieve the best trade agreements for American workers and job creators. It will allow the United States—instead of China—to write the rules of the economy. And it will hold the president accountable to Congress. TPA puts Congress in the driver's seat of trade negotiations and provides the transparency that Americans deserve. I want to thank all the members of the Committee who helped us get here, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House to pass this bill into law soon."
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON — House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) took to the airwaves to make the case for trade promotion authority, speaking with several news outlets over the past 24 hours. Speaking with Fox News’ Greta Van Susteren on On the Record, Chairman Ryan said: "The rest of the world is going around getting trade agreements and the U.S. is losing. There is a race right now to write the rules of the global economy, the question is: Who is going to write the rules? Is it the U.S. and our allies or is it in this case China? And so what we’re trying to do is make sure that we write the rules of the global economy that benefit American workers and that benefit American jobs." Speaking with MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough and Mika Brezinski on Morning Joe, Chairman Ryan said: "Ninety five percent of the world’s consumers, they don’t live in America, they live in other countries. If we want to have more, higher-paying jobs, we need to be able to make and grow things in American and sell them overseas." Speaking with CNBC’s Joe Kernen on Squawk Box, Chairman Ryan said: "This is good for jobs. It's about getting a better deal for our workers and leveling the playing field. And so if you are standing still on trade these days, you're slipping behind." Speaking with Bloomberg TV’s Peter Cook on In the Loop, Chairman Ryan said: "One in five jobs in America is tied to trade. It is very important in this global economy that we get better jobs for our workers and level the playing field and open up new customers."
04.21.2015	JANESVILLE – Yesterday morning, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan talked with Jay Weber of News/Talk 1130WISN about the importance of passing Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) and the need to reform the IRS. Excerpts of the interview follow. Expanding American Access to Foreign Markets: I introduced a bill that I negotiated for the last 3 months with the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Orin Hatch from Utah and Ron Wyden from Oregon, a Democrat and a Republican. Basically the deal is this: 95% of the world’s consumers, they don’t live in America. They live in other countries. So if we want to have more jobs, more sales, higher wages, we have to make and grow more things in America and sell them overseas. That means we need to open markets to our products. That is why we need trade agreements. We’re currently negotiating TPP, the Trans-Pacific Partnership with 11 other countries. In order to get the best type of agreement, you need to have what’s called trade promotion authority, which says that we will consider an agreement in its entirety once it is agreed to in Congress so that our partners will give us the best possible agreement. Japan isn’t going to give us the best possible agreement if they think that Congress will rewrite the entire agreement so we have to give them this ability to know that we will consider their agreement up or down. What we did this time that is different is we put Congress in the driver’s seat at the front of the process instead of the back. So Congress is putting in the guidelines that any new trade agreement must conform to for Congress to consider it. We want the public to know so these trade agreements must be made public for 60 days before we can even consider it so everybody knows what it actually in a trade agreement. If the administration does not conform to the new level of transparency, of accountability, if it doesn’t adhere by the guidelines put forth by Congress, then Congress can rescind the trade promotion authority for the agreement. It’s sort of a trust but verify with more transparency, more accountability. The goal here is to get better trade agreements for American products so we can make and sell things overseas. Holding the IRS Accountable We spent two years in an IRS investigation that is far from complete, I might add. But two years of an IRS investigation where we found without a shred of doubt, lots of evidence the IRS was targeting people based on their political views. We looked at the system, the culture and the law governing the IRS, and we had 7 different pieces of legislation — a taxpayer bill of rights if you will — governing how the IRS needed to conduct itself. Giving people the right is the basic tenant. The culture that dominated the IRS was that the IRS thought the taxpayers worked for them, but really it is the other way around. The IRS works for us as citizens, as taxpayers. We learned to reaffirm our rights as citizens and that is why we passed these seven bills guaranteeing people their rights before the IRS and making things like targeting people based on their political beliefs a criminal offense with the Internal Revenue Service. . . . *** One of the things we noticed was the Internal Revenue Service in some instances leaked classified tax information to opponents of political organizations so they could harass and intimidate the donors to those political organizations. It’s just absolutely mystifying the kind of conduct they have. What we’re doing is giving the tax payers the rights back, putting the IRS back in its place and making sure if anything like this happens again it’s a criminal offense so there is no ambiguity whatsoever about it. The whole point of this is so we don’t have another Lois Lerner 2.0. Fixing Our Tax Code Well, that is my main goal to do comprehensive tax reform. The only way to really grow the economy, create more jobs and reduce the power of the IRS is to reduce their subjectivity, which has this crazy complicated tax code that gives the IRS so much power. The goal of tax reform isn’t simply to clean up the IRS and get it out of our lives. The goal of tax reform is to get crony capitalism out of our system. It is to get the special-interest provisions out of the tax code, reduce tax rates across the board, and dramatically simplify all the tax systems so that we can get a faster-growing economy. The way it basically works today [is] you send your money to Washington. If you do what Washington approves, you will get some of your money back. I just disagree with the whole premise of that. I think people should keep more of their own money and let them do what they want with it. It is their own money after all. We’re going to be looking at what an overhaul of the whole tax system look like. The problem is, in the next year and a half, we have Barack Obama as President and it will be very difficult to do what I could call “comprehensive” tax reform that I and many others like. . . . Dramatically overhauling that to me is the best way to go. I think that is something that is very doable in a post-Obama presidency. So the question is: What can we do in the meantime? We’re looking at what we can do to help American businesses be more competitive, to lower their tax rates, and make it easier so that businesses can take the money they have overseas back to America. There is two trillion dollars of capital parked overseas and it can’t come back basically because of our tax law. That is something we have to fix so we can get that money re-invested in America and make the American economy more competitive. So we’re looking at what interim steps can be done this summer, sort of the kind of tax reform I was just discussing. Hunting Turkey in Wisconsin: I planted trees in the backyard, did my honey-dos for my wife, went out and got my turkey because my turkey tag was this weekend, after working on negotiating trade-agreements legislation which is important for jobs and the economy. For me, I am doing exactly what I want to do. I have an important job that can make a huge difference on the weekdays and I am home on the weekends with my family turkey hunting, yard work, playing with my kids. That is what I want to be doing.
04.16.2015	click to play video WASHINGTON — This afternoon on CNBC’s Closing Bell, House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) discussed the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015. During the interview, Ryan reiterated the importance of reaching a trade agreement with 12 Pacific nations and explained why the United States should be writing the rules for the global economy, rather than China. Excerpts of Chairman Ryan’s responses follow. Video of the interview is accessible here. Advancing reforms to build a healthy economy: "I’m for jobs, I’m for expanding trade, and I am for bringing markets to American products. That’s why this is necessary. I am for making sure America is writing the rules of the global economy with our trade." Getting Congress involved in trade ensures transparency and accountability: "[TPA] actually puts Congress in the driver’s seat here. This is Congress putting up obligations that the President has to submit to, that he has to conform to, when negotiating a trade agreement. It’s 150 guidelines that the administration has to hew to with transparency and accountability in order to get a trade agreement an up or down vote in Congress and then, if Congress decides that he did fulfill those obligations then we’ll do that up or down vote. And if Congress decides that he did not fulfill those obligations then we can remove TPA for that particular trade agreement. So, what this really does Kelly, is it puts Congress in the driver’s seat along with the administration and it gets Congress involved in the front end of the process." Expanding access to markets is good for America’s job-creators and workers: "The question really here is: who is going to write the rules of the global economy? Is it going to be the U.S. and our allies? Or is it going to be China? That’s one question. 96% of the world’s consumers don’t live in America. They live in other countries. And if we want more jobs, if we want higher wages, we need to make more things in America and sell them overseas. And that’s why we need to open up markets." "We need to get in the game. We need to lower trade barriers. Oh and by the way, 1 out of 5 jobs in America, they are tied to trade and those jobs on average pay more than other jobs. So, we need to get in this game and we need to write the rules of the road. We want American jobs to be increased and more wages and we think these trade agreements, done correctly, will do this. And we think this Trade Promotion Authority is the right balance to give the President the tools he needs to get a good agreement. But giving him obligations for Congress: accountability, transparency with the American public, and we are setting the standards that need to be hewed to in any trade agreement when he actually brings one back to Congress."
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON — Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) today introduced bipartisan, bicameral Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation that establishes concrete rules for international trade negotiations to help the United States deliver strong, high-standard trade agreements that will boost American exports and create new economic opportunities and better jobs for American workers, manufacturers, farmers, ranchers and entrepreneurs. The Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (TPA-2015) outlines 21st century congressional negotiating objectives that any administration— Republican or Democratic—must follow when entering into and conducting trade talks with foreign countries while also increasing transparency by requiring that Congress have access to important information surrounding pending trade deals and that the public receive detailed updates and see the full details of trade agreements well before they are signed. When the trade agreement meets the United States’ objectives and Congress is sufficiently consulted, the legislation allows for trade deals to be submitted to Congress for an up-or-down vote, an incentive for negotiating nations to put their best offer forward for any deal. At the same time, the bill creates a new mechanism to withdraw TPA procedures and hold the administration accountable should it fail to meet the requirements of TPA. "If we want to have a healthy economy with better jobs and bigger paychecks for more families and individuals, we must engage with other nations through trade. Our nation has been without Trade Promotion Authority since 2007. So, while other nations have moved forward and created trade agreements to benefit their workers, the United States has fallen behind,” Hatch said. "This is a smart, bipartisan compromise that will help move America forward. The renewal of TPA will help American workers and job creators unlock new opportunities for growth and promote better, higher-paying jobs here at home. If we want to maintain our nation’s economic leadership and promote American values around the world, we must reach beyond our borders, and this bill is a strong first step." "Opening foreign markets, where most of the world’s consumers reside, is critical to creating new opportunities for middle-class American Jobs. This bill, together with strong new enforcement tools, Trade Adjustment Assistance and the Health Coverage Tax Credit, sets our country on the right track to craft trade policies that work for more people," Wyden said."I'm proud this bipartisan bill creates what I expect to be unprecedented transparency in trade negotiations, and ensures future trade deals break new ground to promote human rights, improve labor conditions, and safeguard the environment. At the core of this agreement is a new mandate for the Open Internet, free speech and digital commerce, by ensuring information can flow freely across national borders over the Internet." "A good trade agreement will help create a healthier economy and high-paying American jobs. It will also strengthen our hand abroad and ensure that the United States is writing the rules of the global economy, instead of nations like China. But a good trade agreement requires a good TPA bill, and that’s why I’m proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation,"said Ryan. "The bill makes sure that Congress will set the priorities in our trade agreements, and it includes unprecedented accountability, transparency, and enforceability measures. TPA will help us get the best deals for the American economy and American workers. I want to thank Senators Hatch and Wyden for their tireless work on this important bill, and I look forward to working with all my House colleagues to pass it into law." TPA-2015 creates a stronger, more effective framework for Congress to partner with an administration in the pursuit of trade agreements that meets the demands of the 21st century global economy—a framework that ensures Congress has a strong voice in negotiations. The bill establishes new trade-negotiating objectives that reflect today’s economic challenges, including measures to combat currency manipulation, and eliminate barriers to innovation and digital trade, among others. Updated provisions address government involvement in cyber theft, protect trade secrets and the negotiating objectives continue to call for trade agreements to provide a high standard of intellectual property protection. The bill also updates provisions to promote human rights, and strengthen labor and environment protection, to reflect America’s most recent trade accords. Furthermore, TPA-2015 modifies TPA procedures to enhance accountability of the Executive Branch and further strengthen congressional oversight and creates a new mechanism for the removal of expedited procedures for a trade agreement if, in the judgment of either the House or Senate, that agreement does not meet the requirements of TPA. The TPA bill comes as the two of the most ambitious trade negotiations in the nation’s history —the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (T-TIP)—are underway to further tear down trade barriers to American goods and services. According to data from the World Bank, together these two trade agreements would further open markets encompassing nearly 1.3 billion customers and approximately 60 percent of global gross domestic product. [1] TPA expired in 2007 and is needed for the United States to successfully conclude these negotiations. A summary the bill can be found here, section-by-section summary of bill here and a copy of the bill text can be found here.
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON — First District Congressman Paul Ryan released the following statement in response to Senate passage of H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, legislation permanently repealing the flawed Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR). "Years of hard work have finally paid off. Medicare is now on sounder footing, and our seniors have more security. Much more needs to be done to save Medicare, but this legislation includes important structural reforms, makes the program more focused on quality care, and allows Congress to now focus on the patient-centered reform needed to preserve Medicare for future generations. The big bipartisan support behind it gives me confidence that we can still do big things around here, and I hope to build off this success as we tackle other challenges this year."
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON — First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan released the following statement marking Tax Day, the deadline for Americans filing their income taxes. "Today is more than a deadline; it's a call to action. "There's no getting around the fact that our tax code is a mess. It sends jobs overseas, it discourages productivity, and it punishes hard work. But President Obama wants to make it worse. He wants to raise yet another $2 trillion in taxes and give even more special carve-outs to his favorite industries. Our tax code should not pick winners and losers. Our country can't reach its potential with a tax code that punishes people for reaching their own. "That's why the Ways and Means Committee is working to fix our tax code—every last word of it. If we make our tax code simpler, flatter, and fairer, we can create more jobs and more take-home pay. "We don't see eye to eye with this President. But I'm hopeful that we can find some common ground. I believe we can work together to simplify our code and create a better system for American job creators—big and small—in the next year. And regardless of how long it takes, whether it's with this president or the next, we remain committed to real reform that will create opportunity for all Americans."
04.10.2015	WASHINGTON — Earlier this week, First District Congressman and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan held a series of eight listening sessions across southern Wisconsin, speaking to more than 1,100 constituents about the key issues before Congress. During these sessions, Congressman Ryan discussed some of the major legislative priorities of the Ways and Means Committee, such as passing trade promotion authority to help expand markets for Wisconsin products, fixing our broken tax code to make it friendlier for families and small businesses, and promoting patient-centered alternatives to Obamacare. He also took questions on other important issues like the Administration’s recently announced framework for Iran’s nuclear program, how Congress can hold the IRS accountable, and paying down our national debt. The Power Point presentation used by Congressman Ryan can be found here. To read more about Congressman Ryan’s visit to Dousman and Mukwonago, click here. For a recap of Wednesday’s sessions in Racine, Elkhorn, and Racine, visit here. And for additional information on Congressman Ryan’s listening sessions, check out these pieces from the Racine Journal Times and the Kenosha News. The Racine Journal Times – Ryan: Medicare and Social Security unsustainable Kenosha News – Ryan talks terrorism, fiscal issues
04.09.2015	OAK CREEK — Yesterday, First District Congressman Paul Ryan continued his listening-session tour through southern Wisconsin, starting in Racine, stopping in Oak Creek, and finishing in Elkhorn. During the sessions, Congressman Ryan shared his views on pressing issues that have far-reaching implications for all Americans, like the federal budget and national debt. Excerpts from some of Congressman Ryan’s answers are below. Selling More American Products Overseas Congressman Ryan explained the importance of passing trade promotion authority and expanding markets for Wisconsin businesses: “Why does this really matter? Well, nearly 96 percent of the world’s consumers don’t live in this country; they live in other countries. And if you’re standing still on trade, you’re falling behind, because all of these other countries are going around the world getting better trade agreements between their countries and freezing us out. “There have been 48 trade agreements in Asia since 2000, and America has been a party to only two. As a result, our exports to this area—our trade, our competition in trad—has gone down 42 percent. And when most of the consumers of the world live outside of our country, and we want to have more jobs, we’ve got to make more things here, grow more things here, and sell them overseas. “So, it’s really important that we keep these markets open to our products and, more importantly, if we want to keep selling into these other markets, I want us to make it here and send it there—instead of making it there to sell it into those countries. That, to me, is really important. And that’s how you help keep manufacturing jobs here, and getting a trade agreement that allows that to happen is critical to that effort.” Holding the IRS Accountable When asked how he’ll hold the IRS accountable, Congressman Ryan replied: “The reason we’re doing this is because we do not think that the Internal Revenue Service should be targeting the people with audits and harassments. And they took donors’ causes and disclosed them illegally to opponents of the cause so they can be harassed. That is a scary power that the federal government was exercising. And so we’ve got to get to the bottom of this so we can make sure there’s no more systematic abuse of power like we saw. This was not just a person, but it was a systematic abuse of power. So we’ve got a long ways to go on this, and you’ll hear more about it as time goes on.” Balancing the Budget And on balancing the federal budget and paying off the national debt, Ryan said: “This is what our budgets have been about for the past five years. Reform the programs that are driving up these unfunded liabilities, and do it now so that we can actually balance the budget, actually pay off the national debt, and change these programs so we can wipe off these unfunded liabilities. . . . "We can fix this. It’s not too late. But if we don’t do something soon, it will be too late. And It’s either that, or the Federal Reserve will just print, and print, and print—and there goes the value of your money. Those are not good scenarios. So that’s why I’ve made such a big issue out of this, because we are in uncharted territory here, going in a direction that’s unsustainable. And the sooner we can get our political system to wise up to that, face up to it, the better off we’re going to be.” A recap of the first day of listening sessions can be found here. And to access the full schedule for the listening sessions, click here.
04.08.2015	MUKWONAGO — This week, First District Congressman Paul Ryan will be holding a series of listening sessions across southern Wisconsin to hear directly from constituents about the important issues facing our nation. Yesterday, Congressman Ryan kicked off his tour with meetings in the Dousman and Mukwonago communities. During the meetings, he shared some of his ideas about how Congress can help create jobs and build a healthy economy. He also took questions on important issues like health care and tax reform. When asked how we should address Obamacare, Ryan replied: “We’re basically preparing legislation to make sure, that in states like ours, if Obamacare basically unravels, that we will be able to have a freedom to go out and buy the insurance we want, like we did before Obamacare. “I don’t think Obamacare is a good law. I think it’s bad for hospitals, bad for doctors, bad for Medicare. It takes money from Medicare to cover the cost of Obamacare. It makes people buy what the government mandates. It’s more expensive than what people traditionally have, and we can do a better job of making sure people who have preexisting conditions get affordable care as well. And we can do that, focused on them, without doing all this to the rest of the country. We believe that there’s a better way to replace Obamacare. We’ll have a chance, possibly, if the Supreme Court rules in favor of the plaintiffs.” And on tax reform, Congressman Ryan said: “Right now, a lot of breaks in the tax code are based on who you know versus whether you’re good or bad at what you do in business. So what I want to do is get rid of loopholes so that we get taxes based on your business, not based on who you know or what you do. And to me, we are due for a whole housecleaning on our tax code. . . . I want to get rid of these loopholes so that [we] can lower tax rates for everybody—small businesses, big businesses, families—across the board. “Because here’s the big problem we’ve got in our economy: We are taxing our businesses, our job creators, at much higher tax rates than our foreign competitors. Canada taxes their businesses at 15 percent. Ireland is 12.5 percent. England is 20 percent. China is 25 percent. The average tax rates on businesses in America are 25 percent. Our corporate rate is 35 percent, and our top individual tax rate, which is what small businesses pay, is as high as 44.6 percent. So we’re taxing ourselves and our businesses at much higher rates than the people who we’re competing with. And we’re losing as a result. “We need to get rid of the loopholes and lower rates. I think it’s the secret to our success. It needs to be simple and more flat. It needs to be fair, so that it works for everybody, not just the well-connected. It needs to put American job creators, American businesses at a level playing field with the people we compete with around the world. And that’s why you’ve got to lower tax rates.” To see the full schedule for listening sessions, click here.
04.03.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, First District Congressman Paul Ryan released the following statement in response to the March jobs report: "We're still not meeting our potential. Americans are working harder than ever to get ahead, but there just isn't enough opportunity to go around. So the Ways and Means Committee is going to redouble its efforts on the real reforms we need, like tearing down barriers to American exports and cleaning up our tax code. We know we can do better, and we're going to do all we can to create more opportunity for everyone in this country."
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Last week, Congressman Paul Ryan spoke with Tim Bremel, host of WCLO’s Your Talk Show, about the importance of finalizing trade agreements with other countries and how we can better fight poverty in the United States. Audio of Congressman Ryan’s interview is accessible here and excerpts of the discussion follow. The importance of finalizing trade agreements with Asian nations: “It is something President Obama and I do see eye to eye on. We have met and discussed this a number of times and the basic deal is this: Either we write the rules of the global economy, particularly with respect to Asia, or China does. . . . Here’s the point: We have to make more things and sell them overseas to keep [the economy] going. One in five jobs in Wisconsin is tied to trade. We need to have more trade to have more jobs and to increase our wages and our income. We’re giving [these nations] pretty good access to our markets, but they’re not giving us the same to theirs. We need to go get an agreement that is good for us. That’s why I’m in favor of these actions.” Reevaluating the federal government’s approach to fighting poverty: “I wanted to go around the country and in the district and see poverty eye to eye, and learn from those who are facing adversity in their lives and in their communities. Not only to see what poverty really looks like, and to learn, but also see what successful poverty fighting looks like as well. I wanted to learn from people and organizations who are really doing a heroic job of successfully bringing people out of poverty. . . . So I spent two years traveling around the country and the 1st Congressional District learning about this. And it was just awe inspiring. I was so moved by the stories of personal redemption, the fact that there are good things happening in America. People are doing amazing things, beating the odds and getting out of poverty and helping others.”
03.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Last week, First District Congressman Paul Ryan spoke with Milton High School AP Government students and staff members who were in Washington, D.C. as part of the school’s Discovering Democracy program. The Discovering Democracy program is a yearlong course where students research and write about a key public policy issue. Ryan met with the students in the U.S. Capitol, updated them on legislative activity in the House of Representatives, and answered questions on their research topics. Among the issues Congressman Ryan discussed with the students were the need to increase domestic energy production, the federal government’s role in education, and the importance of immigration reform. Following the meeting, Ryan said: “It’s always a pleasure to talk with the Discovering Democracy students about the key issues facing our nation. They always exhibit a deep understanding of their areas of research, a desire to learn more, and an eagerness to critically examine areas of public policy. It’s a unique opportunity for them to visit Washington, DC and learn more about our nation’s Capitol. I look forward to seeing their final research papers later this spring.”
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON — Upon passage of H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, First District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: "This is a firm step toward patient-centered health care. After years of manufactured crises, this bill will give doctors the certainty they need and seniors the security they deserve. We have a lot more work to do to save Medicare, but this plan will strengthen the program. It will put our focus on the long-term reforms we need. And I'm happy to support it."
03.25.2015	This April, Congressman Paul Ryan will be hosting a series of listening sessions throughout the First Congressional District of Wisconsin. From Tuesday, April 7th through Thursday, April 9th, Congressman Ryan will visit communities across Southeast Wisconsin to hear from constituents and share his vision for spurring job creation and building a healthy economy. Upon announcement of the Listening Sessions, Congressman Ryan stated: “These Listening Sessions are a great opportunity for me to hear directly from my employers about the issues that matter most, whether it’s reforming our tax code, making health care more affordable, or strengthening programs like Medicare and Social Security. This feedback is extremely valuable, and I’m looking forward to traveling across the First District and discussing these important issues.” These meetings are open to the public and provide a great opportunity to ask questions and share thoughts with Congressman Ryan. A complete schedule of the upcoming listening sessions is below and and can be accessed online here. April 2015 Listening Sessions with Congressman Paul Ryan Tuesday, April 7 DOUSMAN: 9:30 – 10:30 a.m., Dousman Ottawa Lions Club, 235 N. Main Street MUKWONAGO: 11:00 a.m. – Noon, Mukwonago High School Auditorium, 605 W. School Road Wednesday, April 8 RACINE: 11:00 a.m. – Noon, J. I. Case High School Auditorium (North Doors), 7345 Washington Avenue OAK CREEK: 1:30 – 2:30 p.m., Oak Creek Community Center, 8580 S. Howell Avenue ELKHORN: 3:30 – 4:30 p.m., Monte Carlo Room, 720 N. Wisconsin Street Thursday, April 9 GREENDALE: 10:45 – 11:45 a.m., Greendale High School Auditorium, 6801 Southway KENOSHA: 1:30 – 2:30 p.m., Snap-On Innovation Works Facility, 2801 80th Street JANESVILLE: 4:30 – 5:30 p.m., Holiday Inn Express, 3100 Wellington Place
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON - Yesterday, First District Congressman Paul Ryan went to the House floor to speak in favor of the budget resolution put forward by Chairman Tom Price and the House Budget Committee. In his remarks, he said: "This is a budget to be proud of. This is a budget that makes our country stronger. This is a budget that balances. You know, it's pretty important to note that hardworking taxpayers—the people that elected us here to represent them—they have to live within their means. Well, so should government. That's the basic decision here. And so, when you take a look at the budget being considered here, we’re basically trying to get the government to get back in the business of being honest with people about our finances." Watch his full remarks here.
03.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Earlier this week, First District Congressman Paul Ryan met with Janesville students participating in the annual Washington Seminar program. The program, first created in 1973, provides an opportunity for students from Craig High School and Parker High School in Janesville, Wisconsin, to travel to Washington, D.C., and conduct field research through meetings and interviews with various government officials, including members of Congress. During their meeting with Congressman Ryan, the Washington Seminar students were able to ask questions about important issues facing our nation, such as health care, veterans benefits, energy production, the federal budget, and the national debt. After the meeting, Congressman Ryan said: “This is one of my favorite meetings of the year. It’s always great seeing students from Janesville in Washington getting an up-close look at how our federal government works. The Washington Seminar students had thoughtful questions about important issues facing our country, and I appreciated their giving me an opportunity to share some of my thoughts on these issues. I hope they enjoyed their time in Washington, and I hope they keep up their interest in public service.”
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, First District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement of support for the House Republican budget proposal, A Balanced Budget for a Stronger America. "I want to commend Chairman Price and his committee members for writing a responsible, balanced budget. This plan would get spending under control, bolster our national security, and balance the budget within ten years—all while promoting a simpler, flatter, fairer tax code. Our nation would be stronger and our economy would thrive. Chairman Price's proposal is a serious, substantive document, and it has my full support."
03.06.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, First District Congressman Paul Ryan released the following statement in response to the February jobs report: “It’s always good news when more people find work. But too many families are still struggling to get by. So at the Ways and Means Committee, we’re moving full steam ahead on real reforms that will create more opportunity in this country, like expanding American trade and fixing our broken tax code. Our No. 1 goal is to build a healthy economy, and we won’t let up until opportunity is in reach for everyone.”
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON — Chairmen John Kline (R-MN), Paul Ryan (R-WI), and Fred Upton (R-MI) responded to today’s Supreme Court oral arguments in the King v. Burwell case. The chairmen, who attended this morning’s oral arguments, are leading the House Republican working group to develop a plan to replace the president’s health care law over the long term and protect Americans affected by the decision in this case. Earlier this week they detailed some of their ideas to provide an off-ramp to the president’s health care law. “We are here today because the Obama administration forced a flawed and partisan law on the American people. Its implementation has been one problem after another, and today’s case underscores just how far beyond the law the administration has gone to prop up this fatally flawed plan. The law is clear—and the Supreme Court should order the IRS to enforce the law as it is written. If it does, we will be ready to act. While the president insists he has no plan B, which would be malpractice if true, we are preparing a thoughtful solution that frees the American people both from the consequences of the administration’s illegal implementation, but also from this law’s many costly mandates. We will continue to work with our colleagues in the House and in the states on responsible policies that put the American people back in charge of their health care. There is a better way.”
02.26.2015	Earlier this week, First District Congressman Paul Ryan visited with newspapers across Southern Wisconsin to provide an update on his priorities for the 114th Congress. During the meetings, Ryan shared his vision for building a healthy economy and addressing the various challenges facing our nation. Here are some of the highlights from these discussions: Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Paul Ryan reveling in policy, issues — and not the '16 campaign Ryan said he is eager to tackle issues on taxes and trade, where he is seeking "common ground" with the Obama administration. Ryan recently led a Ways and Means Committee delegation on a three-nation trip to Asia. Ryan is hopeful for a successful conclusion to talks over a Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement. "If we can get that kind of a trade agreement, that means we have more customers, more opportunities to make things here, grow things here and sell them overseas," he said. "That's the kind of thing we should do to open up job creation." Kenosha News: Ryan sees common ground with president on trade U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan said Monday as chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee his top goals include finding common ground with President Barack Obama. “I plan on rolling out ideas how we can do things differently ... I need to show how I can do that, not just talk about it,” Ryan said. During a visit to the Kenosha News, Ryan, R-Wis., cited trade promotion as the one area where he already has some agreement with Obama and therefore the greatest likelihood for bi-partisan action to position the U.S. as the most powerful player in the international arena. Janesville Gazette: Paul Ryan: Obamacare alternative plan in the works Long-term, Ryan remains committed to creating a plan to replace Obamacare. “It's making people buy coverage they don't need or want, it's raising the cost of coverage, and then it's just subsidizing that cost,” Ryan said, calling Obamacare “a long-term fiscal train wreck.” Ryan said his solution would mean better prices, affordable coverage and a competitive marketplace.
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, retired Lieutenant Brian Murphy and Officer Savan “Sam” Lenda of the Oak Creek Police Department were awarded the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor. The awards were presented by Vice President Joe Biden and Attorney General Eric Holder during a ceremony at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. The Medal, created in 2001 by an act of Congress, is the highest national award for valor by a public safety officer. It is awarded “to public safety officers who have exhibited exceptional courage, regardless of personal safety, in the attempt to save or protect human life.” In recognition of Lieutenant Murphy and Officer Lenda receiving this prestigious honor, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “I want to commend Lieutenant Brian Murphy and Officer Sam Lenda on receiving the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor. The award is a testament to the bravery and courage they exhibited during that tragic day in August 2012. Along with the entire Oak Creek Police Department, Lieutenant Murphy and Officer Lenda showed us what it truly means to serve, risking their own lives to protect those in harm’s way. Our entire community is forever thankful for their selfless actions on that day, and I congratulate them both on this well-deserved honor.” To read the full list of recipients, please click here.
02.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Last week, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan, along with fellow Wisconsin Congressman Ron Kind, re-introduced bipartisan legislation that, if enacted, would ensure health care providers have the information necessary to improve the quality of care. H.R. 804, titled the Expanding Availability of Medicare Data Act, would accomplish this by expanding access to Medicare data for qualified entities, which are authorized to compile and analyze such data. Upon introduction of this legislation, Congressman Ryan stated: “Improving the cost and quality of health care for Americans is one of my top priorities in Congress, and this legislation is a step in the right direction to help achieve those goals. I’m proud to work with Congressman Kind on this important issue and hope that our colleagues in Congress will support this common sense, bipartisan bill.” “This bipartisan legislation will help ensure that providers in Wisconsin and around the nation can access the medical data they need to provide quality care to their patients,” said Congressman Kind. “Health care providers across Wisconsin have been successful in improving the quality of care that they offer while lowering costs for consumers, and this bill helps them compile and analyze the information they need to deliver the best health care outcomes possible.” To find more information about H.R. 804, please click here.
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan spoke with WISN’s Jay Weber to discuss the president’s budget proposal, how we can build a healthy economy, and the need for America to lead the way in writing the rules for the global economy. Below are excerpts of Congressman Ryan’s responses. On President Obama’s FY2016 Budget Proposal: “The president’s budget never balances, and he doesn't attack the drivers of our debt. . . . Our budget is going to balance and take on the big challenges, to show how adding market dynamics, choice and competition, giving patients and people more power over their lives, more power over their health care, actually leads to better results and can balance the budget and pay off the debt. We’re going to put out an agenda over the course of the next two years that shows ‘this is what the tax code really looks like.’ ‘This is what a reformed IRS looks like.’ ‘This is what giving people more control over their lives and stopping cronyism and the picking of winners and losers in Washington looks like.’ And we think we can get a healthier economy that produces a lot more opportunity and more upward mobility for everybody.” On Building a Healthy Economy: “We have to do a better job, and I think one of the issues we’re going to tackle on Ways and Means is welfare reform. It’s the committee in charge of the welfare laws. Welfare reform in 1996 was really successful in getting people out of poverty, getting people to work, off of welfare, and, most importantly, helping people reach their potential. We need to enact similar reforms to other programs so that we can help get people from where they are today—stuck in poverty—to where they ought to be, which is a life of potential. And that’s something that we, as Republicans, have a lot to offer. So, a more vibrant economy, moving people from welfare to work, opening up markets to our products, cleaning up the IRS and our tax code—making it simpler and fairer—and creating a faster, growing economy. That’s basically what we’re going to be laying out over the next couple of years. And if we can find common ground with the administration on some of these, that’s great. But if not, we’re going to show the country how we’re going to do it differently.” On America Leading the Global Economy through Trade: “This president has retreated from the world. China, Russia, and other countries that don’t share our values are going to write the rules of the global economy if we don’t step up and do it ourselves. We need to step up and lead in the world and the global economy, and help write the rules so that we have real freedom economics, the rule of the law, and enforceable contracts. We can stop cronyism, we can stop governments from picking winners and losers, and we can lower barriers to our products. If America doesn't lead and step up now, then we will not be in the leadership role that we have historically been. This is a very important moment, and I think the President is just beginning to see this.”
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, Wisconsin's First District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement in response to President Obama's Fiscal Year 2016 budget proposal. "For six years the president has pursued higher taxes and higher spending, and our economy has paid the price. This budget is simply more of the same. The American people are working harder than ever to get ahead, and this administration wants to put up yet another roadblock: $2.1 trillion in new taxes. And despite this massive tax hike, the President's budget never balances, adding $8.5 trillion in more debt. This is simply unacceptable. "I want to work with this administration, and I hope that we can find common ground. But the President has to demonstrate that he’s interested in governing, not just posturing. Tackling big policy challenges—like expanding American exports and reforming our tax code—requires not just hard work, but also an appreciation that our economy grows best from the bottom up with empowered individuals, rather than topdown through government. We’re going to be focused on an optimistic agenda to move America forward, and I hope the president is willing to rethink his tax-and-spend approach so we can get things done for the American people." ###
02.01.2015	WASHINGTON — Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) made an appearance on Meet the Press this past Sunday. In his interview with moderator Chuck Todd, Congressman Ryan talked about his role as chairman of the House Ways and Means committee and the committee's focus on an "optimistic agenda for the country." Excerpts from his interview are below. click to play video On committing himself to the Ways and Means Committee: “I decided early on in this year to pull myself out of this presidential contention because I want to focus on my job as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. I think I can make an enormous difference for our country where I am and help our party put together an optimistic agenda for the country to show how to restore a healthy economy, upward mobility, all of those things. And that's where I'm focused now.” On America’s economic challenges: “Look, we got to get this economy growing. We have had such a stagnant economy, the slowest recovery since World War II. Middle-income wages are stagnant. We've got to break out of this slog. And I do believe that there are things we can do hopefully in the next year to get this economy growing faster.” On working toward comprehensive tax reform: “We really believe that we should reform the entire tax code for all people. Individuals, families, businesses. Do it simpler, fairer, the whole thing. But it's pretty clear to us that the president doesn't agree with that on individuals. So the question is, which I don't know the answer to: Is there common ground on aspects of tax reform that we think can help grow the economy? For us, small businesses have to be a part of that puzzle.” On the president’s tax increases: “What I think the president is trying to do here is to, again, exploit envy economics. This top-down redistribution doesn't work. We've been doing it for six years. Look, it may make for good politics. It doesn't make for good economic growth.” On finding common ground on tax reform: “We have Jack Lew coming Tuesday to the Ways and Means Committee. Then we want to go and see if there's common ground. And so we want to work with this administration to see if we can find common ground on certain aspects of tax reform. And we want to exhaust that possibility. And if and when that possibility is exhausted, then we will put out what we think ought to be done. So we fully intend on the Ways and Means Committee of showing what full, comprehensive tax reform for everybody, individuals and families alike, looks like.” http://www.nbcnews.com/watch/meet-the-press/paul-ryans-full-meet-the-press-interview-392035907566
01.29.2015	JANESVILLE – Congressman Paul Ryan announced the nominations of a number of students from the First Congressional District for appointments to attend U.S. Military Service Academies. Part of the application process for young people interested in attending a U.S. Service Academy is obtaining a nomination from an authorized nominating source, such as a Member of Congress. Acceptance to the Academies is highly competitive, and receiving a nomination does not guarantee acceptance. In announcing the nominations, Congressman Ryan stated: “Each year, I have the honor of nominating some of the most talented students from Wisconsin’s First District to attend our nation’s Military-Service Academies. These great institutions require the highest level of character, discipline, and dedication to service, and I’m confident that, if accepted, every one of these nominees will meet these standards to the fullest.” Toward the end of 2014, the Service Academy Nomination Advisory (SANA) Board interviewed and evaluated applicants from the First Congressional District for nomination to the U.S. Service Academies. Comprised of veterans, past Academy graduates, local public officials and educators, the SANA Board was appointed by Ryan to assist him with identifying the most highly qualified applicants. First District applicants typically represent the top tiers of their class, are active in their communities and demonstrate great potential for leadership. A list of the students nominated by Congressman Ryan follows: Kenosha County: Matthew Wulf – attends Tremper High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy. Austin Weiher – nominated for appointments to the U.S. Military Academy (at West Point), U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, attends Indian Trail High School and Kenosha Military Academy. Italy Nunez – attends Carmel Catholic High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Milwaukee County Matthew Rohleder – nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy (at West Point), attends Martin Luther High School. Samuel Grayson– attends Oak Creek High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Racine County Monte Koerner II – attends The Prairie School, nominated for appointments to the U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S Naval Academy. Rock County Robert Muether – attends Rock County Christian High School, nominated for appointments to the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy (at West Point). Walworth County Tyler Alheid – nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy, attends Williams Bay High School. Alexander Kulik – attends Badger High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy. Waukesha County Elizabeth Schubert – attends Kettle Moraine High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy. Josiah Savoie – nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy, attends Mukwonago High School.
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 351, the LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act, by a bipartisan vote of 277—133. First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted in favor of this important legislation that will reduce unnecessary road blocks for approving LNG export stations. Upon passage, Congressman Ryan offered the following statement: “America is on the cusp of an energy renaissance. Thanks to recent breakthroughs in technology, we are now the top natural gas producer in the world, and we should do all we can to seize this opportunity. “This bipartisan bill will do just that by streamlining the approval process for building new LNG export stations. These export stations will create new customers for American-made natural gas, which will help create more jobs right here in America. This bill will also help our allies lessen their dependence on unstable energy supplies in hostile countries like Russia and Iran. “If the president is serious about creating jobs and helping working families, he’ll join our bipartisan cause to expedite these commonsense, job-creating projects.” ###
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON — In a series of interviews, First District Congressman Paul Ryan shared his thoughts on the proposals outlined in the President’s State of the Union address. Congressman Ryan spoke with Fox News’s Bret Baier about finding common ground on tax reform: “We want to come together to grow a healthy economy. Hardworking taxpayers deserve a break in this country. They’re not getting one. Washington hasn’t been listening to them. I think it would be refreshing to see us come together to get things done for the common good, to grow the economy, to get people back to work. And I think if he would embrace some of those kinds of policies that we know achieve that, then we’d make a good difference. And I hope we can do that.” In an interview with CNN’s Dana Bash, Congressman Ryan discussed the still-recovering economy: “It is doing better. It just isn’t anywhere near where we need it. That’s why I think the last thing we ought to do is hit it with a big tax increase like we’re told the President is going to be proposing. Look, the problem we have with the current economy is wages are stagnating. People aren’t getting the opportunities they need. We have 45 million people living in poverty. There’s a long ways to go. We shouldn’t be doing some victory lap here in Washington.” On MSNBC’s Morning Joe, Congressman Ryan spoke about moving forward with trade agreements: “I agree with every word he [President Obama] said in the speech with respect to trade and Asia and getting in there and helping write the rules instead of China writing the rules. The president is in the middle of negotiating a trade agreement with Asian nations, representing 40 percent of global GDP. This means more jobs for America. This means more exports for us. This is something we have to get on top of, and I agree with him on that.” In a statement following the address, Congressman Ryan called on the President to work with Congress to improve the economy: “What we really need is to make our tax code simpler, flatter, and fairer, so we can create more jobs. The American people deserve real solutions. House Republicans are going to do all we can to build a healthy economy for working families. There’s a lot we can accomplish in the next two years, and we’re ready to work with the President to find common ground.”
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) issued the following statement on the December jobs report. "The American people are concerned about this economy, and their elected representatives should be too. Too many families are living paycheck to paycheck. And those paychecks are shrinking. In other words, families are working harder and harder to get ahead, and yet too many are falling further behind. "We can't be satisfied until our country is meeting its full potential. That’s why, at the Ways and Means Committee, we’re going to do all we can to build a healthy economy and move America forward: fix our tax code, help create jobs, and make health care more affordable. The American people deserve nothing less."
01.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — First District Congressman Paul Ryan today announced a number of personnel changes within his Washington, D.C. and District offices. The changes will take effect immediately, coinciding with the start of the 114th Congress. Danyell Tremmel, District Chief of Staff – Tremmel has served on Congressman Ryan’s staff since he was first sworn into Congress in 1999. For the majority of that time, she served as the District Director, overseeing day-to-day operations of Congressman Ryan’s Constituent Service Centers in Janesville, Kenosha, Racine, and the Mobile Office. Prior to joining Congressman Ryan, she served on the staff of former First District Congressman Mark Neumann. Tremmel is a native of Hartland, Wisconsin, and is a graduate of the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater. Kevin Seifert, Washington D.C. Chief of Staff – Seifert has served in Congressman Ryan’s D.C. office since 2009. He has held various positions within Ryan’s office, most recently serving as Communications Director. In 2012 and 2014, Seifert worked in senior roles at Ryan for Congress, Ryan’s reelection campaign. Prior to working for Congressman Ryan, he served on the staff of former Congressman Tom Petri (WI-06). Seifert is a native of Brookfield, Wisconsin, and is a graduate of Marquette University. Allison Steil, Policy Director – Steil, a native of Janesville, Wisconsin, will oversee all legislative staff and policy initiatives within the Washington office. She joined Congressman Ryan’s staff in 2009 and most recently served as Legislative Director. She is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame. Robert Swift, Press Secretary – Swift has served on Congressman Ryan’s staff since 2011. Since joining the office, he has served in various roles, including Legislative Assistant and Press & Policy Aide. Prior to joining Congressman Ryan’s staff, he served on the staff of Congressman Kevin Yoder (KS-3). He is a native of Lindsborg, Kansas, and is a graduate of Kansas State University. Lauren Schroeder, Legislative Assistant – Schroeder has served in Congressman Ryan’s Washington office since 2011. During that time, she has taken on various roles in the office, including Staff Assistant and Legislative Correspondent. Prior to joining Congressman Ryan’s staff she served as a Legislative Assistant for former Wisconsin State Senator Rich Zipperer. Schroeder is a native of Brookfield, Wisconsin, and a graduate of the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
12.31.2014	WASHINGTON, DC - Incoming Chairman of the House Committee on Ways and Means Paul Ryan (R-WI) today named the Committee's full communications staff for the 114th Congress. The group will join a team headed up by previously-announced Communications Director Brendan Buck. Doug Andres, Press Secretary - Andres comes to Ways and Means from the House Rules Committee, where he currently serves as Communications Director. Before joining the Rules Committee, he served in various roles for then-House Republican Whip Eric Cantor. Andres will begin his appointment at the Ways and Means Committee on February 1st. Brian Bolduc, Senior Communications Advisor - Bolduc, Chairman Ryan's chief speechwriter, is moving from the House Budget Committee to join the Ways and Means staff. Before coming to Capitol Hill, Bolduc was a writer at National Review, the Wall Street Journal, and the Harvard Crimson. He was also a member of the speechwriting staff on the Romney for President campaign in 2012. Vanessa Day, Digital Director - Day, a long-time aide to Chairman Ryan, has led his digital efforts for eight years. A Wisconsin native, she will be joining Ways and Means from the House Budget Committee, where she played an important role advancing the Path to Prosperity. Day also served on the Romney for President campaign in 2012. Molly Edwards, Press Assistant - Edwards has been a member of the communications staff at the Ways and Means Committee since July 2014. In 2012, she was part of the Romney for President campaign, working out of the Virginia field office. Edwards got her start on Capitol Hill in the office of House Majority Leader Eric Cantor.
12.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, incoming chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) named six veteran aides to be the staff directors of the House Ways and Means subcommittees. They will begin their service at the start of the 114th Congress. Ryan named the following individuals as Ways and Means subcommittee staff directors: Matt Hoffmann, Staff Director Subcommittee on Health Matt Weidinger, Staff Director Subcommittee on Human Resources Mark Epley, General Counsel & Staff Director Subcommittee on Oversight George A. Callas, Chief Tax Counsel & Staff Director Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures Ted McCann, Staff Director Subcommittee on Social Security Angela Ellard, Chief Trade Counsel & Staff Director Subcommittee on Trade Contact: Kevin Seifert, Kevin.Seifert@mail.house.gov, 202-225-3031
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Earlier today, Chairman-elect Paul Ryan (R-WI) announced the subcommittee chairs and assignments for the House Ways and Means Committee for the 114th Congress. Upon making the announcement, Chairman-elect Ryan issued the following statement: “The Ways and Means Committee is full of talented men and women, and I have every confidence in our newly elected subcommittee chairs. The American people deserve a government that works for them, and our members will do everything they can to help create jobs and build a healthy economy. I look forward to working with all of them next year.” The House Ways and Means Subcommittee Chairs for the 114th Congress are: Subcommittee on Health Representative Kevin Brady Subcommittee on Human Resources Representative Charles Boustany Subcommittee on Oversight Representative Peter Roskam Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures Representative Dave Reichert Subcommittee on Social Security Representative Sam Johnson Subcommittee on Trade Representative Pat Tiberi The members of individual Ways and Means Subcommittees are: Subcommittee on Health: Representative Kevin Brady Representative Sam Johnson Representative Devin Nunes Representative Peter Roskam Representative Tom Price Representative Vern Buchanan Representative Adrian Smith Representative Lynn Jenkins Representative Kenny Marchant Representative Diane Black Subcommittee on Human Resources: Representative Charles Boustany Representative Todd Young Representative Tom Reed Representative Kristi Noem Representative Patrick Meehan Representative George Holding Representative Jason Smith Subcommittee on Oversight: Representative Peter Roskam Representative Kenny Marchant Representative Mike Kelly Representative Patrick Meehan Representative George Holding Representative Jason Smith Representative Kristi Noem Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures: Representative Dave Reichert Representative Pat Tiberi Representative Erik Paulsen Representative Tom Reed Representative Todd Young Representative Mike Kelly Representative Jim Renacci Subcommittee on Social Security: Representative Sam Johnson Representative Jim Renacci Representative Vern Buchanan Representative Aaron Schock Representative Tom Reed Representative Todd Young Representative Mike Kelly Subcommittee on Trade: Representative Pat Tiberi Representative Devin Nunes Representative Kevin Brady Representative Dave Reichert Representative Vern Buchanan Representative Adrian Smith Representative Aaron Schock Representative Lynn Jenkins Representative Charles Boustany Representative Erik Paulsen Contact: Kevin Seifert, Kevin.Seifert@mail.house.gov, 202-225-3031
11.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC - Incoming Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee Paul Ryan (R-WI) today named three veteran aides to senior positions at the Committee. Joyce Meyer will serve as the Committee's staff director; Austin Smythe will be the policy director; and Brendan Buck will serve as communications director. Upon the appointments, Chairman-elect Ryan released the following statement: "This group brings the talent and experience needed to help the members of this committee get our economy back on track. And they have my trust. We have a lot of work to do on behalf of the American people, and I'm eager to get started with such a great team." Joyce Meyer will be staff director, overseeing all functions of the committee. Meyer brings 21 years of experience on Capitol Hill. She has been a senior aide to Congressman Ryan since he was first elected to the House, having served as his chief of staff in his Washington, DC office. She grew up in Wisconsin and has been a primary advisor on tax policy and other legislative issues for Ryan. She was also a member of Chairman Ryan's traveling staff during the Romney-Ryan presidential campaign. Before working under the congressman, she worked with Ryan for former Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS), as well as former Congressman Scott Klug (R-WI). Austin Smythe, new policy director, currently serves as the staff director of the House Budget Committee, a position he's held since 2007. There, Smythe worked under Chairman Ryan to develop and pass pro-growth, balanced budgets. Prior to joining the House Budget Committee staff, Smythe spent six years at the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in the White House, serving as the Executive Associate Director and, in the summer of 2003, acting Director of OMB. He also served for many years at the Senate Budget Committee. Brendan Buck is a former press secretary for House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) and served as press secretary to Chairman Ryan on the Romney-Ryan presidential campaign. He has also been a spokesman for now-Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), incoming Budget Committee Chairman Tom Price (R-GA), the Republican Study Committee, and the National Republican Congressional Committee. He is currently Vice President of Communications at America's Health Insurance Plans. Meyer's and Buck's appointments will be effective at the start of the 114th Congress, while Smythe will join the Ways and Means staff after assisting in the transition at the House Budget Committee. Additional staff announcements will follow. Contact: Kevin Seifert, Kevin.Seifert@mail.house.gov, 202-225-3031
11.21.2014	Washington, DC - Last night, Wisconsin Congressman Paul Ryan offered the following statement after President Obama’s speech indicating he would issue a sweeping Executive Order on immigration: “The President’s decision to issue this executive order is a stunning act of partisanship and polarization. Clearly, he is more interested in playing politics than helping hard-working taxpayers. With this legally suspect and unilateral act, he has poisoned the well on what should be a bipartisan effort and brought relations with Congress to a new low. “Congressional leaders asked for time in order to advance reforms that secure our border, respect the rule of law, and fix this broken system – but the President has refused to work with us; instead, he’s chosen to go it alone. “We need to fix our immigration system, and we can fix it while upholding the rule of law. But the President’s overreach will make lasting reform that much harder to achieve.” More from Congressman Ryan on the President’s executive action: Washington Post: “We've gone to the president and said, ‘Give us time to do immigration reform, to work on the issue this year. We want to get this done.’ And this is the reaction he has to that?” said Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), the 2012 vice presidential candidate. “He had two years with a super-majority of his own party, and he didn't lift a finger. And now he won’t give us a few weeks? He’s basically choosing to give us a partisan bomb.” Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: “I fear that if the president moves forward on this unconstitutional executive order, that he’s going to do so much to poison the well intentionally, to pick a fight with Congress, that it’s going to bring more gridlock,” Ryan said in an interview with the Journal Sentinel. “If he proceeds with this, it would be one of the most breathtaking and stunning acts of polarization that I have ever seen in government,” Ryan said. “That will be his intentional decision to have an even more adversarial relationship with Congress. Washington Times: “Rather than go around Congress, I would encourage the President to give the House time to develop solutions that respect the rule of law, secure our border, and fix our broken system for good.” Reuters: "I think it would do great damage in his relations with Congress," Ryan said of an expected Obama move to allow millions of undocumented immigrants to remain in the United States. "If he chooses to do this, we will see this as a move for him to play 2016 politics, to try and help his party versus our party, instead of working and coming to common ground with Republicans in 2015 to get things done, which is what I think the voters told us they want in this very last election." Contact: Kevin Seifert, Kevin.Seifert@mail.house.gov
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan was selected by members of the House Republican Steering Committee to serve as chair of the House Ways and Means Committee. Upon his selection, Congressman Ryan offered the following statement: “I want to thank my colleagues for giving me the opportunity to chair the Ways and Means Committee in the 114th Congress. “We have a lot of work to do to get our economy back on track, and the Ways and Means Committee will be at the forefront of reform. We will work together to fix the tax code, hold the IRS accountable, strengthen Medicare and Social Security, repair the safety net, promote job-creating trade agreements, and determine how best to repeal and replace Obamacare with patient-centered solutions. “I want to thank Chairman Dave Camp for his leadership and also recognize Congressman Kevin Brady for his tireless work on behalf of our country. The Ways and Means Committee is full of talented people on both sides of the aisle, and I can't wait to get to work.” Paul Ryan has represented Wisconsin’s First Congressional District in the House of Representatives since 1999. He has served on the House Ways and Means Committee since 2000 and is the outgoing chairman of the House Budget Committee.
09.23.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Paul Ryan is encouraging students and eligible military personnel in the First Congressional District to apply for nominations to the U.S. Air Force, Military, Naval, and Merchant Marine Academies. All completed applications must be received at his Janesville Constituent Services Center by October 15, 2014. Evaluations will be based on a number of factors including SAT or ACT scores, class rank, grade point average, school records, extracurricular activities, leadership potential, motivation, recommendations, and interviews. “The academies are known for providing a top-quality education as well as preparing graduates for leadership in both military and civilian life. Young people who want to study hard and serve our country should consider applying to a U.S. service academy,” Ryan said. All applicants to a U.S. service academy must have a nomination from an authorized nominating source. Members of Congress can nominate candidates, as can the President, the Vice President, and the Secretaries of the Army, Navy, and Air Force. Students seeking a nomination from Ryan should contact the office by calling toll-free 1-888-909-7926. Nomination forms are available on his website at: /academynominations. For the class entering in 2015, completed application forms must reach the Janesville office by the October 15, 2014 deadline. Students should send their applications to Ryan’s Janesville Constituent Services Center, to the attention of Chad Herbert. The address and phone number are listed below: Congressman Paul Ryan Attention: Chad Herbert Janesville Constituent Services Center 20 S. Main Street, Suite 10 Janesville, WI 53545 Phone: 1-888-909-7926 Applicants for nominations from Congressman Ryan must be: Citizens of the United States and residents of the First Congressional District of Wisconsin; At least 17 years of age and must not have passed their 23rd birthday on July 1 of the year of entry; Unmarried and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents, at the time of admission to an academy. The admissions process for service academies is highly competitive, and receiving a nomination does not guarantee acceptance by an academy. *** Special note: Students should not send their application materials to Ryan’s Washington, D.C. office. Mail deliveries for congressional offices in Washington are still subject to delays due to security precautions. All applications should be sent to Ryan’s Janesville office.
07.21.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Paul Ryan announced that the First District mobile office will continue its regularly scheduled visits to communities across southern Wisconsin during August and September. Click here for a list of scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. At each stop, a staff member of Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet with residents to discuss concerns or questions they may have about federal agencies or other issues. In announcing the remaining schedule for the First District mobile office’s summer tour, Ryan said: “It’s important for me to be accessible to my constituents. The mobile office allows me to stay connected with folks from communities in the First District that may not have direct access to one of my permanent offices. I encourage everyone to come out and visit with my staff to share any difficulties they’re having with federal agencies or offer their views on issues before Congress.” First District residents can check their local paper or Congressman Ryan’s website— paulryan.house.gov —for the latest mobile office schedule. Congressman Ryan established the mobile office to serve as an extension of existing First District Constituent Service Centers. Since 1999, the mobile office has made almost 3,000 visits to different communities and has provided assistance to thousands of residents over the years. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of mobile-office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or in an adjoining parking lot).
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON—Today, Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin met with the Congressional Black Caucus to discuss the fight against poverty and the need to promote upward mobility. Upon the meeting’s conclusion, Chairman Ryan released the following statement: “I want to thank my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus for inviting me to their weekly meeting. We had an engaging and productive discussion. “There’s no question that poverty is a serious problem, one with many causes and no easy answers. But that’s why we need to confront it. And we need to extend the conversation beyond Washington—to communities all across the country. “Poverty isn’t just a form of deprivation; it’s a form of isolation. And though government must be part of the solution, everybody needs to get involved. “The first step to real reform is a frank conversation. We need to figure out what works; we need to learn from people who are fighting poverty on the front lines. “And that conversation must go both ways. Simply defending the status quo or demanding more of the same is not an answer. “I was happy to begin that conversation with my colleagues today, and I look forward to working with them in our renewed fight against poverty.”
04.29.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—This week, the website of Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan, http://paulryan.house.gov, was named one of the best websites in Congress. Congressman Ryan’s office received a 113th Congress Gold Mouse Award from the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF), a non-partisan, non-profit organization working to improve communications between citizens and Congress. This marks the fourth year in a row that Congressman Ryan’s website has received an award from CMF. “I want to thank the Congressional Management Foundation for this award,” said Ryan. “Our website receives more visitors on a monthly basis than any of my offices in Washington, D.C. and southern Wisconsin. It’s an invaluable tool I use to keep in touch with my constituents in the First Congressional District. And it gives them an easy way to get more details about federal agencies or other issues.” “By demonstrating exceptional accountability and transparency in online communications, Congressman Paul Ryan not only provides benefits to his constituents but the entire Congress,” said Brad Fitch, CMF President and CEO. “Congressman Ryan should be congratulated by his constituents, applauded by advocates of good government, and emulated by congressional colleagues.” Out of 435 House offices, Ryan’s office was one of 12 to receive a Gold Mouse Award. CMF has developed and refined its criteria over the past decade by using survey research, focus groups with constituents, and interviews with key stakeholders in congressional offices. Reviewers assessed ten categories of criteria: usability of website; timeliness of content; breadth and depth of information on issues; constituent services and casework information; promoting accountability to constituents; legislative process information; district/state information; floor-proceedings information; availability of diverse forms of content; and availability of diverse forms of content channels. More information about the award can be found here.
04.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Paul Ryan announced that the First District mobile office will resume its regularly scheduled visits to communities across southern Wisconsin from May to July. Click here for a list of scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. At each stop, a staff member of Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet with residents to discuss concerns or questions they may have about federal agencies or other issues. In announcing the First District mobile office’s schedule for this summer, Ryan said: “I need to hear from my constituents. The mobile office is a great resource for people who don’t live near one of my permanent offices. I encourage all our residents to stop by and talk with my staff about any difficulties they’re having with federal agencies or share their views on issues before Congress.” First District residents can check their local paper or the congressman’s website — paulryan.house.gov — for the latest mobile-office schedule. Congressman Ryan established the mobile office to serve as an extension of existing First District Constituent Service Centers. Since 1999, the mobile office has made almost 3,000 visits to different communities and has provided assistance to thousands of residents over the years. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of mobile office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or in an adjoining parking lot).
04.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—In an awards ceremony on April 12, 2014 at the Olde Towne Mall in Janesville, First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that the winner of this year’s First District Art Competition is Michalia Swanson, a junior at Racine Lutheran High School. Michalia submitted a pencil drawing, titled “Our Nation’s Future,” which depicts the faces of young Americans against a backdrop of the United States. Her art teacher at Racine Lutheran High School is Debra DeKeuster. In announcing the results of the annual competition, Congressman Ryan said: “We’ve been holding this contest for 16 years, and we’ve never had a repeat winner until now. Michalia truly is a gifted artist, and millions of people will get to see her work in the U.S. Capitol this year. We had many great entries, and I’m happy to recognize southern Wisconsin’s young artists for their hard work and dedication.” Congressman Ryan invited every high school in the First Congressional District to submit an entry to the annual art contest, and a panel of local artists judged the entries. The competition was part of the annual “Congressional Art Competition: An Artistic Discovery.” This nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by members of Congress, gives high-school artists the opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity.
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC— Earlier this week, Wisconsin Congressmen Paul Ryan and Ron Kind introduced bipartisan legislation to expand access to Medicare data for qualified entities, which are authorized to compile and analyze such data. As members of the House Ways and Means Committee, Ryan and Kind are working together on H.R. 4418, the Expanding the Availability of Medicare Data Act, to ensure health-care providers have the information necessary to improve the quality of care. Upon introducing the proposal, First District Congressman Paul Ryan said: “If we give our doctors greater access to vital data, we can improve health care and make it more affordable. I’m proud to work with Congressman Kind to make our health-care system more competitive and make sure patients get the best care at the best price.” “Health-care providers in Wisconsin have been leading the effort to improve the quality of care that they offer, while lowering costs for consumers,” said Congressman Kind. “This commonsense bill will ensure that these providers can access the medical data they need to deliver the best health-care outcomes for Wisconsin patients.” To review the legislative text of H.R. 4418, click here.
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON—Today, the House of Representatives passed the fiscal year 2015 budget, The Path to Prosperity. Before the vote, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin delivered the following remarks on the House floor: “Mr. Chairman, what this debate comes down to is a question of trust. “We’ve offered a budget because we trust the American people. Unlike the Senate Democrats who have once again punted and not even offered a budget this year, we trust the people to make an honest assessment. We trust them to make the right choice for their future. “Now, to their credit, the House Democrats have offered budgets as well. The problem is, they put their trust in Washington. Every time you hear the word 'investments' just know what that means—take from hardworking taxpayers, borrow more money from our next generations and from other countries, and spend it in Washington. “Time and again, they are proposing to put government in the driver’s seat. They’ve already engineered a takeover of our entire health-care sector. They’re over-regulated our energy sector. They’re depriving us of jobs, and they won’t even give us the Keystone Pipeline. They’re proposing new taxes—another $1.8 trillion tax increase. They’re proposing more cronyism. They’re proposing more control from Washington, which is less control of our communities, less control over our businesses, less control over our lives, less control over our futures. “In my respectful opinion, it is a vision that is paternalistic, arrogant, and downright condescending. You know, big government in theory—it sounds compelling. In practice, it’s totally different. Remember if you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor? Remember if you like your health-care plan you can keep your healthcare plan? Remember if government takes over this sector it will lower your costs? Big government in practice is so different than the theory. The results have nothing to do with the rhetoric. “We, on the other hand, trust the people. We are offering a balanced budget that pays down the debt. We are offering patient-centered solutions, so that patients are the nucleus of the health-care system, not the government. We’re offering a plan to save Medicare now and for future generations. We’re offering a stronger safety net with state flexibility, to help meet people’s needs and to help people get from welfare to work to make the most of their lives. We’re offering pro-growth tax code. We’re offering more energy jobs. “You can boil the differences down to one question: Who knows better? The people or Washington? We have made our choice with this budget. I trust the American people to make theirs. “Mr. Chairman, let’s call the vote.”
04.03.2014	WASHINGTON—Last night the House Budget Committee approved the House Republican fiscal year 2015 budget, the Path to Prosperity. The House will consider the budget resolution on the floor next week. Upon passage of the resolution, Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “For the fourth year in a row, the House Budget Committee has passed a balanced budget. I want to thank all of our members for their hard work and their dedication. “This budget lays out a long-term vision for the country. It will grow the economy and create jobs. It will strengthen key priorities like national security and Medicare. It will restore fairness by rooting out cronyism. And it will stop spending money we don’t have.“It is absolutely critical that we tackle these challenges, and tonight, we took a step in the right direction.”
04.01.2014	WASHINGTON—Today, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin introduced the fiscal year 2015 House Republican budget: The Path to Prosperity. Tomorrow, the House Budget Committee will mark up the proposal. This year’s proposal cuts $5.1 trillion in government spending. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the proposed deficit reduction would boost the economy. As a result of commonsense spending restraint and much-needed economic growth, the budget balances in ten years and starts paying down the debt. Since retaking the majority, House Republicans have put forward a budget in each of the past four years. Each budget has been submitted on time and shown a clear path to balance. Upon release of the budget, Ryan issued the following statement: “This is a plan to balance the budget and create jobs, and it builds off a simple fact: We can’t keep spending money we don’t have. “This budget provides relief for families. Too many Americans struggle to make ends meet, while Washington continues to live beyond its means. It’s irresponsible to take more from hardworking families to spend more in Washington. Today’s proposal—The Path to Prosperity—shows that it’s not too late to tackle our country’s most pressing challenges. “The Bipartisan Budget Act was a good first step. But we can and must do more. As the House majority, we have a responsibility to lay out a long-term vision for the country, and this budget shows how we will solve our nation’s biggest challenges. “By cutting wasteful spending, strengthening key priorities, and laying the foundation for a stronger economy, we have shown the American people there’s a better way forward.” Key Facts on the fiscal year 2015 Path to Prosperity: Within ten years, the budget reaches balance and begins to pay down the debt. According to CBO, the budget would grow the economy. It cuts government spending by $5.1 trillion over the next ten years. It strengthens important priorities like Medicare and national security. It repeals Obamacare, clearing the way for patient-centered health-care reform. It calls for reforms to repair the broken safety net and expand opportunity for all. It overhauls the broken tax code and promotes American energy security. Additional information: The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 provides funding levels for fiscal year 2015, which this budget adheres to. Senate Democrats have decided not to offer a budget resolution this year. The President has moved even further to the left. His budget proposal raises taxes by $1.8 trillion. It increases spending by $791 billion. It never balances the budget—ever. To read the fiscal year 2015 House Republican Budget: Path to Prosperity blueprint Summary tables Legislative text The House Budget Committee will consider this budget proposal tomorrow, Wednesday, April 2, 2014. The committee will convene at 10:30 am ET in the Cannon House Office Building, Room 210. For more, please visit: budget.house.gov/fy2015
03.31.2014	WASHINGTON, DC— Following the announcement by Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp that he will not seek re-election to the House of Representatives, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “Dave Camp is a tireless advocate for Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District, and it is an honor to serve with him on the House Ways and Means Committee. Under Chairman Camp’s leadership, we have exercised vigorous oversight over the President’s flawed health-care law, shone a light on the IRS’s targeting of people based on their political beliefs, and started a long-overdue conversation about how to fix our nation’s complex and uncompetitive tax code. Dave is a leader for House conservatives, and I am proud to call him my friend. I look forward to the important work in the year ahead. And I wish him and his family well as they start a new chapter in their lives.”
03.13.2014	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Speaker John Boehner announced that he has invited Pope Francis to speak before a joint session of Congress. Following the speaker’s announcement, First District Representative Paul Ryan issued the statement below: “I want to thank Speaker Boehner for inviting Pope Francis to address a joint session of Congress. Pope Francis has spoken out in behalf of the less fortunate and has challenged all of us to lead lives of service. I would welcome any opportunity for him to share his pastoral message with the entire country.”
03.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Paul Ryan announced today that he will hold a series of listening sessions throughout Wisconsin’s First Congressional District later this month. Ryan will visit nine communities from Tuesday, March 18th to Friday, March 21st, to speak with residents about issues ranging from the budget and health care to taxes and spending. “It’s very important for me to hear directly from those who live and work in the First District,” Ryan said. “These listening sessions are a great opportunity for people to share their thoughts, concerns, and questions about what is happening in Congress and the federal government.” A complete schedule of the upcoming listening sessions follows this release and can be accessed online here. March 2014 Listening Sessions with Congressman Paul Ryan Tuesday, March 18 NORTH PRAIRIE: 11:00am-12:15pm, Village Hall, Community Room, 130 North Harrison Street FRANKLIN: 2:00-3:15pm, Police Department, Courtroom, 9455 West Loomis Road Wednesday, March 19 JANESVILLE: 10:00-11:15am, Holiday Inn, 3100 Wellington Drive UNION GROVE: 12:45-2:00pm, Community State Bank, 1500 Main Street RACINE: 2:45-4:00pm, Cesar Chavez Community Center, 2221 Douglas Avenue Thursday, March 20 ELKHORN: 10:15-11:30am, Monte Carlo Room, 720 North Wisconsin Street BRISTOL: 1:00-2:15pm, Kenosha County Center, 19600 75th Street KENOSHA: 2:45-4:00pm, Snap-On Innovation Works Facility, 2801 80th Street Friday, March 21 MILTON: 10:00-11:15am, The Gathering Place, 715 Campus Street
03.04.2014	WASHINGTON­—Today, the President released his budget request for fiscal year 2015—one month past the statutory deadline. It is the fifth time in six years that President Obama has missed his deadline, and it is the worst record in history. Upon reviewing the President’s budget, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “The President’s budget is yet another disappointment—because it reinforces the status quo. It would demand that families pay more so Washington can spend more. It would hollow out our defense capabilities. And it would do nothing to preserve or strengthen our entitlements. The President has just three years left in his administration, and yet he seems determined to do nothing about our fiscal challenges. “This budget isn’t a serious document; it’s a campaign brochure. In divided government, we need leadership and collaboration. And in this budget, we have neither. ​Key Facts Spending Surges We’re not in an “era of austerity.” Since 2009, we’ve added $6.8 trillion to the debt and spent $17.6 trillion. The President’s budget increases spending by $791 billion over the budget window and by $56 billion in 2015 above the Murray–Ryan spending agreement that he signed into law just two months ago. His budget will increase total spending by 63 percent from today’s levels over the budget window. Debt Explodes President Obama’s budget never balances—ever. It would add $8.3 trillion to the debt over the budget window. Cumulative deficits would amount to $5 trillion, and gross debt would climb to $25 trillion in 2024. Interest Skyrockets President Obama’s plan nearly quadruples interest costs, which remain the fastest growing item in the budget. Interest this year on the debt would be $223 billion, but would rise to $812 billion in 2024 under his plan. Taxes Hiked (Again) to Pay for New Spending President Obama has already increased taxes by $1.7 trillion. Now, he wants another $1.8 trillion on top of that. Roughly half of the new tax hikes would be dedicated to new spending rather than deficit reduction. A Booming Washington, D.C.—and a Shrinking American Middle Class The share of Americans over 16 who are working is at its lowest level since 1978. Real wages are lower today than in 1999. One in five U.S. households is on food stamps. But what do the President and his party propose? A health law that will remove the equivalent of 2.5 million full-time workers from the workforce; an energy policy that drives up costs and destroys jobs; a regulatory policy that sends U.S. jobs and wealth overseas; a tax policy that closes plants and factories; a welfare policy that discourages work; and a spending policy that that crushes economic growth and threatens the future of America’s youth. Republicans believe in a different vision: one that shrinks the welfare rolls by growing the employment rolls. One that transitions struggling Americans from dependency and joblessness to work and rising wages. Republicans believe in making choices that not only help families today, but guarantee a safe future for their children tomorrow.
02.26.2014	WASHINGTON—House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement in response to House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp’s tax-reform proposal: “My friend Chairman Dave Camp has put together a bold plan to fix our broken tax code. His plan would get this economy growing and offer much-needed relief to families and workers. “We don’t have to accept this new normal of slow economic growth. This reform plan will create jobs for Americans across all sectors and boost the wages of workers who feel their economic security slipping away. A simplified tax code will ease the burden on families and businesses that waste too much time, energy, and money trying to navigate a broken code. “Now is the time for real solutions. No plan is perfect, but the critics must offer an alternative or tell Americans why they continue to defend a nightmarish tax code that works only for the well-connected. Chairman Camp’s plan is a terrific first step toward a much-needed debate over how to best reform the tax code.” Key Findings from the Joint Committee on Taxation This plan will create up to 1.8 million new jobs. GDP growth will increase by $3.4 trillion (the equivalent of 20 percent of today’s economy). The average middle-class family of four will gain an extra $1,300 a year. 95 percent of filers will get the lower possible tax rate by claiming the standard deduction. To learn more, visit http://tax.house.gov
02.20.2014	JANESVILLE—Today, Congressman Paul Ryan announced he has nominated 15 students from the First Congressional District for the U.S. service academies. Every applicant to a service academy must obtain a nomination from an authorized source, such as a member of Congress. The admissions process is highly competitive, and a nomination does not guarantee acceptance. Announcing the nominations, Congressman Ryan said: “I’m honored to recognize this group of remarkable young people from Wisconsin’s First District. Military service is a noble calling, and I am confident that these students, if accepted, would excel at the academies and serve our nation with honor. Many talented students applied for nominations this year, and this is always a challenging process. So I want to thank the members of my Service Academy Nomination Advisory Board for their advice.” This winter, Congressman Ryan’s Service Academy Nomination Advisory Board interviewed and evaluated the applicants from the First Congressional District. The board consists of veterans, service-academy alumni, public officials, and educators. Congressman Ryan appointed the board to help him identify the most highly qualified applicants. First District applicants are typically in the top tier of their class, are active in their communities, and have great potential for leadership. A list of the students nominated by Congressman Ryan follows: Kenosha County Sarah Burmesch – attends Westosha Central High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Andrew Jazdzewski – attends Indian Trail High School & Academy, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Jeromy Jorgensen – attends Indian Trail High School & Academy, nominated for appointments to U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Naval Academy Ethan Sobbe – graduated from Catholic Central High School and attends Marion Military Institute, nominated for appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy Milwaukee County Jacob Fernandes – attends Franklin High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Racine County Evan Humphreys – attends Case High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Zachary Kant – attends the Prairie School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy Danielle Riedel – attends Washington Park High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Garrett Sexton – attends Washington Park High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Military Academy Sean Waiss – attends Case High School, nominated for appointments to U.S. Air Force Academy, and U.S. Naval Academy Rock County Brittany Brookhiser – graduated from Milton High School and attends U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy Walworth County Nathan Dodge – graduated from East Troy High School and attends U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Military Academy Steve Stukas – attends Elkhorn High School, nominated for appointments to U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy, and U.S. Air Force Academy Steven Wales – attends Elkhorn High School, nominated for appointments to U.S. Military Academy Waukesha County CaitlinRose Cherek – graduated from Palmyra-Eagle High School and attends Northwestern Preparatory School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy
02.04.2014	WASHINGTON­— Today, the Congressional Budget Office released its Budget and Economic Outlook, which projects a $514 billion deficit for fiscal year 2014. The deficit will begin to climb back up after next year, eclipsing $1 trillion in 2022. The report says the federal government will add $10 trillion to the national debt by 2024—bringing the total to over $27 trillion. Despite modest progress from recent bipartisan budget agreements, CBO confirms the growth of government spending will push up the deficit in the years ahead. CBO also makes clear that government spending on health care is still a key driver of the debt. In response, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “Last year, I was pleased to work across the aisle to get a modest down payment on the debt. But today’s CBO report makes it clear that we still have a lot of work to do. CBO says autopilot spending and interest payments are the main drivers of our debt. In other words, we still have a spending problem. It’s squeezing key priorities in our budget, and it’s restricting opportunity for families in need. “Washington can’t continue to ignore the problem: trillions of dollars in empty promises. And Obamacare is only making things worse. This costly law is not only pushing government spending to new heights; it is disrupting coverage and leaving millions of Americans worse off. CBO says the law will push 2.3 million people out of the workforce and will insure far fewer people than previously expected.< “We can’t afford more of the same. Today’s report is an important reminder that the debt won’t take care of itself—we must take action.” CBO’s Key Findings Revenue in 2014 is on track to exceed its historic average of 17.4 percent of GDP. The deficit will again top $1 trillion by 2022. Interest on the national debt will quadruple over the next decade. By 2021, Obamacare will cause a “reduction in full-time-equivalent employment of about 2.3 million.” Obamacare “will reduce the total number of hours worked, on net, by about 1.5 percent to 2.0 percent during the period from 2017 to 2024.” The largest decline will occur among “lower-wage workers.” Obamacare “will cause a reduction of roughly 1 percent in aggregate labor compensation over the 2017–2024 period.” To read the full report: http://cbo.gov/publication/45010.
12.18.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, the Senate passed the Bipartisan Budget Act, which the House approved in an overwhelming vote last week. The bill would reduce the deficit—without raising taxes—and cut spending in a smarter way. Upon passage of the legislation, Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “I want to thank Chairman Murray and her colleagues in the Senate for passing the Bipartisan Budget Act. She was a tough and honest negotiator in our talks. And this week, she worked very hard to secure final passage. I’m grateful for her leadership in forging this budget agreement. “This vote shows both parties—in both chambers—can find common ground. We can work together. This bill is only a small step. We need to do a lot more. But it’s a small step in the right direction.” Click here to learn more about the Bipartisan Budget Act.
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, the House of Representatives passed the Bipartisan Budget Act. Written by House Budget Committee chairman Paul Ryan and Senate Budget Committee chairman Patty Murray, the bill will provide $63 billion in temporary sequester relief and $85 billion in mandatory savings. It will eliminate waste, cut corporate welfare, and make needed reforms to autopilot spending. On net, the bill will reduce the deficit by $23 billion over the next ten years. The Senate will take it up next week. Upon passage of the legislation, Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin made the following statement: “I want to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for supporting this bill. It reduces the deficit—without raising taxes. And it does so by cutting spending in a smarter way. It doesn’t go as far as I’d like, but it’s a firm step in the right direction. “This agreement will stop Washington’s lurch from crisis to crisis. It will bring stability to the budget process and show both parties can work together. “I want to thank Senator Murray for her hard work on this agreement. And I’m confident her colleagues in the Senate will pass this bill.” Click here to learn more about the Bipartisan Budget Act.
12.10.2013	Two-year budget agreement would avoid government shutdown in January, provide certainty to businesses and families, and return budget process to regular order Bipartisan agreement would provide sequester relief for defense and domestic priorities—fully offset by concrete savings and reforms—and further reduce the deficit Short-term agreement breaks through partisan gridlock and can serve as foundation for continued bipartisan work WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Senate Budget Committee chairman Patty Murray (D-WA) and House Budget Committee chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) announced that they have reached a two-year budget agreement in advance of the budget conference’s December 13th deadline. “I’m proud of this agreement,” said Chairman Ryan. “It reduces the deficit—without raising taxes. And it cuts spending in a smarter way. It’s a firm step in the right direction, and I ask all my colleagues in the House to support it.” “This agreement breaks through the recent dysfunction to prevent another government shutdown and roll back sequestration’s cuts to defense and domestic investments in a balanced way,” said Chairman Murray. “It’s a good step in the right direction that can hopefully rebuild some trust and serve as a foundation for continued bipartisan work.” The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 would set overall discretionary spending for the current fiscal year at $1.012 trillion—about halfway between the Senate budget level of $1.058 trillion and the House budget level of $967 billion. The agreement would provide $63 billion in sequester relief over two years, split evenly between defense and non-defense programs. In fiscal year 2014, defense discretionary spending would be set at $520.5 billion, and non-defense discretionary spending would be set at $491.8 billion. The sequester relief is fully offset by savings elsewhere in the budget. The agreement includes dozens of specific deficit-reduction provisions, with mandatory savings and non-tax revenue totaling approximately $85 billion. The agreement would reduce the deficit by between $20 and $23 billion. The House of Representatives is expected to take up the Bipartisan Budget Act first, followed by the Senate. If this bill is signed into law, the appropriations committees will then be able to work on spending bills at an agreed-upon level in advance of the January 15th deadline.
10.23.2013	WASHINGTON­—The Health and Human Services Department has yet to respond to repeated requests from the House Budget Committee for information about the implementation of the President’s health-care law. Now, HBC chairman Paul Ryan is asking for more information about President Obama’s “tech surge” to fix the dysfunctional HealthCare.gov website. “The American people have a right to know how HHS is spending their money,” said Chairman Ryan. “We were told we had to pass the health-care bill to find out what was in it. But it’s been three years, and we’re still in the dark.” On August 15, Chairman Ryan sent a letter to HHS secretary Kathleen Sebelius asking her to testify on the department’s plans for implementation on September 11. HHS staff indicated that she wouldn’t be available on that date—or on three alternative dates. But her office never sent an official reply. On August 22, Chairman Ryan sent another letter to the secretary asking her to provide an organizational chart of the department’s implementation efforts. The letter also asked that the department produce a list of the offices involved in implementation, the number of full-time employees involved, and all relevant spending items. Chairman Ryan asked the secretary to provide the requested materials by September 11. On September 10, the department told HBC staff in a telephone conversation that it would reply to the committee’s request within the next two weeks. But HHS has yet to respond. On October 18, HBC staff followed up with the department via email—but received no reply. On October 22—two months after the original request—Chairman Ryan sent a follow-up letter to Secretary Sebelius. In his latest letter, Ryan writes, “Your continued silence on these important inquiries after refusing to testify raises serious questions about the administration’s commitment to transparency and accountability.” The letter also includes a request for more information about President Obama’s so-called tech surge to fix the law’s website, HealthCare.gov. It asks the secretary to provide the number of people hired, their compensation, and the aggregate costs of their repairs. Below is a timeline of the committee’s requests to the HHS department. On August 15, Chairman Ryan sent a letter to Secretary Sebelius asking her testify on September 11. HHS staff said the secretary was unable to testify that day—and on three alternative dates. The chairman sent a follow-up request for further information on August 22. On August 26, the committee asked officials from the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight (CCIIO), and the Department of Labor (DOL) to testify. CMS said administrator Marilyn Tavenner was unavailable to testify on the initial date of September 11 and the alternatives dates of September 17, 18, and 19. CMS also said deputy administrator and director Gary Cohen was unavailable to testify on the initial date of September 11 and any day the following week. DOL said that assistant secretary for employee benefits Phyllis Borzi was unavailable to testify on the initial date of September 11. The committee made a follow-up request on September 9, and DOL said she was unavailable on the alternative dates as well. On October 22, Chairman Ryan sent a follow-up letter to Secretary Sebelius, expressing concerns over her department’s refusal to answer basic questions. Ryan also asked her to detail the costs of the administration’s so-called tech surge, “including the number of people hired, their compensation, and the aggregate cost of their repairs.”
10.16.2013	House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement on tonight’s vote: “Today’s legislation reopens the government and averts default. It rejects Democrats’ demands to increase spending. And it sets a precedent for further changes to Obamacare. “But it’s also a missed opportunity. To pay our bills today—and to make sure we can pay our bills tomorrow—we must make a down payment on the debt. Today’s legislation won’t help us reduce our fast-growing debt. In fact, it could extend the debt ceiling well into next year, further delaying any action. In my judgment, this isn’t a breakthrough. We’re just kicking the can down the road. “That said, I hope both sides will work together in the months ahead to pay down the debt, provide relief for families, and grow the economy. I look forward to convening the first conference on a budget resolution since 2009. And though a budget resolution by itself can’t resolve our spending problem, I’m committed to making a bipartisan budget conference a success.”
09.30.2013	WASHINGTON—House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement on the Obamacare debate: "Today we will vote once again to keep the federal government open. And we will vote to provide families relief from Obamacare. “One of our core principles is equality under the law. The President gave special exemptions to big business, Congress, and his political allies. But he refused to give the same relief to working families. That is fundamentally unfair. We will take action to give people the same relief the President gave big businesses, and we will take away the special deal for Congress. Will Senate Democrats close the government to protect an unfair deal? "We have an opportunity to help families in need and help grow the economy. I hope we can find willing partners on the other side of the aisle.”
09.26.2013	“When we've had great fiscal bipartisan agreements in the past, whether it was Reagan with Gramm-Rudman, Bush with Democrats in the Senate in 1990, Gingrich and Clinton, [the creation of] Bowles-Simpson, or the Budget Control Act, these things were part of debt-limit agreements. [The debt limit] has always been the forcing action that got us agreements. “What we're getting from [CBO’s testimony] is if we put together a package now before the Federal Reserve normalizes—before interest rates start going up—we will put ourselves as a nation in a very good position. But if we miss this moment, if we just kick the can because we keep fighting each other, then we will not get this opportunity. The Federal Reserve will start tapering—it’s not an “if,” it's a “when.” Interest rates will go up. And shame on us. Because the hole we will have to dig ourselves out of, then, will be that much deeper. [Director Elmendorf] is giving us numbers: $145 billion a year versus $350 billion a year [in more debt]. It is so clearly in our interest as a country to do something about this. “This is not a Republican versus Democrat thing. This is a math thing. What we're seeing here, it is the health-care programs that are the primary drivers of our debt. This is why we are focused on these health-care programs. This is also why we're focused on tax reform. If we keep high marginal tax rates, we hurt businesses. We hurt job growth. We slow down the economy from hitting its potential. If we lower our marginal tax rates, we have more economic investment. We have more entrepreneurship. Small businesses can compete. If we lower our tax rates, we can have faster economic growth. “If we take advantage of the moment we're in—the low-interest-rate moment we're in, which will not last that much longer—and get a fiscal-consolidation package on spending and entitlement reform, we will do our country a big favor. We will do our children a big favor because we will bank debt reduction and economic growth at a time [when] it makes the most bang for the buck, the most difference. If we don't take advantage of this moment—this is why we're focused on the debt limit, this is why we're focused on these issues—shame on us. The hole we'll have to dig ourselves out of will be that much deeper.”
08.05.2013	WASHINGTON—Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan offered the following statement to mark the one-year anniversary of the tragic shooting at the Sikh Temple in Oak Creek. “Today, we remember all those affected by the senseless act of violence that occurred one year ago in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. We call to mind the heroic efforts of Lieutenant Brian Murphy and all the medical and law-enforcement officials who responded to the scene. We also recognize the public servants who helped our community heal during this trying time. “Since that fateful day, the people of Oak Creek have come together. They refuse to let violence shake their community. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families, and I’m committed to helping the community overcome this tragedy.” Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor of H. Res. 334, which was introduced by Representatives David Valadao and Judy Chu to recognize the tragic shooting in Oak Creek. More information on H. Res. 334 can be found here.
08.01.2013	WASHINGTON—U.S. Reps. Jim Cooper (TN-5) and Paul Ryan (WI-1) introduced H.R. 2883, a bipartisan bill to give the Department of Defense (DOD) discretion when applying cuts from sequestration. The Defense Flexibility Act will allow DOD to manage these cuts responsibly and lessen the impact on national security. Under sequestration, DOD faces over $450 billion in cuts over 10 years. Currently, DOD must apply the cuts evenly to most programs, projects, and activities. As a result, DOD projects a decrease in the overall size of the armed forces; significant cuts to training, readiness, and modernization; and continued furloughs for over 650,000 civilian employees. “It's one thing for the Pentagon to go on a diet,” said Cooper. “It’s another for the Pentagon to wear a straitjacket while dieting. This bill removes the straitjacket so that the Pentagon can better defend itself and defend America.” “We should replace these arbitrary cuts with better reforms,” Ryan said. “But if the sequester remains the law of the land, then we need to give DOD the flexibility to manage these cuts in a responsible way. Our troops shouldn’t pay the price for Washington’s failure to budget responsibly.” Yesterday, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel released his Defense Strategic Choices and Management Review, which illustrated the impact for the remaining eight years of sequestration. Cooper is the ranking member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, and Ryan is the chairman of the House Budget Committee.
07.17.2013	WASHINGTON—Today, the House passed H.R. 2668, The Fairness for American Families Act, which delays Obamacare’s individual mandate for one year. The House also passed H.R. 2667, The Authority for Mandate Delay Act, which delays the employer mandate for one year by law. Upon passage of the legislation, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “Today, we took another step toward the full repeal of Obamacare. And we defended two key principles. First, we upheld the principle of fairness. We gave families the same relief that the President gave businesses. Second, we upheld the rule of law. The President doesn’t get to pick which laws to enforce. He must enforce them all. It’s a matter of duty—not of discretion. “In the end, American families know Obamacare was a mistake. The administration has acknowledged its error by requesting a delay. So it should work with Congress to pass real reforms. Our ultimate goal isn’t simply to repeal one bad law. It’s to improve our health-care system. And we can get this right, but only if we put patients—not bureaucrats—in control of their health care.”
05.10.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Paul Ryan announced that the First District Mobile Office will continue its regularly scheduled visits to communities across Wisconsin’s First District from May to August. Click here for a list of scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. At each stop, a staff member of Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet with residents to discuss concerns or questions they may have about federal issues and government agencies. In announcing the Mobile Office schedule for this summer, Ryan said: “The mobile office is a great resource for constituents to utilize, particularly for those who don’t live near one of the three permanent congressional offices in the First District. When the Mobile Office comes to their town or area, residents can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views about issues before Congress. I need to hear from and be accessible to those I serve in Wisconsin’s First District and the Mobile Office is a great way to help me do this.” Congressman Ryan established the Mobile Office to serve as an extension of existing First District Constituent Service Centers. Since 1999, the Mobile Office has made almost 3,000 visits to area communities and has provided assistance to thousands of residents over the years. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of Mobile Office hours indicate where the Mobile Office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). For the latest Mobile Office schedule, residents can check their local paper or Rep. Ryan’s website - http://paulryan.house.gov.
05.08.2013	WASHINGTON—Today, members of the House Budget Committee introduced a package of seven legislative reforms to help repair the broken budget process. Committee members introduced similar legislation during the last Congress, and they brought several of these reforms to the House floor. House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement upon release of these reforms: “I commend my colleagues at the House Budget Committee for advancing common-sense solutions to bring accountability to the federal budget process. These reforms are an important step toward restoring fiscal discipline in Washington. “I look forward to working with my colleagues on these solutions in the year ahead. By improving the budget process, we can get a better handle on our spending problem. But there is no substitute for the political will necessary to pay down the debt and to expand opportunity for all Americans. That’s why the House passed a budget earlier this year that would put in place a plan to balance the budget in ten years to foster a healthier economy and help create jobs.” The budget-process-reform package includes the following bills: The Legally Binding Budget Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Diane Black of Tennessee) Gives the budget the force of law by converting it from a concurrent to a joint resolution, which requires the President’s signature. Upon a presidential veto, the joint resolution automatically reverts to a concurrent resolution. The Expedited Line-Item Veto and Rescissions Act (Lead sponsors: Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, Ranking Member Chris Van Hollen of Maryland) Provides for the expedited consideration by Congress of specific requests by the President to reduce discretionary spending in appropriations legislation. The Biennial Budgeting and Enhanced Oversight Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Reid Ribble of Wisconsin) Establishes a biennial budgeting cycle where Congress adopts a budget resolution in the first session of Congress (i.e., odd-numbered years) and considers authorization legislation in the second session, providing greater opportunities for review of government spending. The Baseline Reform Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Rob Woodall of Georgia) Reforms the budget “baseline” to remove automatic inflation increases in discretionary accounts, and to require a comparison to the previous year’s spending levels. The Review Every Dollar Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Jason Chaffetz of Utah) Requires periodic sunset reviews and reauthorization of all federal programs to ensure the programs perform an appropriate role and are operating effectively. Requires all transfers from the general fund to the Highway Trust Fund to be offset or counted as new spending. Requires any new rule or regulation promulgated by the administration that includes new spending to be explicitly funded by Congress before such regulations take effect. Provides a mechanism through which Members can devote savings from spending bills to deficit reduction. The Budget and Accounting Transparency Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Scott Garrett of New Jersey) Reforms the Credit Reform Act to incorporate Fair Value accounting principles. Recognizes the budgetary impact of the GSEs by formally bringing the entities on-budget. Requires a CBO & OMB study on offsetting receipts/collections/revenues. Requires all federal agencies make public the budgetary justification materials prepared in support of their requests for taxpayer dollars. The Pro-Growth Budgeting Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Tom Price of Georgia) Requires CBO to provide an assessment of the macroeconomic impact of major legislation.
05.07.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – In an awards ceremony on April 27, 2013, at the Olde Towne Mall in Janesville, Wisconsin Congressman Paul Ryan announced the winner of this year’s First District Congressional Art Competition is Michalia Swanson, a sophomore at Racine Lutheran High School, who submitted a pencil drawing titled: Hero in My Eyes. Michalia drew a moving portrait of her uncle Benjamin Swanson standing in front of American flag as a way of honoring his service to our nation during Operation Iraqi Freedom. Her art teacher at Racine Lutheran High School is Debra DeKeuster. "I want to thank all the students who participated in this annual competition and congratulate Michalia Swanson on her winning drawing,” Ryan said. “Our judges had a difficult task again this year given the exceptional skill and imagination of young artists in Southern Wisconsin. Michalia’s excellent drawing earned top honors this year, and I look forward to seeing her artwork displayed at the Capitol where visitors from all over the country will have a chance to view it.” Congressman Ryan invited high school students in the First Congressional District to submit an entry to the annual art contest, and a panel of local artists judged the entries. The competition was part of the annual “Congressional Art Competition — An Artistic Discovery.” This nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by Members of Congress, provides high school artists with an opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity.
05.06.2013	
05.03.2013	WATERFORD – Yesterday, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan joined Senator Ron Johnson, Waterford Village President Tom Roanhouse, Waterford Postmaster Richard Gramza, and local residents in a dedication ceremony to rename the Waterford Post Office, located at 218 N. Milwaukee Street in Waterford, the “Captain Rhett W. Schiller Post Office.” At the dedication ceremony, Congressman Ryan offered the following remarks: “Bill and Karla Schiller, it is great to see you here. I first want to start out by saying that we had passed this bill in the House of Representatives a number of years ago but we couldn’t get it through the Senate, and that is why I want to thank our Senator Ron Johnson for getting the job done, getting this through the Senate, and making this day possible. “I knew Rhett Schiller. He was one of the first young men I had the opportunity to appoint to West Point. And what a lot of folks may not know is one of my closest friends in Janesville that I grew up with, Andrew Poppas, was Rhett’s commanding officer at the time in Iraq. A young guy from Janesville, he went to West Point himself. He is now Brigadier General Poppas. And upon Rhett’s passing, Andy wrote to me about Rhett Schiller. He took a unique interest in another guy from Wisconsin. “I have since received other letters from men who have served with Rhett Schiller and the stories are all the same: What a brave, selfless, dedicated, leader and soldier. “Following his graduation - and let me just go through what, in such a brief period of time, this young man accomplished - he was assigned to the 82nd Airborne at Fort Bragg, first as a platoon leader in Company B and later as an Executive Officer for Company A of the 3rd Battalion, 505th Parachute Infantry Regiment. In 2006, he was assigned to the 5th Squadron, 73rd Calvary Regiment, 3rd Combat Team in the 82nd Airborne. “It was in this capacity that he was deployed to Iraq as part of a reconnaissance, surveillance, and target acquisition team. On his hundredth day in country, while leading a squad of six paratroopers and six Iraqi Army soldiers, his unit came under small arms fire during a canal clearing operation. And the story that follows is a story of leadership, of bravery. “It’s a story of a man who stepped up to protect his fellow soldiers. It’s the story of a man who came out of our community, volunteered, put on the uniform, and paid the ultimate sacrifice so that we can enjoy the freedoms we enjoy here today, so we can live in peace and security and salute and pledge allegiance to our flag because there are people like this in our community who protect us, who pay the ultimate sacrifice. “That’s why it is so fitting that we dedicate this Post Office in his honor so that when other young people come to the Post Office, they will be reminded that each generation of Americans have these leaders among us from all of our communities who step up, put on the uniform, and save us and help liberate others. It’s the ultimate sacrifice. “So when I see the emails from General Pappas and read the letters from those Captain Schiller served with it’s reverence, it’s appreciation, it’s what a unique leader he was. So that’s why it’s such an honor to be here today and to pay tribute to such a great young man, who attributed us with his life.” Captain Schiller was killed in action on November 16, 2006, while serving in Iraq. The bill to name the Waterford Post Office in honor of Captain Schiller was signed into law by President Barack Obama on January 14, 2013.
04.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Paul Ryan announced that he will hold a round of listening sessions throughout Wisconsin’s First Congressional District next week. Ryan will be visiting eight communities from Monday, April 29th to Thursday, May 2nd to speak with area residents about the need for solutions to our fiscal and economic challenges. In advance of the meetings, Ryan offered the following statement: “These listening sessions provide a great opportunity for me to answer questions, discuss the major legislative proposals before Congress, and address the concerns of First District residents. I am looking forward to talking with those I serve about the common-sense solutions needed to get our country and our economy back on track.” A complete schedule of the upcoming listening sessions follows this release and can be accessed online here. April/May 2013 Listening Sessions with Congressman Paul Ryan Monday, April 29 DOUSMAN: 11:45–1:15pm, Dousman-Ottawa Lion’s Club, 235 North Main Street JANESVILLE: 3:00–4:30pm, Holiday Inn Express, 3100 Wellington Place Tuesday, April 30 ELKHORN: 10:15–11:30am, Monte Carlo Room, 720 North Wisconsin Street BURLINGTON: 12:30–1:45pm, Veterans Terrace, 589 Milwaukee Avenue OAK CREEK: 2:30–4:00pm, Oak Creek Community Center, 8580 South Howell Avenue Wednesday, May 1 RACINE: 11:15–12:45pm, Cesar Chavez Community Center, 2221 Douglas Avenue KENOSHA: 2:00–3:30pm, Boys and Girls Club of Kenosha, 1330 52nd Street Thursday, May 2 BRISTOL: 2:00–3:30pm, Kenosha County Center, 19600 75th Street
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON—House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s FY2014 budget proposal: “I’m disappointed by the President’s proposal because it merely ratifies the status quo. It doesn’t break new ground; it goes over old ground: It takes more from families to spend more in Washington. And the White House says they never balance the budget. Instead, it raises taxes by $1.1 trillion. It increases spending by $964 billion. And it adds $8.2 trillion to our debt. “Both sides have put plans on the table. And there are many differences between them. The President and Senate Democrats believe Washington knows better, so their plan puts more power in its hands. By defending the status quo, they’re letting critical programs like Medicare wither on their watch. They’re cementing record poverty and high unemployment into place. “We’re offering a different approach. We don’t want to regulate people’s lives even more. We want to improve them. Our plan balances the budget in ten years to foster a healthier economy and to help create jobs. Our plan expands opportunity for the young. It guarantees a secure retirement for seniors. And it repairs the safety net for those in need. “In the next few weeks, we’ll work to find common ground and to move the debate forward. Even if we can’t agree on everything, we need to make a down payment on our debt—now. We can start with common-sense reforms to strengthen entitlements and revenue-neutral tax reform. “The President’s budget is such a disappointment because it’s a missed opportunity. We need a new approach to meet our generation’s most pressing challenges. I hope the other side will join us in proposing real reforms. But until then, we need to take steps in the right direction. I am hopeful we will.” Key facts from the President’s fiscal year 2014 budget: Their Budget Never Balances — Ever The House budget balances in ten years, but, like Senate Democrats, the White House says their budget never balances — ever. $8.2 Trillion in New Debt Accounting for the cost of eliminating the sequester and removing the budget gimmicks, net deficit reduction is only $119 billion. Additional deficit increase in FY2013: $61 billion Total U.S. debt in 2023: $25.4 trillion Debt increase per household: $60,980 Interest payments on the debt in 2023: $763 billion Deficit in 2023: $439 billion $1.1 Trillion in New Taxes President Obama’s budget increases taxes by $1.1 trillion—on top of $1 trillion in taxes from Obamacare and more than $600 billion from the President’s recent tax hike. $964 Billion in New Spending above Projected Growth Spending increase next year alone: $154 billion Additional spending in FY2013: $61 billion Total spending over ten years: $46.5 trillion Rate of annual increase in mandatory spending: 5.2% The Budget Grows the Government at the Expense of the Economy President Obama’s budget takes more from hardworking families to spend more in Washington, D.C. Instead of empowering people with more control over their lives, the President’s plan empowers bureaucracy. Instead of creating good-paying American jobs, the President’s plan destroys jobs, depresses wages, and diminishes opportunity. Republicans are offering a different path. Our plan to balance the budget will end the waste of taxpayer dollars and foster a healthier economy, delivering real solutions to help improve people’s lives.
03.15.2013	WASHINGTON - Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan lauded the passage of H.R. 803, theSupporting Knowledge and Investing in Lifelong Skills (SKILLS) Act, which was approved by the House of Representatives earlier today. Following the vote, Ryan said: “As the nation continues to face record levels of unemployment, the importance of a streamlined and accountable workforce-development system cannot be overstated. The SKILLS Act consolidates duplicative job-training programs and provides states and local workforce investment boards with the necessary flexibility to put Americans in search of employment back to work. “The House Republican budget resolution, which was approved by the House Budget Committee earlier this week, builds on the SKILLS Act by calling for consolidation of duplicative federal job-training programs into more targeted career scholarships. The streamlined approach advanced by both pieces of legislation will improve access, choice, and flexibility for job-seekers.” To learn more about The Path to Prosperity: A Responsible, Balanced Budget, which will be considered by the House of Representatives next week, visit: http://budget.house.gov/.
03.14.2013	WASHINGTON—Last night, the House Budget Committee approved the House Republican budget resolution for fiscal year 2014. The House will consider it on the floor next week. Upon passage of the resolution, Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “I’m proud of my colleagues for working together to write this budget. We owe the American people a responsible, balanced budget. And for the third straight year, we’ve delivered. Our plan balances the budget in just ten years—without raising taxes. We’ve got to stop spending money we don’t have. By balancing the budget, we will promote a healthier economy and help create jobs. “But a balanced budget is a means to a larger end: the well-being of the people. Our budget will give economic security to families and seniors. It will repair the safety net for the poor. And it will expand opportunity for all. “I understand not everyone shares our view. And I respect that difference of opinion. If the President and Senate Democrats disagree with our plan, they should offer their own. I’m happy to see the Senate Democrats have written a budget. The only problem is, it doesn’t balance—ever. It simply takes more from hardworking families to spend more in Washington. And we’re still waiting for the President to submit a budget, though he’s already six weeks late. “Tonight, we took an important step toward achieving the reasonable goal of a balanced budget. We look forward to engaging the full House in this debate next week. I invite the President and Senate Democrats to join in the effort.” The House Republicans’ fiscal year 2014 budget is available online at budget.house.gov.
03.06.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, First District Congressman Paul Ryan joined Representatives Gibbs, Wenstrup, Joyce, and Speaker John Boehner in addressing the 67th annual Ohio Farm Bureau Legislative Forum. The forum provided County Presidents and Members of Congress with the opportunity to discuss issues facing the agricultural industry and the current fiscal climate in Washington. After the event, Congressman Ryan made the following statement: “Ohio and my home state of Wisconsin share a rich agricultural history, and I was grateful to join Congressman Gibbs today in addressing members of the Ohio Farm Bureau.” Ryan added, “Good paying agricultural jobs depend on economy certainty, open markets for trade and a commitment to energy independence. That’s why, next week, the House of Representatives will do what we believe we were elected to do: deliver a balanced budget that pays down the debt to ensure that future generations inherit a stronger, more prosperous and free America.” Representative Bob Gibbs, who extended the invitation to Congressman Ryan, expressed a shared commitment to the continued growth of the agricultural industry, saying: “There are a number of critical issues facing both our state and national agricultural industry, and by bringing together leaders in this community, we are able to work together toward the betterment of Ohio’s number one industry – agriculture.” He continued, “It is imperative that Congress pass a long-term farm bill that will ensure the viability and safety of our nation’s food supply.”
03.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – This morning, at an event hosted by Snap-On Incorporated in Kenosha, Congressman Paul Ryan was awarded the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. Ryan received the award because of his strong support for our nation’s manufacturers during the 112th Congress. “It’s an honor to receive this award from the National Association of Manufacturers and their members at Snap-On,” Ryan said. “Manufacturing is the backbone of Wisconsin’s economy, and I will continue to push for pro-growth solutions that increase our competitive edge and encourage job creation.” Chairman and CEO of Snap-On Incorporated Nick Pinchuk added, “We thank Congressman Ryan for his continuing and broad support of manufacturing in America. He knows that manufacturing is America’s most powerful engine of economic growth, creator of fulfilling jobs and builder of general prosperity, and he backs that belief with clear action.” “Manufacturers today compete in a global marketplace,” said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. “It is critical that Washington creates policies to keep us competitive and maintain our mantle of economic leadership. Congressman Ryan understands this and has consistently supported the pro-manufacturing agenda through his votes in Congress.” These awards are based on members’ votes on key manufacturing legislation identified by the National Association of Manufacturers in the 112th Congress. Voting records for all Members of Congress and further details are available here.
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON - In response to President Obama’s State of the Union address, Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “Last year, the American people chose divided government. So this year, both parties have to make it work. We need to make progress on real solutions. We need to strengthen our economy. And we need to create jobs—because if we don’t, we’ll have a diminished future. “We need to balance the budget. Otherwise, we’ll provoke a debt crisis. Our finances will collapse. The economy will stall. And the most vulnerable will suffer. Instead, we have to budget responsibly—so we can expand opportunity for everyone in this country. “I’m concerned the President doesn’t fully appreciate the challenge of our national debt—and its threat to our economy. Tonight, he outlined many new programs in detail. But when it came to spending restraint, he was remarkably brief. He overstated his administration’s success on this front. And he downplayed the task before us. “This isn’t a partisan issue. It’s math. Over the last four years, the national debt grew by $6 trillion, the largest increase of any presidency. But the President hasn’t changed course. For the fourth time in five years, he’s failed to submit a budget on time. And Senate Democrats haven’t passed a budget in nearly four years. “This spring, House Republicans will offer a budget—on time—as we have in the past two years. If the President wants to work together, he’ll find a willing partner in House Republicans. But he needs to get serious about the challenges ahead.”
02.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan offered the following statement regarding the decision made earlier today by Pope Benedict XVI: “I was surprised by Pope Benedict XVI’s announcement but I consider it another sign of his humility and good sense. His pontificate has been a blessing to the world. He’s promoted peace and understanding among the world’s religious faiths. He’s defended the dignity of the human person and the universal right to religious liberty. And he’s been a strong advocate of the poor, the powerless, the unborn, the sick, and the elderly. "Pope Benedict’s outpouring of books and homilies has demonstrated his brilliant intellect. These new treasures of the Church will give light, courage, and comfort to men and women of every faith in the years ahead. Our grateful prayers go with him for physical health and spiritual strength.”
02.11.2013	JANESVILLE – Congressman Paul Ryan announced the nominations of a number of students from the First Congressional District for appointments to attend U.S. service academies. Part of the application process for young people interested in attending a U.S. service academy is obtaining a nomination from an authorized nominating source, such as a Member of Congress. Acceptance to the academies is highly competitive and receiving a nomination does not guarantee acceptance. In announcing the nominations, Congressman Ryan said: “It’s a privilege to recognize these students for their records of achievement and nominate them to attend our nation’s military service academies. I am confident these students will excel at these institutions if they are accepted, will be able to meet the rigorous requirements set by the Academies, and will serve our nation with honor.” “Each year, many highly qualified students apply for nominations, which makes the selection process quite a challenge. All of them deserve our gratitude for their desire to serve and protect our country,” Ryan added. During December 2012, Congressman Ryan’s Service Academy Nomination Advisory Board interviewed and evaluated applicants from the First Congressional District for nomination to the U.S. service academies. Comprised of veterans, past academy graduates, public officials and educators, the Board was appointed by Ryan to assist him with identifying the most highly qualified applicants. First District applicants typically represent the top tiers of their class, are active in their communities and demonstrate great potential for leadership. A list of the students nominated by Congressman Ryan follows: Kenosha County Blake Bohlman – attends Indian Trail High School and Academy, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Toneo Gulley – graduated from Tremper High School and attends U.S. Naval Academy Preparatory School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Brian Kennedy – attends St. Joseph High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Justin Schweitzer – attends Wilmot Union High School, nominated for appointments to U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Military Academy Tye Skowronski – attends Tremper High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy Ethan Sobbe – attends Catholic Central High School, nominated for appointments to U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy Zachary Steinbrenner – graduated from University School of Milwaukee and attends University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Milwaukee County Grayson Ruhl – attends Oak Creek High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Military Academy Racine County Anna Brooks – attends Westosha Central High School, nominated for appointments to U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Naval Academy Phillip Davis – attends Waterford Union High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy Gabriel Gasiorowski – attends Waterford Union High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Military Academy Susan Schulz – attends Washington Park High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy Rock County Brittany Brookhiser – attends Milton High School, nominated for appointments to U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy Jack Lunaas – attends Milton High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Walworth County Nathan Dodge – attends East Troy High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Military Academy Oscar Donegan – attends East Troy High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Edward Ruzga II – graduated from Badger High School and attends U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Military Academy Randy Shine – attends Badger High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Waukesha County CaitlinRose Cherek – attends Palmyra-Eagle High School, nominated for appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy Amanda See – attends Mukwonago High School, nominated for appointments to U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Military Academy
02.05.2013	WASHINGTON—Today, the Congressional Budget Office released its Budget and Economic Outlook, which projected an $845 billion deficit for fiscal year 2013. In response, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “The CBO’s report is yet another warning that we need to get spending under control. The deficit is still unsustainable. By 2023, our national debt will hit $26 trillion. We can’t let that happen. We need to budget responsibly, so we can keep our commitments and expand opportunity. “Unfortunately, the President has yet to produce a budget—in violation of federal law. And Senate Democrats haven’t passed a budget in nearly four years. “This isn’t a partisan issue. It’s math. Unless the President and the Senate offer a credible plan to close the deficit, we will have a debt crisis—and the country will suffer. “House Republicans have offered their solutions. Now the President and Senate Democrats must do the same.” CBO’s Key Findings The CBO projects an $845 billion deficit for fiscal year 2013. In 2023, the federal government will collect twice as much revenue as it did in 2012. Even so, the deficit will hit $978 billion. The CBO projects the total debt will rise by $10 trillion by the end of the budget window (debt held by the public will rise by $8.7 trillion). By 2023, total debt will equal $26 trillion.
02.04.2013	WASHINGTON—Today, President Obama is required by law to submit his budget request for Fiscal Year 2014. For the fourth time in five years, however, he will miss the statutory deadline. In response, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: "I’m disappointed the President has missed his deadline. But I’m not surprised. In four of the last five years, he’s failed to submit his budget on time. We still don’t know when we’ll receive the president’s request. And for nearly four years, Senate Democrats haven’t passed a budget at all. We deserve better. "We spend $1 trillion more than we take in each year. In fact, we spend $3 for every $2 we take in. And we can’t keep that up. If we stay on this path, our finances will collapse. The economy will stall. And the most vulnerable will suffer. We need a budget that reflects our priorities—that expands opportunity. The fact is, we cannot achieve those goals unless we budget responsibly. "Every time the President and Senate Democrats shirk their duty, they delay choices we need to make. We’ve still got time, but it’s dwindling. Every missed deadline is a missed opportunity. We need to get serious about spending now. "The House Budget Committee will do its job. We’ll write a budget—and submit it on time. In the past two years, we’ve offered our solutions to the country’s fiscal challenges. Now the President must do the same."
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON—Earlier today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 325, the No Budget, No Pay Act of 2013. The legislation requires both houses of Congress to pass a budget, as stipulated by federal law. If either house fails to pass a budget, its members’ pay will be withheld. Upon passage of the legislation, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: "Government must pay its bills. To do that, we need to cut spending and to budget responsibly. "Every family sets a budget to pay its bills. Congress should do the same. In fact, it’s the law. In the past two years, the House has done its job. But for nearly four years, the Senate has refused to pass a budget. It can no longer shirk its duty. Now, both chambers must work together. "The House will not consider another debt-ceiling increase unless the Senate passes a budget. We’re not going to just keep raising the debt ceiling, either. We’re going to take this opportunity to make a down payment on our debt reduction. And we’re going to point our country in the right direction."
01.18.2013	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, House Republicans announced a path forward on the nation’s near-term budget challenges. The 1974 Congressional Budget Act requires passage of a budget resolution by April 15 each year. Under Senator Harry Reid’s leadership, the Senate has refused to pass a budget for 1,360 days. As the Administration and Congress work through opportunities to cut government spending, there will be no consideration of a long-term debt-ceiling increase unless both the House and the Senate pass a long-term budget plan. The plan also includes a bipartisan proposal to withhold Senators’ salaries if they fail to pass a budget. In response to the plan outlined by House Republican leaders, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “I stand in strong support of the agreement reached by my colleagues today. Our conference has united around a common-sense proposal. It rests on the recognition that our challenge is twofold: We have to pay our bills today, and we have to make sure we can pay our bills tomorrow. To achieve both ends, we must cut spending and budget responsibly. “Since taking the majority, House Republicans have done their job. We’ve passed a budget that promotes economic growth and gets spending under control. But for nearly four years, Senate Democrats have refused to pass a budget. Today’s agreement will hold the Senate accountable for this legal and moral failure. Just as April 15 is tax day for American families, it is budget day for Congress. Unless the Senate acts, there will be no consideration of a long-term debt-ceiling increase. I look forward to working with my colleagues—in both houses and in both parties—on this vital issue.”
01.15.2013	WASHINGTON—Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 152: “I’m committed to helping the communities affected by Hurricane Sandy. We should meet all of their needs as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, H.R. 152 is the latest example of Washington using hardship to achieve political ends. “The legislation proposes to spend billions of dollars for 64 programs across 17 agencies. Only 7 percent of its funds will be spent in the next nine months. It funds billions in grants for non-Sandy expenses, sand dunes at the Kennedy Space Center, highway repairs in the Virgin Islands, and roof repairs in Washington, D.C. It gives the administration the authority to transfer billions of dollars to other priorities. To circumvent budget rules, H.R. 152 explicitly uses an ‘emergency’ designation for non-emergency projects. This legislative abuse is an insult to families facing real emergencies in the wake of the storm. All told, this bill will increase the public debt by $74.8 billion over the next ten years. “Washington needs to start budgeting for emergencies. By setting aside resources in advance, policymakers can better fulfill emergency needs without accelerating a debt crisis. Likewise, there’s historical precedent for offsetting emergency spending. Since 1990, more than half—31 out of 59—of the enacted supplemental-appropriations bills included offsetting spending reductions. “We must ensure communities in need have sufficient resources to assist those affected by Hurricane Sandy. We can provide aid without mismanaging our resources—and without increasing our massive debt. This bill fails these tests, and I cannot support it.”
01.04.2013	WASHINGTON—House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement upon passage of legislation to increase the FEMA’s borrowing authority to carry out the Flood Insurance Program: "I agree with my colleagues that we must help those affected by Hurricane Sandy. We should meet all of their needs as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, Washington's legislative response fails on both counts. It refuses to distinguish—or even prioritize—disaster relief over pork-barrel spending. "Today’s legislation concerns the National Flood Insurance Program, a program $20 billion in debt and in desperate need of reform. The GAO has said that, in the future, NFIP may need to borrow money just to meet its interest payments. This legislation proposes to increase the program’s borrowing authority by $9.7 billion. It would be irresponsible to raise an insolvent program’s debt ceiling without making the necessary reforms. "Likewise, CBO projects that nearly half of the money in the bill won’t be spent until 2014 or beyond. In fact, some of the new spending would be for claims unrelated to Hurricane Sandy. In a time of crisis, we must ensure that every dollar we spend is on those who need it. President Obama and Congress owe the people of New York and New Jersey better."
01.01.2013	WASHINGTON—Today, the House of Representatives voted to prevent across-the-board tax increases on the American people, again taking action to avert the short-term “fiscal cliff.” Upon passage of the legislation, Congressman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “We’ll never get our debt under control unless we tackle its main drivers: too little economic growth and too much spending. Without presidential leadership, it will be difficult to forge bipartisan solutions to our debt and economic challenges. “Today, I joined my colleagues in the House to protect as many Americans as possible from a tax increase. We also provided certainty by making the lower tax rates permanent. The House has already passed legislation to prevent tax increases for every American family, and it is unfortunate that President Obama insisted on taking more from hardworking taxpayers. Despite my concerns with other provisions in the bill, I commend my colleagues for limiting the damage as much as possible. “The American people chose divided government. As elected officials, we have a duty to apply our principles to the realities of governing. And we must exercise prudence. We must weigh the benefits and the costs of action—and of inaction. In H.R. 8, there are clearly provisions that I oppose. But the question remains: Will the American people be better off if this law passes relative to the alternative? In the final analysis, the answer is undoubtedly yes. I came to Congress to make tough decisions—not to run away from them. “Now, we must return our attention to the real problem: out-of-control spending. Washington’s reckless spending drives the debt. And this debt is hurting the economy today. Unless we get at the heart of the problem, Americans will face a debt crisis—one that will threaten our most vulnerable in particular. It is our responsibility to prevent such a crisis.”
08.07.2012	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, President Obama signed into law the Sequestration Transparency Act of 2012. The legislation, which had strong bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate, requires the President to detail how the administration plans to implement the budget sequestration cuts scheduled to take place on January 2, 2013. Upon the President’s signing of the legislation, Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “The President’s signing of the Sequestration Transparency Act of 2012 is a welcome step toward providing Congress and American taxpayers with the transparency necessary to understand how sequestration will affect our national defense and key domestic priorities. With the President’s signature, the administration is required under the law to submit this report to Congress within 30 days. “Allowing the sequester to occur would be a failure of leadership and a failure to govern. We must work together to replace these arbitrary cuts. The House passed legislation nearly three months ago to this end with a package of common sense spending reductions and reforms that more than offset the cost of the sequester. Unfortunately, we have not yet seen the same action from Senate Democrats and the President. The arbitrary cuts called for under sequestration would be a severe blow to our military and key domestic priorities. I urge the Senate and President Obama to follow our lead in providing an alternative to replace the harmful effects of sequestration.”
08.02.2012	Washington – Today the U.S. House of Representatives advanced another pro-growth solution by passing The Pathway to Job Creation Through a Simpler, Fairer Tax Code Act. Following yesterday’s decisive vote to stop the President’s looming tax increases, today’s legislation provides for expedited consideration of tax reform legislation in 2013. After the vote, Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “Yesterday, the House took action to prevent a massive tax increase from hitting every family and small business in the county. Today, we took another step closer toward enacting common-sense tax reform, a critical component of reforms needed to get our economy growing again. “Our tax code has become an antiquated and complex maze that stifles economic growth and job creation. The tax code is littered with special-interest loopholes that prioritize the politically connected at the expense of hardworking American taxpayers. These special interest carve outs not only disproportionately benefit the well off, but they also narrow the tax base and lead to higher marginal tax rates to make up the lost revenue. “The President's demands for greater complexity and higher tax rates are at odds with a growing bipartisan consensus for reform that lowers rates and broadens the tax base. The House Republican budget included a framework for tax reform and I applaud Chairman Dave Camp of the Ways and Means Committee for his leadership on this front. With the right leadership in the White House, I have no doubt we will reform the tax code to make it fair, simple, and geared toward creating jobs and increasing economic growth.”
08.01.2012	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to prevent an across-the-board tax increase on families and job creators, set to take effect in January 2013. The legislation comes on the heels of analyses that the President’s proposed tax increases would adversely impact job creation and economic growth. Following a bipartisan House vote to prevent a massive tax increase, Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “The results are unmistakable: the President’s insistence on taking more from hardworking taxpayers to fuel ever-higher Washington spending is not working. Economic growth has slowed to 1.5 percent and unemployment is stuck above 8 percent. Now the White House and leading Senate Democrats want to double down on these policies with massive tax increases that will hit small businesses, not to pay down the debt but to simply chase unsustainable spending increases. There is bipartisan opposition to this failed approach, and to provide certainty and confidence for job creators, the time to act is now. “The House took action today to protect families and workers from a massive tax increase, which the Congressional Budget Office warned would push our economy into another recession. “I applaud the leadership of House Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp and my colleagues in Congress for their efforts to stop the President’s massive tax increase, while paving the way forward for pro-growth tax reform. Keeping tax rates low, cutting spending, and advancing fundamental reforms to our government’s structural budget challenges are the keys to get America back on track.”
07.27.2012	WASHINGTON – Next week, the U.S. House of Representatives will vote to protect all American families and businesses from a massive tax hike in 2013. In advance of next week's vote, Congressman Paul Ryan released the following video, making the case for pro-growth tax reform to spur job creation. "We need to reform our tax code, cut our spending, and give families and businesses the certainty that they need to make good decisions so they can prosper and create jobs in this economy - that’s exactly what we’re doing in the House of Representatives next week. " - Congressman Paul Ryan
07.25.2012	WASHINGTON - Earlier today, the United States Senate passed the Sequestration Transparency Act of 2012. The legislation was passed by the House of Representatives earlier this month. The Sequestration Transparency Act requires President Obama to detail how the administration plans to implement the budget sequestration cuts scheduled to take place in January 2013 under current law. Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: "Senate passage of the Sequestration Transparency Act is a vital step toward gaining a better understanding of the impact the sequester will have on our national defense and key domestic priorities. Strong bipartisan majorities in both the House and Senate show that taxpayers and the troops deserve a more complete picture from the administration on how these arbitrary, across-the-board spending cuts will be implemented. "Transparency is absolutely necessary with sequestration less than six months away and the leadership shown by Chairman Hensarling and Senators Thune and Sessions have helped shed more light on this unworkable law. I urge the President to sign the bill so that Office of Management and Budget will finally unveil details of their plans for implementation. In the meantime, the focus must turn to the even more important goal of replacing the sequester. The House has already achieved this with a package of spending cuts and reforms that more than offset the cost of sequestration. The Senate should follow our lead so that taxpayers and the troops do not pay the unnecessary price of indiscriminate and poorly-targeted spending cuts."
07.24.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, the Congressional Budget Office released its latest report on the cost and coverage estimates of the Affordable Care Act after last month’s Supreme Court decision. Upon the release of CBO’s report, Congressman Paul Ryan released the following statement: “The Congressional Budget Office reported today that the Affordable Care Act imposes a $1 trillion tax increase and continues to raid Medicare by over $700 billion to fuel a new $1.7 trillion open-ended entitlement, while doing nothing to reduce the backbreaking health care costs for families and businesses. In fact, CBO reported that health insurance premiums will actually increase. “This law was built with smoke and mirrors to hide the impact of the trillions of dollars of new entitlement spending. Since its passage two years ago, we have seen these gimmicks begin to unravel. The only tool the President has left to prevent this entitlement from blowing another hole in the budget is massive tax increases and a board of fifteen unelected bureaucrats who will cut Medicare in ways that lead to denied care for seniors. “This future of diminished care is not what Americans deserve. The CBO's update - like the Supreme Court decision - only underscores the fact that it is up to the American people to repeal this misguided law and advance real health care reform."
07.18.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives voted 414-2 to pass on a bipartisan basis H.R. 5872, the Sequestration Transparency Act of 2012. The Sequestration Transparency Act requires President Obama to detail how the administration plans to implement the budget sequestration cuts scheduled to take place in January 2013 under current law. The legislation recently passed the House Budget Committee on a bipartisan, unanimous vote. Upon passage of this bipartisan, common-sense legislation, Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “The Obama Administration has yet to specify how they would implement current law, while refusing to demonstrate leadership in replacing the arbitrary cuts to core priorities. Today’s legislation marks a bipartisan call for transparency and action from an Administration that appears to have given up on governing. Congress and the American people need a full and complete picture from the President’s Office of Management and Budget on how it will implement these deep reductions called for under the sequestration process. “The arbitrary, across-the-board sequester cuts would have a devastating impact on our national security and key domestic priorities. That is why Republicans in the House passed legislation earlier this year to replace the across-the-board cuts under sequestration with common-sense reforms and spending reductions. “Unfortunately, we have not seen the same effort from the Senate or the Administration when it comes to responsible budgeting. The White House refuses to answer basic questions about the law, while the Democrat-controlled Senate has refused to budget in over three years. Senate Majority Leader Reid and other leading Senate Democrats, unwilling to advance solutions, have effectively endorsed crippling cuts to our national defense and massive tax increases that will crush small businesses and families already struggling in this dismal economy. Americans deserve answers from our chief executive on the consequences of the deep reductions from the sequestration process and the specific steps that he will take to address these concerns.”
07.11.2012	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, the House of Representatives voted on a bipartisan basis to repeal the president’s health care law. Following the repeal vote, Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “Despite the Supreme Court upholding much of the health care law, it is not its role to determine the policy merits of the law. That falls to the elected representatives of the people. For that reason, the House acted to repeal this misguided law to begin replacing it with patient-centered solutions. “The president’s health care overhaul is already hurting workers, seniors, taxpayers and our future fiscal health. This law fails to slow down the unsustainable growth in health care spending and completely dodges the necessary reforms to preserve the Medicare guarantee for future generations of seniors. Its taxes, penalties, fees and regulations will stifle job creation and its budget gimmicks can’t hide the trillions of dollars of new government spending that will only cause our dire fiscal situation to further erode. “We must advance common-sense solutions to tackle the challenges in health care by inviting choice and competition into the system. True reform will fix the inequities in our tax system while addressing the structural flaws in Medicare and Medicaid to give patients and doctors greater control of their health care decisions. We can provide universal access to health care without a budget-busting takeover by the federal government. “With the right kind of leadership in place, I am confident that we can advance real health care solutions in this country. The power now rests with the American people to decide the ultimate fate of this disastrous law.”
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, the Supreme Court of the United States delivered a disappointing ruling in Florida v. the United States Department of Health and Human Services, affirming that the federal mandate to purchase government-approved health insurance imposes a tax on the American people. In the response to today’s decision, First District Representative Paul Ryan issued the following statement: In the response to today’s decision, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “The federal government is tasked with protecting our cherished liberties – not infringing upon them with mandates and intrusions into our lives. Today’s ruling affirms another broken promise by President Obama, who misled the American people in selling the law by insisting that the federal mandate was not a tax. “Despite today’s disappointing decision on the law’s constitutionality, there is no question that the law remains terrible policy. It is bad news for individuals, whose personal health care decisions are threatened by greater government control. It is bad news for workers, whose paychecks and jobs are threatened by the hundreds of billions of dollars of new tax hikes and crippling uncertainty from the massive law. It is bad news for seniors, whose health security is threatened by the bureaucratic restrictions to access from the law’s changes to Medicare. It is bad news for future generations, whose prospects for greater opportunity are stifled by the trillions of dollars of new debt that will result from this law. “It is incumbent upon citizens and their elected leaders to clear this partisan roadblock with full repeal, and advance common-sense, patient-centered solutions. We can still ensure universal access to quality, affordable health coverage without a budget-busting federal government power grab. I remain committed to advancing reforms that realign incentives so that individuals and their doctors – not government bureaucrats or insurance company bureaucrats – are the nucleus of our health care system. This requires reforms to equalize the tax treatment of health insurance, invite true choice and competition, and ensure critical programs like Medicare and Medicaid can deliver on their promise in the 21st century. “Today’s decision strengthens the case for repeal and replace. With the right leadership in place, I am confident we can advance real health care solutions for the American people. It is now in the hands of the American people to determine whether this disastrous law will stand.”
06.27.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Paul Ryan announced that the Mobile Office will continue its regularly scheduled visits to communities across Wisconsin’s First District between July and September. Click here for a list of scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. At each stop, a staff member from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet with constituents and to discuss concerns or questions they may have about federal legislative issues and government agencies. In announcing the Mobile Office schedule, Congressman Ryan said: “The Mobile Office is a useful and accessible resource, particularly for those who don’t live near one of the three permanent congressional offices in the First District. When the Mobile Office comes to their town or area, residents can stop by and speak directly with a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies. They also have the opportunity to express their views about issues before Congress and share feedback about my efforts as their representative. I need to hear from and be accessible to those I serve in Wisconsin’s First District and the Mobile Office has proven to be a great way to help me do this.” When he entered Congress, Representative Ryan established the Mobile Office to serve as an extension of existing First District Constituent Service Centers. Since 1999, the Mobile Office has made over 2,600 visits to area communities and has provided assistance to many residents. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of Mobile Office hours indicate where the Mobile Office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). For the latest Mobile Office schedule, residents can check their local paper or Congressman Ryan’s website - /Contact/moschedule.htm.
06.05.2012	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) issued the latest update of The Long-Term Budget Outlook. This report outlines a bleak fiscal and economic future, and underscores the painful consequences for American families should policymakers fail to advance fiscally responsible reforms. In response to yet another dire warning from CBO, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “On the heels of last week’s dismal jobs report, today’s CBO report on the deteriorating fiscal situation underscores the obvious: The President’s policies are not working. The sobering reality of our economic challenges require leadership and action. The President and his party’s leaders have failed on both counts. The President’s own Treasury Secretary recently told the House Budget Committee: ‘We’re not coming before you today to say we have a definitive solution to the long-term problem. What we do know is we don’t like yours.’ The Democrat-controlled Senate has failed to pass a budget in 1,132 days – refusing to even propose a budget the past two years. “Americans deserve better than the European-style austerity offered by the President’s broken promises and bankrupt policies. Repeating Europe’s mistakes, the President’s policies call for job-crushing tax increases and harsh disruptions for beneficiaries of government programs as the debt spirals out of control. House Republicans refuse to accept this diminished future. The House of Representatives passed a budget – The Path to Prosperity – that responsibly averts the looming debt crisis detailed in today’s CBO report. The House continues to advance solutions that foster a better environment for economic growth and job creation. CBO’s report is the latest is a series of warnings for policymakers to advance principled solutions that responsibly confront our generation’s most pressing challenges.” Key points from CBO’s Long-Term Budget Outlook: The Federal government’s unsustainable government spending increase likelihood of a devastating crisis: The CBO report states that “Growing debt also would increase the probability of a sudden fiscal crisis, during which investors would lose confidence in the government’s ability to manage its budget and the government would thereby lose its ability to borrow at affordable rates.” The CBO report affirms that the massive health-care overhaul fails to address the explosion in health care costs. Mandatory federal spending on health care will increase by 93 percent from 5.4 percent of GDP today to 10.4 percent of GDP over the next 25 years. The CBO projects that government spending as a share of the economy will increase by nearly 53 percent between now and 2037, up from its historical average of roughly 20 percent. Taxes are projected to rise to the historical average in the years ahead, yet the unprecedented growth in government spending is projected to rise much faster, driving an unsustainable explosion in debt. The long-term budget outlook continues to worsen with each passing year Congress fails to act. While total debt already eclipsed the size of the entire US economy, debt held by the public is on pace to eclipse the economy shortly after 2022. The crushing burden of debt is driven primarily by the nation’s largest entitlement programs – Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid – along with the compounding growth in interest payments on the debt. Government spending on health care entitlements, Social Security, and interest on the national debt will consume 100 percent of total revenues by 2025. According to the CBO report, the federal government’s interest payments alone are projected to consume 9.5 percent of our entire economy by 2037, up from about 1.4 percent today. The CBO reports warns of the economic consequences of the President and his party’s leaders insistence on increasing tax rates and raising barriers to job creation and economic growth. With the respect to counterproductive efforts to reduce the deficit by increasing tax rates, CBO states that “the extent that additional tax revenues were generated by boosting marginal tax rates, those higher rates would discourage people from working and saving, further reducing output and income.” To read the full report: http://cbo.gov/publication/43288
05.31.2012	House Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) and House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) today introduced the Sequestration Transparency Act, a bill to require President Obama to submit a report to Congress detailing how his administration plans to implement the budget sequestration cuts required to take place in January 2013 under current law. “This month, House Republicans passed a plan to replace the dangerous and arbitrary defense cuts called for under sequestration with common sense spending reductions that begin the process of ensuring we live within our means,” said Hensarling. “Not only has the Democrat-controlled Senate not produced a budget in over 1,000 days, neither the Senate nor the president have offered a credible solution to replace the scheduled sequester cuts that the president’s own Defense Secretary warned would ‘hollow out the force and inflict severe damage to our national defense.’ If the president isn’t willing to work with Republicans to replace these harmful cuts, he should at least detail for the American people how his administration plans to implement them.” “Military families and taxpayers alike deserve answers from our chief executive on the consequences of the sequestration process and the specific steps that he will take to address these concerns,” said Ryan. “House Republicans advanced specific, common-sense reforms to replace dangerous cuts to our national defense and key domestic priorities. The legislation we’re introducing today requires the President to join a debate he continues to evade.”If current law is not changed, across-the-board spending cuts will be enforced under the Budget Control Act, resulting in a 10% cut to the Department of Defense and an 8% cut to non-defense discretionary spending—known as sequestration. Unfortunately, despite repeated requests from both the House and Senate, the administration has persistently refused to provide basic details about the scope, severity, and extent of the arbitrary cuts required by the sequester. To address these concerns, the Sequestration Transparency Act would require the president to submit a report to Congress that includes an estimate of the sequestration percentages and amounts necessary to achieve the mandatory reduction for each spending category on an account level. Additionally, the Sequestration Transparency Act would require the report to include any other data or explanations that would enhance public understanding of the looming sequester and actions to be taken under it. Senate Republican Conference Chairman Senator John Thune (R-SD) and Senate Budget Committee Ranking Member Jeff Sessions (R-AL) introduced companion legislation in the Senate last week.
05.16.2012	WASHINGTON – On the 1,113th day since Senate Democrats last passed a budget, the U.S. Senate considered a series of budget resolutions, none authored or supported by a single Senate Democrat. The national debt has eclipsed the size of the entire U.S. economy, yet the Democrat-controlled Senate has failed to pass a budget for over three years. They chose again this year not to even propose a budget. While a series of Republican budget proposals received support today, the President’s Fiscal Year 2013 budget was rejected 0-99 – with every single Democrat and every single Republican voting against the President’s fiscal plan. In response to today’s clarifying exercise on the Senate floor today, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “The budget votes today in the Democrat-controlled Senate reveal a clear choice of two futures: painful austerity from politicians who refuse to lead and a path to prosperity from solutions-oriented reformers. Not only does this mark the third year Senate Democrats have failed to put forward a budget, it also marks the second year in which they joined Republicans in unanimously rejecting the President’s budget. In the past two years – in the House and the Senate, the President’s budgets have received zero votes in favor and 610 votes against. It is no surprise that Democrats up for reelection want nothing to do with the President’s massive increases in spending, taxing and borrowing. The fact that no Senate Democrat has voted in favor of a single budget resolution on the Senate floor in over three years is among the most embarrassing spectacles in Washington. “I thank Senate Budget Committee Ranking Member Jeff Sessions for his leadership on fiscal issues, and I applaud the efforts of Senators Toomey, Lee and Paul for advancing alternative budget proposals. Senate Republicans continue to advance and affirm bold solutions to the nation’s most urgent fiscal and economic challenges. Once again, Republicans are leading while the Democrats who run their party refuse to put forward solutions. Instead, they insist on recklessly spending billions of dollars we don't have with no restraints and no accountability. The President and his party’s leaders refuse to tackle our generation’s defining challenge, choosing instead to repeat the mistakes of Europe with empty rhetoric, broken promises, and the growth-stifling folly of chasing ever-higher government spending with ever-higher tax increases. To find out where this path leads, just ask the Greeks. “The Democrats who run their party are letting the country down. This is especially disappointing because there are some Democrats and Independent voices who have expressed a willingness to tackle our nation’s challenges in a bipartisan way with principled solutions. But Washington needs new leadership in the White House and the U.S. Senate in order to deliver these solutions to the American families who deserve them, and to ensure that we leave our children with a stronger nation than the one our parents left us.” To learn more about The Path to Prosperity – the House-passed FY2013 budget – please visit: /Issues/Issue/?IssueID=56750 Of note: The Path to Prosperity received 41 more votes than the President’s budget in the U.S. Senate today and 228 more votes than the President’s budget in the U.S House of Representatives earlier this year.
05.10.2012	
05.10.2012	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5652, the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act of 2012, a package of reforms aimed to avert across-the-board cuts to our armed forces and key priorities, reduce the deficit, and foster a better environment for job creation. Replacing the “sequester” with sensible reductions in indefensible government spending would result in net deficit reduction of $242.8 billion according to the Congressional Budget Office. Earlier this week, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid stated his preference for allowing the sequester to hit unless Washington imposed massive tax increases on working families. Senator Reid’s position that the sequester represents a “balanced” approach to deficit reduction puts him at odds with Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, who has warned that the sequester is “unworkable” and would “hollow out” our armed forces. Upon passage of H.R. 5652, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “Hardworking families deserve leaders who are willing to meet their legal and moral obligation to prioritize spending within a responsible budget. Earlier this year, the House passed a responsible budget. Today, the House passed a series of common-sense reforms that stop the abuse of public-assistance programs, restrain the bureaucracy’s growth, and eliminate wasteful and duplicative spending. The reforms passed today will reduce the deficit by more than 400 percent of the arbitrary sequester cuts they replace. “The President and his party’s leaders are repeating Europe’s mistakes by calling for job-crushing tax increases, making empty promises to citizens, and ensuring harsh disruptions for beneficiaries of government programs. Time and again, their approach to budgeting has been the very definition of European-style austerity. House Republicans reject this shrunken vision of our future. Instead of broken promises and shared pain, we must advance pro-growth reforms that make good on America’s promise and put the country on a path to prosperity. “House Republicans took action today to ensure our troops, hardworking taxpayers, and key priorities such as cancer research and border security don’t pay the price for Washington’s failure to budget responsibly. We invite the President and his party’s leaders to join us in our efforts to address the near-term threat of the sequester and to meet the defining challenge of our generation: ensuring greater opportunities for generations to come.” To learn more about the House Republicans’ efforts to ensure the troops and military families don’t pay the price for Washington’s failure to budget responsibly: http://budget.house.gov/Reconciliation/
05.07.2012	Washington – Following the House Budget Committee’s successful passage of the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act and the Sequester Replacement Act, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “Both parties agree that the across-the-board sequester set to take effect this coming January is bad policy, would devastate our military, and should be replaced with more sensible savings. But only one party has put forward a specific proposal to do just that. Today, I am proud to join my colleagues on the House Budget Committee in advancing legislation to replace the arbitrary sequester cuts with reductions in lower-priority spending while laying the groundwork for further efforts to avert the spending-driven economic crisis before us. Over the next decade, the reforms advanced today achieve over 400 percent of the first year sequester savings – replacing temporary, arbitrary cuts with lasting, permanent reforms. "Unless we act, the sequester will take effect, and a 10 percent across-the-board cut in defense spending would ‘hollow out’ our national defense, according to Defense Secretary Panetta. I do not believe this is in the national interest, and the President claims that he agrees. Our military families and hardworking taxpayers deserve a responsible replacement of the looming sequester, and this legislation does so by making common-sense spending reductions. House Republicans are bringing specific proposals to the table with reforms to focus spending on important priorities while cutting indefensible government waste and duplication. It is time for the President and his party’s leaders in the U.S. Senate to do the same.” To learn more about the House Republicans’ efforts to ensure the troops and military families don’t pay the price for Washington’s failure to budget responsibly: http://budget.house.gov/Reconciliation/ To watch/read Chairman Ryan’s opening statement from today’s mark-up: http://budget.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=294198 To watch Chairman Ryan explain why compassion for those in need is not simply a function of how much borrowed money Washington throws at unaccountable government programs: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HuC3n5Wx0R4
05.01.2012	WASHINGTON – On Saturday, at the Olde Towne Mall in Janesville, Congressman Paul Ryan recognized Burlington High School’s Anne Kocha as the winner of this year’s First District Congressional Art Competition. A senior at Burlington High School, Anne’s colored pencil and ink piece, ‘Heart,’ was selected among submissions from young artists around Wisconsin’s First Congressional District. Anne’s art teacher at Burlington High School, Carrie McCanna, was also recognized at the event. In announcing this year’s winner, Ryan said: “Every year, I am more and more impressed by the talents of high school artists in the First District. Anne’s artwork will be viewed by countless visitors while on display in the U.S. Capitol this year and it’s a tremendous achievement for a young artist. The judges had a tough task with so many great pieces and that’s a testament to the teachers, who have undoubtedly helped develop their students’ skills.” Every year, Congressman Ryan invites all high schools in the First Congressional District to submit entries to the art contest, and a panel of local artists judges the entries. This nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by Members of Congress, provides high school artists with an opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity. Since it began in 1982, over 650,000 students have taken part in the annual competition.
04.25.2012	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that he will hold a round of listening sessions throughout Southern Wisconsin in early May. Congressman Ryan will be visiting 6 communities on Thursday, May 3rd, and Friday, May 4th, to speak with area residents about solutions to put the budget on a path to balance and the nation on a path to prosperity. In advance of the meetings, Ryan offered the following statement: “Many Wisconsinites are rightly frustrated with the direction our country is heading and are looking for leadership from Washington. The Senate has failed to pass a budget in over 1,000 days and the President’s budget ensures a future of doubt and decline - I believe Wisconsinites deserve better. We need to have a serious discussion about what kind of nation we want to be in the 21st century and that is why I have continued to offer solutions that would pay off our debt, strengthen Medicare and critical safety net programs, and expand economic opportunities for all Americans. “These listening sessions provide a great opportunity for me to discuss the major legislative proposals before Congress, answer questions, and address the concerns of First District residents. Wisconsinites remain eager for solutions that will get our economy back on track and I’m looking forward to speaking with those I serve about how we’ll accomplish this.” A complete schedule of the upcoming listening sessions follows this release and can be accessed online here. May 2012 Listening Sessions with Congressman Paul Ryan Thursday, May 3 MUSKEGO: 9:00 – 10:15am, High Tides Banquet Hall, 17745 W. Janesville Road ELKHORN: 1:00 - 2:15pm, Monte Carlo Room, 720 North Wisconsin Street KENOSHA: 4:00 – 5:15pm, Madrigrano Auditorium, 3520 30th Avenue Friday, May 4 JANESVILLE: 9:00 – 10:15am, Holiday Inn Express, 3100 Wellington Place RACINE/MOUNT PLEASANT: 1:00 – 2:15pm, Mount Pleasant Village Hall, 8811 Campus Drive GREENDALE: 3:15 – 4:30pm, Greendale High School, 6801 Southway
04.18.2012	WASHINGTON – In response to the Senate Budget Committee’s refusal to mark up and vote on a budget, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “I am disappointed to learn that Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad will not follow through on his commitment to advance a budget. The Democrat-controlled Senate’s ongoing failure to pass a budget has become one of the most embarrassing spectacles in Washington. A budget is the most basic function of government, and today’s decision by Chairman Conrad to shrink from responsibility and accountability is especially perilous given the debt-fueled economic crisis staring us in the face. This unserious approach to budgeting has serious consequences for Americans families. “It has been three years since Chairman Conrad last advanced a budget through the U.S. Senate. That budget from 2009 accelerated the looming debt crisis by helping to jam a massive health care overhaul into law on a partisan basis. The President and his party’s leaders are now insisting that Washington take trillions of dollars from hardworking Americans in an effort to lock in ever-higher government spending. True bipartisan solutions require the removal of partisan roadblocks like the President’s health care law and principled leadership willing to address the drivers of the debt. “It is also troubling that Chairman Conrad has refused to take steps to address the near-term challenge of across-the-board cuts scheduled to hit critical government functions, stating that the passage of last summer’s Budget Control Act means ‘we already have a budget in place for this year and next.’ With this abdication, the Senate’s Democratic leaders are officially acquiescing to a 10 percent cut in Department of Defense programs and an 8 percent cut in certain domestic programs, such as the National Institutes of Health and border security, taking effect in January of next year. While members of both parties have voiced a desire to avoid these sweeping cuts, only the House Republican majority has taken action to reprioritize these savings, ensuring our troops don’t pay the price for Washington’s failures. “In the wake of the Senate’s latest failure, House Republicans will continue to do the work Americans sent us here to do: ensuring that we keep the American promise of leaving our children with a stronger nation and greater opportunity than our parents gave us.”
03.21.2012	WASHINGTON – Moments ago, the House Budget Committee advanced a Fiscal Year (FY) 2013 budget resolution that cuts government spending, repairs the safety net, and lifts the crushing burden of debt. The FY2013 budget resolution is expected to be considered on the House floor next week. Following passage of the resolution, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “Elected representatives have a solemn obligation to help ensure that our children have more opportunity and inherit a stronger America than our parents gave us. The Democrat-controlled Senate has failed to pass a budget in over 1,000 days, while the President still refuses to offer credible solutions to the most predictable economic crisis in our history. Empty promises from Washington won’t pay our bills, strengthen our health and retirement programs, fix our economy or create jobs. Such irresponsibility will, however, lead to a debt crisis that will fundamentally change America for the worse. The Path to Prosperity budget tackles our generation’s greatest domestic challenge: reforming and modernizing government to prevent an explosion of debt from crippling our nation and robbing our children of their future. “I am proud of my colleagues on the House Budget Committee who worked together to write and advance this budget, which puts our nation’s finances on a path to balance and pay off the debt. Much work remains, but today we are happy to say we have taken another step on the path to prosperity.” To learn more about the House Republican FY2013 budget resolution: http://prosperity.budget.house.gov
03.16.2012	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released an analysis of President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2013 budget request. CBO’s analysis estimates next year’s budget deficit would be $76 billion higher than the President claimed. In response to CBO’s analysis, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “Today’s analysis serves as a disappointing reminder of this administration's broken promises and failed leadership when it comes to averting the most predictable economic crisis in our history. It confirms that the President’s budget is not serious about spending reduction – his budget calls for over $1 trillion in net spending increases. It confirms the President will not fulfill his promise to cut the deficit in half by the end of his first term – after four straight deficits in excess of $1 trillion, CBO estimates next year’s deficit will be even higher than the President claims. And it confirms that the President’s budget accelerates our nation toward a debt crisis -- despite his claims to stabilize the debt, his budget increases debt held by the public by over 11 percent over the next decade and his own budget admits that the government’s fiscal situation ‘deteriorates’ in the years ahead. “When it comes to our generation’s greatest challenges, the President refuses to take accountability or demonstrate much-needed leadership. By contrast, the House Budget Committee will advance a budget next week that restores spending discipline, tackles the drivers of our debt, and makes good on the fundamental American promise: ensuring our children inherit a stronger America and greater opportunities than our parents gave us.” CBO’s analysis of the President’s FY2013 Budget can be found online at: http://cbo.gov/publication/43083 House Budget Committee’s recent analysis of the President’s budget can be found online at: http://budget.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=281946
03.15.2012	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), in response to a request from House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, released an analysis of the President’s health care law, finding that three to five million Americans will be pushed out of their employer-provided health insurance each year from 2019 through 2022. In response to CBO’s confirmation of another broken promise by President Obama, Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “President Obama’s string of empty promises is quickly becoming a disappointing trail of broken promises. He promised Americans that his overhaul of the health care sector would not jeopardize the health coverage of those who liked what they had. As nonpartisan analysts made clear today, millions of Americans will soon learn the hard way that Washington’s overreach into their health care decisions will result in sharp disruptions to their coverage and their care. The President’s disastrous health care law continues to unravel. To advance bipartisan, patient-centered solutions, the President’s partisan roadblock must be repealed.” To read the full analysis from the Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Committee on Taxation: http://cbo.gov/publication/43090
03.08.2012	WASHINGTON – House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan spoke out in support of H.R. 452, the Medicare Decisions Accountability Act of 2011, which passed the Ways and Means Committee earlier today. The bill repeals the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), a board of 15 unelected bureaucrats given the power by the President’s new health care law to make cost-cutting decisions that will lead to restricted access to critical care for seniors. Following the advancement of H.R. 452 by the House Ways and Means Committee, Ryan issued the following statement: “Today’s vote marks another important step toward removing a threat to the health security of America’s seniors. Repealing the Independent Payment Advisory Board is critical to ensuring that seniors never have to face the waiting lists and rationed care that have affected other nations who have gone down the misguided path of bureaucratic medicine. “But simply repealing IPAB will not be enough. The President’s health care law also raids Medicare of over $500 billion to pay for a costly new entitlement program that will worsen our nation’s fiscal health. It imposes one-size-fits-all regulations on health insurance and then forces all Americans to buy it with an individual mandate. Bipartisan solutions that improve affordable access to quality health care cannot proceed until this partisan roadblock is repealed in its entirety. “The House Republican model empowers seniors, not bureaucrats, to make decisions over their health care. These reforms will save and strengthen Medicare for the next generation by forcing insurance companies and health plans to compete against each other to offer higher quality care at lower costs. There is a growing bipartisan consensus in support of giving individuals and their doctors greater control over their health care – a clear contrast to the growing bipartisan opposition to the President’s health care law. With today’s vote to repeal IPAB, we’ve taken a positive step today in the right direction.” House Budget Committee Hearing Highlights – Strengthening Health and Retirement Security: A Call to Action Release – Sessions, Ryan: President Defying Law Requiring Action on Medicare Speech – Ryan at Stanford University: The Optimist’s Guide to Repeal and Replace Video – The Path to Prosperity (Episode 2): Saving Medicare, Visualized
03.01.2012	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan joined a bipartisan majority in approving S. 1134, the St. Croix River Crossing Project Authorization Act. This legislation, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 339-80, allows Wisconsin and Minnesota to proceed with the construction of a new bridge over the St. Croix River and addresses a major regional transportation priority. Following the passage of S. 1134, Congressman Ryan offered the following statement: “I was grateful to join members of the Wisconsin Congressional delegation in supporting S. 1134, which authorizes Wisconsin and Minnesota to make a much needed upgrade to their transportation systems. This project is supported by both states’ Governors and Senators and funds have already been set aside for the bridge’s construction. States should have the ability to decide how their transportation dollars are spent and Congress was right to prevent this project from being delayed further due to unnecessary litigation and an expansive reading of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act.”
02.13.2012	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, President Obama introduced his Fiscal Year 2013 budget request, calling for record levels of spending increases, tax hikes, and debt. The President’s budget breaks his promise to cut the deficit in half by the end of his first term, and it breaks his obligation to all Americans to confront the nation’s spending-driven debt crisis. In response to the President’s failure of leadership, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “President Obama’s irresponsible budget is a recipe for a debt crisis and the decline of America. His refusal to honestly confront our nation’s most pressing challenges does real harm to the economic security of millions of American families. The $1.9 trillion tax increase proposed in his budget will make it harder for businesses to create jobs and for workers to spur economic growth. “This budget does nothing to prevent the bankruptcy of critical programs, threatening the health and retirement security of current and future seniors. Worse, it continues the President’s policy of letting an unaccountable board of bureaucrats cut Medicare in ways that will lead to denied care for seniors. The broken promises and recycled gimmicks contained in this budget have dramatically widened this President’s growing credibility deficit. “Our families, seniors, children and grandchildren deserve better than this reckless budget and this dismal failure of leadership. As Chairman of the House Budget Committee, I will continue to work with my colleagues – from both parties where possible – to advance bold solutions that lift our crushing burden of debt and ensure a future of opportunity, growth and prosperity.” --- Key facts from the President’s budget: Spends Too Much: $47 trillion of government spending over the next decade Proposes a net increase over current spending projections Taxes Too Much: $1.9 trillion in new taxes Raises taxes, not to pay down the debt, but to fuel more government spending Borrows Too Much: Four straight years of trillion-dollar-plus deficits; no plan to reduce the debt Gross debt at the end of FY22: $25.9 trillion Budget Gimmicks & Broken Promises Overstates new deficit reduction by taking credit for savings already enacted Exploits discredited budget gimmick by “not spending” nearly $1 trillion that was never going to be spent --- A bicameral fact sheet prepared by the House Budget Committee and Senate Budget Committee: http://budget.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=280065 House Budget Committee hearings this week to review the President’s FY13 budget: Wednesday, February 15 – 10:00 AM ET – OMB Acting Director Jeffrey Zients Thursday, February 16 – 2:00 PM ET– Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner To learn more: http://budget.house.gov/HearingSchedule/
02.10.2012	In response to today’s decision by the Obama Administration, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: "The President’s policy continues to contradict the core principles of our nation. His decision today still disrespects the Constitution by treating our rights as revocable privileges from our government, instead of inalienable gifts from our creator. The President did not compromise -- he doubled down."
02.09.2012	After the passage of the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge (STOCK) Act by a vote of 417-2, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “Insider trading should never occur and should never be tolerated. This is why I was pleased to support the House amendment to the STOCK Act, which represents a bipartisan effort to preserve the public trust by increasing the oversight and transparency associated with financial disclosures.”
02.08.2012	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3521, The Expedited Legislative Line-Item Veto and Rescissions Act. This bipartisan reform was co-authored by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Ranking Member Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). H.R. 3521 – the fourth budget-process reform passed by the House in the past week – would provide policymakers with an additional tool to target unjustified spending in appropriations bills, while making certain that Congress maintains its constitutional power of the purse. Following passage, Chairman Ryan issued the following statement: “Washington spends too much money that we don’t have on programs that can’t be justified. This bipartisan reform will help lawmakers do a better job of prioritizing hardworking taxpayers’ dollars. And unlike the line-item veto adopted in the 1990s, this reform keeps the power of the purse here in Congress, just as the Founders intended. “While there is much that divides us these days, this new tool to control spending is the result of Democrats and Republicans coming together in good faith to take a step forward in tackling our deficit challenge. I hope that we can build upon today’s bipartisan reform effort to advance the structural reforms needed to lift our crushing burden of debt and get our nation back on track. I am thankful for the leadership and good faith of Ranking Member Chris Van Hollen and other members of the House Budget Committee who were instrumental in advancing this common-sense reform.” To learn more about the additional budget process reform bills authored by members of the House Budget Committee and passed on the House floor in the past week: The Pro-Growth Budgeting Act: http://budget.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=277941 The Baseline Reform Act: http://budget.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=278066 The Budget and Accounting Transparency Act: http://budget.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=278590 To learn more about the House Budget Committee’s continued efforts to reform the broken budget process, click here: http://budget.house.gov/BudgetProcessReform/
01.24.2012	Washington – Following President Obama’s State of the Union address, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement: “In tonight’s speech, President Obama missed an opportunity to lead. Instead of putting forward bold solutions to tackle our most pressing challenges, the President offered more empty promises and recycled the same failed policies. Instead of charting a new course for renewed opportunity, the President recommitted to the path to debt, doubt and decline. Instead of working together to find common ground, the President continues to exploit the real anxieties of hard-working families by dividing Americans for political gain. Pitting Americans against each other makes us weaker, not stronger. "The President stated his desire to ‘fight obstruction with action,’ yet his own party’s leaders in the U.S. Senate have failed to even propose a budget despite our looming fiscal crisis. In fact, today marks 1,000 days without a budget from Senate Democrats – a legal and moral failure by elected leaders. The economic and fiscal challenges before us require credible budget plans, and the President and his party’s leaders refuse to account for their reckless spending spree. The speech offered little more than a laundry list of proposals to spend money we don't have without any serious solutions to dig us out of the hole we're in. I invite the President and his party’s leaders to join our efforts to advance bipartisan solutions and principled reforms. I’m proud to work across the aisle on reforms that save and strengthen Medicare and repair the broken budget process. It is disappointing that the President continues to isolate himself from these efforts with false partisan attacks. “The President rightly highlighted the need for a ‘renewal of American values.’ Yet the results of his failed policies and divisive rhetoric do just the opposite. Centralizing more power in Washington is antithetical to the American Idea, which promotes economic freedom and upward mobility for each and every citizen. It is critical we work together to advance a reform agenda that applies our timeless principles to the challenges of today.” For more: Chairman Ryan’s remarks on the House floor on today marking the 1,000th day without a budget from Senate Democrats; Chairman Ryan’s statement on the President’s missed budget deadlines; Bipartisan options to save and strengthen Medicare; Bipartisan efforts to repair the broken budget process.
01.09.2012	WASHINGTON - Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan released the following statement regarding H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act: "The internet is one of the most magnificent expressions of freedom and free enterprise in history. It should stay that way. While H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act, attempts to address a legitimate problem, I believe it creates the precedent and possibility for undue regulation, censorship and legal abuse. I do not support H.R. 3261 in its current form and will oppose the legislation should it come before the full House."
12.15.2011	This morning, U.S. Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) and U.S. Representative Paul Ryan (R-WI) introduced a new proposal that represents a major advance in the effort to build a more secure future for the millions of seniors who rely on Medicare. The new report from Sen. Wyden and Rep. Ryan, titled “Guaranteed Choices to Strengthen Medicare and Health Security for All: Bipartisan Options for the Future,” outlines a bipartisan path forward on expanding health care choices for seniors while preserving a traditional Medicare plan as an option. The report also proposes to give Americans under 65 more power and freedom to purchase coverage they can carry with them into retirement. Sen. Ron Wyden had this to say about the proposal: “Paul Ryan shares my belief that we don’t hold election certificates to sit on the sidelines and that the only way to tackle some of the big challenges facing our nation is to work together on big solutions. Paul has also long-shared my view that the best way to hold down health costs is to give all Americans the ability to hire and fire their insurance company. Guaranteeing a future for traditional Medicare is a big challenge and it is our hope that outlining areas where Democrats and Republicans can reach agreement will help Congress rise to that challenge.” Rep. Paul Ryan stated: “Ron Wyden has been a consistently strong leader on market-based health insurance reform and a true fighter when it comes to protecting seniors, so it was only natural that we should work together on a plan that saves Medicare from fiscal threats, strengthens the program through expanded choice, and guarantees that all seniors will have the means and the freedom to purchase coverage that is tailored to their needs. I am also proud to support Sen. Wyden’s efforts to empower small businesses and their employees, so that Americans under 65 can find better health care options that they can carry with them into retirement. “Today’s report represents a major advance toward building the kind of bipartisan consensus that is going to be absolutely critical as we seek to meet our nation’s greatest fiscal and economic challenges. By empowering seniors to use choice and competition to control costs and improve quality, our plan ensures that Medicare remains a guaranteed, affordable option for all seniors for decades to come.” For more information: Read Senator Wyden and Representative Ryan’s op-ed in The Wall Street Journal here. Read the full report here. Fact Sheet on the Wyden-Ryan Plan: No changes for those in or near retirement. Americans currently over the age of 55 would see no changes to the structure of their benefits, although they would be free to opt into a private plan once the new Medicare Exchange was established in 2022. More choices for seniors, including a traditional Medicare plan: Starting in 2022, Medicare would begin offering seniors a choice among Medicare-approved private plans competing alongside a traditional Medicare plan on a Medicare Exchange. Premium support ensures affordable coverage: The plan would introduce a “premium support” system that would empower seniors to choose either a traditional Medicare plan or a Medicare-approved private plan. More help for those who need it: Low-income seniors who qualify for Medicaid would continue to have Medicaid pay for their out-of-pocket expenses, while other low-income seniors who do not qualify for Medicaid would receive fully funded savings accounts to help offset any increased out-of-pocket costs. Less help for those who don’t: Wealthier seniors who need help least would see their assistance reduced. Strong consumer protections to safeguard the Medicare guarantee: This reformed Medicare program would include some of the toughest consumer protections in American government: All health plans that participate in the Medicare Exchange would be required to offer benefits that are at least the actuarial equivalent of those provided by the traditional Medicare plan. Premium-support payments would be risk-adjusted to ensure that those with greater health needs are guaranteed affordable coverage. Participating plans cannot refuse coverage based on pre-existing conditions, nor can they charge discriminatory rates based on health status. All plans would be overseen by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), which would be empowered to review plan benefits and review all marketing materials to ensure transparency and fairness. Transparency, Competition Work as Powerful Cost Controls: Program growth would be determined by the competitive bidding process – with transparency, choice and competition forcing providers to reduce costs and improve quality for seniors. Transparency: Seniors would receive clear and easy-to-understand information on what plan they are currently enrolled in, the projected cost of that plan, what other plans in their area will be offered, and what the federal premium-support contribution will be. Choice: Allowing seniors to choose the plan that works best for them would force providers to compete for the patient’s business, thus curbing the unsustainable rise of health care costs that is threatening both Medicare and the affordability of health care for all. Competition: Allowing private plans to compete directly with a traditional Medicare plan would strengthen both by creating new incentives for plans to develop better delivery models and design better ways to care for patients with chronic illnesses. Cap on Growth Serves as a Backstop: However, exceeding the cap would not trigger across-the-board bureaucratic cuts or higher premiums. Instead, Congress would be forced to do its job: Determine why the costs exceeded the cap and fix the problem. A Proposal to Strengthen the Health Care Marketplace: Just as Medicare reform would give seniors more power to choose, reform is needed to free small businesses and individuals from restrictions that inhibit choice and control in health coverage. Any small business with up to 100 workers would be able to offer its employees a free choice option so that they could use the amount that their employer contributes toward their health coverage to purchase their own health insurance. The cost of the free choice option would be fully tax deductible to the employer, just like employer-provided health coverage. Allowing individuals to keep one insurance product as they transition from their working years into retirement would ease seniors’ transition into Medicare while giving small businesses and their workers more choices and freedom. Contacts: Conor Sweeney (Ryan) 202-226-6100 Jennifer Hoelzer (Wyden) 202-224-3789
12.07.2011	WASHINGTON – This morning, Members of the House Budget Committee introduced a comprehensive package of ten legislative reforms designed to help repair the broken budget process. House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement upon release of these reforms: “The federal budget process is broken. Washington stumbles from budget crisis to budget crisis, with little to no oversight of how government spends hardworking taxpayers’ money. The incentives currently favor those who want to spend more, and the result is a crushing burden of debt that is hurting economic growth today and threatening economic prosperity tomorrow. “I’m pleased to join a team of reformers at the House Budget Committee committed to repair the broken budget process. My colleagues at the Committee have put forward 10 proposals designed to strengthen spending controls, enhance oversight, and increase transparency. These reforms mark an important first step to getting our arms around the problem, but there is no substitute for political will in solving our structural budget problems. “The House Budget Committee will keep advancing solutions that deal directly with the drivers of the debt, help get our economy back on track, and ensure future generations a shot at the American Dream.” To learn more: budget.house.gov/BudgetProcessReform The budget process reform package includes the following bills: Spending Control The Legally Binding Budget Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Diane Black of Tennessee) Gives the budget the force of law by converting it from a concurrent to a joint resolution, which requires the President’s signature. Upon a presidential veto, the joint resolution automatically reverts to a concurrent resolution. The Spending Control Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. John Campbell of California) Establishes binding limitations on federal spending and deficits – all enforced by a sequester of no more than 4 percent of programs – within each category if the program is growing faster than inflation. The Expedited Line-Item Veto and Rescissions Act (Lead sponsors: Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, Ranking Member Chris Van Hollen of Maryland) Provides for the expedited consideration by Congress of specific requests by the President to reduce discretionary spending in appropriations legislation. Enhanced Oversight The Biennial Budgeting and Enhanced Oversight Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Reid Ribble of Wisconsin) Establishes a biennial budgeting cycle where Congress adopts a budget resolution in the first session of Congress (i.e., odd-numbered years) and considers authorization legislation in the second session, providing greater opportunities for review of government spending. The Baseline Reform Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Rob Woodall of Georgia) Reforms the budget “baseline” to remove automatic inflation increases in discretionary accounts, and to require a comparison to the previous year’s spending levels. The Government Shutdown Prevention Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. James Lankford of Oklahoma) If Congress fails to enact appropriations bills by the beginning of the fiscal year (Oct. 1), provides automatic authority to fund programs at a slightly reduced rate from the previous year’s level. The Review Every Dollar Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Jason Chaffetz of Utah) Requires periodic sunset reviews and reauthorization of all federal programs to ensure the programs perform an appropriate role and are operating effectively. Requires all transfers from the general fund to the Highway Trust Fund to be offset or counted as new spending. Removes all direct spending provisions from Pell Grants and moves all funding to the discretionary spending category. Requires any new rule or regulation promulgated by the administration that includes new spending to be explicitly funded by Congress before such regulations take effect. Provides a mechanism through which Members can devote savings from spending bills to deficit reduction. Full Transparency The Balancing our Obligations for the Long Term Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Mick Mulvaney of South Carolina) Caps total spending over the long term to reduce the burden of government to no more than 20 percent of the economy by gradually reducing spending. Requires Congress to review long-term budget trends every five years and provides a fast-track legislative process to put federal spending on a sustainable path. Authorizes reconciliation of long-term savings (beyond the current limit of the budget resolution’s typical 10-year window, up to 75 years) in Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. Requires CBO long-term estimates beyond the 10-year window. Requires the President’s budget to extend beyond the 10-year window. Strengthens the statutory requirement directing the President to submit legislation to save Medicare if the general fund subsidy to the program exceeds 45 percent of the program’s costs. Requires GAO and OMB to report annually on the federal government’s unfunded obligations. The Budget and Accounting Transparency Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Scott Garrett of New Jersey) Reforms the Credit Reform Act to incorporate Fair Value accounting principles. Recognizes the budgetary impact of the GSEs by formally bringing the entities on-budget. Brings the U.S. Postal Service on-budget. Requires a CBO & OMB study on offsetting receipts/collections/revenues. Requires all federal agencies make public the budgetary justification materials prepared in support of their requests for taxpayer dollars. The Pro-Growth Budgeting Act (Lead sponsor: Rep. Tom Price of Georgia) Requires CBO to provide an assessment of the macroeconomic impact of major legislation.
12.05.2011	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman and House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan was selected by Politico as the Policymaker of the Year in health care. Ryan was chosen among hundreds of nominees for advancing legislative solutions that fix what’s truly broken in health care and for offering specific ideas on how to meet our nation’s economic challenges. Ryan said: “I’m grateful to be recognized, but even more grateful that we are finally having a serious conversation about how to meet our fiscal and economic challenges head on. It is a conversation I have been helping to advance for years. Fixing what’s broken in our health care system is critical to getting our economy growing and reducing our nation’s debt. I will continue to push for credible solutions and leadership on these issues.” Ryan has long been a leader on these issues: introducing the Roadmap for America's Future in 2008 and 2010, the Patients' Choice Act in 2009, and authoring the House-passed FY 2012 budget, the Path to Prosperity, earlier this year. He will be recognized with fellow honorees: EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, Vermont Senator Patrick Leahy and Texas Representative Lamar Smith at Politico's Policy + Politics Conference and Awards Dinner on Tuesday night. The event will be streamed online at www.politico.com. For additional contributions by Congressman Ryan in health care: Claremont Society – Our Churchillian Moment Hoover Institution – The Optimist’s Guide to Repeal and Replace Politico – Health Care Reform Key to Tackling Debt Crisis Bloomberg – How Giving Consumers Choice Can Save Health Care Path to Prosperity – Saving Medicare, Visualized House Floor Speech – Ryan: The Urgent Need to Save and Strengthen Medicare
11.30.2011	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, House Budget Committee Ranking Member Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) introduced the Expedited Line-Item Veto and Rescissions Act of 2011, an act to help lawmakers target wasteful government spending to reduce the deficit and create a more conducive environment for job creation. The bipartisan initiative gives the President a tool to go after unjustified spending, while also protecting Congress’s constitutional authority to make spending decisions. “Taxpayers deserve a system that is accountable, and this bipartisan legislation will provide another tool to ensure that we are good stewards of their money,” said Ranking Member Chris Van Hollen. “We must do everything we can to make sure tax dollars are spent wisely and responsibly, and I look forward to continuing to work with my friend Chairman Ryan on this effort.” House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan stated: “Building upon spending cuts already enacted this year and a ban on earmarks, this bipartisan proposal represents a common-sense effort to reduce low-priority government spending. I thank my friend and colleague Chris Van Hollen for his partnership as policymakers work to earn back the trust of hardworking taxpayers.” Fact Sheet on H.R. 3521 - The Expedited Line-Item Veto and Rescissions Act of 2011: Line-Item Veto Authority. Within 45 days of the enactment of an appropriations bill, the President may transmit a special message to Congress proposing to cancel any amount of discretionary budget authority. He can transmit up to two special messages per appropriations bill and two for any other appropriations measure (omnibus, continuing resolution, or supplemental bills). Procedures for Expedited Consideration. Legislation implementing the proposed cancellations would receive expedited floor consideration and an automatic up-or-down vote without amendment. Presidential Authority to Withhold Funds. This bill clarifies current law allowing the President to withhold funds from obligation, pending consideration of rescission proposals by limiting the withholding of the amount proposed for rescission to no more than 45 days. This provides adequate time for the President to propose and the Congress to enact a measure to approve rescissions while avoiding an extended period of uncertainty regarding the availability of the funds in question. Savings Go to Deficit Reduction. This bill devotes all savings from the Expedited Line-Item Veto and Rescissions Act to deficit reduction and requires the statutory discretionary spending caps to be adjusted downwards to reflect the savings. Additionally the committee allocations are adjusted downwards by the Budget Committees to reflect these savings. Nature of the Approval Bill. The Presidential special message to Congress must meet certain requirements, including the dollar amount to be rescinded; the account, bureau, and agency from which the rescission shall occur; and the amount of funding that would remain. The message must also include the text of the approval bill for consideration by the Congress. The President may choose to send two separate messages for a single bill, but may not include the same rescission proposals in both bills. To learn more: Legislative Text of H.R. 3521 - The Expedited Line-Item Veto and Rescissions Act of 2011 Chairman Ryan's Statement for the Record Line-item veto would help slash wasteful spending - by Paul Ryan, The Janesville Gazette Line-item veto would slow down Washington’s big spenders - by Emily Miller, The Washington Times Contact: Conor Sweeney (Ryan) 202-226-6100 Nu Wexler (Van Hollen) 202-689-4295
11.16.2011	House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following video release after the United States’ national debt surpassed $15 trillion: “Today marks an infamous day in American history. It is the day that the national debt has surpassed the $15 trillion mark. This debt is hurting not only our economy today, but will result in our children and our grandchildren experiencing a diminished future. And the President – rather than tackling this challenge, rather than facing up to our debt – is pursuing policies that are making matters worse. “Instead of advancing credible solutions, the President remains committed to more borrowing, more spending, and more taxes. When it comes to making the tough decisions necessary to deal with our debt, the President is deferring to one commission after another, only to ignore the recommendations of these commissions. And his party’s leaders in the United States Senate? Well, it has been over 930 days since they passed a budget. I think the reason is pretty simple: the President and his party’s leaders remain unwilling to publicly commit to the kinds of tax increases that their spending appetite requires. “You deserve a lot better than that. You deserve a credible plan. You deserve leaders willing to tackle this problem, willing to advance solutions that would lift this crushing burden of debt and make possible a growing, prosperous economy. That is exactly what we here in the House of Representatives have done, and we will continue to advance serious solutions that match the magnitude of our greatest challenges.”
10.29.2011	
10.24.2011	WASHINGTON –The online office of Congressman Paul Ryan, http://paulryan.house.gov, was awarded a “112th Congress Platinum Mouse Award” and recognized as the overall best website in the House of Representatives by the Congressional Management Foundation. Upon learning of the award, Ryan said: “Providing my employers with the easiest and most effective ways to communicate with me and our federal government is my number one priority. Through my online office, residents of Southern Wisconsin have access to the tools they need to e-mail me, get help dealing with federal agencies, schedule a visit to DC, and learn how Congress is impacting their lives. I’m grateful to receive a Platinum Mouse Award for having the most user-friendly and informative website in the House of Representatives.” “Rep. Ryan is to be commended for educating citizens and achieving the highest degree of transparency and accountability in online communications," said Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of CMF. "In the 21st Century, a website is much more than a broadcasting tool for a political message - it's a virtual office and a window into our democratic institutions. These winners of the Platinum, Gold, Silver, and Bronze Mouse Awards understand the value of using the Internet to enlighten and serve constituents, and are examples for all congressional offices to follow," he said. Through his official Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube pages, and his House Budget Committee website, which also received a “112th Congress Silver Mouse Award”, Congressman Ryan is committed to using all available avenues to communicate with residents of Wisconsin’s First District and inform them of his efforts in Congress. In addition to these online resources, Congressman Ryan will also be holding three listening sessions in Southern Wisconsin this Friday where he’ll speak with residents about efforts to grow the economy and create jobs. A full schedule of these listening sessions can be accessed here. This is the third consecutive award Ryan’s website has received from the Congressional Management Foundation. The Congressional Management Foundation is a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization which works to improve communications between citizens and Congress, and has graded congressional websites since 2001. The Congressional Management Foundation conducted its analysis of 618 websites from June to September 2011 and evaluated websites on 10 criteria such as usability, timeliness of content, legislative process information, constituent services and casework information, and district/state information. The full report can be downloaded here.
10.14.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement regarding the Obama Administration’s decision to discontinue a key component of its health-care law: “To hide the true cost of their health-care overhaul, the leaders of the Democratic party loaded it with gimmicks and double-counting. One of the most egregious of these gimmicks involved the CLASS Act, a new long-term care program that was scored as an offset against the ten-year, trillion-dollar cost of the Democrats new law. Independent health care experts warned that the CLASS Act program would turn into a classic ‘insurance death spiral.’ Not only would the short-term savings fail to materialize, but the long-term costs would prove catastrophically high. Even Democratic Senator Kent Conrad called the program ‘A Ponzi scheme Bernie Madoff would have been proud of.’ “Today, the Obama Administration finally surrendered to reality: Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius has informed Congressional leaders that she ‘does not see a viable path forward for CLASS implementation at this time.' The smoke and mirrors that the Democrats employed to sell their health care overhaul are finally falling away, one broken promise at a time. When all of these gimmicks are stripped out, the new law would add hundreds of billions of dollars in red ink over the next decade, as health-care costs send the debt spiraling out of control. Now it is time for Congress to do the responsible thing: Repeal the disastrous new law and replace it with true, patient-centered reforms.” For more information: http://budget.house.gov/healthcare/
10.12.2011	WASHINGTON – Earlier this week, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman and House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan was designated a ‘Taxpayer Hero’ by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) for his legislative record in the 111th Congress. “With deficits in excess of $1 trillion for a third consecutive year and the national debt surpassing $14 trillion, we need organizations like the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste to hold Congress accountable for how taxpayer dollars are being spent,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am grateful to be recognized as a ‘Taxpayer Hero’, but it’s clear more must be done to end out of control government spending.” Ryan added: “This spring, in the Path to Prosperity, House Republicans showed we can achieve real spending discipline, increase oversight, and budget responsibly without accounting gimmicks or scoring tricks. This fall, the House Budget Committee will consider items like the legislative line item veto and spending caps which would give Congress the tools it needs to prevent the government from spending money it simply doesn’t have. Not only do we need to change Congress’ spending habits, but we also need to improve its budget processes. This is not a partisan issue; it’s a common sense way to get our fiscal house in order.” Ryan received a rating of 95 percent in CCAGW’s 2010 Congressional Ratings, the full ratings are accessible here: http://www.ccagwratings.org/. To listen to a recent telephone town hall Rep. Ryan participated in with members of Citizens Against Government Waste, click to play button below.
10.11.2011	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that he will hold a round of listening sessions throughout Southern Wisconsin later in October. Congressman Ryan will be visiting 6 communities over 3 days to speak with residents and discuss solutions that would put the budget on path to balance and the nation on a Path to Prosperity. In advance of the listening sessions, Congressman Ryan issued the following statement: “These listening sessions provide a great opportunity for me to discuss the major legislative proposals before Congress, answer questions, and address the concerns of First District residents. With the nation’s debt exceeding $14 trillion and job creation virtually stagnant, Wisconsinites remain eager for solutions and hopeful that leaders in Washington will help get our economy back on track. I have continued to support bipartisan ideas to create jobs and have advanced legislation that shows how the government can balance its budget, strengthen the social safety net, and make our tax code simple, fair and globally competitive. Working together, we can rise to meet our nation’s fiscal and economic challenges and I’m looking forward to speaking with those I serve about how we’ll accomplish this.” A complete schedule of the upcoming listening sessions follows this release and can be accessed online here. For more from Congressman Ryan: Pro-Growth Tax Reform (Visualized) The Optimist’s Guide to Repeal & Replace For information on the House-passed Path to Prosperity A Recap of Rep. Ryan’s 19 listening sessions in April 2011 October 2011 Listening Sessions with Congressman Paul Ryan Thursday, October 20 MUSKEGO: 10:30am - 12:00pm, High Tides Banquet Hall, 17745 W. Janesville Road OAK CREEK: 2:00 - 3:30pm, Oak Creek Community Center, 8580 South Howell Avenue Friday, October 21 RACINE: 9:00 - 10:30am, Cesar Chavez Auditorium, 2221 Douglas Avenue Friday, October 28 JANESVILLE: 9:00 - 10:30am, Pontiac Convention Center, 2809 North Pontiac Drive ELKHORN: 12:00 - 1:30pm, Monte Carlo Room, 720 North Wisconsin Street KENOSHA: 3:00 - 4:30pm, Gateway Technical College, Madrigrano Auditorium, 3520 30th Avenue
09.19.2011	WASHINGTON – In response to the President’s latest proposal to raise taxes on job creators, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “The President’s partisan speech and misguided proposals are disappointing, but not surprising. Having overseen an unprecedented surge in government spending – from his failed stimulus law, to the creation of new trillion-dollar health entitlements, to double-digit percentage increases in the budgets of many federal agencies – the President has finally admitted that he plans to send the bill for Washington’s reckless spending straight to American businesses and families. A $1.6 trillion tax hike on job creators is never a good idea. But taking more money from private savers and investors, and giving it to the same government bureaucrats who brought us the Solyndra debacle, is an even worse idea – especially in a weak economy. "Unfortunately, none of the President’s proposals this year – from his February budget to his April budget speech, to his recommendations today – offers a credible plan to lift our crushing burden of debt while restoring economic growth. Instead of renewed prosperity, the President has offered us a plan for shared scarcity. The nation deserves better.” For the latest from Congressman Paul Ryan: 3 Steps to Pro-Growth Tax Reform Paul Ryan on Fox News Sunday: Class warfare = bad economics Paul Ryan on CNBC – Tax Reform - Fair. Competitive. Simple. Paul Ryan on MSNBC – Close Loopholes, Lower Rates Paul Ryan in Wall Street Journal: Where’s Your Budget, Mr. President? To learn more: The Path to Prosperity – the House-passed FY2012 budget House Budget Committee: A Brief History of President Obama’s Fiscal Record House Budget Committee: Actions Speak Louder Than Words
08.10.2011	House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan made the following statement today praising Speaker John Boehner's choices for the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction and explaining why he asked not to be among them: “The Speaker has chosen three excellent Republican members to serve on this Joint Committee in Chairmen Hensarling, Upton and Camp. I asked the Speaker not to consider me for the Joint Committee, because only the Budget Committee can write legislation to reform the budget process. As Budget Committee chairman, my plan has long been to work on this critical issue throughout the fall. This past year has shown that the federal budget process is more broken than ever and needs to be reformed. If we are truly going to put the country’s fiscal house in order, it will not be enough to temporarily reduce what Washington spends. We must permanently reform the process by which working Americans’ hard-earned tax dollars are spent. “The House Budget Committee plans to complement the Joint Committee’s work this fall by holding hearings and marking up legislation to put in place common-sense controls that stop the spending spree in Washington. As things stand, the budget process is stacked in favor of those who want to chase ever-higher spending with ever-higher taxes. In addition to cutting spending by $6.2 trillion in The Path to Prosperity, the Budget Committee will take action to reform our broken budget process in order to bring spending, deficits and debt under control.”
08.01.2011	House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement after the Budget Control Act of 2011 passed the House of Representatives: “The Budget Control Act represents a victory for those committed to controlling government spending and growing our economy. I applaud Speaker Boehner’s leadership in stopping tax increases on job creators, rejecting President Obama’s demands for a blank check to keep borrowing, and advancing real spending cuts and controls. The agreement – while far from perfect – underscores the extent to which the new House majority has successfully changed Washington’s culture of spending. No longer can Washington endlessly spend money it does not have. “While the immediate debt ceiling issue has been responsibly resolved, a spending-driven debt crisis remains a threat. To lift this crushing burden of debt and help spur job creation, policymakers must advance serious structural reforms to the largest driver of our debt: government spending on health care, including the President’s costly, partisan health-care overhaul. “The Budget Control Act marks a positive step forward in getting government spending control, but much hard work remains.” ###
08.01.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Paul Ryan announced that the First District Mobile Office will continue its regularly scheduled visits to communities across Wisconsin’s First District in August and September. Click here for a list of scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. At each stop, a staff member of Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet with residents and to discuss concerns or questions they may have about federal legislative issues and government agencies. In announcing the Mobile Office schedule, Congressman Ryan said: “The Mobile Office is a great resource, particularly for those who don’t live near one of the three permanent congressional offices in the First District. When the Mobile Office comes to their town or area, residents can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views about issues before Congress. I need to hear from and be accessible to those I serve in Wisconsin’s First District and the Mobile Office is a great way to help me do this.” When he entered Congress, Representative Ryan established the Mobile Office to serve as an extension of existing First District Constituent Service Centers. Since 1999, the Mobile Office has made over 2,600 visits to area communities and has provided assistance to many residents. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of Mobile Office hours indicate where the Mobile Office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). For the latest Mobile Office schedule, residents can check their local paper or Congressman Ryan's website - /Contact/moschedule.htm.
06.22.2011	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, the Congressional Budget Office [CBO] released a report on the fiscal future of the federal budget. In its latest update of The Long-Term Budget Outlook, the CBO provides an overview of the looming debt crisis, the prospect of which is hindering economic recovery and job creation right now. In response to the dire warning from the CBO, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (WI) issued the following statement: “Today the CBO reiterated what the American people know, but too many in Washington simply refuse to acknowledge: We are headed for the most predictable economic crisis in American history, and Washington is not providing the leadership we need to avoid it. As Congress debates the President’s request for an increase in the statutory debt ceiling, the CBO warns of a more ominous credit cliff – a sudden drop-off in our ability to borrow imposed by credit markets in a state of panic. “The oncoming crisis is not just a problem for the future. It is actively hurting job creation today, as businesses hold back on expansion out of concerns that we are headed for a future of massive tax increases and higher interest rates. The President has yet to produce a serious budget that would prevent this crisis, and the Senate has failed to pass any budget for 784 days. This leadership deficit fails to inspire confidence and contributes to the jobs deficit millions of American families are experiencing today. “Americans are ahead of Washington’s political class on this issue, and they are demanding leaders who are willing to be honest about the challenges we face. The House of Representatives has passed a budget that averts this crisis. The House-passed Path to Prosperity curbs the explosive growth of government spending, promotes economic growth, and leaves the next generation with a stronger nation. It’s time for leaders to step up, listen to those we serve, and advance real solutions to our greatest fiscal challenges.” CBO’s report includes the following key findings: The CBO projects that government spending as a share of the economy will increase by nearly 70 percent between now and 2035, up from its historical average of roughly 20 percent. Taxes are projected to rise to the historical average in the years ahead, yet the unprecedented growth in government spending is projected to rise much faster, driving an unsustainable explosion in debt. The crushing burden of debt is driven primarily by the nation’s largest entitlement programs – Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid – along with the compounding growth in interest payments on the debt. These findings make plain that we cannot solve our biggest fiscal challenges by making tiny tweaks to programs here and there. As CBO Director Douglas Elmendorf put it recently, “Fiscal policy cannot be put on a sustainable path just by eliminating waste and inefficiency.”[1] Our unsustainable policies are increasing the likelihood of a devastating crisis: The CBO report states that “Growing debt also would increase the probability of a sudden fiscal crisis, during which investors would lose confidence in the government’s ability to manage its budget and the government would thereby lose its ability to borrow at affordable rates.” According to the CBO report, the federal government’s interest payments alone are projected to consume 9 percent of our entire economy by 2035, up from about 1 percent today. The CBO report affirms that the massive health-care overhaul fails to address the explosion in health care costs. Mandatory federal spending on health care will increase by 86 percent from 5.6 percent of GDP today to 10.4 percent of GDP over the next 24 years. The long-term budget outlook continues to worsen with each passing year Congress fails to act. While total debt will overtake the size of the entire US economy this year, debt held by the public will eclipse the economy by the year 2021. To learn more about the House GOP’s plan to avert this crisis, visit http://budget.house.gov/fy2012budget/ [1] “Federal Budget Math: We Can’t Repeat the Past”, Presentation to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Douglas Elmendorf, Director of the Congressional Budget Office, June 16, 2011. http://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/122xx/doc12252/CBO_Presentation_to_Fed_Reserve_Bank_of_New_York_6-16-11.pdf
05.12.2011	WASHINGTON - Congressman Paul Ryan announced that the First District Mobile Office will continue its regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin's First District this summer. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet with area residents. Please click here for a listing of scheduled stops for the 1st District Mobile Office. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing First District Constituent Services Centers. The Mobile Office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. Since 1999, the Mobile Office has made approximately 2,500 visits to area communities. In announcing the Mobile Office schedule for this summer, Congressman Ryan said, “I need to hear from and be accessible to my employers in Wisconsin’s First District and the Mobile Office helps me do this. It’s a great resource, especially for those who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the Mobile Office comes to their town or area, residents can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views about issues before Congress. First District residents can check their local paper or our website – http://paulryan.house.gov – for the latest Mobile Office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides.” Sites and addresses listed on the schedule of Mobile Office hours indicate where the Mobile Office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions regarding legislative matters are encouraged to drop by.
05.04.2011	WASHINGTON – In a ceremony earlier this week at the Olde Towne Mall in Janesville, Congressman Paul Ryan recognized James Schwab as the winner of this year’s First District Congressional Art Competition. A senior from Westosha Central High School, James was selected for his entry Daydreamer. In describing the submission, James said: “Daydreamer is a self-portrait. It was a largely experimental process for me… Overall, I wanted to use unique styles and materials that would create an eye-catching piece.” James’ art teacher at Westosha Central High School is Vincent Kuepper. At the ceremony, Congressman Ryan added: “Every year I am amazed by the talents and creative abilities of the high school artists in the First District. This year, James’ artwork will be seen by countless visitors while on display in the Capitol. I am grateful that so many young artists took this opportunity to showcase their gifts again this year. There were many worthy submissions and that’s a testament to the teachers, who have undoubtedly helped develop their students’ skills.” Congressman Ryan invited every high school in the First Congressional District to submit entries to the annual art contest, and a panel of local artists judged the entries. This nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by Members of Congress, provides high school artists with an opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity. Since it began in 1982, over 650,000 students have taken part in the annual competition.
05.04.2011	WASHINGTON – Over the past two weeks, Congressman Paul Ryan hosted 19 listening sessions throughout Wisconsin's First District to discuss the House-passed budget - "The Path to Prosperity." Eager to make a clean break from the politics of the past, Wisconsinites engaged in a constructive dialogue to help advance serious solutions to our nation's most pressing fiscal and economic challenges. In an op-ed in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel on April 30th, Ryan said, “Across the district I am honored to represent, thousands of my employers took part in 19 listening sessions to voice concerns, share words of encouragement and offer ideas for how to get this great nation off the path to decline and onto the path to prosperity. I want to offer my thanks to everyone who attended, regardless of whether it was to agree, disagree or simply join the debate we're having.” A full recap of Congressman Ryan's is available here for those who were unable to attend or who would like to know more about the sessions. Click here to view the PowerPoint presentation shared with attendees. Click here to learn more about The Path to Prosperity - FY2012 Budget Resolution.
05.02.2011	WASHINGTON – In response to the news that Osama Bin Laden was killed in Pakistan by U.S. forces, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan offered the following statement: "The President's announcement that Osama Bin Laden has been found and killed is simply fantastic news. After ten years of dedicated effort across two administrations, we have struck a major blow against al-Qaeda and achieved a momentous turning point in our nation's ongoing War on Terrorism. While we must remain vigilant in defense of freedom and democracy in Iraq, in Afghanistan, and on other fronts, we can rest assured that the murderer who orchestrated the deaths of thousands of our countrymen has finally met justice at the hands of the brave men and women of our military and intelligence community."
04.21.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Paul Ryan announced that a number of his listening sessions scheduled from April 26 – 29 will be held in larger venues to give more First District residents the opportunity to attend. In announcing the change in venues, Ryan said: “I’m pleased so many of my employers came out and took part in the listening sessions I held last week throughout the district. Having these meetings in larger venues provides an opportunity for more individuals to join the conversation about how Congress can reduce our debt, rein in out of control spending, and put in place a plan for economic growth and job creation.” An updated schedule of listening sessions follows and can also be accessed here. April 2011 Listening Sessions with Congressman Paul Ryan Tuesday, April 26 LAKE GENEVA: 9:30-10:30am, City Hall, 626 Geneva Street TWIN LAKES: 11:00-12:00pm, Village Hall, 108 East Main Street PADDOCK LAKE: 1:30-2:30pm, Village Hall, 6969 236th Avenue KENOSHA: 3:00-4:15pm, Gateway Technical College, Madrigrano Auditorium, 3520 30th Avenue (venue changed to accommodate larger crowds) Thursday, April 28 WATERFORD: 9:45-10:45am, Village Hall, 123 North River Street FRANKLIN: 11:15-12:15pm, Franklin High School, Gymnasium, 8222 South 51st Street * Attendees should park in LOWER/STUDENT LOT (venue changed to accommodate larger crowds) OAK CREEK: 1:30-2:30pm, Oak Creek Police Department, 301 West Ryan Road GREENFIELD: 3:00-4:15pm, Whitnall High School, Auditorium, 5000 South 116th Street (venue changed to accommodate larger crowds) Friday, April 29 BURLINGTON: 10:30-11:30am, Veterans Terrace (Liberty Hall), 589 Milwaukee Avenue UNION GROVE: 1:00-2:00pm, Community State Bank, 1500 Main Street STURTEVANT: 2:15-3:15pm, Village Hall, 2801 89th Street RACINE: 3:45-5:00pm, Caesar Chavez Community Center Gymnasium, 2221 Douglas Avenue (venue changed to accommodate larger crowds)
04.15.2011	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives passed a budget today that puts the government’s budget on a path to balance and puts the nation on a path to prosperity. With today’s vote, the House turned the page on the politics of the past and offered a fresh, optimistic view of a prosperous future – a future of robust economic growth, a debt-free nation, and a government that lives within its means. H. Con. Res. 34, the Fiscal Year 2012 Budget Resolution, passed the House by a vote of 235 - 193. House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following remarks on the House floor in advance of the historic vote: “We must choose this path. We must not be the Congress that failed to fulfill the American legacy of leaving a better nation to our children. “We must not leave this nation in decline. We must not be the first generation in this country to leave the next generation worse off. “Decline is antithetical to the American Idea. America is a nation conceived in liberty, dedicated to equality, and defined by limitless opportunity. Equal opportunity, upward mobility, prosperity – this is what America is all about. “In all the chapters of human history, there has never been anything quite like America. This budget keeps America exceptional, and preserves its promise for the next generation. “Colleagues: This is our defining moment. We must choose this path to prosperity.” Key facts about the House-passed Fiscal Year 2012 Budget Resolution – The Path to Prosperity: SPENDING Cuts $6.2 trillion in government spending over the next decade compared to the President’s budget. Eliminates hundreds of duplicative programs, reflects the ban on earmarks, and curbs corporate welfare bringing non-security discretionary spending to below 2008 levels. DEBT AND DEFICITS Reduces deficits by $4.4 trillion compared to the President’s budget over the next decade. Puts the budget on the path to balance and pays off the debt. TAXES Keeps taxes low so the economy can grow. Eliminates roughly $800 billion in tax increases imposed by the President’s health care law. Prevents the $1.5 trillion tax increase called for in the President’s budget. Calls for a simpler, less burdensome tax code. Lowers tax rates for individuals, businesses and families. Improves incentives for growth, savings, and investment. GROWTH AND JOBS Creates nearly 1 million new private-sector jobs next year and results in 2.5 million additional private-sector jobs in the last year of the decade. Unleashes prosperity and economic security, yielding $1.1 trillion in higher wages and an average $1,000 per year in higher income for each family. To learn more: http://budget.house.gov/fy2012budget/
04.13.2011	WASHINGTON – House Budget Committee Chairman Paul D. Ryan made the following statement after listening to the President’s speech on deficit reduction: “When the President reached out to ask us to attend his speech, we were expecting an olive branch. Instead, his speech was excessively partisan, dramatically inaccurate, and hopelessly inadequate to address our fiscal crisis. What we heard today was not fiscal leadership from our commander-in-chief; we heard a political broadside from our campaigner-in-chief. “Last year, in the absence of a serious budget, the President created a Fiscal Commission. He then ignored its recommendations and omitted any of its major proposals from his budget, and now he wants to delegate leadership to yet another commission to solve a problem he refuses to confront. “We need leadership, not a doubling down on the politics of the past. By failing to seriously confront the most predictable economic crisis in our history, this President’s policies are committing our children to a diminished future. We are looking for bipartisan solutions, not partisan rhetoric. When the President is ready to get serious about confronting this challenge, we'll be here.” ***** Key Facts About the President’s Speech General: Counts unspecified savings over 12 years, not the 10-year window by which serious budget proposals are evaluated. Postpones all savings until 2013 – after his reelection campaign. Runs away from the Fiscal Commission’s recommendations on Social Security – puts forward no specific ideas or even a process to force action. Calls for the appointment of another commission, after mostly omitting from his Fiscal Year 2012 Budget any of proposals submitted by the commission he appointed last year. Non-specific framework fails to meet Fiscal Commission's definition of sustainability. Taxes: Proposes to raise taxes on the American people by more than $1 trillion, devastating our fragile economy and stifling job creation. Endorsed the Fiscal Commission’s ideas on taxes, which specifically called for lower tax rates and a broader base, but then called for higher tax rates. Which is it? Government health and retirement programs are growing at more than twice the speed of the economy. At the current rate of spending, revenue would have to rise “by more than 50 percent” just to keep debt at its current level, according to the Government Accountability Office. That means tax increases across-the-board, now and in the future. Medicare: Instead of proposing structural reforms that would actually reduce health care costs, the President proposed across-the-board cuts to current seniors’ care. Strictly limits the amount of health care seniors can receive within the existing structure of unsustainable government health care programs. Gives more power to unelected bureaucrats in Washington to determine what treatments seniors should or shouldn’t get, against a backdrop of costs that continue to rise. Conceded that the relentlessly rising cost of health care is the primary reason why the nation is threatened by debt, and implicitly conceded that his health care law failed to solve the problem. Eviscerates the only competitive element anywhere in health-care entitlement programs – the competition amongst Part D prescription-drug plans – which allowed the drug benefit to come in 41 percent under budget. Medicaid: Acknowledges that the open-ended financing of Medicaid is a crippling financial burden to both states and the federal government, but explicitly rejected the only solution to this problem, which is to give states the freedom they need to design systems that work for the unique needs of their own populations. Defense: Proposes more cuts on top of $78 billion in cuts included in his own defense budget, which he proposed just two months ago – all at a time when he continues to task the military with new missions. Secretary Gates has said that the military needs 2 percent – 3 percent real growth just to keep executing the missions that DOD has already been assigned. Secretary Gates described deficit reduction plans that let budget targets drive defense policy as “math, not strategy.”
04.11.2011	WASHINGTON – Representative Paul Ryan announced the schedule for listening sessions that will be held from April 18 – 29 throughout Southern Wisconsin. Ryan will be visiting 19 communities in Wisconsin’s First District and will discuss with residents the economic challenges facing the First District and how Congress can address these challenges head on. Announcing the listening sessions, Ryan said: “It’s very important for me to hear directly from those who live and work in the First District. These listening sessions provide a great opportunity for residents to share concerns, ask questions, and offer ideas on a wide range of issues before Congress- from the federal government’s budget, to rising health care costs, to our tax code.” Ryan added, “In addition to talking about these issues and many others, I am looking forward to having a conversation about how Congress can reduce our $14 trillion debt, rein in out of control spending, and put in place a plan for economic growth and job creation.” Please click here for a complete schedule of upcoming listening sessions.
04.11.2011	WASHINGTON – House Budget Committee Paul Ryan of Wisconsin issued the following statement in support of legislation to cut spending now and help grow the economy: “I applaud the leadership of Speaker Boehner in securing tens of billions of dollars in spending cuts, forcing the President and his party’s leaders to retreat from their reckless spending spree. The historic spending cut turns the page from Washington’s pervasive culture of spending, sending a welcome signal to job creators and cleaning up the unprecedented budget mess left by the last Congress. “There is no question more work is needed to restrain the explosive growth of government and spur sustained economic growth and job creation. Last week, the House Budget Committee advanced a new budget for the United States government – The Path to Prosperity – that will move the debate in Washington from billions in spending cuts to trillions. Later this week, the House of Representatives will consider this budget, which cuts $6.2 trillion in spending over the next decade and helps restore America’s exceptional promise. “I'm encouraged to see the House Republicans’ leadership advance a budget debate our country deserves. The President, having already put forward an irresponsible budget, has failed to lead on fixing our fiscal problems. I remain hopeful that the President’s remarks on Wednesday will provide more than empty rhetoric and empty promises. If the President does choose to follow our lead with serious proposals that address the drivers of our debt, save our health and retirement security programs, and remove the anchors holding back our economy, the door is open. “We need a clean break from the politics of the past. Leaders from both sides of the aisle will need to work together to put the budget on the path to balance and the economy on the path to prosperity.” To learn more about the House Republicans’ FY2012 Budget Resolution – The Path To Prosperity: http://budget.house.gov/fy2012budget/
04.09.2011	WASHINGTON - Delivering the Weekly Republican Address, Congressman Paul Ryan highlighted the Path to Prosperity, the budget proposal introduced for fiscal year 2012 that would spur private-sector job growth, stop Washington from spending money it doesn’t have, and lift the crushing burden of debt that threatens our future. Discussing the agreement reached to avert a government shutdown: “Bipartisan legislation is in sight to enact the largest spending cut in American history. This is good news for job creators in America – but much more has to be done to put our nation on a true path to prosperity. Earlier this week, the House Budget Committee advanced a new budget for the United States government that will move the debate in Washington from billions in spending cuts to trillions.” Contrasting the clear differences between the Path to Prosperity and President Obama’s budget proposal, Ryan said: “Our budget is very different: Instead of locking in the spending spree of the last two years, our budget cuts $6.2 trillion in spending from the President’s budget over the next ten years.…Instead of letting deficits spiral out of control, our budget keeps borrowing in check and puts us on the path to balance. Instead of adding $13 trillion to the debt over the next decade and trillions more in the years to come, this Path to Prosperity lifts this crushing burden of debt that is threatening our economy and our children’s future. It is not too late to fix America’s problems. It is not too late to get our country back on track so our kids can also realize the American Dream.” To learn more about the Path to Prosperity: http://budget.house.gov/fy2012budget/. Congressman Paul Ryan Weekly Republican Address April 9, 2011 Remarks as Delivered “Hello. I’m Congressman Paul Ryan from Janesville, Wisconsin – and Chairman here at the House Budget Committee. “It’s no secret our government has a spending problem – and the problem has gotten so bad it’s threatening our future and hurting our nation’s ability to create jobs. Republicans made a pledge that we would work to change this if given the opportunity to lead. Since January, we’ve been urging President Obama to listen to the people and work with us to reduce spending. The president started this year by proposing a freeze that would make no cuts at all. But now bipartisan legislation is in sight to enact the largest spending cut in American history. “This is good news for job creators in America – but much more has to be done to put our nation on a true path to prosperity. Earlier this week, the House Budget Committee advanced a new budget for the United States government that will move the debate in Washington from billions in spending cuts to trillions. “We did so because it is unconscionable to leave the next generation with a crushing burden of debt and a nation in decline. Washington’s obsession with the next election has come at the expense of the next generation. “We are calling this budget The Path to Prosperity, because it is more than just a budget. “It is a commitment to honor the American legacy of leaving the next generation a more prosperous nation than the one we inherited. “By removing the anchor of debt that weighs down our economy and advancing pro-growth tax reforms, this budget is a jobs budget. It sends signals to investors, entrepreneurs, and job creators that a brighter future is still possible – a future in which America is still an engine of growth that leads the world. “Right now, that legacy is in grave danger. This nation is going deeper and deeper into debt – and the spending choices we make today will determine the kind of lives our children enjoy tomorrow. “The facts are these: Washington has not been telling you the truth about the magnitude of the problems we are facing. “Unless we act soon, government spending on health and retirement programs will crowd out spending on everything else, including national security. It will literally take every cent of every federal tax dollar just to pay for these programs. “The non-partisan experts have been clear about what this means: “Each day that Congress fails to act, the government takes one step closer to breaking its promises to current retirees. Each year that policymakers kick this can down the road means trillions of dollars in empty promises are being made to future generations. “If we stay on the current path, we are heading toward a debt-fueled economic crisis – meaning massive tax increases, sudden cuts to vital programs, runaway inflation, or all three. “Make no mistake: The prospect of a crisis is casting a shadow on economic activity in this country. Uncertainty is keeping job creators from hiring as fast as they should be. Businesses know that all this borrowing and spending today means higher taxes and lower incomes for their customers down the road. “Economists agree: Advancing a credible solution to this crisis will begin to restore confidence and create better conditions for job-creation immediately. “The President’s recent budget proposal is worse than just a commitment to this status quo. It would actually accelerate this country’s descent into a debt crisis. “It would double the debt held by the public by the end of his term, and triple it in a decade from now. “It would raise taxes by $1.5 trillion, even though the problem is that Washington spends too much, not that Americans are taxed too little. “It would permanently enlarge the size of government by sending government spending as a share of the economy skyrocketing to levels that a healthy economy simply cannot sustain. “And it offers no real reforms to save government health and retirement programs, and no leadership. “Our budget is very different: Instead of locking in the spending spree of the last two years, our budget cuts $6.2 trillion in spending from the President’s budget over the next ten years. “This keeps government spending as a share of the economy consistent with the historical average of 20 percent, so that individuals and the economy can be free. “Instead of letting deficits spiral out of control, our budget keeps borrowing in check and puts us on the path to balance. “Instead of adding $13 trillion to the debt over the next decade and trillions more in the years to come, this Path to Prosperity lifts this crushing burden of debt that is threatening our economy and our children’s future. “It is not too late to fix America’s problems. It is not too late to get our country back on track so our kids can also realize the American Dream. “We can – and we must – preserve this nation’s exceptional promise, because that is exactly what previous generations of Americans worked so hard to do for us. “It is time for officials in Washington to stop acting like politicians, and to start acting like leaders. “We have a legacy to fulfill. It is time for all of us to get to work, put an end to the empty promises, and advance a plan to prosperity.”
04.08.2011	WASHINGTON – As negotiations continue to avert a possible ‘government shutdown’ from occurring at midnight, First District Congressman Paul Ryan sent a letter to the House Chief Administrative Officer, Dan Strodel, making clear his desire to forgo compensation if Congress does not provide funding to pay for U.S. military personnel during a shutdown. Congressman Ryan said: “Members of our military who are bravely serving in combat, abroad or here at home should not have to worry about whether their families are able to pay their bills on time as a result of a government shutdown.” “I do not wish to receive compensation if our troops who are serving are not being paid. I voted in favor to withhold the compensation of Members of Congress in the event of a lapse of appropriation but this legislation is still pending action in the Senate. As a result, should a lapse of appropriations occur, I am requesting that you hold my compensation until funds are appropriated for uninterrupted compensation for the men and women in our armed forces.” Congressman Ryan has also pledged to donate compensation received during a shutdown to the Fisher House, which supports America's military in their time of need. The letter from Congressman Ryan comes just one day after the House passed H.R. 1363, which would fund the Department of Defense for the rest of the Fiscal Year and keep the rest of the federal government operational for another week, saving taxpayers $12 billion. In an effort to assist First District residents obtain information and answer questions on how government agencies will operate in the event of a shutdown, Congressman Ryan’s website: /govtshutdownFAQ/ has further details. To view the letter: /UploadedFiles/paul_ryan_ltr_cao.pdf.
04.06.2011	WASHINGTON – Earlier this evening, the House Budget Committee voted to advance a budget resolution that helps spur job creation, stops spending money that the government doesn’t have, and lifts the crushing burden of debt from the backs of the next generation. The House Budget Committee’s Fiscal Year 2012 Budget Resolution was approved by a vote of 22 to 16, with all members of the Majority voting in support of the resolution. House Budget Committee Chairman Paul D. Ryan made the following statement after the Committee’s vote: “Today the House Budget Committee offered leadership for America. In sharp contrast to the empty promises and diminished future offered by the President’s budget, the budget advanced by the Committee charts a path to prosperity and a secure future for our exceptional nation. “Instead of locking in the spending spree of the last two years, this budget cuts $6.2 trillion in spending from the President’s budget over the next ten years. Instead of letting deficits spiral out of control, it reduces this year’s $1.6 trillion deficit by one-third and puts an end to the era of trillion-dollar deficits. Instead of adding $13 trillion to the debt over the next decade and trillions more in years to come, as the President’s budget does, this Path to Prosperity budget takes the steps necessary to avert a debt crisis and provides job creators with the confidence they need to start hiring today. “Elected leaders owe it to future generations to preserve this nation’s exceptional promise, because that is exactly what previous generations of Americans worked so hard to do for us. We have a legacy to fulfill. It is time for all of us to get to work, put an end to the empty promises, and advance a path to prosperity.”
04.05.2011	The Path to Prosperity: Restoring America’s Promise House Budget Committee – Fiscal Year 2012 Budget Resolution Read Full Report Key Facts & Summary A Contrast in Budgets http://budget.house.gov/fy2012budget/ The current path – which the President’s irresponsible budget commits us to – will result in a debt-fueled economic crisis, the shredding of the safety net, and a diminished future. Americans deserve better than empty promises from a government going broke. The budget advanced by the House Budget Committee ensures real security through real reform. The House Budget Committee’s FY2012 Budget Resolution helps spur job creation today, stops spending money the government doesn’t have, and lifts the crushing burden of debt. This plan puts the budget on the path to balance and the economy on the path to prosperity. THE PATH TO PROSPERITY – KEY OBJECTIVES ECONOMIC GROWTH AND JOB CREATION: Fosters a better environment for private-sector job creation by lifting debt-fueled uncertainty and advancing pro-growth tax reforms. SPENDING CUTS AND CONTROLS: Stops Washington from spending money it does not have on government programs that do not work. Locks in spending cuts with spending controls. REAL SECURITY: Fulfills the mission of health and retirement security for all Americans by making the tough decisions necessary to save critical health and retirement programs. PATIENT-CENTERED HEALTH CARE: Repeals and defunds the President’s health care law, advancing instead common-sense solutions focused on lowering costs, expanding access and protecting the doctor-patient relationship. RESTORING AMERICA’S EXCEPTIONAL PROMISE: Tackles the existential threat posed by rapidly growing government and debt, applying the nation’s timeless principles to this generation’s greatest challenge. Ensures that the next generation inherits a stronger, more prosperous America. THE PATH TO PROSPERITY – KEY FACTS SPENDING Cuts $6.2 trillion in government spending over the next decade compared to the President’s budget, and $5.8 trillion relative to the current-policy baseline. Eliminates hundreds of duplicative programs, reflects the ban on earmarks, and curbs corporate welfare bringing non-security discretionary spending to below 2008 levels. Brings government spending to below 20 percent of the economy, a sharp contrast to the President’s budget, in which spending never falls below 23 percent of GDP over the next decade. DEBT AND DEFICITS Reduces deficits by $4.4 trillion compared to the President’s budget over the next decade. Surpasses the President’s low benchmark of sustainability – which his own budget fails to meet – by reaching primary balance in 2015. Puts the budget on the path to balance and pays off the debt. TAXES Keeps taxes low so the economy can grow. Eliminates roughly $800 billion in tax increases imposed by the President’s health care law. Prevents the $1.5 trillion tax increase called for in the President’s budget. Calls for a simpler, less burdensome tax code for households and small businesses. Lowers tax rates for individuals, businesses and families. Sets top rates for individuals and businesses at 25 percent. Improves incentives for growth, savings, and investment. GROWTH AND JOBS Creates nearly 1 million new private-sector jobs next year, brings the unemployment rate down to 4 percent by 2015, and results in 2.5 million additional private-sector jobs in the last year of the decade. Spurs economic growth, increasing real GDP by $1.5 trillion over the decade. Unleashes prosperity and economic security, yielding $1.1 trillion in higher wages and an average $1,000 per year in higher income for each family.
03.18.2011	Washington – The President’s budget, with annual deficits averaging nearly $1 trillion over the next decade, was revealed to be far worse than initially advertised according to a report released today by the Congressional Budget Office [CBO]. Federal spending runs at record post-war levels, never falling below 23 percent of gross domestic product [GDP]. Cumulative deficits are $2.3 trillion higher over 10 years under the CBO estimates than the White House projected, and the debt increase is $1.8 trillion greater over the same period. House Budget Committee Chairman Paul D. Ryan made the following statement about the report: “The Congressional Budget Office’s report exposes the widening gulf between the President’s rhetoric and his budget’s reality. Simply put, the President’s budget spends too much, taxes too much, and borrows too much – and it continues to heap an unsustainable burden of debt on American families, today and in the future. The President’s budget never reaches ‘primary balance,’ meaning that it fails to clear even the low bar the Administration set for itself in justifying its claims of sustainability. “With this irresponsible budget proposal, the President has shown a discouraging lack of leadership with respect to our fiscal challenges. His budget completely ignored the recommendations of his own Fiscal Commission, refusing to seriously advance any of their major proposals for reining in the runaway spending in our major entitlement programs. “In the weeks ahead, the House Budget Committee will lead where the President has failed. In sharp contrast to the empty promises and diminished future offered by the President’s budget, we will chart a path to real security and a prosperous future. The American people demand – and deserve – honest leadership on our greatest fiscal and economic challenges.” Some details of CBO’s report, which can be found online at http://cbo.gov/doc.cfm?index=12103: Spending: $3.7 trillion in spending this year, 24.3 percent of GDP (highest since World War II) $46.2 trillion in spending over the decade Taxes: $1.5 trillion tax increase on families, small businesses, and job creators Federal taxes reach 19.3 percent of GDP in 2021 Deficits and Debt: $1.2 trillion deficit in fiscal year 2012, a record fourth straight deficit exceeding the trillion-dollar mark More than doubles the debt by 2016 compared with the President’s first year in office, and nearly triples the debt by 2021
03.01.2011	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (WI-01) called upon President Obama to adhere to the law and help secure Medicare for current and future seniors. The Obama Administration ignored a legal requirement – known as the “Medicare Trigger” – that calls for the Administration to submit a proposal to Congress to shore up Medicare’s alarming fiscal imbalance. The law calls for a proposal from the President within 15 days of his budget submission if the Medicare Trustees issue a funding warning: today marks the 15th day since the President submitted his budget; and the Medicare Trustees have been ringing the alarm bell for years. In response to the President’s refusal to ensure Medicare’s sustainability, Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: “The President has failed to lead, again, on entitlement reform. By ignoring their legal requirement to submit a plan that would rectify Medicare’s funding imbalance, the Obama Administration threatens the sustainability of this critical program for current and future Medicare beneficiaries. “It is incumbent upon the President to explain why he not only ignored Medicare’s insolvency in his own budget proposal, but why he also ignored the law today. Seniors, working families, and future generations can longer afford such irresponsible leadership. “The President’s refusal to take steps to address Medicare’s insolvency is especially troubling after his health care law raided over half-a-trillion dollars from current Medicare beneficiaries to fund a new open-ended entitlement program. We need to advance reforms that save Medicare, not raid it. While making no changes to those in and near retirement, policymakers can – and must – advance patient-centered reforms to ensure that this critical program can deliver for future generations. Where the President and his party have failed, House Republicans will continue to lead.” Under the requirements of the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, if the Medicare Trustees determine the program faces a significant funding shortfall, a fast-track procedure is set in motion, requiring the President to submit a proposal that addresses Medicare’s imbalance within 15 days of the date upon which he submits his budget. Congressional Democrats turned off this “Medicare Trigger” in the 110th Congress and again in the 111th Congress. The law’s requirements have not been waived in the 112th Congress. Today marks the 15th day since the President submitted his budget, yet the President’s plan is nowhere to be found. To learn more about the House Democrats’ past waiving of the Medicare Trigger: http://budget.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=211621 To read House GOP Leaders and Chairman Ryan’s joint statement on upcoming GOP Budget plan: http://budget.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=225198
02.25.2011	JANESVILLE – Congressman Paul Ryan released the following statement in recognition of those receiving the HBPA Hispanic Professional Award at their annual banquet on February 26, 2011: “I’m honored to recognize some of our state’s most inspiring Hispanic business leaders and professionals, including Teresa Mora, who has served as my Field Representative for over a decade. Teresa’s personal experience is an embodiment of the American Dream. Born in Mexico, Teresa and her family recognized the opportunities for prosperity and freedom which the United States held out to them and made the difficult decision to come to this country in pursuit of a better life for themselves and their children,” Ryan said. "This experience has given Teresa a deep appreciation of her adopted country. Every day she works to help families and individuals in Southern Wisconsin with their interactions with the federal government. I am proud to acknowledge Teresa’s efforts and the contributions of her fellow Hispanic Business Professional Award recipients.”
02.23.2011	JANESVILLE – Congressman Paul Ryan announced the nominations of a number of students from the First Congressional District for appointments to attend U.S. military service academies. Part of the application process for young people interested in attending a U.S. service academy is obtaining a nomination from an authorized nominating source, such as a Member of Congress. Acceptance to the academies is highly competitive, and receiving a nomination does not guarantee acceptance. In announcing the nominations, Rep. Ryan said: “It’s a privilege to recognize these students for their solid records of achievement and nominate them to attend our nation’s military service academies. I know these students will excel at these institutions if they are accepted, will be able to meet the rigorous requirements set by the academies, and will serve our nation with honor.” During the Fall of 2010, the Service Academy Nomination Advisory (SANA) Board interviewed and evaluated applicants from the First Congressional District for nomination to the U.S. Service Academies. Comprised of veterans, past Academy graduates, local public officials and educators, the SANA Board was appointed by Ryan to assist him with identifying the most highly qualified applicants. First District applicants typically represent the top tiers of their class, are active in their communities and demonstrate great potential for leadership. “Each year, many highly qualified students apply for nominations, which makes the selection process quite a challenge,” Ryan said. “All of them deserve our gratitude for their desire to serve and protect our country.” A list of the students nominated by Congressman Ryan follows: Kenosha County: Zachary Andersson – attends Lakeview Technology Academy, nominated for appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Junyoung Lee – nominated for the U.S. Military Academy (at West Point) and attends Bradford High School Eric Wistrom – graduated from St. Joseph High School and attends UW-Madison, nominated for appointments to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy Milwaukee County: Ryan Everson – nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy, attends the Naval Academy Preparatory School and graduated from Culver Military Academy Nicholas Jung – attends Oak Creek High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Crystal Staszak – nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy, attends Oak Creek High School Racine County: Jasmine Anderson – graduated from Washington Park High School and currently serving in the U.S. Army, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy Sara Brooks – nominated for appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy, attends Burlington High School Matthew Campbell – nominated for appointments to the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, attends Washington Park High School. Reese Grabowski – attends Walden III High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy Gregory Hardesty – nominated for appointments to the U.S. Military Academy (at West Point) and U.S. Air Force Academy, attends Case High School. Richard Summer – attends Muskego High School, nominated for appointments to U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Military Academy Nicholas Tuscany – nominated for appointments to the U.S. Military Academy (at West Point) and U.S. Naval Academy, attends St. Catherine’s High School Rock County: Zachary Woodman – attends Beloit Memorial High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Walworth County: Joseph Geldermann – nominated for appointment to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, attends Northwestern Preparatory School and graduated from Badger High School Franek Kulik – attends Badger High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy Waukesha County: Taylor Drolshagen – attends Muskego High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Maximillian Evans-Nolan – nominated for appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Military Academy (at West Point), the U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, attends Waukesha South High School Erin Oetting – attends Muskego High School, nominated for appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy
02.15.2011	WASHINGTON – House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH), Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA), Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), and Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) issued the following statement after President Obama’s press conference today: “The American people are ready to get serious about tackling our fiscal challenges, but President Obama’s budget fails to lead. The President’s budget punts on entitlement reform and actually makes matters worse by spending too much, taxing too much, and borrowing too much – stifling job growth today and threatening our economic future. “The President says that he wants to win the future, but we can't win the future by repeating the mistakes of the past or putting off our responsibilities in the present. Our budget will lead where the President has failed, and it will include real entitlement reforms so that we can have a conversation with the American people about the challenges we face and the need to chart a new path to prosperity. Our reforms will focus both on saving these programs for current and future generations of Americans and on getting our debt under control and our economy growing. By taking critical steps forward now, we can fulfill the mission of health and retirement security for all Americans without making changes for those in or near retirement. We hope the President and Democratic leaders in Congress will demonstrate leadership and join us in working toward responsible solutions to confront the fiscal and economic challenges before us.”
02.14.2011	WASHINGTON – House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan issued the following statement in response to the release of President Obama’s FY2012 Budget: “The President’s budget spends too much, taxes too much, and borrows too much – stifling job growth today and leaving our children with a diminished future. In this critical test of leadership, the President has failed to tackle the urgent fiscal and economic threats before us.” “Failing to heed the warnings of economists and the demands of the American people, the President’s budget accelerates our country down the path to bankruptcy. Far from ‘living within its means,’ the President’s budget puts the government on track to nearly double in size since the day he took office – a direct result of his party’s reckless spending spree. His budget destroys jobs by imposing a $1.6 trillion tax hike, adding $13 trillion to the national debt and fueling uncertainty in the private sector. “We cannot tax, spend and borrow our way to prosperity. Where the President has fallen short, Republicans will work to chart a new course – advancing a path to prosperity by cutting spending, keeping taxes low, reforming government, and rising to meet the challenges of our time.” Key facts from President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2012 Budget: Spends Too Much $3.8 trillion in spending this year; 25.3% of GDP (highest since WWII) $46 trillion in spending over the decade; $8.7 trillion in new spending Taxes Too Much $1.6 trillion tax hike on families, small businesses, and job creators Revenues as a percent of GDP climb to 20% Borrows Too Much $1.6 trillion deficit for FY2012; a record third straight trillion dollar deficit Doubles and then triples debt held by the public since President took office $13 trillion added to the debt over the decade For a bicameral budget analysis from the Senate and House Budget Committee Republicans: http://budget.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=224882
02.09.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan joined Representatives Devin Nunes and Darrell Issa in introducing the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act. The legislation introduced in the House today was first introduced by Representatives Nunes, Issa, and Ryan in December 2010 and companion legislation will be introduced in the Senate next week. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act provides enhanced transparency for state and local pensions and establishes a clear federal prohibition on any future public pension bailouts by the federal government. During a press conference in the Capitol, Congressman Ryan was joined by the bill’s original co-authors and a coalition of supporters including: Grover Norquist of Americans for Tax Reform, Tom Schatz of the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste, Larry Hart of The American Conservative Union, Pete Sepp of the National Taxpayers Union, Randy Johnson of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Jim MacDougald of Free Enterprise Nation, and Steve Woods, of the National Federation of Independent Businesses. Congressman Paul Ryan offered the following statement: “We need to ensure that state and local governments are accurate and honest in detailing their financial liabilities, including the cost of pension plans for public employees. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will make government more accountable to taxpayers by shining a light on the financial soundness and unfunded obligations associated with these plans, and I’m honored to join Representatives Nunes and Issa in sponsoring this common-sense legislation." Additional statements from bill’s co-authors: Principal House author, Devin Nunes “Government at all levels needs to take its collective head out of the sand. We have enormous challenges associated with government spending and entitlements,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. “Public employee pensions represent trillions of debt carried by the American taxpayer. Unfortunately, this debt is masked by accounting practices that would never be tolerated in the private sector. It’s time to open up the books. Once we enact this bill, retirees, government workers, policy makers, and most importantly the people who are paying the bills, can make up their own minds about the soundness of public pensions.” Principal Senate author, Richard Burr: “This bill would implement uniform standards for public-employee pension funds so that citizens can accurately judge the performance of state and local authorities in managing the public trust. This information is only for the purpose of disclosure, the rights of states and local governments to fund and control their own plans is maintained,” said Sen. Burr. “The bill also prevents a federal bailout of state and local government pension plans which empowers local authorities to make the reforms needed to ensure problems cannot be dumped upon taxpayers.” Senator John Thune: "Taxpayers have a right to know the full extent of their government's underfunded liabilities," said Sen. Thune. "State and local governments should use the same accounting standards that are widely accepted in the private sector to determine the true costs associated with their pensions. As the federal government faces a looming fiscal crisis, which will require significant spending cuts and budget reforms, adding underfunded state and local pension obligations to the balance sheet is simply not an option." Government Reform and Oversight Chairman Darrell Issa: “The American people have a right to know the truth about the unfunded liabilities being run-up by state and local pensions. Quite frankly, if they have nothing to hide, there’s no reason why the states and local governments who control public employee pensions should not embrace this effort to ensure that the taxpayers have a more transparent accounting of the true nature of pension liabilities.” Most state and local governments offer their employees defined benefit pension plans. These plans currently promise retirement pensions to about 20 million active employees, while another seven million retirees and their dependants are receiving benefits today. According to leading financial experts, the enormous debt reported by public employee pensions fails to convey the true size of the debt confronting taxpayers because public pensions are able to calculate their liabilities using unreasonably high discount rates. In many instances, they also distort fair market value of assets in order to hide debt. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will establish new transparency rules, allowing plans to report their existing financial data but also requiring them to report their methods and assumptions. Public employee pension plans will also have to report their liabilities using a uniform accounting standard that will provide realistic rates of return and tie assets to more reasonable fair market valuations. State and local officials should welcome increased public pension transparency as a tool to increase public finance soundness. However, plan sponsors may decide against reporting this information. To incentivize transparency, the bill links the creation of new federally subsidized debt at the state and local level with an honest accounting of current public pension liabilities. Failure to report will result in the suspension of all federal tax-exempt bonding authority for the jurisdiction(s) whose employees are covered by the non-compliant plan. Independent studies demonstrate that public employee pensions had approximately $1.94 trillion set aside to pay retirement benefits promised to government workers as of 2008. However, these pensions have liabilities of $5.17 trillion, which means that they are underfunded by $3.23 trillion. Ten states including Oklahoma, Louisiana, Illinois, New Jersey, Connecticut, Arkansas, West Virginia, Kentucky, Hawaii, and Indiana are projected to run out of pension funds by 2020, the vast majority of states will have exhausted their pension funds by 2030.
01.26.2011	In the Republican Address to the Nation last evening, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin underscored the urgent need to stop the out-of-control spending binge that is both making it harder to create jobs today and jeopardizing the financial security of future generations. In his address, Chairman Ryan called for a return to the principles of "limited government and free enterprise" that "have helped make America the greatest nation on earth." share: f t WASHINGTON – In the Republican Address to the Nation last evening, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin underscored the urgent need to stop the out-of-control spending binge that is both making it harder to create jobs today and jeopardizing the financial security of future generations. In his address, Chairman Ryan called for a return to the principles of "limited government and free enterprise" that "have helped make America the greatest nation on earth." Video and text of Chairman Ryan's address are below: "Good evening. I'm Congressman Paul Ryan from Janesville, Wisconsin – and Chairman here at the House Budget Committee. "President Obama just addressed a Congressional chamber filled with many new faces. One face we did not see tonight was that of our friend and colleague, Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona. We all miss Gabby and her cheerful spirit; and we are praying for her return to the House Chamber. "Earlier this month, President Obama spoke movingly at a memorial event for the six people who died on that violent morning in Tucson. Still, there are no words that can lift the sorrow that now engulfs the families and friends of the fallen. "What we can do is assure them that the nation is praying for them; that, in the words of the Psalmist, the Lord heals the broken hearted and binds up their wounds; and that over time grace will replace grief. "As Gabby continues to make encouraging progress, we must keep her and the others in our thoughts as we attend to the work now before us. "Tonight, the President focused a lot of attention on our economy in general – and on our deficit and debt in particular. "He was right to do so, and some of his words were reassuring. As Chairman of the House Budget Committee, I assure you that we want to work with the President to restrain federal spending. "In one of our first acts in the new majority, House Republicans voted to cut Congress's own budget. And just today, the House voted to restore the spending discipline that Washington sorely needs. "The reason is simple. "A few years ago, reducing spending was important. Today, it's imperative. Here's why. "We face a crushing burden of debt. The debt will soon eclipse our entire economy, and grow to catastrophic levels in the years ahead. "On this current path, when my three children – who are now 6, 7, and 8 years old – are raising their own children, the Federal government will double in size, and so will the taxes they pay. "No economy can sustain such high levels of debt and taxation. The next generation will inherit a stagnant economy and a diminished country. "Frankly, it's one of my greatest concerns as a parent – and I know many of you feel the same way. "Our debt is the product of acts by many presidents and many Congresses over many years. No one person or party is responsible for it. "There is no doubt the President came into office facing a severe fiscal and economic situation. "Unfortunately, instead of restoring the fundamentals of economic growth, he engaged in a stimulus spending spree that not only failed to deliver on its promise to create jobs, but also plunged us even deeper into debt. "The facts are clear: Since taking office, President Obama has signed into law spending increases of nearly 25% for domestic government agencies – an 84% increase when you include the failed stimulus. "All of this new government spending was sold as "investment." Yet after two years, the unemployment rate remains above 9% and government has added over $3 trillion to our debt. "Then the President and his party made matters even worse, by creating a new open-ended health care entitlement. "What we already know about the President's health care law is this: Costs are going up, premiums are rising, and millions of people will lose the coverage they currently have. Job creation is being stifled by all of its taxes, penalties, mandates and fees. "Businesses and unions from around the country are asking the Obama Administration for waivers from the mandates. Washington should not be in the business of picking winners and losers. The President mentioned the need for regulatory reform to ease the burden on American businesses. We agree – and we think his health care law would be a great place to start. "Last week, House Republicans voted for a full repeal of this law, as we pledged to do, and we will work to replace it with fiscally responsible, patient-centered reforms that actually reduce costs and expand coverage. "Health care spending is driving the explosive growth of our debt. And the President's law is accelerating our country toward bankruptcy. "Our debt is out of control. What was a fiscal challenge is now a fiscal crisis. "We cannot deny it; instead we must, as Americans, confront it responsibly. "And that is exactly what Republicans pledge to do. "Americans are skeptical of both political parties, and that skepticism is justified – especially when it comes to spending. So hold all of us accountable. "In this very room, the House will produce, debate, and advance a budget. Last year – in an unprecedented failure – Congress chose not to pass, or even propose a budget. The spending spree continued unchecked. "We owe you a better choice and a different vision. "Our forthcoming budget is our obligation to you – to show you how we intend to do things differently ... how we will cut spending to get the debt down... help create jobs and prosperity ... and reform government programs. If we act soon, and if we act responsibly, people in and near retirement will be protected. "These budget debates are not just about the programs of government; they're also about the purpose of government. "So I'd like to share with you the principles that guide us. They are anchored in the wisdom of the founders; in the spirit of the Declaration of Independence; and in the words of the American Constitution. "They have to do with the importance of limited government; and with the blessing of self-government. "We believe government's role is both vital and limited – to defend the nation from attack and provide for the common defense ... to secure our borders... to protect innocent life... to uphold our laws and Constitutional rights ... to ensure domestic tranquility and equal opportunity ... and to help provide a safety not for those who cannot provide for themselves. "We believe that the government has an important role to create the conditions that promote entrepreneurship, upward mobility, and individual responsibility. "We believe, as our founders did, that "the pursuit of happiness" depends upon individual liberty; and individual liberty requires limited government. "Limited government also means effective government. When government takes on too many tasks, it usually doesn't do any of them very well. It's no coincidence that trust in government is at an all-time low now that the size of government is at an all-time high. "The President and the Democratic Leadership have shown, by their actions, that they believe government needs to increase its size and its reach, its price tag and its power. "Whether sold as "stimulus" or repackaged as "investment," their actions show they want a Federal government that controls too much; taxes too much; and spends too much in order to do too much. "And during the last two years, that is exactly what we have gotten – along with record deficits and debt – to the point where the President is now urging Congress to increase the debt limit. "We believe the days of business as usual must come to an end. We hold to a couple of simple convictions: Endless borrowing is not a strategy; spending cuts have to come first. "Our nation is approaching a tipping point. "We are at a moment, where if government's growth is left unchecked and unchallenged, America's best century will be considered our past century. This is a future in which we will transform our social safety net into a hammock, which lulls able-bodied people into lives of complacency and dependency. "Depending on bureaucracy to foster innovation, competitiveness, and wise consumer choices has never worked – and it won't work now. "We need to chart a new course. "Speaking candidly, as one citizen to another: We still have time... but not much time. If we continue down our current path, we know what our future will be. "Just take a look at what's happening to Greece, Ireland, the United Kingdom and other nations in Europe. They didn't act soon enough; and now their governments have been forced to impose painful austerity measures: large benefit cuts to seniors and huge tax increases on everybody. "Their day of reckoning has arrived. Ours is around the corner. That is why we must act now. "Some people will back away from this challenge. But I see this challenge as an opportunity to rebuild what Lincoln called the "central ideas" of the Republic. "We believe a renewed commitment to limited government will unshackle our economy and create millions of new jobs and opportunities for all people, of every background, to succeed and prosper. Under this approach, the spirit of initiative – not political clout – determines who succeeds. "Millions of families have fallen on hard times not because of our ideals of free enterprise – but because our leaders failed to live up to those ideals; because of poor decisions made in Washington and Wall Street that caused a financial crisis, squandered our savings, broke our trust, and crippled our economy. "Today, a similar kind of irresponsibility threatens not only our livelihoods but our way of life. "We need to reclaim our American system of limited government, low taxes, reasonable regulations, and sound money, which has blessed us with unprecedented prosperity. And it has done more to help the poor than any other economic system ever designed. That's the real secret to job creation – not borrowing and spending more money in Washington. "Limited government and free enterprise have helped make America the greatest nation on earth. "These are not easy times, but America is an exceptional nation. In all the chapters of human history, there has never been anything quite like America. The American story has been cherished, advanced, and defended over the centuries. "And it now falls to this generation to pass on to our children a nation that is stronger, more vibrant, more decent, and better than the one we inherited. "Thank you and good night."
01.21.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) and Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today that House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) will deliver the Republican address following the President’s State of the Union address to Congress on January 25, 2011. Last year – in an unprecedented failure – Congressional Democrats chose not to pass, or even propose a budget, punting on a duty that represents the most basic responsibility of governing. Chairman Ryan will deliver the Republican address Tuesday night from the House Budget Committee hearing room, where the Democrats’ spending spree will end and the Republicans’ push for a fiscally responsible budget that cuts spending will begin. In making the announcement, the GOP leaders noted that Chairman Ryan is a leading voice for fiscal discipline and common-sense solutions to cut spending and create jobs. Known for his thoughtful and detailed critiques of big-government policies, Ryan has helped put to rest the Democrats’ argument that more government spending and higher taxes is the answer to most of our nation’s ills. His commitment to free enterprise and limited government make him the right choice to outline a vision for how a smaller, less costly government will help create the right conditions for the creation of good, private sector jobs. “Paul Ryan is uniquely qualified to address the state of our economy and the fiscal challenges that face our country,” said Speaker Boehner. “We’re broke, and decisive action is needed to help our economy get back to creating jobs and end the spending binge in Washington that threatens our children’s future. I’m pleased that Paul will be outlining a common-sense vision for moving our country forward.” Leader McConnell said, “Paul Ryan has spent the better part of the last two years explaining exactly why the Democrat agenda has been so bad for jobs and the economy, and why we need to ditch the government-driven approach in favor of creative, common-sense solutions that put the American people back in charge. Chairman Ryan’s unique understanding of the fiscal problems we face, his command of policy, and his adherence to the principles of our nation’s founding make him an excellent spokesman for the path that Americans want Washington to take.” “Delivering an address to the nation is a unique opportunity, and I am grateful to my party’s leaders for entrusting me with this responsibility,” said Ryan. “I am hopeful that the President will work with the new House Majority to cut spending, reform government, and restore the foundations for growth and job creation. More than rhetoric, we need results. I look forward to outlining a vision for a future that fulfills the uniquely American legacy of leaving the next generation with a stronger, more prosperous nation.” NOTE: Born and raised in the community of Janesville, Paul Ryan is a fifth-generation Wisconsin native. Currently serving his seventh term as a Member of Congress, Paul works to address the many important issues affecting Wisconsin residents and serve as an effective advocate for the 1st Congressional District. He is the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, where he works to bring fiscal discipline and accountability to the federal government. He is a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over tax policy, Social Security, health care and trade laws. Paul is a graduate of Joseph A. Craig High School in Janesville and earned a degree in economics and political science from Miami University (OH). Paul and his wife Janna live in Janesville with their children, daughter Liza and sons Charlie and Sam. CONTACT: Kevin Smith (Boehner), 202-225-0600 Don Stewart (McConnell), 202-224-2979 Conor Sweeney (Paul Ryan), 202-226-7270
01.08.2011	Wisconsin's 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement regarding the shooting of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona: “I am deeply saddened by today's tragic shooting of my colleague Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, members of her staff and residents in Tucson, Arizona. My thoughts and prayers are with Congresswoman Giffords and her family, along with those impacted by this senseless act of violence."
12.09.2010	
12.07.2010	WASHINGTON – In response to a recently announced bipartisan agreement to prevent looming tax increases, House Budget Committee Ranking Member Paul Ryan (WI-01) issued the following statement: "President Obama has acted responsibly in reaching an agreement with Republicans to prevent across-the-board tax increases from hitting American families and job creators. Sound economics appear to have trumped the politics of class warfare. While I prefer a permanent prevention of tax increases to promote growth and ensure certainty, there is a growing bipartisan consensus that raising taxes would be a big mistake. This agreement affirms an essential proposition: raising tax rates hinders economic growth and job creation. “Policymakers cannot continue to chase ever-higher levels of government spending with ever-higher tax rates. To address the Federal government’s fiscal imbalance, we need both economic growth and serious spending discipline. It is critical that we match opposition to tax increases with a fervent commitment to restrain the explosive growth of government spending. “While I have concerns with some specific aspects of the plan, I support the proposed framework to avert further economic hardship and provide a first step to restore the foundations for sustained growth and job creation. I look forward to working with my colleagues to keep taxes low, and will continue to make the case for an equal commitment to spending restraint and real reform.” House Budget Committee Republican analysis on the tax debate: “The Impact of Looming Tax Increase” – http://house.gov/budget_republicans/taxdebate.pdf
12.03.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Paul Ryan (R-WI), Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) and Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) introduced the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act (text available here). The bill, which provides enhanced transparency for state and local pensions, also establishes a clear federal prohibition on any future public pension bailouts by the federal government. Congressman Paul Ryan, incoming Chairman of the House Budget Committee, offered the following statement regarding the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act: “We need to ensure that state and local governments are accurate and honest in detailing their financial liabilities, including the cost of pension plans for public employees. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will make government more accountable to taxpayers by shining a light on the financial soundness and unfunded obligations associated with these plans and I’m honored to join Representatives Nunes and Issa in sponsoring this common sense legislation.” “As we speak, lucrative pension promises are being made to public employees that taxpayers simply cannot afford. The plans themselves admit to more than a $1 trillion in unfunded liabilities,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. “Unfortunately, the true level of unfunded liabilities associated with these plans – perhaps more than $3 trillion – is being hidden thanks to unrealistic accounting standards.” Congressman Darrell Issa, Incoming Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee said: “The American people have a right to know the truth about the unfunded liabilities being run-up by state and local pensions. Quite frankly, if they have nothing to hide, there’s no reason why the states and local governments who control public employee pensions should not embrace this effort to ensure that the taxpayers have a more transparent accounting of the true nature of pension liabilities.” Most state and local governments offer their employees defined benefit pension plans. These plans currently promise retirement pensions to about 20 million active employees, while another seven million retirees and their dependants are receiving benefits today. According to leading financial experts, the enormous debt reported by public employee pensions fails to convey the true size of the debt confronting taxpayers because public pensions are able to calculate their liabilities using unreasonably high discount rates. In many instances, they also distort fair market value of assets in order to hide debt. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will establish new transparency rules, allowing plans to report their existing financial data but also requiring them to report their methods and assumptions. Public employee pension plans will also have to report their liabilities using a uniform accounting standard that provide realistic rates of return and tie assets to more reasonable fair market valuations. State and local officials should welcome increased public pension transparency as a tool to increase public finance soundness. However, plan sponsors may decide against reporting this information. To incentivize transparency, the bill links the creation of new federally subsidized debt at the state and local level with an honest accounting of current public pension liabilities. Failure to report will result in the suspension of all federal tax-exempt bonding authority for the jurisdiction(s) whose employees are covered by the non-compliant plan. “With few real disclosure requirements, public employee pension plans are at even further risk of not only jeopardizing retirement packages for active and retired employees, but also putting taxpayers in grave danger. This bill will provide a much-needed dose of financial transparency,” said Jordan Forbes, of the National Taxpayers Union. Independent studies demonstrate that public employee pensions had approximately $1.94 trillion set aside to pay retirement benefits promised to government workers as of 2008. However, these pensions have liabilities of $5.17 trillion, which means that they are underfunded by $3.23 trillion. Ten states including Oklahoma, Louisiana, Illinois, New Jersey, Connecticut, Arkansas, West Virginia, Kentucky, Hawaii, and Indiana are projected to run out of pension funds by 2020, and the vast majority of states will have exhausted their pension funds by 2030. “State and local governments’ empty coffers should not be ignored, nor should they become dependent on federal bailouts to ensure the fiscal soundness of their pension plans. Increasing pension fund transparency will make lawmakers more accountable to taxpayers and compel them to deal with the reality of their fiscal crisis,” said Thomas Schatz, President of Citizens Against Government Waste. “By requiring accurate accounting, disclosure online and certifying the end of federal bailouts, the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act would address the underlying deficiencies that have allowed states and municipalities to be fiscally reckless with their pension plans,” said Grover Norquist, President of Americans for Tax Reform. Support for the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act includes the Americans for Tax Reform, Americans for Prosperity, American Conservative Union, Citizens Against Government Waste, National Taxpayers Union, Americans for Limited Government, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
12.02.2010	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, Congressman Paul Ryan stated his intention to vote against the plan proposed by the Co-Chairmen of the Fiscal Commission. With respect to his views on Co-Chairs’ specific proposal and the success of the Fiscal Commission, Congressman Ryan, Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement: “Regardless of the outcome of Friday's vote, the Fiscal Commission has been a success. Due in large part to the leadership of the Co-Chairmen, Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson, the proposal and the commission have successfully launched a critical debate facing this country: how to get the Federal government's fiscal house in order and ensure a prosperous future for coming generations of Americans. This is the debate I’ve worked hard to advance with my own reform proposals, and it has been a privilege to serve as an active participant in the Fiscal Commission this past year. “Tasked with an extraordinarily difficult challenge, the Co-Chairmen put forth a comprehensive and provocative proposal to help tackle the debt threat, advancing a sorely needed debate on these critical issues. Their proposal is a serious and credible plan, but I cannot support it. We must address the explosive growth of our health care entitlement programs at the structural level to meet the fiscal and economic challenges confronting this nation. This plan not only lacks needed structural reforms, but would in fact take us in the wrong direction on health care by accelerating the adverse consequences of the President’s health care law. It also relies too heavily on tax increases, which would stifle the very growth and prosperity that are the essential preconditions of a sustainable fiscal path. “I cannot overstate my respect for, and gratitude to, Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson. They have helped put an end to the era of deficit denial. Those who refuse to confront the looming fiscal crisis have nowhere to hide. I am eager to build on this effort in my work at the House Budget Committee – drawing upon specific ideas put forward in the Commission and drawing upon the inspired leadership of the Co-Chairmen.” Statement for the Record from Congressman Paul Ryan, Ranking Member, House Budget Committee Expanded Views on Fiscal Commission - Congressman Paul Ryan, Ranking Member, House Budget Committee; Member of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform
11.16.2010	WASHINGTON – Statement from Wisconsin Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner, Paul Ryan, and Tom Petri on the legislation they introduced today in the U.S. House of Representatives, which would allow for states to return certain funds made available for high speed rail and intercity rail projects to the general fund of the Treasury for Federal budget deficit reduction. "We share Governor-elect Scott Walker’s commitment to improving Wisconsin's transportation infrastructure and his efforts to bring fiscal responsibility back to our state and the federal government. Instead of being told by bureaucrats in Washington how to allocate their resources, states need to have the flexibility and authority to prioritize how tax dollars are being spent. However, the Obama Administration’s stimulus package does not allow these stimulus funds to be reprogrammed for other worthwhile transportation projects. “We support Governor-elect Walker's effort to put the brakes on the High Speed Rail budget boondoggle, which is why we introduced legislation, today, that would give states the ability to return federal funds obligated to high-speed rail projects, and instead use this money to reduce our nation’s $1.3 trillion deficit and $13.8 trillion debt. This high speed rail project is a bad investment for taxpayers and our state simply cannot afford it. We are optimistic that Congress will consider our legislation and empower states to prioritize spending and lead efforts to get our nation’s fiscal house in order.” Contact: Wendy Riemann (Sensenbrenner) 202-225-5101 Kevin Seifert (Ryan) 202-225-3031 Niel Wright (Petri) 202-225-2476
09.23.2010	WASHINGTON – House Budget Committee Ranking Republican Paul Ryan (WI-01) issued the following statement upon joining the House Republicans’ Pledge to America – a principled governing agenda with policy solutions to help spur job creation, cut government spending and reform government: “I stand in strong support of the House Republicans’ Pledge to America. We don't need to reinvent America; we need to reclaim it. We need to get the fundamentals right for sustained economic growth and job creation. We need to restrain the explosive growth of government spending. We need to reform Congress, holding elected leaders accountable to those they serve. “Policymakers need to rededicate themselves to our timeless principles, the Founding ideas that make us so exceptional, and apply these principles to the challenges of the day. There is no question that the Republican Party lost its way over the years, straying from our core values. By standing on principle with better solutions, we will continue our work to earn back the trust of the American people. This Pledge marks a critical first step in getting our nation back on track and restoring the promise and prosperity of our exceptional nation.” To learn more about A Pledge to America: http://pledge.gop.gov
08.04.2010	Earlier today, Congressman Paul Ryan launched a revamped website: paulryan.house.gov for residents of Wisconsin’s 1st District. In addition to his mobile office and constituent services centers in Racine, Kenosha, and Janesville, Congressman Ryan’s online office provides 1st District residents with another valuable resource to utilize. Congressman Ryan said: “The online office is a great way for residents to stay connected with me and what is going on in the House of Representatives and to receive information on the various constituent services my office provides. I’m pleased the 1st Congressional District website will offer a wider array of services and be more user-friendly for residents.” “Whether assisting families with a visit to Washington, DC, allowing individuals to share their thoughts on legislation, or providing information on issues before Congress, the online office keeps a constant dialogue flowing with those I represent.” Ryan added, “I will continue to use all available avenues to communicate with and serve my employers and I would encourage everyone to take advantage of this great site.” On average, Congressman Ryan’s website has 77,000 visitors each month and through his official Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube pages and his Roadmap for America's Future website, Congressman Ryan is committed to using multiple forums to communicate with Wisconsinites. Ryan’s website was recently awarded a “Silver Mouse Award” by the Congressional Management Foundation for being one of the best in the 111th Congress.
07.28.2010	WASHINGTON- Congressman Paul Ryan announced that the 1st District Mobile Office will continue its regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin's 1st District during the months of August, September, and October. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. Please click here for a listing of scheduled stops for the 1st District Mobile Office. When he entered Congress, Congressman Ryan established the 1st District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing 1st District Constituent Services Centers. The Mobile Office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent Congressional Offices. From 1999 through 2010, the Mobile Office has made roughly 2,400 visits to area communities. “I need to hear from 1st District residents and be accessible to them, and the Mobile Office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent Congressional Office.” Ryan added: “When the Mobile Office comes to their town or makes a visit to their area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. I would encourage 1st District residents to check their local paper for the latest Mobile Office schedule and to take full advantage of the services it provides.” Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of Mobile Office hours indicate where the Mobile Office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by.
06.30.2010	WASHINGTON – After President Obama’s Town Hall meeting in Racine, WI, First District Congressman Paul Ryan offered the following reaction to the visit: “I’m pleased the President came to Racine today, but I was rather shocked by the harsh partisan tone the President brought with him. The very real challenges facing Southern Wisconsin cannot be met by Washington’s failed economic policies. Wisconsinites understand that you can't take money from the productive sector of our economy, funnel it through Washington, and create jobs. His speech sounded more like a campaign speech by a divider, not a uniter; by a partisan, not a President. It tells me that the President is not interested in learning from economic mistakes; but rather is set on repeating them. The President told a city with an unemployment rate over 14%: ‘The stimulus worked. You just don’t know it.’ That is out of touch and it encapsulates the frustrations I hear every week in Wisconsin. The President told Wisconsinites that if the Federal government hadn’t taken over two auto companies, workers at Chrysler and General Motors would have lost their jobs. These comments are hardly a comfort to the thousands of former auto workers in Janesville, Kenosha, and Oak Creek. The disconnect between Wisconsin and Washington couldn’t be wider. Those running Washington have doubled-down on a failed debt-financed spending spree. We need to chart a new fiscal and economic course, reform government and put in place a plan for growth - and a plan for prosperity.”
06.29.2010	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan continues to speak out about the painful impact of Washington’s misguided economic policies on Wisconsin workers. News broke over the weekend that the Obama Administration killed a contract with Wisconsin employer Bucyrus International Inc. in an effort to “transition away from high-carbon investments,” threatening the livelihoods of hundreds of Wisconsin families. In addition to the direct impact on Bucyrus workers, the South Milwaukee-based employer has 250 suppliers in Wisconsin that employ 15,000 people, according to the Metropolitan Milwaukee Association of Commerce. Today, Obama will be meeting with Congressional leaders to map out a legislative strategy to push a costly cap-and-trade national energy tax through the Senate. The punitive cap-and-trade legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives one-year prior to this weekend’s painful Bucyrus news. Tomorrow, President Barack Obama will be visiting Racine, Wisconsin – and will no doubt have to explain the consequences of his economic and environmental agenda on Wisconsin jobs to Wisconsin Workers. Yesterday, Congressman Ryan issued the following statement, posted at the Journal Times of Racine: “Last Thursday, the U.S. Export-Import Bank announced its intention to deny several hundred million dollars in loan guarantees to Reliance Power Ltd., an Indian utility company building the country’s largest coal-fired power generation station near Sasan, India. “Bucyrus International Inc., which is based in South Milwaukee, won an international competitive-bidding process to supply an estimated $600 million worth of mining equipment for this project. It is important to note that Bucyrus’ bid relied on favorable financing rates from the Export-Import Bank, whose stated mission is to ‘assist in financing the export of U.S. goods and services to international markets.’ By declining to finance Bucyrus’ bid, as many as one thousand American jobs will be lost, including hundreds in Wisconsin. Worse yet, construction on the Sasan project is already moving forward – but instead of using American-made products – our foreign competitors will now provide the equipment needed for the project. “Coming on the one-year anniversary of the House’s passage of the cap-and-tax legislation, the Export-Import Bank’s decision provides a troubling sign of things to come. This was the first project considered using the Bank’s new ‘Environmental Guidelines’ for coal powered initiatives, and the statement from Fred Hochberg, the Chairman of the Export-Import Bank, provides chilling insight into the implications of the Administration’s decision-making process for American manufacturers: ‘President Obama has made clear his Administration’s commitment to transition away from high-carbon investments and toward a cleaner-energy future. After careful deliberation, the Export-Import Bank voted not to proceed with this project because of the projected adverse environmental-impact.' “The Administration’s actions show that attempting to reduce global warming– by a fraction of a degree over the next century – is a higher priority than keeping Wisconsin residents employed now. The vibrancy and competitiveness of the American economy should never take a back seat to political ideology and it’s reprehensible that the Administration has arrived at the faulty conclusion that we are incapable of enacting energy policies that are both environmentally friendly and economically beneficial. “American products and workers can compete with the best in the world, if they are given the chance- unfortunately, in this instance, they were not. Should the Administration fail to reverse this decision, or worse, should it continue with muscling through a byzantine cap-and-trade scheme, we need only look to Bucyrus to see the repercussions. “As this flawed political ideology permeates, the U.S. will continue to lose manufacturing jobs to our foreign competitors. This isn’t a question of reducing the carbon footprint of the project – Bucyrus’ foreign competitors will quickly fill the gap left by this narrow-minded decision. Construction at Sasan will continue with or without the high-quality, environmentally friendly equipment that should have been provided by Bucyrus. Countries like India and China will use ‘dirtier’ technology and production methods, which expel more carbon into the atmosphere, and ultimately, global temperatures and total emissions will remain unaffected. “By putting ideology ahead of our nation’s economic well being, this Administration is making a conscious decision to place U.S. companies at a distinct competitive disadvantage at a time when we are struggling to emerge from a prolonged recession. Rather than exporting U.S. jobs and products overseas, Washington should be doing everything possible to promote investment here at home and develop policies which make the U.S. more attractive- rather than less attractive- to international businesses and investors.” Letter from Reps. Ryan and Sensenbrenner to Export-Import Bank of the United States' Chairman
06.24.2010	WASHINGTON -- 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan offered the following statement regarding the DISCLOSE Act, which passed the House of Representatives earlier today by a vote of 219-206: “Congress should not be in the business of earmarking the First Amendment. The DISCLOSE Act unconstitutionally empowers Congress to pick winners and losers with respect to free speech, drawing clear lines between those groups and organizations that are able to easily participate in our elections and those that are not." Ryan said: “If we want to reduce the role of special interests groups in government, we should combat the overreach and influence of government rather than combat the Constitution itself. By limiting the government's influence over our lives, we can reduce the flow of money into politics. Regrettably, the Majority took the opposite approach and proceeded with a bill that serves the interests of their own party as opposed to the interests of the American people.”
06.15.2010	WASHINGTON – In advance of President Obama’s address to the nation on the Federal government’s response to the oil spill in the Gulf, Congressman Paul Ryan offered the following statement: “Without question, our primary focus in the Gulf must be to stop the oil leak. The Federal government and BP must work together to stop the leak, and mitigate the environmental and economic devastation in the Gulf region. I have serious concerns with attempts to exploit this tragedy to push a counterproductive, job-killing political agenda. The drilling moratorium and talk of imposing a costly cap-and-tax scheme on Wisconsin families and small businesses only furthers our dependence on foreign oil, drives up energy costs, and destroys jobs in Wisconsin and across the country. We need leadership and decisive action. Let’s stop the leak, clean up the spill, hold to account those responsible, and work together on an all-of-the-above energy plan.”
05.21.2010	WASHINGTON - 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the schedule for listening sessions that he will be holding in early June. Ryan will be visiting 10 communities throughout Wisconsin's 1st Congressional District to discuss the importance of reining in government spending, reducing our nation’s debt and deficits to make possible economic growth and job creation, and address further concerns from the residents of Southern Wisconsin. In advance of the upcoming listening sessions, Ryan issued the following statement: “There is increasing frustration that Washington isn’t listening to the concerns of the American people. With the need to spur job creation and economic growth and tackle the crushing burden of debt and taxes, it is important for me to hear directly from my employers of the 1st Congressional District. I look forward to continuing to discuss solutions to our nation’s greatest challenges with those I serve during these listening sessions.” Please click here for a complete schedule of upcoming listening sessions.
05.19.2010	Washington – Following the launch of YouCut last week, Congressman Paul Ryan joined House Minority Whip Eric Cantor and fellow Republican Members to announce the proposed spending cut that received the most votes from the American people. “Since last Wednesday, over 280,000 YouCut votes were cast by Americans fed up with Washington’s reckless culture of borrowing and spending. The choices that we make today determine the type of America that our children and grandchildren will inherit tomorrow. We must continue to make every effort to get our fiscal house in order.” The spending cut which received the most votes this week addresses a non-reformed welfare program that provides incentives for states to increase their welfare caseloads without any work or job-training requirements. Reforming the welfare program was one of the great achievements of the mid-1990s, saving taxpayers billions of dollars and ending the cycle of dependency on welfare. This new program, created in 2009, is a backdoor way to undo those reforms. The program currently costs approximately $2.5 billion a year. As the YouCut vote winner, a proposal to terminate this program and save taxpayers $2.5 billion will be voted on in the House later this week. The next 5 spending cuts are available to be voted on now. For more information on the YouCut program, please visit: http://republicanwhip.house.gov/YouCut/.
05.11.2010	WASHINGTON – 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that the winner of this year's 1st District Art Competition is Naomi Coffren, a senior at Craig High School who submitted a graphite pencil drawing titled: Forever A Patriot. According to Naomi, Forever A Patriot depicts her grandfather, a World War II veteran, and the tremendous pride he has in his country. Naomi’s winning artwork will be displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol, along with the winning entries from other congressional districts throughout the country. Naomi’s art teacher at Craig High School is Maria Brown. Congressman Ryan invited every high school in the 1st Congressional District to submit entries to the annual art contest, and a panel of local artists judged the entries. The award ceremony took place at the Olde Towne Mall in Janesville, Wisconsin on Saturday, May 8, 2010. The competition was part of the 29th annual “Congressional Art Competition — An Artistic Discovery.” This nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by Members of Congress, provides high school artists with an opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity. Naomi has been invited to an awards reception in Washington, D.C. honoring the winning artists from across the nation on June 17, 2010. At the awards ceremony, Congressman Ryan said: "I want to thank all the students who participated in this annual competition. All the submissions were impressive, giving our judges a difficult task.” Ryan added, “I am pleased to award the top prize this year to a talented young artist, Naomi Coffren. I congratulate Naomi for her achievement, and look forward to seeing her artwork displayed at the U.S. Capitol.”
05.05.2010	WASHINGTON - Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement upon Congressman David Obey’s announcement earlier today:‬ “David and I have had our policy disagreements over the years, but he has always had my respect. He has served Wisconsin and served this country honorably. I wish him and his family nothing but the best.”‬
04.28.2010	WASHINGTON – Congressman Paul Ryan questioned recent claims made by General Motors [GM] and Obama Administration officials that the automaker’s bailout has been fully repaid to the American taxpayer. In a letter to Treasury Secretary Geithner, Ryan, along with Congressmen Jeb Hensarling (TX) and Scott Garrett (NJ), calls for greater clarity and transparency on the true taxpayer exposure resulting from the federal government’s continued ownership of GM. Ryan issued the following statement: “Contrary to claims that GM has paid back its bailout in full, the automaker simply transferred $6.7 billion dollars from one taxpayer-funded TARP account to another. The fact is: the federal government still owns GM. The government remains deeply entrenched in the auto industry and the American people deserve to have transparent information on the financial health of GM. “If anyone is owed a clear and honest explanation it is those hit hardest by the downturn in the auto industry, including those I serve in Janesville, Kenosha, Oak Creek and the surrounding communities in Southern Wisconsin. For these reasons, I have asked Treasury Secretary Geithner and the Obama Administration to provide an updated, accurate, and honest account of the taxpayer money that is still propping up General Motors.” Click here to view Ryan, Hensarling and Garrett’s letter to Secretary Geithner.
04.27.2010	The non-partisan Office of the Chief Actuary for the Social Security Administration [SSA] released their official score of the Social Security provisions of A Roadmap for America’s Future. Earlier this year, Congressman Paul Ryan introduced an updated version of his Roadmap proposal – aimed to fulfill the mission of health and retirement security, pay off our crushing burden of debt, and spur economic growth. The Actuaries report confirms earlier findings from the Congressional Budget Office [CBO], which found Ryan’s Roadmap would pay off the long-run actuarial deficit in Social Security, while strengthening the safety net for society’s most vulnerable. By providing common-sense reforms, such as modest adjustments in benefit growth for higher-income Americans and gradual increases in the retirement age, the Roadmap makes Social Security permanently solvent. Specifically: Currently, Social Security’s long-run actuarial deficit is 2.00% of payroll – which is $5.3 trillion in present value terms. SSA’s Actuaries certify that the Roadmap erases this deficit, making Social Security permanently solvent. In contrast, the unsustainable status quo would impose 24% across-the-board benefit cuts to keep the program afloat. The Roadmap requires no net general revenue transfers over the 75-year period, and strengthens the federal government’s long-term fiscal position. The Roadmap meets criteria for “sustainable solvency,” as Social Security’s trust fund assets are expected to remain on the rise at the end of the 75-year period. The Roadmap guarantees that every dime placed in a personal savings account is guaranteed – even after inflation; also provides for a benefit enhancement for the lowest earning Americans, providing that those most reliant on Social Security receive benefits well above the poverty level. The report was released shortly after the first meeting of the President’s Fiscal Commission, where Democrats and Republicans echoed the need to serious reform to avert our looming fiscal crisis. Absent reform, vital government programs like Social Security will be unable to meet their obligations, imposing devastating cuts for our nation’s senior citizens. A Roadmap for America’s Future, as analyzed by the non-partisan government actuaries and the CBO, remains the only viable legislative solution put forth to get our fiscal house in order. To read the full SSA Actuaries’ report, please visit: http://house.gov/budget_republicans/press/2007/042710ryanbillletterfinal.pdf
04.23.2010	WASHINGTON – 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan highlighted the latest evidence that the recently enacted health care overhaul exacerbates the problems in health care and violates the President’s central promises. Yesterday, the Congressional Budget Office [CBO] released an analysis that estimates large tax increases will hit millions of Americans making well below $200,000. The CBO findings stand in stark contrast to President Obama’s promise not to tax any individual making less than $200,000 a year. According to an analysis by the House Ways and Means Committee Minority Staff, the President has already signed into law 14 separate violations of his tax pledge. Adding insult to injury, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services [CMS] issued another damaging blow to the President’s central case for health care reform: the need to get a grip on sky-rocketing costs. In a detailed analysis, the CMS Chief Actuary made clear that the new health care law will further drive costs upward, increasing national health expenditures by an additional $311 billion above projected costs. The new law would adversely impact Medicare providers and reduce Medicare Advantage enrollees by 50%, according the government report. Following the release of the CMS and CBO reports, Ranking Member Ryan issued the following statement: “As Washington is moving fast to takeover other sectors of our economy, we are learning more about the costly consequences of their most recent overreach on health care. President Obama reiterated a number of false promises throughout the partisan health care campaign, including a pledge that his overhaul would lower health care costs and would not increase taxes on individuals making less than $200,000 a year. This week’s double-whammy from CMS and CBO exposes the emptiness of the President’s rhetoric, confirming what Americans feared throughout the debate.” “Rather than fix what’s broken in health care, this deeply flawed law will exacerbate the problems in health care. Two independent, nonpartisan analyses make clear that the onslaught of mandates, controls, taxes, and entitlement spending will impose a heavier burden on American families, including those already struggling to make ends meet. We must begin anew to mitigate the disaster from this health care debacle: let’s repeal this costly misstep and replace it with patient-centered, fiscally-responsible reform.”
04.22.2010	WASHINGTON – The website of Congressman Paul Ryan, www.house.gov/ryan, was honored by the Congressional Management Foundation for being one of the best in the 111th Congress. Congressman Ryan’s website was one of 135 offices presented with an award yesterday. Upon receiving the award, Ryan said: “I am pleased to receive a Silver Mouse Award and am looking forward to making Wisconsin’s First Congressional District’s website even more user-friendly and accessible in the months ahead. Whether assisting families with a visit to Washington, DC, allowing individuals to share their thoughts on legislation, or providing information on legislation before Congress, the online office is a great way to keep a constant dialogue flowing with those I represent.” Through his official Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube pages and his Roadmap for America's Future website, Congressman Ryan is committed to using all available avenues to communicate with residents of Wisconsin’s First District and inform them of his efforts in Congress. This is the second consecutive award Ryan’s website has received from the Congressional Management Foundation, the first coming in 2007, which was the last year Congressional websites were evaluated. The Congressional Management Foundation, a non-partisan, non-profit management and consulting organization in Washington, DC, evaluated over 620 websites, including all Congressional Members, committees, and official leadership sites. Web sites were evaluated on five elements: audience, content, usability, interactivity, and innovation. A full copy of the report can be viewed here.
04.19.2010	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced that the 1st District Mobile Office will resume its regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin's 1st District in April. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. Please click here for a listing of scheduled stops for the 1st District Mobile Office. When he entered Congress, Congressman Ryan established the 1st District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing 1st District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. From 1999 through 2009, the mobile office has made roughly 2,300 visits to area communities. “I need to hear from 1st District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their town or area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. 1st District residents can check their local paper or our website – http://www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of mobile office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by.
03.21.2010	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan voted against a takeover of our nation’s health care system, opposing H.R. 3590, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and H.R. 4872, the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010. After months of twisting arms, Democratic Leaders convinced enough Members of their own party to defy the will of the American people and support the Senate health bill which was crafted in secret, behind closed doors. In a historic abuse of legislative budget rules, the Majority also jammed through a "fixer" bill in an attempt to paper over the deeply flawed Senate bill. Together, these bills would exacerbate our fiscal crisis by adding trillions of dollars to our debt burden, raise taxes on families and small businesses by more than $500 billion, and dramatically expand the federal government's role in personal health care decisions. Most unfortunately though, these bills will do little to make health care more affordable or accessible for the American people. These bills do not represent reform; they represent an ideological power-grab. In advance of tonight’s vote, Ryan delivered the following remarks on the House floor: “Health care affects each and every one of us. It is the most personal thing there is. And yet, here we are debating whether the government should have a bigger role in making those decisions.” “The government-knows-best philosophy advanced on the floor by the Majority today is paternalistic, arrogant, and at odds with our nation’s unique character. We are fast approaching a tipping point in which more Americans depend on the government than on themselves for their livelihoods – a point where, we, the American people trade in our commitment and concern for our individual liberties in exchange for government benefits. "This fight will continue. Despite what happened here tonight, the fight to reapply our founding principles is not finished; it's just a steeper climb. And it's a climb we will make." Additional resources from Congressman Ryan on his concerns with Washington’s health care power grab, and his efforts to promote better health care solutions: Video: Paul Ryan raises a point of order on the unfunded mandates in H.R. 3590 Video: Congressman Ryan discusses the costs and consequences of passing the Majority’s health care legislation on Fox News Sunday Video: Paul Ryan testifies before the House Rules Committee on the reconciliation bill Op-Ed: “The Final Chapters in the Health Care Debate”, JournalTimes.com Video: Paul Ryan discusses the implications of the health care bill on The Charlie Rose Show Video: Congressman Ryan seeks clarification on the CBO’s report on the true costs of health care overhaul Op-Ed: “What Real Reform Should Look Like”, The Washington Post
03.04.2010	1st District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that constituent services representatives from his office will be holding office hours in Milwaukee and Waukesha County communities that do not have permanent congressional offices. The purpose of these office hours is to give 1st District residents who do not live near one of the constituent services centers an opportunity to speak face to face with a member of Ryan’s staff. Constituents can use these office hours to communicate their concerns and ideas or to request help with a problem they are having dealing with the federal government. ***Please note that Congressman Ryan will not personally be in attendance at these office hours, but 1st District residents will have an opportunity to speak with a member of his staff.*** For a complete schedule of office hours (dates, times and locations), please click on the following: Milwaukee County Waukesha County For more information about the schedule, or to make an appointment during one of the scheduled office hours, constituents should call Danyell Tremmel in Rep. Ryan’s Janesville office using the toll-free constituent services hotline: 1-888-909-7926.
02.24.2010	House Budget Committee Ranking Republican Paul Ryan (WI) made the following statement upon receiving an invitation from House Republican Leader John Boehner (OH) to participate in the Administration’s “Health Care Summit”: “I appreciate the invitation and look forward to sharing common-sense solutions on fixing what’s broken in health care. I share the concerns of many Americans that tomorrow’s summit will be staged more about showmanship than true bipartisanship. While the cameras roll at the health care summit, we’re told the Majority continues to meet in secret, cutting deals behind closed doors to jam a government-takeover through Congress. “I hope that’s not the case. I hope we can have a sincere discussion tomorrow – focusing on reforms that actually lower health care costs, instead of exploding our already unsustainable debt and piling more tax hikes on the American people. I stand ready to continue to advance solutions that fix what’s broken in health care, without breaking what’s working. We should scrap this massive bill and start over.”
02.04.2010	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan spoke out against Washington’s unsustainable fiscal future. Earlier today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a record $1.9-trillion increase in the Federal Government’s statutory debt limit. In advance of his vote against the legislation (H.J. Res. 45), Ryan delivered the following remarks on the House floor: “The Speaker of the House came and just said something to the effect that this was a proud moment – a happy occasion – a bill she’s really excited about. The bill we’re about to vote on, Madame Speaker, raises the national debt ceiling by $1.9 trillion. Even if I were a supporter of this bill, I wouldn’t be proud of it…This, Madame Speaker, is a fiscal charade. “Real people, from both parties, need to step up and solve this problem. I’ve thrown out a few ideas of my own. I hope other Republicans and Democrats do the same. Because Madame Speaker, if we don’t tackle this problem, it’s going to tackle us. “Our constituents sent us here to be a part of the solution, and not a part of the problem. We know irrefutably we’re going to bequeath this mountain of deficit and debt onto the next generation. Both of our parties share in the blame. No one party corners a virtue on fiscal responsibility. But we’re going to together have to come down here and fix this problem once and for all, and this doesn’t do it. This bill raises the debt limit by $1.9 trillion. It’s a fiscal cop-out so that we can talk tough in the election about how we did this and that, while we bequeathed the next generation an inferior standard of living. “I didn’t come here to make sure that my three kids are going to have a life that’s worse off than ours. Nobody here wants that, so let’s get this fixed, defeat this bill, come together, and exercise real fiscal discipline. The American people are not under-taxed – we overspend.” Video: “Paul Ryan on debt ceiling increase: ‘A proud moment’ for Speaker Pelosi?” To read further analysis from the House Budget Committee – “Borrow-As-You-Go: Another Debt Ceiling Increase, Behind the Pay-Go Facade” To learn more about Congressman Paul Ryan’s plan to tackle our economic and fiscal challenges - “A Roadmap for America’s Future – 2.0”
01.29.2010	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan continues his push for alternative solutions, garnering praise from President Obama for putting forth his Roadmap for America’s Future. The President commended Ryan for his Roadmap proposal, calling it “detailed” and a “legitimate” plan to tackle our fiscal crisis. President Obama spoke at the GOP Retreat in Baltimore earlier today, and discussed entitlement reform and additional budget challenges with Ryan. Following the productive exchange, Ryan issued the following statement: “President Obama proved to be an honest broker this afternoon in acknowledging our unsustainable fiscal path. The President highlighted a serious proposal to tackle our entitlement crisis. Reflecting the deteriorating economic and fiscal condition since first released in 2008, I put forward ‘A Roadmap for America’s Future 2.0’ earlier this week to fulfill the mission of health and retirement security, lift the crushing burden of debt, and boost jobs and competitiveness in the 21st century global economy. “I applaud the President for rejecting his Democratic colleagues’ false ‘Party of No’ attacks. Tackling our economic and fiscal challenges require real solutions and serious dialogue. I look forward to working with the President on rising above the partisan attacks – and tackling our generation’s greatest challenges.” HIGHLIGHTS OF THE EXCHANGE: President Obama: I think Paul [Ryan], for example, the head of the Budget Committee, has looked at the budget and has made a serious proposal. I’ve read it. I can tell you what’s in it. And there’s some ideas in there that I would agree with but there’s some ideas we should have a healthy debate about because I don’t agree with them.” The major driver of our long-term liabilities, everybody here knows, is Medicare and Medicaid and our health care spending. Nothing comes close. That’s going to be what our children have to worry about. Now, Paul’s approach, and I want to be careful not to simplify this, I know you’ve got a lot of detail in your plan, but, if I understand it correctly, would say, we’re going to provide vouchers of some sort for current Medicare recipients at the current level – No? Congressman Ryan: No – we protect the program for Americans 55 and above [those in and near retirement]… Obama: I understand – there’s a grandfathering in….That’s why I said I wanted to make sure that I’m not being unfair to your proposal. I just want to point out that I’ve read it, and the basic idea would be that, at some point, we hold Medicare cost per recipient constant as a way of making sure that that doesn’t go way out of whack, and I’m sure there some details… Ryan: We increase the Medicare payments with a blend of inflation and health inflation. The point of our plan is, because Medicare as you know is a $38 trillion unfunded liability. Obama: Right. Ryan: It has to be reformed for younger generations because it won’t exist. It’s going bankrupt. The premise of our idea is look, why not give people the same kind of health care plan we here have in Congress? That’s the kind of reform we’re proposing for Medicare. [applause] Obama: As I said before, this is an entirely legitimate proposal. …There is a political vulnerability to doing anything that tinkers with Medicare. And that’s probably the biggest savings that are obtained through Paul’s plan. And I raise that, not because we shouldn’t have a serious discussion about it, I raise that because we’re not going to be able to do anything about any of these entitlements if what we do is characterize whatever proposals are put out there as well, you know, that’s the other party being irresponsible….
01.27.2010	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement following President Obama’s State of the Union address: “President Obama was right to focus his remarks on job creation, fiscal responsibility, and keeping America safe. But I was disappointed to yet again find the substance fall far short of the rhetoric. Many of the policies the President advanced tonight – including the continued push for the Majority’s massive health care overhaul – reasserted Washington’s ideological commitment to a reckless expansion of government at the expense of economic growth. “The President was right to acknowledge that our massive deficits are unsustainable. We must build momentum to tackle this fiscal crisis, but the illusion of budget discipline must be matched with actual solutions. That is why earlier today I reintroduced ‘A Roadmap For America’s Future,’ updated to reflect the dramatic decline in our economic and fiscal condition since 2008. The Roadmap fulfills the mission of health and retirement security, lifts the crushing burden of debt, and promotes jobs and competitiveness in the 21st century global economy. “We all want to boost job creation and get this economy growing again. Unfortunately, the agenda moving through Washington moves us in the wrong direction. There are honest disagreements on how to meet these challenges. I stand ready to work together to chart a different course forward and advance common sense solutions.”
01.27.2010	Today, House Budget Committee Ranking Republican Paul Ryan (WI) reintroduced his legislation, A Roadmap for America’s Future, updated to reflect the dramatic decline in our Nation’s economic and fiscal condition since its introduction in 2008. Roadmap 2.0 transforms the Federal Government to meet the challenges of the 21st century, and to restore our long-held legacy of leaving the next generation better off. For plan details, including Ryan’s op-ed from this morning’s ‘The Wall Street Journal’, Executive Summary, Report Language, and Legislative Text, please visit www.americanroadmap.org. Ryan made the following statement: “Our nation is barrelling down a path of uncontrolled Federal Government spending, unsustainable entitlement growth, and crushing levels of taxes and debt. If we resign ourselves to this, our health and retirement security programs will grow themselves into extinction; our debt will explode and cripple our economy’s ability to compete – let alone lead – in the 21st century marketplace; and our failure will condemn future generations to declining standards of living. “Incredibly, Washington’s leadership appears committed not only to adhere to this path, but to hasten America’s march down it. “Simply saying ‘no’ to the further government expansions – simply maintaining today’s ‘status quo’ – is no longer an option: our health care sector must be reformed; our economy needs sustained job creation and real growth; and we must tackle the greatest threat to our economic and fiscal future – the crushing debt burden driven by the unsustainable growth in entitlement spending. “America needs an alternative. For that reason, I am re-introducing ‘A Roadmap for America’s Future’ – updated to reflect the dramatic decline in our economic and fiscal condition since its introduction in 2008, while still achieving its key goals. “A Roadmap for America’s Future 2.0 is not simply a slimmed-down version of the ‘progressive’ ideology now prevailing in Washington. It is a comprehensive plan to ensure health and retirement security for all Americans; to lift the debt burdens that are mounting every day because of Washington’s reckless spending; and to promote jobs and competitiveness in the 21st century global economy. “Roadmap is a complete legislative proposal consisting of specific policies backed up by Congressional Budget Office estimates of its fiscal and economic consequences. “It’s unlikely that everyone will agree with every aspect of my proposal, and that’s fine. My hope is that it will spur all Americans to not only take a hard look down the dangerous path our country is headed, but also to become actively involved in restoring our ability – and longheld legacy – of leaving the next generation of Americans better off.”
12.21.2009	JANESVILLE – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement after the U.S. Senate’s vote this morning to advance the Majority’s 2,700-page health care legislation: “The House passed its health care overhaul at 11:15 p.m. on a Saturday night in November. The Senate cut off debate on its version at 1:19 a.m. earlier today – clearing the path for passage on Christmas Eve. There is something deeply disturbing about Congress sweeping through their increasingly unpopular government takeover of health care – one-sixth of our economy – in the dark of night. “There are countless poison pills in the thousands of pages of legislative text. I was most troubled to learn that over the weekend Senator Ben Nelson, a pro-life Democrat from Nebraska, backed off his efforts to extend the current law protections against the federal funding of abortions. In exchange for his support of the bill, all of Nebraska’s new Medicaid costs will be picked up by the federal government – forever. Wisconsinites not only face serious Medicaid shortfalls here at home, but we’re now on the hook for untold billions more to bailout states like Nebraska. “When Congress reconvenes in January to reconcile the differences between the House and Senate versions, I will continue my efforts to promote better solutions for real reform – fiscally responsible, patient-centered alternatives. The shame of Washington’s one-sided ‘debate’ is that we can fix what’s broken in health care without breaking what’s working in health care. We can achieve universal access to quality, affordable health care without the government taking it over, without cutting benefits for seniors and increasing premiums for working Wisconsinites, and without trillions in new taxes, new spending, and new debt. Wisconsinites simply cannot afford what the increasingly out-of-touch Washington is recklessly advancing.”
11.17.2009	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan spoke out against efforts by the Obama Administration to welcome detained terrorists to the Midwest. Ryan raised concerns to reports that over 100 terrorists could be transferred from their Guantanamo Bay detention facility to the Thomson Correctional Center, a northern Illinois prison located 50 miles south of the Wisconsin border. President Obama has previously set a self-imposed, arbitrary deadline to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility, and details are now emerging on how the Administration intends to handle the hundreds of detainees. In 2006, Congress passed the Military Commissions Act, which established procedures, rules, and legal framework for trying unlawful enemy combatants who have engaged in hostilities against the U.S. and do not belong to the regular armed forces of a country, such as al-Qaeda. The military commissions, based on the Uniform Code of Military Justice, created a process to effectively and fairly prosecute terrorists, while also protecting American troops and intelligence agents fighting terrorism around the world. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that these military tribunals are consistent with our constitution and in compliance with our international obligations. Congressman Ryan expressed grave concern that the President has chosen to bypass this military tribunal system, while at the same time bringing al-Qaeda terrorists a short drive from Wisconsin’s 1st Congressional District. In response to federal officials touring the Thomson Correctional Center yesterday, Ryan issued the following statement: “The President continues to fundamentally confuse acts of war as mere criminal acts – naively believing that combating terrorism is a fight best left to courtrooms. The President should adhere to the constitutional process established to deal with the world’s most dangerous terrorists currently held in Guantanamo Bay. Moving these detainees from Guantanamo Bay to northern Illinois will neither expedite the administration of justice nor strengthen the security of our homeland. Those I serve in Southern Wisconsin will not welcome these terrorists as our new neighbors. The President's promise to close Guantanamo Bay was a misguided political calculation that remains unworkable. For sake of our security, this is a promise he shouldn't keep.”
11.07.2009	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan voted against the Democratic Leadership’s massive health care overhaul, which passed the House of Representatives at 11:15 pm on Saturday night. Despite Speaker Pelosi’s arm-twisting enough Democratic votes for final passage, there was a bipartisan coalition opposed to the legislation – the result of mounting evidence that the legislation contradicted its own goals, along with growing concerns with its costly consequences. While the Majority’s health care overhaul faces an uncertain future in the U.S. Senate, Congressman Ryan continues his efforts to promote fiscally responsible, patient-centered health care solutions. Prior to the vote on final passage of H.R. 3962, House Republicans offered a simpler and less expensive health care alternative, focusing on reforms that would reduce health care costs by empowering patients and small businesses, encouraging true competition to allow coverage to be purchased across state lines, and curbing the practice of defensive medicine by reigning in junk lawsuits. The Majority rejected this common sense proposal, opting instead for a 2,034 page, $3 trillion overhaul that will ultimately restrict individual choice and increase the cost of coverage. As a result of last minute political horse-trading, House Leadership was able to secure 220 votes to pass H.R. 3962 late on Saturday night. In advance of tonight’s vote, Ryan delivered the following remarks on the House floor: “I firmly believe that this is the most consequential vote each of us will take in our service here in Congress. “When you expose this bill’s budget gimmicks, does it increase the debt and deficit? Yes. Will it take coverage away from seniors, raise premiums for families, and decrease health care innovation? Yes. Will it raise taxes on small businesses and workers, and cost us nearly 5.5 million jobs when our unemployment rate is 10.2%? Yes. Does this bill mean the government will take over running our health care system? Yes. “But what is worse is this bill replaces the American Idea with a European-style social welfare state. This bill – more than any other decision we are going to make in this body – will lead to millions of Americans becoming dependents on the state rather than being dependent upon themselves. This is not about health care policy – if it were, we could pass a bipartisan bill to fix what’s broken in health care without breaking what’s working in health care. This is about ideology. “The choice is not whether or not you’re going to stick with your party leaders. The choice here is what side of history do you want to be on? Will you be on the side of history where you stick with the people and the principles that built this exceptional nation? That is the choice we face.” As the House Leadership muscled through its overhaul of 17% of our economy tonight, Congressman Ryan raised a number of substantive concerns with the legislation: A Government Takeover of Health Care – Rather than address the current health care market distortions imposed by flawed government policies, H.R. 3962 would expand Washington’s heavy hand and exacerbate what’s broken in health care. Specifically, the legislation proposes: One-Size Fits All Health Care. The bill’s rating restrictions, coverage mandates, and benefit requirements will halt innovation and drive individualized health products out of the market. The bill disqualifies Health Savings Accounts, which provide more than eight million Americans with access to low-cost coverage. All plans would be subject to approval by a new Health Choices Commissioner, with the authority to penalize any health plan that does not comply with this new federal bureaucracy. Government Rationing. In an unprecedented power grab, this bill provides the federal government even greater leverage in deciding which medical treatments are worth paying for and which are not. In an effort to contain costs of its new health care entitlement, a new “Comparative Effectiveness Research” program will inevitably impose government control over physicians’ medical decisions, and cause private-sector insurers to limit coverage in line with the government’s choices. Price Setting. While the legislation suggests providers will be able to negotiate rates with the government, there is nothing to prevent this from becoming a take-it-or-leave-it, price-setting system. Put simply, prices will be dictated to health care providers at rates determined by the federal government. Another Unsustainable Health Entitlement – The unsustainable growth in federal spending is driven largely by the exploding costs of existing federal government entitlement programs. Paradoxically, this bill attempts to address our entitlement and fiscal crisis through the creation of a costly new open-ended entitlement. H.R. 3962 dramatically adds to the federal government’s already unsustainable liabilities, including the following specific spending concerns: $3 Trillion Ten-year Price Tag. Proponents continue to tout a massive budget gimmick, using 10 years of revenues but only seven years of cost. Even with this timing trick, the CBO’s score of H.R. 3962 remains in excess of $1 trillion. Once the spending is fully phased in after 2014, its true cost exceeds $3 trillion over ten years. Driving States Deeper Into the Red. Rather than make quality health coverage more affordable, H.R. 3962 attempts to cover the uninsured by adding them to ever expansive government-run programs. The dramatic expansion of Medicaid would force cash-strapped States to spend an additional $34 billion over the next 10 years – on top of the already unsustainable Medicaid burdens States already face. $279 Billion Doc Fix Shell Game – In a final-hour political deal, the Majority sought to gain credit for a Medicare reimbursement increase doctors want (the so-called “doc fix”), while hiding its $279 billion cost. This quarter-trillion dollar budget gimmick is a fiscally reckless stunt: Democrats will claim support for the doctors’ payment hike as part of their overall health care plan, but at the same time pretend its cost is a separate matter. Heavy Taxes and Fees on Individuals and Small Businesses – The massive expansion of the federal government’s role in the delivery of health care relies heavily on a number of mandates and tax penalties. H.R. 3962 imposes $729.5 billion in new taxes on families, employers and workers, including the following: A total of $460.5 billion in job-killing surtaxes on small businesses; Another $135 billion in employer mandates, including the “play-or-pay” scheme punishing even small companies that are unable to provide group health insurance; An additional $33 billion in individual mandates – including an unprecedented Washington requirement that everyone must buy health insurance or be subject to federal penalties (including jail time). For the additional resources from Congressman Ryan on his concerns with Washington’s health care power grab, and his efforts to promote better health care solutions: Video – “What side of history do you want to be on?” – Paul Ryan speaks out against H.R. 3962 on the House floor Video – “Paul Ryan Defends the Sanctity of Life” – Ryan on the Stupak Amendment Video – “Saturday Night Live” – Paul Ryan on the steps of the U.S. Capitol Video – Paul Ryan previews the weekend’s vote on CNBC’s Kudlow Report Op-Ed – “Making History” Misses the Mark, JournalTimes.com Op-Ed – Health Reform Faces Moment of Untruth, Investors’ Business Daily Analysis – House Budget Committee Legislative Alert on H.R. 3962 Analysis – House Budget Committee Analysis on the Majority’s $279 Billion “Doc Fix” Shell Game Better Solutions – Paul Ryan’s fiscally responsible, patient-centered health care alternative
09.28.2009	WASHINGTON – 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan today encouraged students and eligible military personnel in the 1st Congressional District who seek a nomination to the U.S. Air Force, Military, Naval, or Merchant Marine Academies to submit their applications to his Janesville Constituent Services Center. All completed applications must be received by November 1, 2009. The evaluation of nomination requests will be based on a variety of factors including test scores achieved on the SAT or ACT, class rank, grade point average, school records, extracurricular activities, leadership potential, motivation, recommendations, and interviews. “America’s Service Academies have a reputation for rigorous academics and for providing training that helps graduates become leaders in military and civilian life. Young people who know that they want to serve in our nation’s Armed Forces and are committed to doing the hard work the Academies require should consider applying for an academy nomination,” Ryan said. Students applying for an appointment to a U.S. Service Academy must have a nomination from an authorized nominating source. Members of Congress are authorized to nominate candidates, as are the President, Vice President, and the Secretaries of the Army, Navy and Air Force. Students seeking a nomination from Ryan should contact the office by calling toll-free 1-888-909-7926. Nomination forms are available through the congressional website at: http://www.house.gov/ryan/academy. Completed nomination application forms must reach the Janesville office by the November 1, 2009 deadline, for the class entering in 2010. Students should send their applications to Ryan’s Janesville Constituent Services Center, to the attention of Chad Herbert. The address and phone number for this office are listed below: Congressman Paul Ryan Attention: Chad Herbert Janesville Constituent Services Center 20 S. Main Street, Suite 10 Janesville, WI 53545 Phone: 1-888-909-RYAN (7926) Applicants for academy nominations from Congressman Ryan must be: Citizens of the United States and residents of the 1st Congressional District of Wisconsin; At least 17 years of age and must not have passed their 23rd birthday on July 1 of the year of entry; Unmarried and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents, at the time of admission to an academy. Competition to enter the Academies is intense, and receiving a nomination does not guarantee acceptance by an Academy. *** Special note : Students should not send their nomination application materials to Ryan’s Washington, D.C. office. Mail deliveries for congressional offices in Washington are still subject to delays due to required security precautions. As such, all applications should be sent to Ryan’s Janesville office.
09.16.2009	JANESVILLE – Congressman Paul Ryan announced that his Chief of Staff, Andrew Speth, who also serves as a National Guardsman with the Wisconsin Air National Guard's 115th Fighter Wing, is being activated in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Technical Sergeant Speth’s orders are for approximately 90-days, joining the 115th Fighter Wing of the Wisconsin Air National Guard. Speth first enlisted in the U.S. Air Force following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. This will be Speth’s second tour of duty in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom, having been deployed for twelve months in 2005-06 as a member of the U.S. Air Force Reserve. Joyce Yamat Meyer of Franklin, Wisconsin, who heads the Washington office, will serve as Ryan’s Chief of Staff during Speth’s absence from the office. In addition, Hartland, Wisconsin native Danyell Tremmel will continue serving as Ryan’s District Director, while taking on added responsibilities. “All of us are extremely proud of Andy for his dedication to our country and his commitment to a cause greater than self,” Ryan said. “When he first enlisted, he did so because he felt the need to serve our nation and help protect our freedom through the Armed Forces. Today as he prepares for his second tour of duty to Iraq, he remains committed to this goal. I’m honored to count him as a good friend as well as a coworker, and he and his family – and all our troops – will remain in our prayers throughout the months ahead.” “I am grateful for another opportunity to pay the debt I owe to all other veterans and their families for the sacrifices they made to protect our liberty, security and prosperity,” said Speth. “Although I will greatly miss my wife and children, I look forward to putting my Air Force training into practice in service to my country.” For more from the Wisconsin Department of Military Affairs and the 115th Fighter Wing: http://dma.wi.gov/dma/news/2009News/09090.asp
09.09.2009	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan tonight issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s health care address to a joint session of Congress: “Tonight marked the President’s 28th major health care address this year. As thousands of Wisconsinites made clear to me at my health care town halls in August, we don’t need another speech; we want a fresh start on real reform – patient-centered, fiscally-responsible reform. The President delivered an articulate speech, but his plan fails to fix what’s broken, and instead breaks what’s working. “The Washington-centric health care overhaul being pushed through Congress is not the only way to tackle this issue. Wisconsinites know better; Wisconsinites deserve better. Democrats, Republicans, and Independents alike continue to offer substantive alternatives – proving that we can have universal access to health coverage in America without the government taking it over, without trillions in new taxes, spending, and debt. If President Obama is sincere in asking for better ideas – ideas that can garner bipartisan support – he must be willing to consider them.” For the latest on the health care debate from Congressman Ryan, including details on Ryan’s comprehensive health care reform alternative – H.R. 2520, The Patients’ Choice Act – please visit: http://www.house.gov/ryan/healthcare.
09.04.2009	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement after completing his 17th health care listening session: “The health care debate truly came alive in August. Over the past two weeks, my employers – the residents of Wisconsin’s 1st Congressional District – demonstrated a remarkable level of engagement on this critical issue, along with considerable respect for all sides of the debate. I want to thank the thousands of Wisconsinites who shared their views with me at one of my health care listening sessions throughout Southern Wisconsin. “When Congress reconvenes next week, I will bring with me a message made clear at each of my listening sessions: let’s fix what’s broken in health care; not break what’s working . Wisconsinites have expressed a number of serious concerns with H.R. 3200, the Majority’s health care overhaul: millions of Americans would lose their current coverage and be dumped on a new government-run plan; Washington bureaucrats would seize unprecedented decision-making power over their health; and a struggling economy would be hit with painful new taxes and a debt burden that we simply cannot afford. “I believe that Congress should scrap this bill and start over. I will continue to echo the calls from Wisconsinites that the status quo in health care is unsustainable and unacceptable. Contrary to the false choice offered by the President, nobody is defending the current system that keeps quality, affordable coverage out of reach for millions of Americans, has resulted in the explosion in health care costs, and causes Americans with preexisting conditions to be denied coverage. There are serious problems that need to be fixed, but the Majority’s go-it-alone approach to give more power to Washington would only make matters worse. “At each listening session, my employers expressed more fundamental concerns about the proper role of government in our economy and in our lives. Wisconsinites are rightfully anxious about the unprecedented growth in the federal government this past year – from trillion dollar spending bills and bailout fatigue to a budget that doubles our debt in five years and triples it in ten years. Most of us simply can’t stomach handing over our energy and health care sectors to the federal government as well. “Washington has been infected with an ideology that believes that for society to grow, government must grow. The American ideal – rooted in individual liberty, self-determination, and limited government – is under attack like never before. This is the real issue bringing record numbers to town hall meetings across the country, and Washington needs to wake up to this reality if we are to preserve our unique American identity and restore the promise and prosperity of this great nation. “Those that run Washington owe the American people a serious debate on health care this fall. There are better solutions – fiscally-responsible, patient-centered alternatives – that could help open a bipartisan chapter to this debate and bring about real reform.” -- If you were not among the over 5,000 Wisconsinites that attended one of Congressman Ryan’s 17 recent listening sessions, you can watch one of the following: Janesville Listening Session, 8/26/09, Wisconsin Eye: mms://71.87.25.133/EVT/EVT_090826_RYAN_JANES.wmv Darien Listening Session, 8/26/09, Wisconsin Eye: mms://71.87.25.133/EVT/EVT_090826_RYAN_DARIEN.wmv Walworth Listening Session, 8/26/09, Wisconsin Eye: mms://71.87.25.133/evt/EVT_090826_RYAN_WALW.wmv For the latest on the health care debate from Congressman Ryan, including details on Ryan’s comprehensive health care reform alternative – H.R. 2520, The Patients’ Choice Act – please visit: http://www.house.gov/ryan/healthcare
08.21.2009	Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan has announced that he will be holding a listening session in Delavan on Wednesday, September 2 for members of the 1st District Hispanic community to share their concerns and ask questions about health care reform and other important federal government issues. El Congresista Paul Ryan tendra una platica (listening session) para la comunidad Hispana. Date (Fecha): Wednesday, September 2 El Miercoles 2 de Septiembre Time/Place (Hora/Lugar): Delavan 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Hernandez/Sarape Restaurant 212 S. 7th Street The event will be held in English and Spanish and is open to the public. For additional information, please call Teresa Mora at (262) 637-0510. El evento sera conducido en Ingles y Espanol y sera abierto al publico. Para mas informacion, favor de llamar al (262) 637-0510 y pregunte por Teresa Mora.
08.18.2009	A spirited debate on the future of health care and on the proper role of government in our society has come alive in recent weeks. I welcome the debate, and look forward to the 19 listening sessions and community forums I will be holding across Southern Wisconsin in the days ahead. I invite the residents of Wisconsin's 1st Congressional District to actively participate at these listening sessions - and to respect the fact that your neighbors may disagree. The widespread disrespect, and even violence, from the extremes on both sides of this debate is regrettable. I am disappointed by the attacks leveled by the White House and leaders in Congress against those raising the legitimate concerns and questions raised by citizens. To hold a differing view does not make one a "tool of special interests”, and to voice those disagreements is not “un-American” or a sinister “scare tactic”. There is room for common ground on common sense reforms – but this will require responsible leadership to trump partisan gamesmanship. My staff and I will make every effort possible to accommodate your participation and to ensure that your voice is heard. Anticipating larger turnout, I’m working to move some of the listening sessions to larger venues. The Kenosha Listening Session, for example, has been moved to the Madrigrano Auditorium at Gateway Technical College (3520 30th Avenue). Please click here for an updated schedule. I’d ask that all attendees respect your fellow citizen’s desire to communicate with me. Shouting down your opponents at a listening session is not only ineffective, but quite simply rude. Arguments are not won by the volume of one’s voice, but rather the merits of the idea. I will work tirelessly in the days ahead to conduct these listening sessions with civility and respect for all views, and trust that the residents of Wisconsin’s 1st District will do the same. Thank you,
08.11.2009	Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan will host an African American Community Issues Forum and listening session, in conjunction with Racine area African American Community Leader Ken Lumpkin, in Racine at the Flatiron Mall on Tuesday, September 1st from 10:30 am to 12:00 pm. The forum will provide a venue for discussing matters of federal concern to constituents, including those that have an impact on the area’s African American community. This gathering will also offer an opportunity to 1st District Residents to share their views on the health care reform and other important issues facing Congress. “This forum offers a great chance for area residents and community leaders to gather together to voice concerns, share ideas, and get information on issues that affect the day-to-day lives of African Americans in southeastern Wisconsin,” Ryan said. WHAT: African American Community Issues Forum WHEN: Tuesday, September 1st, 2009; 10:30 am – 12:00 pm WHERE: Flatiron Mall, 1661 Douglas Ave., Racine People who would like more information about this community issues forum can call Paul Ryan’s office via the toll-free constituent services hotline: 1-888-909-7926, or Ken Lumpkin at 262-632-9370.
08.05.2009	WASHINGTON -- 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the schedule for listening sessions that he will be holding in August. Ryan will be visiting 17 communities throughout Wisconsin's 1st Congressional District to discuss the urgent need for patient-centered, fiscally-responsible health care reform, and to address additional questions and concerns on federal issues from residents in Southern Wisconsin. “We need to fix what’s broken in health care, but we need to get it right,” Ryan said. “Congress is moving fast to pass a sweeping health care overhaul – and August provides a great opportunity for Wisconsinites to get engaged in this critical debate. It’s important for me to hear directly from those who live and work in the 1st Congressional District.” Please click here for a complete schedule of upcoming listening sessions. Additional information on Congressman Ryan’s comprehensive health care reform alternative, The Patients’ Choice Act, can be found at: http://www.house.gov/ryan/healthcare.
07.22.2009	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced that the 1st District Mobile Office will continue its regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin's 1st District through the fall. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. Please click here for a listing of scheduled stops for the 1st District Mobile Office. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the 1st District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing 1st District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. From 1999 through 2009, the mobile office has made over 2000 visits to area communities. “I need to hear from 1st District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their town or area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. 1st District residents can check their local paper or our website – http://www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of mobile office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by.
06.26.2009	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan today spoke out on behalf of the families and small businesses that would be on the receiving end of a massive new energy tax. Earlier today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2454, American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, by a vote of 219 to 212, with bipartisan opposition. Ryan voted against this legislation. The center of the deeply flawed H.R. 2454 is a cap-and-trade scheme aimed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by increasing energy costs on all Americans. The complicated cap-and-trade program would require all energy producers to purchase expensive government permits in exchange for the right to produce energy from certain natural resources or to produce certain goods like steel, aluminum, or cement. Without regard for the detrimental economic consequences, the proponents of the legislation believe this unilateral energy tax would help reduce global temperatures by a fraction of a degree by the end of the century. Ryan’s vote against the 1,200 page bill came after only three hours of general debate, with Majority rejecting the single amendment they allowed. In addition to the job losses that would result from the smaller economy, Ryan raised concerns with the impact on the budgets of individual households. Families would face increasing costs on not only energy – but all products that require energy to make them (i.e., everything). Various nonpartisan studies have estimated that average annual household cost increases would range from $425 per household to over $4000 per household. Specifically, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and the Energy Information Administration (EIA) estimate that Wisconsin families will pay an extra $230 million in energy tax once the bill is fully implemented in 2012. Congressman Ryan fought against this draconian energy tax and supports H.R. 2828, the American Energy Innovation Act, a commonsense alternative to promote a cleaner environment without causing further economic devastation in the middle of a painful recession. Following today’s action of the House floor, Congressman Ryan issued the following statement: “Today’s vote reminds me of just how distant and out of touch Washington is from Wisconsin. At a time when jobs are increasingly scarce across Southern Wisconsin, Congress passed legislation explicitly designed to shrink our economy and increase energy costs on all Americans. Wisconsin is one of the nation’s top manufacturing States. Wisconsin entrepreneurs, small businesses, and workers shouldn’t need permission from the federal government to produce, grow, and create jobs, yet that is exactly the paternalistic message sent by Congress today. “The Majority added a 300 page amendment to the 1100 page bill at 3:09am this morning which effectively regulates the national energy sector (8% of the U.S. economy), and no member of Congress has even read it. This bill is the biggest federal power grab of the American economy this year and that’s quite a statement.” “Should this bill become law, Wisconsin would suffer a disproportionate economic blow. As the legislation’s authors and chief advocate reside far from the Midwest, the cap-and-trade legislation wasn’t primarily concerned with cold-weather, manufacturing States that get most of their energy from coal. Families in Southern Wisconsin don’t have the luxury of turning off the heat in the winter. “What’s worse, because we are imposing this energy tax unilaterally, the legislation will actually hinder the environmental goals we’ve set out to achieve. By making manufacturing more expensive here in America, this bill would send our manufacturing jobs overseas to our competitors like India and China. For every ton of emissions we reduce, India and China will produce several tons more. Under this bill, we will send our competitors American jobs while they are negating the minimal environmental gains made here at home. “There is a better way forward. I was proud to support a substitute energy reform – the American Energy Act – on House floor today, which focused on an all-of-the-above approach to creating a cleaner environment and a stronger economy. Rather than lock-up domestic energy supply, we should expand our use of American-made resources as we encourage the use of renewable and alternative energy sources, including nuclear, wind, solar, and more. Environmental stewardship and economic growth are not mutually exclusive goals, and I will continue to fight for both of behalf of those I serve in Southern Wisconsin.”
06.26.2009	WASHINGTON – Following the announcement that General Motors has selected Orion Township, Michigan for the location of production of its new subcompact car, U.S. Senators Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl and U.S. Representatives Paul Ryan and Tammy Baldwin released the following statement: “Obviously we are very disappointed by the decision announced today to continue idling the Janesville plant, but we are deeply proud of the strong showing made by the people of Janesville, Rock County, and the state of Wisconsin. It is because of the hard work, determination and coordination by all involved that the Janesville plant made it this far and was in the running until this point. We are committed to helping the working people of Rock County during this time and we will continue to work together, with the Governor and with others to do all we can to help the people of Rock County through this difficult transition. The Janesville, Beloit, and Kenosha communities are facing a lot of challenges because of the downturn in the auto industry and we will continue to work to help these cities as they seek to access the federal resources that are available to auto communities to respond to these challenges.” Contacts: Zach Lowe or Katie Rowley (Feingold) – (202) 224-5323 Lynn Becker or Dawn Schueller (Kohl) - (202) 224-5653 Jerilyn Goodman (Baldwin) – (608) 258-9800
06.24.2009	WASHINGTON – In advance of today’s House Ways and Means Committee hearing to discuss the House Democrats’ health care proposal, Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan, co-author of The Patients’ Choice Act, issued the following statement: “The House Democrats’ proposal is being sold as one that contains costs, gets a grip on our entitlement crisis, and allows those that like what they have to keep it. Yet again, the gap between what they are saying and what they are doing is nothing short of astounding, as what they’ve actually put forward would impose trillions of dollars in new spending, taxes, and debt, would create a new open-ended entitlement, and would force millions of Americans to lose the coverage they currently enjoy. Despite promises and pledges of fiscal responsibility, the Democrats don’t even pretend to level with the American people on who they plan to tax to pay for their proposals. “The Democrats’ proposal concludes that we are not spending enough on health care in America. We already spend over two-and-a-half times more on health care than any other country. Rather than add trillions more on top of that, let’s take the money we already spend on health care, and spend it more efficiently, more effectively. With the Patients’ Choice Act of 2009, my colleagues and I have proposed to do just that. We show that we can achieve universal access to quality, affordable health care in this country – regardless of preexisting conditions – without the government taking it over and without spending, taxing, or borrowing trillions more dollars. “While the Majority may wish to ignore these innovative, patient-centered solutions, the American people will begin looking for alternatives the more they learn about what Democrats are trying to rush through Congress.”
06.10.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Herb Kohl and Russ Feingold and Representatives Tammy Baldwin and Paul Ryan met with executives from General Motors (GM) to discuss the GM facility in Janesville. The delegation members met with Troy Clarke, Head of GM’s North American Division, and Tim Lee, Vice President of Manufacturing for General Motors. Last week it was announced that the Janesville plant was one of three GM facilities under consideration for retooling to make small cars. Following the meeting, the delegation members jointly released the following statement: “During our meeting with the executives from GM, we reiterated the strength and determination of Wisconsin’s workforce in Rock County. We made it clear that workers in Janesville are eager and well prepared to help GM retool itself with this new line of small, more fuel-efficient cars. We appreciated the opportunity to speak directly to the executives and we will continue to work together to do all we can on behalf of Rock County and workers throughout Wisconsin.” Contacts: Lynn Becker or Dawn Schueller, Sen. Kohl, (202) 224-5653 Zach Lowe, Sen. Feingold, (202) 224-5323 Jerilyn Goodman, Rep. Baldwin, (608) 258-9800
05.20.2009	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, U.S. Senators Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK) and Richard Burr (R-NC) and U.S. Representatives Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Devin Nunes (R-CA) introduced health care reform legislation that delivers on the shared principles of promoting universal access to quality, affordable health care, and does so without adding billions of dollars in new debt or taxes. “The Patients’ Choice Act of 2009,” transforms health care in America by strengthening the relationship between the patient and the doctor; using choice and competition rather than rationing and restrictions to contain costs; and ensuring universal, affordable health care for all Americans. “The Patients’ Choice Act” promotes innovative, State-based solutions, along with fundamental reforms in the tax code, to give every American, regardless of employment status, age, or health condition, the ability and the resources to purchase health insurance. The comprehensive legislation includes concrete prevention and transparency initiatives, long overdue reforms to Medicare and Medicaid, investments in wellness programs and health IT, and more. “As a practicing physician, I have seen first-hand how giving government more control over health care has failed to make health care more affordable and accessible. The American people deserve health care reform that will work, not another round of so-called reform that repeats the same failed policies of the past. Congress and the administration have the opportunity to pursue bold reform and a fresh start. The Patients’ Choice Act will provide every American with access to affordable health care without a tax increase, more debt and waiting lines,” Dr. Coburn said. “The American health care system needs a complete transformation,” Senator Burr said. “The Patients’ Choice Act will finally enable Americans to own their health care instead of being trapped in the current system, which leaves people either uninsured, dependent on their employer, or forced into a government program. With a focus on prevention and wellness and covering those with pre-existing conditions, the Patients’ Choice Act will make health care affordable and accessible to all Americans.” “Both parties need to step up to the plate with specific solutions to our nation’s health care crisis,” added Ryan. “The Patients’ Choice Act represents a clear alternative to those who seek to empower Washington at the expense of the individual, and I am hopeful that our efforts can help push Congress to enact a more sensible health care reform bill this year. The Patients’ Choice Act proves that America can have universal health care coverage without the government running our health care system.” Nunes stated, “The American people deserve a health care system that is centered on their individual needs. Our bill will allow us to achieve this goal, while improving health outcomes, lowering cost and guaranteeing access to health care for every single American.” Click here for additional information on The Patients’ Choice Act. Contacts: John Hart (Coburn), 202-224-5754 David Ward (Burr), 202-228-1616 Andrew House (Nunes), 202-281-8646
05.10.2009	WASHINGTON – On Saturday, May 9, 2009, Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan delivered the commencement address for graduates of Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. Ryan was awarded an honorary degree from his alma mater, as the university celebrated 200 years of national service. The text of Ryan’s remarks follows: President Hodge and graduating students: Thank you for your kind introduction. I congratulate all of you on receiving your degrees. It’s a tremendous achievement, and we know you have worked hard to get here. I also congratulate you parents…you get to stop receiving tuition bills! Speaking seriously, you have made an extraordinary sacrifice to prepare these graduates to make their character on the future of this country, whether through career, family, or other forms of service. I also must offer my congratulations to my fellow alumni who are being honored for having distinguished themselves serving our country: Brigadier General Brooks, Judge Holschuh, Brigadier General Koper, Admiral Lippert, and my good friend Mike Oxley – your lifetimes of service exemplify Miami's 200-year tradition of influence on the nation. You have paid back Miami’s educational investment in you many times over. Now I have read that Miami Student editorial about this commencement, headlined “Bicentennial class deserves more prominent speakers.” You know what? I agree. Why, this new fellow Steve Dreihaus…he’s only been a Congressman for 126 days! But at least Steve is an alumnus. You might have settled for someone who didn’t even attend Miami and has held office an even shorter time…like President Obama! It is an honor to be back at Miami. I remember my own transformative experience here. I came to Oxford after a difficult high school experience where I lost my father, helped take care of my family, and really had to grow up fast. It is here at Miami where I was able to find myself; I found a sense of direction and a sense of identity. The incredible people that shaped me here – friends, faculty, and mentors – have left an indelible mark that I’ll forever be grateful for. It was here where I fell in love with economics and public policy, and six years after graduating, I got elected to Congress. That was ten years ago, but it seems like yesterday. You will be amazed at how fast time passes. It is here at Miami where friends and professors alike challenged me to stretch my mind, and think critically of the world we live in. One person that comes to mind is Professor Rich Hart. Dr. Hart is a professor who took interest in this student who wished to learn – and provided much more than just an education in economics, he provided a vision quest in my mind to improve the economics of our nation. One of the best habits I’ve learned to develop is ask those that are older and wiser to share what they know now that they wish they knew at my age. So now, I’d like to offer a few thoughts of my own, and perhaps provoke some thought among yourselves. Don’t settle for mediocrity, and embrace the truth – even when it’s inconvenient. Not your definition of truth or mine, but the truth. Knowing the truth is certainly not easy; in fact it’s a lifelong search, a journey you’ve begun to travel here at Miami. Some of you will go on to graduate level programs while others will enter the world of commerce and work. As we are all aware, today our business- and employment-supporting economy is shrinking, entrepreneurial opportunities are low, and real jobs are scarce. As if our economic decline were not problem enough, we are bombarded with warnings that America’s greatest days are behind us. That we have run our course and it’s time to accept the fact that our best days are over. Today there is a pervasive gloom that overshadows our thinking across the board. It penetrates our media, our entertainment, our pleasures, our politics, and our schools. What’s worse is a kind of deadly conformism that fears to challenge the gloomy pieties of the age. About half a century ago, another conformism dominated. It was an age of rigid managerial bureaucracies – where most people focused solely on moving up the business ladder. The corporate conformism of that age measured everything in shades of gray, took no risks, and discouraged any imagination or thought that did not follow the organization norm. Young people can’t tolerate rigid conformism and pointless rules for long. Students revolted against this narrowness and led campus rebellions against the corporate conformity in the 1960s. I am not judging the 60s. But I wonder whether we haven’t somersaulted back to a more subtle conformism, rooted in the rebellion that overthrew the old one. The old conformists wore uptight gray-flannel suits, and would be horrified at the concept of jeans in the office. Today, the very reverse. The ideal family of the old conformism was the traditional family structure. The rebellion of the 60s demanded freedom for every style of life, so the only scandal to the new conformism is to privilege the traditional married family. In the days of the old conformism, children using naughty words only had their mouth washed out with soap. Today’s students, faculty, and administrators at many academic institutions must learn which words or phrases can never be spoken—or might even sound like a word that can’t be spoken—for fear of being ostracized. We have moved from a world of accepted right and wrongs to a relativist world where everything is okay but for accepted rights and wrongs. Yet, everywhere we look, we sadly see people in the public and private sector cutting corners, looking for the easy way out, scoring a quick profit, seeking personal power at any price, or doing whatever feels good rather than serve as a force for good. Let me ask an odd question: why do we complain about this? We complain because everyone knows innately that there are standards of right and wrong that we are all expected to follow. These standards are not just feelings; they are not set down by man or by government – they are transcendent standards that apply for all time in all places. The conformism of our time is relativism. Destroy these timeless standards and you destroy our highest hopes and aspirations. How can young people tolerate this stifling conformism? If we only had to endure it for four years, it might be tolerable…but I’m afraid it’s just the beginning. In Washington, at the center of the American political order, there is nothing more “correct,” nothing more necessary than to conform to the pessimistic view that America has lost its primacy in the world and we are going to have to live with decline at home and abroad. We are supposed to adjust to shrunken dreams and manage the stagnation by controlling more and more sectors of what was once a free society. Free society turned out to be a failure – it allowed unlimited greed to bring our economy down. Now government – moderate, selfless, unambitious government – must step in to direct producers, investors, homebuyers, and entrepreneurs to drive greed out of the 21st century. Government also has to take the lead in creating jobs. If you ask how government can create a job without paying for it by taking the money from jobs and workers in the private sector, the new conformists will label you “uncompassionate” or worse. The best we can hope for, they say, is to survive. My friends, America isn’t a nation of survivors. America is a nation of dreamers, innovators – we are a nation of winners. Don’t settle for survival strategies, the conformism of the right or the left. The old conformism of the giant corporation and the new conformism of the government bureaucrat are practically the same thing. Erecting more hurdles on entrepreneurship, work, savings, and capital, and blinding the vision of risk-takers with a wall of directives is Washington’s analog to campus conformism. All the problems we have talked about can be addressed and solved, but only through imagination, passion, and ambition to succeed. Don’t be afraid to break out of deadly conformity. The order of human liberty is one. It requires economic freedom just as much as political and social freedom. Don’t be afraid to stake your claim to freedom! You should demand liberty because you need it to fulfill your God-given potential. Consider the truths that were called self-evident in our Declaration of Independence: that all human beings have natural rights to live, be free, and pursue happiness. Every one of you has an inalienable right to follow the highest goal of your life, which is your greatest potential. It includes the right to keep the earnings of your work in any good career—as a teacher, an artist, a financier, a union organizer, or even a public servant. The right to excel belongs to every person by the laws of nature and of nature’s God. These rights did not come from government, and no government has the authority to take them away from you. In closing, being everything your nature intended you to be depends on nothing but yourself – your intelligence, courage, imagination, passions, and gifts. Every man and woman in this room and across the country is the ultimate resource for growth and happiness. Never settle for the counsels of mediocrity. Trends and pieties come and go, but the example of excellence in any endeavor is nonconforming and enduring. If each of you strives to fulfill all the potential you have, I am confident that nothing can prevent America from continuing in its place as the model of human freedom that can still inspire the world. That’s all I have to say. Thank you, and congratulations.
05.03.2009	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement on the passing of his friend and mentor, Jack Kemp: "Jack Kemp brought unparalleled passion and vigor to his life’s work of expanding opportunity for all. His commitment to others was embodied in his development and promotion of empowering ideas. Jack's infectious optimism and sincere inclusiveness - in both his personal and public life - left a lasting impression on me. "I will forever appreciate Jack’s contributions to this nation and the guidance he provided me. I was blessed to have worked for him, learned from him, and been inspired by him. My thoughts and prayers remain with Jack’s wife Joanne and the rest of the Kemp family."
05.01.2009	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement regarding today’s news reports about the closing of the Kenosha Chrysler Plant: “I am shocked, surprised and deeply disappointed by today's news. From my conversations that took place with Chrysler executives this year and as early as Wednesday evening, I had been given assurances that this would not occur. I learned about this troubling development from news reports today and not from either Chrysler or officials at the White House that negotiated this bankruptcy restructuring. We are still trying to ascertain the meaning of this court filing. In fact, the details surrounding Fiat’s involvement in these restructuring plans gave me hope on the prospects of securing a new product in Kenosha to keep these jobs. Sadly, the crisis in the auto industry has hit Southern Wisconsin especially hard. With this gut-wrenching news, I am committed to continue to do all I can to support those in our community hit hardest by this loss, as we work to rebuild and revitalize the Kenosha community and Southern Wisconsin.”
04.21.2009	Washington – 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan will be hosting passport fairs in Janesville and Greendale on Friday, May 1st in conjunction with the U.S. Postal Service to help residents of the 1st Congressional District who will be traveling outside the country get answers to their passport questions and begin the process of applying for a passport. In recent years, Americans traveling outside the country have experienced major delays in obtaining passports as the State Department has struggled to meet growing demand for passports in light of new security regulations for air travel implemented under the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI). On June 1, 2009, the U.S. government will implement the full requirements of the land and sea phase of WHTI, requiring most U.S. citizens re-entering the United States at sea or land ports of entry (in addition to those traveling by air) to have a Passport or other travel documents approved by the Department of Homeland Security. In a significant change for many Wisconsinites, hunters and fishermen driving north to Canada will soon be required to have passports, as will families taking vacations – by land, sea, or air – to other Western Hemisphere nations. The specific nations affected by WHTI include Canada, Mexico, the nations of the Caribbean Region, and Bermuda. For information about the changing regulations and assistance with applying early for passports in order to avoid problems, Congressman Ryan encourages 1st District residents who may be traveling outside the U.S. in the months ahead to attend one of these passport fairs. U.S. Postal Service employees who are certified by the State Department to process and accept passport applications will be at these meetings to respond to travelers' questions and accept passport applications. Area residents who would like to submit an application at the passport fair should visit the web site: http://www.travel.state.gov/passport in advance to get information about fees, documents, photos, and other required materials that they will need to bring with them to the passport fair. 1st District Passport Fairs: Friday, May 1st 9:00-11:30 am Mercy Health Mall 1010 N. Washington St. Janesville, WI 1:30-4:00 pm Greendale Law Enforcement Center 5911 W. Grange Ave. Greendale, WI
04.17.2009	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced that the 1st District Mobile Office will resume its regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin's 1st District in April. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. Please click here for a listing of scheduled stops for the 1st District Mobile Office. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the 1st District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing 1st District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. From 1999 through 2008, the mobile office has made roughly 2000 visits to area communities. “I need to hear from 1st District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their town or area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. 1st District residents can check their local paper or our website – http://www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of mobile office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by.
04.06.2009	WASHINGTON - 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the schedule for listening sessions that he will be holding in April. Ryan will be visiting 20 communities throughout Wisconsin's 1st Congressional District to listen to constituents’ concerns and answer questions they have on federal government issues. From the budget and health care to taxes and spending, Ryan will discuss the serious economic challenges facing Southern Wisconsin and other concerns from residents of the 1st Congressional District. “It’s very important for me to hear directly from those who live and work in the 1st District,” Ryan said. “These listening sessions are a great opportunity for people to share their thoughts, concerns, and questions about what is happening in Congress and the federal government.” Please click here for a complete schedule of upcoming listening sessions.
04.04.2009	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan deliver the Weekly Republican Address. Ryan serves as Ranking Republican of the House Budget Committee, and authored the House Republican Budget Alternative. The text of Ryan’s address follows: “Hello, I’m Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the lead Republican on the House Budget Committee. “America is in the midst of an economic crisis. Families and small businesses are hurting, and too many Americans have lost their jobs. There is no doubt that President Obama inherited a fiscal crisis. But the question is, is he fixing it or is he making it worse? “The President’s budget, which passed the House and Senate this week, will make the crisis much, much worse. Rather than getting spending under control, it sends spending out of control. Rather than keeping taxes low to create jobs, it chases ever-higher spending with ever-higher taxes and results in ever-higher debt – an unprecedented, unsustainable increase in red ink. It doubles our national debt in five years, and triples our debt in 10 years. “Put simply: the Democrats’ budget spends too much, taxes too much, and borrows too much from our kids and their kids. “Their budget puts all the sacrifice on future generations. It makes no tough choices. It’s only tough on our children and grandchildren. “But it is not enough for us to just criticize. We must also propose a better way forward. And Republicans have. “The budget House Republicans offered gives Americans a real choice. It curbs spending, creates jobs, and controls the debt. “The Republican budget has lower deficits than the Democratic plan every year, and by 2019, has half the deficit proposed by the President. Under our plan, the public debt would be $3.6 trillion lower than President Obama’s plan. “Our budget gives priority to national defense and veterans’ health care. We freeze all other discretionary spending for five years. We enact a spending cap backed up by tough budget enforcement. “American families are making sacrifices and tightening their belts. Washington should do the same. “Our budget also takes steps toward health care reform and retirement security. Our goal is to make quality, affordable health care accessible to all Americans by strengthening the relationship between patients and their doctors, not with a big government takeover. We will preserve and improve the existing Medicare program as well. “We have offered a concrete plan – a path to prosperity – to tackle our nation’s problems with innovative and principled solutions. America is not the greatest nation on earth by chance. We earned this greatness by rewarding individual achievement, by advancing and protecting natural rights, and by embracing freedom. Our budget reflects those principles, and we offer the American people a better way forward. “Thank you for listening.” To learn more about the House Republican Budget Alternative: “The Path to American Prosperity” (Full Report) House Budget Committee, Republican Caucus
04.01.2009	House Budget Committee Ranking Republican Paul Ryan (WI) today introduced a comprehensive alternative to the fiscal year 2010 budget proposed by the President and Democratic Majority. In stark contrast to the Obama plan, the House Republican budget alternative will get spending and deficits under control – without raising taxes – and ensure America can prosper in the future. Ryan issued the following the statement: “America is coping with a deep economic recession today, and facing a tidal wave of debt tomorrow. The President’s budget exploits the current economic crisis to justify trillions in new spending, taxes, and debt. Worse, by failing to address the looming insolvency of our entitlement programs, his plan puts our nation on a path to an even more dire fiscal catastrophe in the future. “Republicans must not only act to stop this disastrous course, but offer the American people a better choice. Our budget alternative provides a path out of our current crisis – by restoring economic growth and job creation, controlling spending and deficits – and by lifting the crushing burden of debt and taxes from future generations. “The House Republican budget alternative reflects the firm belief that America’s greatest strengths lie in Americans themselves. Empowering Washington to micro-manage our personal affairs threatens prosperity; encouraging the creativity and entrepreneurial spirit of the American people restores prosperity. The stakes of this budget debate could not be higher; and the choice for a stronger, more secure, and more prosperous future could not be more clear.” The House Republican budget alternative works to accomplish four main goals: 1) fulfill the mission of health and retirement security; 2) control our nation’s debts; 3) put our economy on a path of growth and leadership in the global economy; and 4) preserve the American legacy of leaving the next generation better off. The GOP's Alternative Budget” by Paul Ryan, Wall Street Journal op-ed Summary of the Republican Budget Alternative Full Report of the Republican Budget Alternative Two Budgets: A Comparison Legislative Text
03.31.2009	WASHINGTON – 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that the winner of this year's 1st District Art Competition is Sean Quinn, a junior at Williams Bay High School who submitted an oil painting on canvas titled: Watermelon. According to Sean, his abstract design sought to create a “carefree but interesting vibe” to give the feel of summertime. Sean’s winning artwork will be displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol, along with the winning entries from other congressional districts throughout the country. Sean will also be eligible for scholarship opportunities from the Savannah College of Arts and Design. His art teacher at Williams Bay High is Patricia Holzman. Congressman Ryan invited every high school in the First Congressional District to submit an entry to the annual art contest, and a panel of local artists judged the entries. The award ceremony took place at the Olde Towne Mall in Janesville, Wisconsin on Saturday, March 28, 2009, where Sean was joined by his parents and grandparents. The competition was part of the 28th annual “Congressional Art Competition — An Artistic Discovery.” This nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by Members of Congress, provides high school artists with an opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity. Sean has been invited to attend an awards reception in Washington, D.C. honoring the winning artists from across the nation on June 24, 2009. "I want to thank all the students who participated in this annual competition, whose submissions were all impressive, giving our judges a difficult task,” Ryan said. “I am pleased to award the top prize to a uniquely talented young man, Sean Quinn. I congratulate Sean for his achievement, and look forward to seeing his artwork displayed at the U.S. Capitol.”
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON – A spirited debate on the nation’s spending priorities continues to take place on Capitol Hill as Congress officially began the process of debating the Fiscal Year 2010 Budget Resolution. Serving as Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan played a leading role in defense of fiscal responsibility at today’s committee markup of the Majority’s budget proposal. To watch Congressman Ryan in action this week, please click on the following video links below: Paul Ryan on the President's "gusher of new debt, new taxes, and more spending" 3/24/09 watch video Paul Ryan Previews Budget Debate on CNBC's "Squawk Box" 3/25/09 watch video Paul Ryan’s Opening Statement at Markup of FY2010 Budget Resolution; “We can do better. We must do better.” 3/25/09 watch video Paul Ryan’s Closing Statement at Markup of FY2010 Budget Resolution; Asks Blue Dogs to stop fiscal train wreck, restore American ideals 3/25/09 watch video
03.04.2009	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Senator John McCain (R-AZ), and Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) are reintroducing legislation to create a line-item veto to target wasteful earmarks, improve congressional accountability, and deter lawmakers from inserting “Bridges to Nowhere” or other frivolous spending into future bills. The legislation would enable the president to single out egregious earmarks in bills that arrive on his desk for signature and send these specific items back to Congress for expedited votes on whether to rescind, or cancel, funding for these provisions. “In order to meet the great economic challenges we are facing, we’ll need to tighten our belts and work across party lines,” Feingold said. “This legislation does both. Congress should set an example by passing this legislation which takes a serious step toward curbing wasteful spending.” “There is no more compelling argument to granting the President line-item veto power than the more than 9,000 earmarks in the current Omnibus bill,” said Senator John McCain. “Our proposal will allow the President to submit earmark rescission requests to Congress – this will help to impose some much needed fiscal restraint and aid in the removal of wasteful spending from pork-laden legislation. I am also confident that as drafted, this new and necessary line item veto will meet constitutional muster.” "With American families making tough budgetary decisions, it is shameful that their elected officials can't do the same," added Ryan. "The line-item veto will equip the President with an important tool to change business as usual in Washington. Congress must earn back the trust of those they serve to tackle our most pressing economic and fiscal challenges." The country is facing $1.8 trillion deficit for the current fiscal year and the Omnibus Appropriations bill heading for the president’s desk includes over 8,500 earmarks totaling an estimated $7.7 billion. While the proposal gives the President an important tool to go after that unjustified spending it also protects Congress’ constitutional authority to make spending decisions by requiring both House and Senate to vote to approve the president’s proposed rescissions, before they can become law. If either chamber votes against a rescission by a simple majority, it will not be enacted. As a result, this legislation is fundamentally different than the line-item veto the Supreme Court struck down in 1998, which did not require congressional approval for the president’s rescissions to take effect. On February 25, 2009, when asked if the president was for a line-item veto during a White House briefing, White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs said the president would “love to take that for a test drive.” Fact Sheet on the Line-Item Veto Legislation Senator Russ Feingold (D-WI), Senator John McCain (R-AZ) and Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) have reintroduced legislation to create a line-item veto to target wasteful earmarks, improve congressional accountability, and deter lawmakers from inserting "Bridges to Nowhere" or other frivolous spending into future bills. Among its key provisions, the Congressional Accountability and Line-item Veto Act will: Ensure timely congressional consideration of earmark rescission requests by the President. This will enable the president to propose the removal of wasteful earmarks from legislation that arrives on his desk for signature and send these earmarks back to Congress for expedited votes on whether or not to rescind funding. Give the House and Senate 12 legislative days after the President sends a rescission request to Congress to bring a rescission bill for consideration on the floor of the full House and Senate. Respect and preserve Congress’ constitutional responsibilities by requiring that both the House and Senate pass a rescission request before it can become law. If either the House or Senate votes against a rescission by a simple majority, it is not enacted. Require the President to submit earmark rescission requests to Congress within 30 calendar days of signing a bill into law. Limit the number of rescission requests per bill, to guard against gridlock in Congress due to multiple rescission proposals. Under this legislation, the President can propose one rescission package per ordinary bill, or two rescission packages for omnibus legislation. Each rescission request may include multiple earmarks. Sunset at the end of 2014, after two presidential administrations have had the opportunity to work with Congress to employ this tool to control spending. The sunset provision would give Congress the ability to review this legislation and decide whether to renew it. Contacts: Zach Lowe or Katie Rowley (Feingold) – (202) 224-8657 Brooke Buchanan or Leah Geach (McCain) – (202) 224-7130
02.24.2009	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan tonight made the following comments regarding President Barack Obama’s first address to a joint session of Congress: “President Obama provided an accurate, sober assessment of today’s challenges: the ongoing financial crisis, mounting job losses, a broken health care system, and an unsustainable fiscal path from an explosion of government spending. Step one in digging ourselves out of the fiscal mess we’re in is to admit that we have a problem. I applaud Obama’s efforts to push for a bipartisan consensus in moving forward to address this dire fiscal reality. “While heartened by President Obama’s call to action on our greatest challenges, I was troubled by the substance of his specific policy proposals. President Obama touted his trillion dollar spending bill, under the mistaken belief that we can borrow and spend our way to prosperity. He remains committed to raising taxes in the midst of the most painful recession in generations. He continues to push a housing plan that rewards those who borrowed more than they can afford at the expense of those who followed the rules. President Obama echoed his campaign promises to push for legislation that places the government – not the patient or the provider – at the center of health care decisions. “Alternative solutions are critical if we are to have a legitimate debate on our most pressing issues. I will continue to put forth alternatives applying our timeless principles of individual liberty and limited government. I take President Obama at his word in his commitment to reach out to Republicans, acknowledging that no individual has the monopoly on wisdom. The shrill partisanship in recent weeks has been troubling, producing unfortunate acrimony and poor public policy. True bipartisanship requires collaboration, and constructive efforts by all elected officials to address our American problems with American solutions.”
02.13.2009	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan voted against a deeply flawed spending bill today, after putting forth an alternative economic recovery package aimed at sustained job creation and those hit hardest in Southern Wisconsin. Fifteen hours after the bill text was made available, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on the conference report to H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. With only hours to review the final 1000-plus page bill text, the House agreed to the conference report by a vote of 246 – 183, without the support of Ryan, all House Republicans, and several House Democrats. Once again, there was bipartisan opposition to a partisan “stimulus” bill. The conference report is currently pending in the U.S. Senate. Following today’s vote, Ryan issued the following statement: “Southern Wisconsin is hurting. The savings, economic security, and livelihoods of hard-working families have fallen victim to our deepening recession. The manufacturing sector – the bedrock of Southern Wisconsin’s economy for generations – continues to shed jobs at an alarming rate. In these tough times, Members of Congress need to put aside their concern for keeping their own jobs by satisfying their narrow special interest groups. Elected officials should be focused first and foremost on the jobs of those they serve. “We urgently need an effective fiscal response – we need to get this right, but this bill simply won’t work. What’s worse, it will exacerbate our crisis with spending that is slow, wasteful, and leave us with a painful debt hangover for years to come. Regretfully, this bill is a disservice to the hard-working families in Southern Wisconsin. Congress failed to rise to the challenges of the day. Americans deserve better.” After the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate each passed their own versions of H.R. 1, a conference report reconciled the differences between the two pieces of legislation. Without any input from House Republicans, the 1,073 page conference report was made available at 11:00 pm last night, brought to the House floor less than 12 hours later, and voted on at 2:30 pm today. With the true cost eclipsing $3 trillion, the 90 minutes allotted for general debate amounts to $36 billion per minute. Click here to watch Congressman Ryan make use of his $72 billion worth of debate on the House floor. Among the final bill’s many flaws, Ryan highlighted its most egregious components: Hidden Costs : Because all this money needs to be borrowed, the interest alone will add $300 billion. When the budget gimmicks and the funding cliffs are stripped away, and additional interest costs are included, H.R. 1’s final price tag eclipses $3 trillion. Click here for more information. “Tired, Old Ideas” : On the House floor, Ryan agreed with President’s assertion that we should reject “tired, old ideas.” Ryan argued, “One-time rebate checks, special interest pork, runaway spending – those tired, old ideas didn’t work in the past administration, and they won’t work now. This is just more of the same.” Slow Spending : Even if borrowing and spending was the path to prosperity, only a small fraction of the spending in the Majority’s bill will take place in 2009. By the start of fiscal year 2011, roughly half of the spending from this bill will remain unspent. Wasteful Spending : The special interest wish list that made it into the final legislation includes $300 million for “green” cars and golf carts for Federal bureaucrats, $5.5 billion to improve federal buildings, $1 billion for the 2010 census, $650 million for digital TV coupons, $50 million for the National Endowment of the Arts, and Senator Reid’s last-minute $8 billion high speed Los Angeles-Las Vegas rail line. These are a few examples of dubious projects aimed at satisfying interest groups not economic recovery and job creation. Where are the Jobs? : It is imperative that any recovery legislation help small businesses, entrepreneurs and the self-employed survive this recession and give them incentives to expand. 70% of all jobs in America come from small businesses, yet less than one percent of the conference report is devoted to tax incentives for private sector investment. More taxpayer dollars are dedicated to arts and culture, cars for federal employees, and renovating federal buildings, than to helping small businesses grow. The Painful Road Ahead : The United States is not alone in attempting to use Keynesian stimulus to try to jump-start its economy. A borrowing binge is taking place across the world, begging the question: where is this money going to come from? It’ll have to be printed, which will stoke inflation, destroy savings and wealth. Should we remain mired in this recession, Americans could be looking at the return of stagflation. Congressman Ryan was a leading member of the House Republican Economic Recovery Working Group, and helped craft a better path forward. Ryan’s alternative recovery package focused on fast-acting tax policy, while providing much needed assistance for those hit hardest by our deepening recession. Based on the Obama Administration’s methodology, Ryan’s alternative recovery legislation creates twice the number of jobs at half the cost. Video – Paul Ryan on the House Floor Video – CNBC’ Squawk Box Audio - 620 WTMJ’s Wisconsin Morning News with Jagler & Mueller
01.28.2009	WASHINGTON – 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan voted against a trillion dollar spending bill today in the U.S. House of Representatives, expressing grave concerns that the wasteful spending spree will exacerbate the worst economic recession in generations. As a member of the Republican Economic Recovery Working Group, Ryan and his colleagues proposed an alternative recovery package using fast-acting tax policy, while providing much needed assistance for those hit hardest by our deepening recession. Based on the Obama Administration’s methodology, Ryan’s alternative recovery legislation creates twice the number of jobs at half the cost. Brought to the floor without any Republican input, H.R. 1 – the so-called “American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009” – passed the House today by a vote of 244 – 188, without a single Republican in support. H.R. 1 is currently pending in the U.S. Senate. Regarding the severity of our economic crisis and the merits of H.R. 1, Ryan issued the following statement: “This is the worst recession we’ve seen in generations. We’re losing tens of thousands of jobs a week and communities in Southern Wisconsin continue to be hit especially hard. Congress is making matters worse with a fiscal response that is slow, wasteful, and will leave us a nasty debt hangover for years to come. This bill is not worthy of our new President’s signature. “This trillion dollar spending bill misses the mark on all counts. This is not a crisis we can spend and borrow our way out of – that is how we got here in the first place. Yet this is precisely the path the Majority chose today. We’re repeating the mistakes of a flawed economic doctrine that deepened our depression in the 1930s and prolonged the economic stagnation in Japan in the 1990s.” Among the most troubling flaws of H.R. 1, Ryan highlighted the following: Trillion Dollar Price Tag: The $816-billion package will be financed by borrowing, which will result in additional interest costs of $347 billion – putting the total cost of H.R. 1 to over $1 trillion. Does Very Little to Help Protect and Create Jobs: We need to help small businesses, entrepreneurs and the self-employed survive this recession and give them incentives to expand. 70% of our jobs in America come from small businesses. Yet there are more taxpayer dollars dedicated to arts and culture, cars for federal employees, and renovating federal buildings, than to helping small businesses grow. Wasteful Spending: $54 billion is spent on 19 programs deemed “ineffective” or “results not demonstrated” by the Office of Management and Budget. Special Interest Wish List: $600 million for brand new “green” cars for Federal government employees; $650 million for digital TV coupons; $7.7 billion to improve federal buildings; $200 million for sod and beautification of the National Mall; $50 million for the National Endowment of the Arts; and other dubious special interest projects. Not So “Timely” After All: Even if borrowing and spending is the answer to our economic crisis, only a small fraction of the spending in the Majority’s bill will take place in 2009. By the start of fiscal year 2011, roughly half of the spending from this bill will remain unspent. Another Round of Rebate Checks: The tax provisions in this bill do not encourage risk-taking; they do not encourage investment and job creation. The bulk of the tax ‘cuts’ are simply rebate checks - $10/week for individuals and $20/week for couples. We tried rebate checks last year, and they simply don’t work. Guarantees Future Tax Hikes: The calls for new record spending would only exacerbate our exploding budget deficit, a national debt nearing $11 trillion, and well over $50 trillion of unfunded promises. By adding over $1 trillion dollars to this abysmal fiscal situation, we are guaranteeing tax increases in the near future. To hit a recovering economy with massive tax increases is a recipe for disaster. Congressman Ryan fought to improve the stimulus bill with amendments and alternative proposals aimed to empower the engines of economic growth. Before the House Ways and Means Committee and the House Rules Committee, Ryan offered amendments aimed to boost incentives to expand business operations and create jobs (click here for video). Because the Democrats’ legislation provides no relief from the tax increases facing families and small businesses and not enough relief for small businesses to keep and create more jobs, Ryan proposed to extend for two years the individual marginal income tax rates (which is the tax small businesses pay), provide for two years of full expensing for businesses, and make permanent the 15% tax rates on capital gains and dividends, indexed to inflation, rather than allow massive tax hikes to hit Americans at the end of 2010. The Democratic Majority, however, rejected his efforts to improve the legislation. Tapped to serve in the Republican Economic Recovery Working Group, Ryan helped craft an alternative based on fast-acting tax policy along while strengthening and expanding unemployment assistance. Based upon the same model used by the Obama Administration – which claims H.R. 1 would preserve or create 3 million jobs – the Republican Alternative would create 6.2 million jobs. Even if the Democrats’ bill produces 3 million jobs, it would cost taxpayers $275,000 per job. Alternatively, Ryan’s substitute would produce twice the jobs at half cost. Following tonight’s disappointing result on the House floor, Ryan added the following: “It is not enough to simply oppose flawed legislation. I believe that the party of ideas must propose alternative solutions. I helped craft an alternative focused on fast-acting tax policy to boost incentives for business expansion and job creation. Using the President’s own measuring stick, our proposal will create twice as many jobs, at half the cost to taxpayers, compared to the Majority’s trillion dollar spending bill. Unfortunately, because the Majority shut out the Minority from the legislative process, the House passed a far inferior piece of legislation today. “These are painful economic times, and the desire for an immediate economic recovery is shared by all. Additional assistance to those hit hardest by this recession – including families in Southern Wisconsin coping with painful layoffs – is an important part of any recovery effort. We missed an opportunity today to enact an economic stimulus package that empowers the engines of economic growth, tackles the fear and uncertainty gripping the marketplace, and encourages sustained economic growth and real job creation. I will continue to fight on behalf of those I serve, and believe in the strength of the American people to overcome this recession.” Click here to watch Paul Ryan speak on the House floor about the need for economic recovery package that actually works. Click here to read the House Budget Committee analysis of H.R. 1 – the flawed trillion dollar spending bill. Click here to read the Ways and Means Committee summary of the Republican Substitute – creating twice the jobs at half the cost.
01.26.2009	1st District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that constituent services representatives from his office will be holding office hours in Milwaukee, Waukesha, and Walworth County communities that do not have permanent congressional offices. The purpose of these office hours is to give 1st District residents who do not live near one of the constituent services centers an opportunity to speak face to face with a member of Ryan’s staff. Constituents can use these office hours to communicate their concerns and ideas or to request help with a problem they are having dealing with the federal government. For a complete schedule of office hours (dates, times and locations), please click on the following: Milwaukee County Walworth County Waukesha County For more information about the schedule, or to make an appointment during one of the scheduled office hours, constituents should call Danyell Tremmel in Rep. Ryan’s Janesville office using the toll-free constituent services hotline: 1-888-909-7926.
01.22.2009	WASHINGTON – Earlier today, Wisconsin's 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan voted to prohibit the release of the second half of funds allocated for the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP). As a result of Ryan’s efforts this past October to craft a much improved financial rescue package, Congress has the power to disapprove of the second half of the $700 billion TARP funds if it feels they are not needed or would not be used effectively. Today’s disapproval resolution (H.J. Res. 3) comes on the heels of yesterday’s passage of H.R. 384, which shifted TARP’s original purpose from addressing the systemic risk in the financial system to picking the winners and losers in the marketplace. H.R. 384 expands the Treasury Department’s authority to distribute TARP funds, while adding new provisions unrelated to financial stabilization efforts. By altering the original intent of the financial rescue package, today’s disapproval resolution was all the more important. Despite today’s bipartisan House vote to prohibit the release of the additional funds, failure to do the same in the U.S. Senate will allow the final $350 billion to be released to the Treasury Department. Arguing that such action cannot be justified, Ryan issued the following statement: “My fear is that the second $350 billion in TARP funding will go far beyond the original mission of preserving overall financial market stability, and instead will be used to fund a heavy-handed, neo-industrial policy. Various industries have already marshaled their lobbyists for a claim on these public dollars. And now that the Federal Reserve has additional authority to address a financial crisis, this funding is no longer justified.” Please click here to view Congressman Paul Ryan’s floor statement.
01.14.2009	WASHINGTON – 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted against legislation that exploits the reauthorization of a popular children’s health insurance program to expand government-run, bureaucracy-driven health care and increase already unsustainable entitlement spending. The bill would hurt working families, taxpayers, and doctors through a combination of cuts to physician-owned hospitals and tax increases to “pay” for this fiscally irresponsible proposal – although budget gimmicks hide its true cost. Without any hearings or an opportunity to offer amendments, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2 today by a vote of 289 – 139. The legislation goes far beyond simply extending the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), a program intended to serve low-income, uninsured children whose family incomes were a little too high to qualify for Medicaid assistance. Instead, H.R 2 expands eligibility to include families making more than $80,000 a year, loosens citizenship verification standards, and moves millions of children who already have private insurance onto government-run health care. In fact, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the Majority’s plan would shift about 2.4 million individuals currently enrolled in private health care plans to government-run health care. The legislation attempts to pay for this massive expansion of an entitlement program by imposing an ill-conceived, regressive tax on tobacco and by attacking physician-owned hospitals. H.R. 2 not only eliminates the creation of physician-owned hospitals, but goes further by prohibiting the completion of those under construction – threatening jobs and forfeiting millions of dollars already invested in these facilities. This bill moves us further away from the goal of putting the patient and their physician as the nucleus of health care delivery. The true cost of this entitlement expansion is deceptively hidden in the legislative language, but holds dramatic consequences for millions of children and taxpayers. After five years of attracting new SCHIP enrollees, the bill abruptly cuts SCHIP funding by 65% in 2014. This would effectively pull out the rug on 7 million children reliant on this program. If Congress decides not to kick these children off the program in 2014, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that it would cost taxpayers $42 billion more. This budget gimmick is either disingenuous to the taxpayer or disingenuous to millions of children. Following his vote against the deeply flawed legislation, Ryan released the following statement: “Congress should be making thoughtful reforms to help insure the uninsured, lower the high cost of health coverage, and give patients the options they need to access quality care. Instead, this bill uses a children’s health insurance program as an excuse to push people from private health insurance to government health coverage, while imposing taxes on low-income Americans and eliminating new physician-owned hospitals. It essentially creates a costly new entitlement program at a time when our existing major entitlements are going broke. While I support extending the State Children’s Health Insurance Program so it can keep fulfilling its original purpose, this fiscally irresponsible bill goes far beyond this goal – doing more harm than good.” Click the following link to watch Paul Ryan speak on the House floor: Paul Ryan on Flawed SCHIP Expansion Click the following link for more from the House Budget Committee: Legislative Alert from Ranking Member Paul Ryan
01.07.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Menomonee Falls) and Paul Ryan (R-Janesville) raised concerns today with a proposal to allow abortions at a University of Wisconsin health center in Madison. With UW Health officials seeking to clear the way for second-trimester abortions to be performed at the Madison Surgery Center, Sensenbrenner and Ryan wrote to the UW Hospitals and Clinics (UWHC), indicating their serious concerns with the proposal. In addition to the reprehensible affront to human dignity, Sensenbrenner and Ryan called into the question the impact of such a policy on the rights of pro-life employees. Federal law protects the conscience rights of physicians and health care professionals at facilities supported by federal funds. The Wisconsin congressmen asked for assurances from UWHC that employees will be fully informed of, and respected in, their right to refuse to participate in abortions, as federal and state law guarantees. “Not only is UWHC’s plan morally reprehensible, it is potentially illegal,” said Sensenbrenner. “It is deeply disturbing to hear reports of employees being pressured or forced to violate their conscience by participating in the killing of preborn, developed babies. Doctors and other health care providers shouldn’t have to check their consciences at the hospital door.” “Such a flagrant disrespect for the rights of the unborn is deeply troubling,” added Ryan. “Should University of Wisconsin officials follow through on this effort to compromise the value of human life, it is imperative that the conscience rights of pro-life employees are fully protected. This is an altogether troubling proposition.” Click here to view a copy of the the letter to Ms. Donna Katen-Bahensky, President & CEO of University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics.
12.19.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin's 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan expressed his disappointment in the White House's decision to divert funds from the financial rescue package for domestic auto manufacturers after the Senate's failure to agree on a more fiscally responsible package. Earlier today, President Bush announced that the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) will be used to allocate $13.4 billion to assist domestic auto manufacturers, with the potential for billions of dollars more in the near term. The break down of negotiations in the U.S. Senate last week followed the passage of H.R 7321, "The Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act," in the U.S. House of Representatives. H.R. 7321 would have expedited to domestic auto manufacturers a previously appropriated U.S. Department of Energy loan program. Following this morning’s announcement from the White House, Congressman Ryan released the following statement: "As I've consistently argued, assistance for the domestic auto industry should come from funds that have already been appropriated. Last week, I voted for a bill that did just that: H.R. 7321 cut the bureaucratic red tape from previously approved funds, rather than divert resources from the financial rescue package or rely on additional taxpayer dollars. "I am deeply troubled by the precedent set by expanding the TARP into areas beyond its original intent. It was made clear to me two weeks ago that if the Energy Department funds were not released, they would be granting access to TARP funds for the auto companies. These were among the reasons why I supported expediting funds from the Department of Energy loan program. Allowing the Big Three to access funds from the financial rescue package creates a dangerous precedent for other corporations to lay claim to TARP funds. My concerns remain focused on retirees, workers, and families in Southern Wisconsin, but this form of assistance is the wrong way to go.”
12.10.2008	WASHINGTON – Earlier tonight, the U.S. House of Representatives approved H.R. 7321, “The Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act” by a vote of 237 – 170. H.R. 7321 is currently pending before the U.S. Senate. Following his vote in favor of this legislation, Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan released the following statement: “It is clear that the mounting hardships throughout Southern Wisconsin have been downright gut-wrenching. In addition to the imminent closure of the GM plant in my hometown of Janesville and mass layoffs elsewhere, hard-working Wisconsinites are finding it increasingly difficult during this recession to cope with strained credit markets, rising health care costs, and making their monthly mortgage payments. “The American automotive industry is under considerable distress, and various proposals have been put forth to provide aid to those in need. I’ve maintained that any assistance to the domestic auto industry should be drawn from previously approved funds from a U.S. Department of Energy loan package, rather than divert resources from the financial rescue package or rely on additional taxpayer dollars. H.R. 7321 cuts through the bureaucratic red tape and expedites these previously appropriated funds. Because no additional taxpayer dollars were appropriated, I was able to support this legislation. “At the forefront of my mind are jobs in Southern Wisconsin and the retiree commitments to workers that could be placed in jeopardy under certain bankruptcy scenarios. To be clear, this bill is not intended to save the American auto industry and makes no guarantees that layoffs in this industry will end. Congress must stop overselling what it can do. At the very least, I am hopeful that by extending these loans to the American auto manufacturers, bankruptcy will be avoided in the near term and protections for retirees will remain intact.”
11.06.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan released the following statement in response to the encouragement from several of his colleagues to run for the position of House Minority Leader in the 111th Congress: “I have been honored and humbled by the outpouring of support from my colleagues who have asked me to lead our party in the 111th Congress. I share their hunger for reform and will work tirelessly as a policy leader for the Republican Party. My first priority in life will always be my wife and my three young children. As I reflect upon the strains that this position would place on my young family, I have decided not to enter my name as a candidate for House Minority Leader.”
10.31.2008	JANESVILLE – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan commended the efforts of state and federal officials in helping secure the second phase of the BadgerCare Plus program, expanding access to affordable health care for Wisconsin residents. Earlier today, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services granted Wisconsin a waiver to expand its BadgerCare Plus program. Ryan worked with the Doyle Administration, CMS, and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to negotiate the approval of this waiver on behalf of Wisconsin. Last year, Wisconsin received a waiver to institute BadgerCare Plus, a Medicaid-funded program which provides health insurance for children under the age of 19 years. As a result of today’s waiver, the second phase of the BadgerCare Plus program will provide affordable health care coverage to low-income, uninsured, childless adults for implementation on January 1, 2009. An estimated 81,000 chronically uninsured adult Wisconsin residents will have access to health care coverage as a result of this expansion. Following today’s announcement, Ryan issued the following statement: “Securing the second phase of the BadgerCare Plus program marks a tremendous step forward for health care reform in Wisconsin. The BadgerCare Plus program emphasizes choice and compassion for Wisconsin’s most vulnerable, providing a fiscally responsible approach to health care reform. “I commend the efforts of Governor Jim Doyle and the Wisconsin Department of Health Services for their commitment to innovative health care reforms such as BadgerCare Plus. Administrator Kerry Weems at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services also deserve praise for granting this waiver. The bipartisan commitment between Madison and Washington on this issue has been remarkable. “BadgerCare Plus epitomizes Wisconsin’s proud tradition of reforming our social safety nets though innovation and empowerment. I was proud to work with the Wisconsin Congressional delegation, state and federal officials in advocating for this waiver. I will continue my efforts to push for comprehensive health care reform – boosting transparency, portability, affordability, and access to private health insurance coverage.”
10.14.2008	WASHINGTON – Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Menomonee Falls), Tom Petri (R-Fond du Lac) and Paul Ryan (R-Janesville), today sent letters to Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen, and to Wisconsin’s two US Attorneys, Steven Biskupic and Erik Peterson, calling for an investigation into the activities of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN). ACORN is a tax-exempt organization with a long and detailed history of engaging in illegal political activity, including vote fraud. Though the letters focus on ACORN’s Wisconsin operations, this is an issue of national concern in light of recent media reports that have portrayed an organization with a pattern of vote fraud activities in several other states, including an attempt to register Mickey Mouse to vote in Florida. “The right to vote is one of the most sacred privileges reserved for the citizens of this nation,” said Sensenbrenner. “The disruption of this process through fraudulent and illegal means inflicts a grave injustice against those of us who take this civic duty seriously, and with the utmost respect. I am dumbfounded at the audacity of some members of ACORN in their apparent willingness to disregard the laws of our country, and hope those convicted are prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.” Rep. Petri said, “We need our elections to produce clear, certifiable results that everyone can believe in. Electoral fraud makes a mockery of democracy and deserves to be handled sternly. I don’t want to pre-judge any particular case, but allegations of fraud should be investigated thoroughly. And when found to be justified, they should be prosecuted.” “Wisconsinites are preparing to make their voices heard at the ballot box this November, and will do so with the expectation that our electoral process is legal and fair,” added Ryan. “I strongly support initiatives that encourage citizens to actively participate in the political process and lawfully exercise their right to vote. However, I am deeply troubled by the laundry list of allegations of voter fraud perpetrated by organizations such as ACORN, which not only violate our nation's laws, but also violate Americans’ trust in our laws. I proudly stand with Congressmen Sensenbrenner and Petri in advocating on behalf of those we serve by calling for the strict enforcement of our voting laws.” Letter to U.S. Attorney Steven Biskupic, Eastern District of Wisconsin Letter to U.S. Attorney Erik Peterson, Western District of Wisconsin Letter to Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen Contacts: Raj Bharwani (Sensenbrenner); 202-225-5101 Niel Wright (Petri); 202-225-247 Conor Sweeney (Ryan); 202-226-7326
10.13.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan released the following statement regarding General Motors’ decision to discontinue production of their current product at the Janesville Assembly Plant on December 23, 2008: “GM’s decision to end production of their SUVs at the end of this year gets at the heart of our economic crisis. Today’s announcement is disappointing, although not surprising given the drop-off of sales of SUVs. I will continue to do all that I can to support those in our community hit hardest by this loss, as we work to rebuild and revitalize Southern Wisconsin. “Contrary to headlines I’ve read this morning, it is also critical to note that this accelerated timeline applies only to the current SUV product at the plant. I am encouraged by the tireless work of state, local, and union leaders who have offered a comprehensive incentives package to GM to bring another product to the plant. GM and local officials have continued their dialogue on keeping GM in Janesville, and I am hopeful that their talks will be successful.”
10.03.2008	WASHINGTON – With panic on Wall Street and gridlock in Washington, Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan successfully fought on behalf of Wisconsin workers and Wisconsin taxpayers to secure a much improved economic rescue package. Ryan remains outraged at the fact that Americans find themselves in this present crisis, but rather than sit on the sidelines, Ryan rolled up his sleeves and fought for a better deal to stabilize our economy, preserve American jobs, and protect American taxpayers. With growing alarm over the freezing of our credit markets, urgent action is needed to prevent this crisis from crippling our economy and devastating the lives of Wisconsin families. While there has been widespread agreement on the need for action, an intense debate continues on how to best address this crisis. On Monday, September 22, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and the Bush Administration sought to ram a taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailout through Congress. Regarding this effort by the Bush Administration, Ryan argued, “My top priority in Congress has always been to protect the taxpayer. The Bush Administration bailout included no oversight, no limits on executive compensation, and no expectation that Wall Street share in the costs of their recovery. This rightfully offended the American people, and I fought to secure a better deal.” Acknowledging the gravity of the financial crisis and the logjam in Congress, Ryan went to work with his colleagues last week to craft an alternative economic rescue plan. On Thursday, September 25, Ryan and his fellow House Republicans unveiled a commonsense alternative to the Paulson plan, and refocused the debate on the exposure placed on taxpayers. Ryan’s proposal would ensure that Wall Street help bail itself out, while unlocking the frozen credit at the heart of the crisis. Working across party lines, across chambers of Congress, and across branches of government, the House Republicans were successful in securing a better deal for taxpayers and the American people. Ryan and his staff worked through the weekend to negotiate a better deal, while keeping the office open to respond to constituent concerns. Paul Ryan and his colleagues were able to secure the following key provisions in the final package: Reduces Taxpayer Exposure – Rather than a $700 billion blank check, as requested by the Bush Administration, $250 billion would be available immediately to the Treasury Secretary with stringent oversight. Any additional funds would require additional government action and Congressional approval. Guaranteed Taxpayer Protections – Requires any participating institution that sells their troubled assets to the government to provide equity warrants to the U.S. Treasury. Ryan fought for this provision to guarantee that taxpayers will be the first to benefit from any future growth of companies that take part in this recovery effort. Strengthens Support for Homeowners – Keeping the focus on Main Street over Wall Street, additional assistance is provided for those facing the prospect of foreclosure. In addition to assisting struggling financial institutions, the Treasury Department is directed to develop an action plan to help mitigate home foreclosures. Wall Street Helps Bail Itself Out – The House Republican alternative, crafted by Ryan, focused on an insurance model, rather than a purchase model, to address the frozen assets clogging up the financial system. Participating institutions holding these assets would pay the insurance premiums – in effect helping bail themselves out rather than rely on taxpayers’ hard-earned money. An insurance program was included in the final agreement. Eliminates Special Interest Giveaways – House Republicans were able to remove unrelated and costly provisions that would funnel funds to special interest groups, such as ACORN. Instead of creating a special interest slush fund, all funds recouped will be returned to the taxpayer to pay down the debt. Increased Oversight and Transparency – While the Paulson proposal explicitly removes any judicial oversight and lacks transparency provisions, the negotiated economic rescue package establishes a bipartisan oversight committee that requires honest and transparent reporting to Congress and the public. In addition, the programs will be monitored by a Special Inspector General, and reviewed and audited by the Government Accountability Office. Caps on Executive Compensation – Limits executive compensation to ensure that bad actors who contributed to this crisis are not rewarded with golden parachutes or severance pay. On Monday, September 29th, H.R. 3997, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, failed to pass the U.S. House of Representatives, despite Ryan’s vote in favor of the bill. On Wednesday, October 1st, the U.S. Senate passed H.R. 1424, a similar economic rescue package including an increase in the FDIC insurance cap. Earlier today, with Ryan’s support, H.R. 1424 was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives. Following today’s vote on the House floor, Ryan issued the following statement: “The Bush Administration offended the American people with a three-page request for a blank check from Congress. ‘Trust us’ simply wouldn’t do. I personally fought to make sure that taxpayers were protected. I fought to make sure that once these troubled institutions start making profits, the taxpayers benefit first and foremost. I fought to make sure Wall Street executives don’t profit personally as a result of their irresponsible decisions. I wrote the provision to ensure that Wall Street shares in the cost of their own recovery. I got in the arena these past two weeks and fought for a better deal for the American taxpayer and those I serve in Wisconsin. “Our communities in Southern Wisconsin have endured devastating economic hardships as of late, and I could not sit idly by with so much at stake. At the end of the day, this package is about the American taxpayer and American jobs. Failing to act on a viable alternative would have been devastating to American families and American workers. To stabilize our economy and to preserve American jobs, this bill moves us in the right direction. We are facing a Wall Street crisis that is now becoming a banking crisis – a Main Street crisis. There are still many difficult days ahead. This bill is not designed to prevent a recession, but rather to prevent a crash. This bill is about protecting working families’ access to credit – so students can secure college loans, farmers can make their needed investments, seniors can secure their retirement, and businesses can pay their employees. “I am outraged that we find ourselves in this situation, and we must hold those responsible to account. I will continue to push for additional reforms, working to modernize the regulatory framework and increase the transparency of our financial system. As Congress works to address our current financial crisis, reforms must be put in place to prevent this situation from being repeated in the future.”
10.02.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan announced today a U.S. Department of Labor national emergency grant to the Wisconsin Department of Workforce Development (DWD). The Wisconsin DWD will receive an initial award of $1.6 million to assist dislocated workers in Rock County’s automotive industry, including workers at General Motors, Lear Corporation, Logistics Services Inc., and United Industries. All affected workers will have access to the full array of dislocated worker services. The U.S. Department of Labor has indicated that this amount could be increased to $3.8 million if the Wisconsin DWD demonstrates the continued need for funds above the initial award. Following today’s announcement, Ryan issued the following statement: “I announce this much needed assistance with mixed emotions. While these funds will go a long way to help provide a fresh start for those hit hardest in Rock County, the announcement serves as a fresh reminder of the economic hardships we face as a community. “Our current credit crunch could significantly add to the burdens of Wisconsin families. I will continue my efforts to help pass an urgently needed economic rescue package in Congress this week. Without swift action to address our credit crisis, the panic on Wall Street will extend to the communities in Rock County that simply cannot afford more pain. “Knowing the spirit and strength of those I serve, I remain firmly optimistic that our best days are still ahead. I extend my gratitude to those at Wisconsin’s Department of Workforce Development for their leadership in securing this grant. I will continue to work closely with state, local, and union leaders, who have offered a comprehensive incentives package to GM, in hopes that GM will reverse its decision and the funds from this grant will not be necessary.”
09.29.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan expressed deep disappointment today on Congress’ failure to address our current financial crisis. Ryan fought on behalf of the taxpayer this past week in securing considerable protections for the taxpayer, while strengthening economic security for the American worker. Despite the urgency of our financial crisis, H.R 3997, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, failed on the House floor by a vote of 205 - 228. Following his vote in favor of H.R. 3997, Ryan issued the following statement: “It is with deep disappointment and a heavy heart to have witnessed Congress’ failure to address the grave financial challenges we face as a nation. I could not and did not accept last week’s proposal by the Bush Administration – an Administration that totally mishandled this situation. But instead of pointing fingers and standing idly by – as would have been the politically expedient thing to do – I worked to secure concrete protections for the taxpayer. “Today’s vote was about stopping the Wall Street crisis from creating a banking crisis in our communities. The Bush Administration’s proposal was unacceptable, and the American people demanded an alternative solution be brought to the table. I joined my colleagues in putting forth an alternative economic rescue proposal and secured these taxpayer-protections in the final bipartisan agreement. I fought to make sure that once these troubled institutions start making profits, the taxpayers benefit first and foremost. I fought to make sure Wall Street executives don’t profit personally as a result of their irresponsible decisions. I wrote the provision that ensures that Wall Street shares in the cost of their own recovery. “I supported this bill in order to stabilize our economy and to preserve American jobs. It is about Main Street – that Wall Street’s crisis doesn’t become Main Street’s crisis. It is about protecting working families’ access to credit – so students can secure college loans, farmers can buy feed, seniors can secure their retirement, and businesses can pay their employees. "In light of Congress' failure to act and the horrendous failures of the Bush Administration, we will have to roll up our sleeves and go back to the drawing board to enact a meaningful solution to our financial crisis.”
09.23.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan has issued the following statement following today’s vote in favor of S.J.Res. 45, the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact, which was agreed to in the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 390 – 25: “The environmental health of the Great Lakes is a top priority of mine and to the people of Wisconsin. I was proud to help pass the Great Lakes Compact today and protect this vital natural resource for future generations of Wisconsinites. The Great Lakes Compact represents a bipartisan commitment from legislators and governors throughout the Midwest, and I am hopeful that today’s timely passage of this Compact will help ensure the safety of the Great Lakes for future generations. “I’ve long been a vocal advocate in defense of the Great Lakes. In addition to my work as co-chair of the Congressional Sportsmen Caucus and my efforts to control the growing threat posed by invasive species, I am a proud cosponsor of H.R. 6577, the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact, as well as H.R. 1350, the Great Lakes Collaboration Implementation Act, which includes measures to prevent pollution and curtail the loss of wildlife habitats. “The protection of shared natural resources requires shared responsibility across state lines and across various levels of the public and private sectors. The Great Lakes Compact represents this all-inclusive partnership, and I was proud to stand in strong support of today’s passage.”
09.19.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan released the following statement regarding the Federal government’s efforts to address the current financial crisis: "The country is facing extraordinary challenges to its financial system. While the Administration continues to take sweeping steps to address this immediate and severe problem, we need to be careful not to reward bad behavior by Wall Street with taxpayer dollars. Congress must avoid playing politics with this problem to add controversial and costly provisions not directly related to the problem. “In the long-run, we need to ensure the Federal Reserve stays focused on its primary mission of keeping inflation under control and not become a bank for troubled companies. In addition, if the Federal government is going to take steps to bail out companies and private investments, Congress needs to modernize the regulation of these activities to increase transparency and avoid this situation from being repeated in the future."
09.18.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan joined the U.S. Commerce Department’s Economic Development Agency (EDA) today to announce a generous grant to Rock County and Forward Janesville, Inc. to support their regional economic initiatives. The EDA grant will provide $450,000 to assist in the transition and retraining of regionally displaced workers, as well as to assist redevelopment initiatives proposed by local leaders. “The local leaders in Janesville and Rock County have put together a forward-looking economic development plan for the region, and this grant will go a long way in supporting these efforts,” said Ryan, a fifth-generation Janesville resident. “This has been a gut-wrenching summer for southern Wisconsin, and today’s announcement provides our community with much-needed support. I remain firmly optimistic that Janesville’s best days are ahead.” The EDA serves as a venture capital resource to meet the economic development needs of distressed communities throughout the United States. EDA’s mission is to lead the federal economic development agenda by promoting innovation and competitiveness, preparing American regions for growth and success in the worldwide economy. “Communities that work together to create dynamic regional economies that foster innovation and competitiveness are the key to America’s continued success as the leader of the 21st century global economy,” said U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development Benjamin Erulkar. “This EDA investment will help provide the critical staff needed to implement the Rock County 2020 Economic Development Plan.” Ryan and his congressional colleagues are continuing their efforts to advocate on behalf of state, local, and union leaders, who have offered a comprehensive incentives package to General Motors (GM). Following their announced intention to close the Janesville GM Assembly Plant, GM and local leaders have maintained an open dialogue and GM is currently considering the proposed incentives package. The EDA grant will help strengthen and diversify the regional economy, as described in the Rock County 2020 Economic Development Plan put forth by city and county leaders. Ryan has remained in steadfast support of the Rock County and Janesville leaders, who submitted their grant application to the EDA in late August. Ryan has reached out to EDA officials to encourage the timely consideration of their application, and was pleased that their decision was prompt and positive.
09.16.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan condemned the latest election year energy stunt by the House Majority prior to today’s vote on H.R. 6899. Dubbed the “Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act,” H.R. 6899 consists of a patchwork of previously rejected provisions, along with tax hikes, fees, and regulations that fail address our need for more American-made energy. While Ryan and his fellow House Republicans have been petitioning for a comprehensive energy bill since the second week of May, H.R. 6899 was drafted in Speaker Pelosi’s office late last night and brought to the floor for a vote today. For an issue of such significance for the American people, the Speaker allowed for no amendments, no substitutes, and no opportunity for compromise. Shortly before the House voted on H.R. 6899, Ryan issued the following statement: “The only energy to come out of this bill is the hot air from Congress. This sham energy bill is nothing more than a dry hole. The House Majority’s bill would permanently lock up the majority of American energy off of our coasts. The so-called drilling provisions are an attempt to hoodwink the American people and would do nothing to expand American energy production. States can choose to ‘opt-in’ to allow drilling within a narrow strip off their coasts, but without revenue sharing provisions, states have no incentive to ‘opt-in.’ What’s worse, this bill does nothing to address the excessive lawsuits by radical special interests that have held up existing leases for oil exploration. Simply put: this bill is a hoax. “The House Majority has refused to adopt a bipartisan, all-of-the-above approach to tackle our energy crisis – one of the greatest problems we face as a nation today. By continuing to send $1.5 billion a day to hostile nations, today’s rejection of real energy solutions has only fueled our dependence on foreign oil and the threat to our national security. With mass layoffs and painful price spikes, Wisconsinites have been hit particularly hard by our energy crisis. Those I serve in Wisconsin’s 1st District deserve better. “We must expand and diversify our supply of American-made energy. We must allow for more environmentally-sound drilling here in America. We must streamline the permitting process for new refineries. We must encourage nuclear power, clean coal, and more. Incentives for greater conservation efforts and a commitment to renewable energy are critical to this all-of-the-above approach. Rather than results, today we got more hot air from Congress.” UPDATE: There were two key votes on the night of Tuesday, September 16: Roll Call vote: Motion to Recommit - H.R. 6899, featuring a bipartisan comprehensive compromise (H.R. 6709) http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2008/roll598.xml Roll Call vote: Final passage of H.R. 6899 http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2008/roll599.xml Following the defeat of the Motion to Recommit and passage of H.R. 6899, Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement: "I was disappointed, but not surprised, to watch partisan politics conquer compromise for real energy solutions. A silver lining in tonight's House floor action was that Congress finally considered a vote on a bipartisan energy compromise - a measure supported by many of my Democrat friends in rhetoric, but not in action tonight. The bill that ultimately passed the House tonight will do nothing to expand and diversify American-made energy. Those I serve in Wisconsin deserve a fair, open process for a sincere energy compromise, and I will continue to fight for one."
09.11.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan called upon his colleagues to address our incoherent energy policy before the end of the 110th Congress. With reports that the House Majority will bring an energy package to the floor for consideration next week, Ryan encouraged swift action on meaningful energy legislation. It remains unclear whether the House Majority’s proposal would allow for drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf, but it appears that their package would permanently lock up American energy in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) and the Inter-Mountain Region. Ryan raised additional concerns with the continued inaction on encouraging new refineries and nuclear power plants. With the target adjournment date of September 26th fast approaching, there is increased urgency to enact comprehensive energy legislation. Congressman Ryan strongly supports H.R. 6566, the American Energy Act, which takes an all-of-the-above approach to our energy crisis. The American Energy Act allows for environmentally-sound domestic drilling, streamlines the permit process for new refineries, boosts incentives for conservation and energy efficiency, and promotes the use of renewable and alternative energy. In response to the House Majority’s continued delays, Ryan issued the following statement: “Congress must tackle our energy crisis before calling it quits for the year. With record home heating costs expected to hit Americans hard this winter, the energy crisis will continue to wreck havoc on our economy. Those I serve in Wisconsin’s 1st Congressional District have seen their paychecks eliminated from job losses in energy-intensive industries, while all Americans have had their paychecks stretched to limit by higher energy costs. Enough is enough. “At a time when we send $1.5 billion a day to countries that are hostile to our interests, we must reduce our dependence on foreign oil. The American Energy Act represents a clear path toward a coherent energy policy that takes seriously our energy crisis. This bipartisan, comprehensive energy package would give our children a safer world, a stronger economy, and a cleaner environment. It is my hope that Republicans and Democrats can work together to address our nation’s most pressing energy concerns before the close of the 110th Congress.”
09.05.2008	First District Mobile Office Schedule Senior Center Tour 2008 Friday, September 12th 9:00 am  10:30 am Mount Carmel 5700 West Layton Avenue, Greenfield, WI 53220 11:30 am  1:30 pm Cesar Chavez Community Center 2221 Douglas Avenue, Racine, WI 53402 2:30 pm  4:00 pm Sheridan Medical Complex 8400 Sheridan Road, Kenosha, WI 53143 Friday, September 19th 9:30 am  11:00 am Huntington Place 3801 N. Wright Road, Janesville, WI 53546 12:00 pm  1:30 pm Burlington Senior Center 201 N Main St, Burlington, WI 53105 2:30 pm  4:00 pm The Terraces of Geneva Crossing 725 S. Curtis Street, Lake Geneva, WI 53147 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the 1st District Mobile Office will be making additional stops to a number of senior centers on September 12th and September 19th. These visits complement the regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsins 1st Congressional District. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryans office will be available to meet personally with area residents. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the 1st District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing 1st District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. From 1999 through 2007, the mobile office has made nearly 2000 visits to area communities. I need to hear from 1st District residents and be accessible to them, Ryan said. The mobile office helps me do this. Its a great resource for people who dont live near a permanent congressional office, especially seniors. When the mobile office comes to their town or area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. First District residents can check their local paper or our web site www.house.gov/ryan for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides. Sites and addresses listed indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by.
08.29.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan today has notified those he serves in Wisconsin’s 1st Congressional District of the fast-approaching deadline for those seeking disaster relief from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). The deadline for residents to apply for disaster assistance for damages or losses caused by this summer’s storms and flooding is 11:00 p.m. on Monday, September 15, 2008. Federal disaster declarations have already been issued for Kenosha, Racine, Rock, Milwaukee, Walworth, and Waukesha counties, along with 24 other counties throughout the State. Federal recovery aid for residents includes the following: grants for emergency housing and essential repairs; grants for necessities not covered by insurance; and low interest loans from SBA. Wisconsin residents seeking assistance are encouraged to call FEMA’s toll-free helpline at 1-800-621-3362. Individuals and business owners also can register for help online at http://www.fema.gov. “This summer’s extreme weather and widespread flooding has wrought considerable damage throughout the Midwest and the nation,” said Ryan. “I have been inspired by the support and compassion demonstrated by Wisconsinites who have reached out to help their neighbors in need. To supplement this tremendous community support, I have worked to help secure additional assistance from the federal government. With the deadline for disaster claims approaching, I stand ready to assist those with any lingering questions on how to seek assistance.” Congressman Ryan has served as a vocal advocate for Wisconsin residents in Congress. He voted in favor of additional disaster response funding for the flood-ravaged Midwest on June 19, 2008 (Roll Call Vote 432). He has also joined with the Wisconsin Congressional delegation to urge timely consideration of Governor Doyle’s federal emergency declaration requests. Ryan’s Constituent Service Center offices, along with his user-friendly website, have provided timely and helpful guidance for those seeking assistance. For the latest information on resources available, please visit: http://www.house.gov/ryan/floodresponse.
08.28.2008	WASHINGTON – 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan today encouraged students and eligible military personnel in the 1st Congressional District who seek a nomination to the U.S. Air Force, Military, Naval, or Merchant Marine Academies to submit their applications to his Janesville Constituent Services Center. All completed applications must be received by November 1, 2008. The evaluation of nomination requests will be based on a variety of factors including test scores achieved on the SAT or ACT, class rank, grade point average, school records, extracurricular activities, leadership potential, motivation, recommendations, and interviews. “America’s Service Academies have a reputation for rigorous academics and for providing training that helps graduates become leaders in military and civilian life. Young people who know that they want to serve in our nation’s Armed Forces and are committed to doing the hard work the Academies require should consider applying for an academy nomination,” Ryan said. Students applying for an appointment to a U.S. Service Academy must have a nomination from an authorized nominating source. Members of Congress are authorized to nominate candidates, as are the President, Vice President, and the Secretaries of the Army, Navy and Air Force. Students seeking a nomination from Ryan should contact the office by calling toll-free 1-888-909-7926. Nomination forms are available through the congressional website at: http://www.house.gov/ryan/academy. Completed nomination application forms must reach the Janesville office by the November 1, 2008 deadline, for the class entering in 2009. Students should send their applications to Ryan’s Janesville Constituent Services Center, to the attention of Chad Herbert. The address and phone number for this office are listed below: Congressman Paul Ryan Attention: Chad Herbert Janesville Constituent Services Center 20 S. Main Street, Suite 10 Janesville, WI 53545 Phone: 1-888-909-RYAN (7926) Applicants for academy nominations from Congressman Ryan must be: Citizens of the United States and residents of the 1st Congressional District of Wisconsin; At least 17 years of age and must not have passed their 23rd birthday on July 1 of the year of entry; Unmarried and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents, at the time of admission to an academy. Competition to enter the Academies is intense, and receiving a nomination does not guarantee acceptance by an Academy. *** Special note: Students should not send their nomination application materials to Ryan’s Washington, D.C. office. Mail deliveries for congressional offices in Washington are still subject to delays due to required security precautions. As such, all applications should be sent to Ryan’s Janesville office.
07.25.2008	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan will host an African American Community Issues Forum and listening session, in conjunction with Racine area African American Community Leader Ken Lumpkin, in Racine at the Flatiron Mall on Monday, August 11 from 2:30 to 3:45pm. The forum will provide a venue for discussing matters of federal concern to constituents, including those that have an impact on the area’s African American community. This gathering will also offer an opportunity to talk about a wide range of issues before Congress, as well as provide area residents with helpful information about federal government resources and programs available to them. “This forum offers a great chance for area residents and community leaders to gather together to voice concerns, share ideas, and get information on issues that affect the day-to-day lives of African Americans in southeastern Wisconsin,” Ryan said. WHAT: African American Community Issues Forum WHEN: Monday, August 11th, doors open at 2:30pm, meeting from 2:45–3:45pm WHERE: Flatiron Mall, 1661 Douglas Ave., Racine People who would like more information about this community issues forum can call Paul Ryan’s office via the toll-free constituent services hotline: 1-888-909-7926 or Ken Lumpkin at 262-632-9370.
07.23.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan strongly criticized today’s fundamentally flawed housing legislation. Earlier today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3221, the so-called “American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act,” by a vote of 272-152. Ryan voiced strong opposition to both the unprecedented bailout for the shareholders of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the missed opportunity for serious reform of these institutions. H.R. 3221 also included bailouts for big banks and mortgage lenders that helped drive the housing market into its current crisis. After voting against H.R. 3221, Ryan issued the following statement: “My top priority is to protect the taxpayers, not the shareholders. Our current policy toward Fannie and Freddie is not only dysfunctional and rife with bad incentives, but it also has potentially disastrous consequences for taxpayers. This bailout plan aggravates the fundamental problem that led us here: Fannie and Freddie remain for-profit corporations but still enjoy a Federal guarantee at the taxpayers’ expense against any risk of loss. To force Americans already struggling to make ends meet to take on this risk is a dangerous precedent. “Congress has tuned out the voice of the taxpayer with today’s bailout bill. Since my first years in Congress, I have called for reforms in Congressional oversight of these mortgage giants, so that we could have avoided the current situation. We need to inject some commonsense into this debate, rather than set ourselves up for more taxpayer-funded bailouts in the future.” For more from Congressman Ryan on this issue, please visit the following links: Ryan on House floor (video) “Fannie and Freddie: Cost of the Status Quo,” op-ed by Reps Paul Ryan (WI-01) and Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) “Consistent Voice for GSE Reform,” Rep. Paul Ryan, Committee on Banking and Financial Services, 2000
07.23.2008	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the 1st District Mobile Office schedule for August through October. The mobile office makes regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin’s 1st Congressional District. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. Please click here for a listing of scheduled stops for the 1st District Mobile Office. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the 1st District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing 1st District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. From 1999 through 2007, the mobile office has made nearly 2000 visits to area communities. “I need to hear from 1st District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their town or area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. 1st District residents can check their local paper or our web site – www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of mobile office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by.
07.14.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan expressed grave concerns at the insistence by Congressional leadership to continue to put off-limits vast supplies of domestic energy. Earlier today, President Bush announced that he will lift the executive prohibition on energy exploration along the Outer Continental Shelf, but Congress has refused to follow suit. Coupled with today’s sobering news that Oak Creek-based Midwest Airlines will be laying off over 1,200 of its hard-working employees, Congressman Ryan has had enough. Ryan issued the following statement in light of today’s troubling developments: "Unless Congress takes action to lift its own moratorium, President Bush's decision to lift an executive ban on offshore drilling is meaningless. For nearly three decades, Congress has made it illegal to drill for oil and natural gas along the Outer Continental Shelf. Those I serve in Wisconsin can no longer afford to put up with our misguided energy policies. In addition to the pain at the pump felt by families across Wisconsin, high fuel costs have led directly to announced layoffs for workers at GM in Janesville and Midwest Airlines in Oak Creek. Enough is enough: we need a comprehensive energy policy - and we need one today. Congress can start by ending its stubborn resistance toward boosting domestic energy supply, and lift its moratorium on offshore drilling. "Today’s announcement from Midwest Airlines is devastating, and comes at a time when folks are already struggling in our current economic downturn. As we prepare for the difficult months ahead, I will do all that I can to provide assistance to the employees of Midwest Airlines hit hardest by today’s painful decision.”
06.26.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan enthusiastically praised today’s recognition by the Supreme Court of the individual rights guaranteed by the Second Amendment. In District of Columbia v. Heller, the Supreme Court of the United States upheld a federal appeals court ruling that declared the 1976 D.C. gun ban unconstitutional. In response to today’s decision, Congressman Ryan issued the following statement: “This is a landmark affirmation of our constitutional rights. As an avid outdoorsman and hunter, I’ve long been an advocate of the rights of gun owners who use firearms responsibly, while working to punish those who use guns to commit crimes. For over three decades, the D.C. gun ban has stripped citizens of their right to keep and bear arms – a clear violation of the Second Amendment. This decision will reverberate for years as a victory for individual liberty.”
06.20.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan applauded the long overdue compromise that promotes both the security and the civil liberties of the American people. Today, Ryan voted in favor of a long-term fix to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). The FISA Amendments Act of 2008 (H.R. 6304) passed by an overwhelming bipartisan majority, with a vote of 293 to 129. The FISA Amendments Act of 2008 provides the legal framework for the intelligence community to acquire foreign intelligence information, with an appreciation for the significant changes in communications technology and the nature of national security threats since FISA was passed in 1978. Consistent with the 1978 law and the Constitution, FISA Court approval would still be required for monitoring communications of suspected foreign terrorists. Rather than waiting for court approval before taking action – a delay that would put American lives at risk in the post-9/11 world – intelligence officials can seek court approval within a week of emergency eavesdropping on foreigners. To be clear, this bill strengthens current protections for U.S. citizens against unlawful monitoring by U.S. intelligence agencies. This bill also addresses the liability issue for telecommunication companies that assisted the federal government in good faith following the horrific attacks on September 11th, 2001. H.R. 6304 provides procedures by which Federal courts can grant retroactive liability protection for these companies. Following today’s vote on the House floor, Congressman Ryan issued the following statement: “While we should have closed the gaps in our intelligence laws a long time ago, today’s bipartisan compromise will serve as a significant blow to radical terrorist networks seeking to do us harm. This bill protects telecom companies that stepped forward in the days following 9/11 to assist the government in keeping us safe. Those acts deserve admiration – not lawsuits. “Congress has repeatedly failed in its attempts to modernize the tools to combat terrorism. Since the expiration of the Protect America Act over four months ago, America has been fighting terrorism with pre-9/11 intelligence capabilities. Today, Congress has taken a significant step forward in giving our intelligence community the tools they need to keep America safe, while upholding the treasured freedoms and civil liberties that we hold dear.”
06.19.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan continues to reach out to officials at the local, state, and federal level in an effort to provide assistance for those impacted by the recent floods. With mounting costs imposed upon individuals and businesses, a number of recovery resources have been made available to those in need. On June 13, Paul Ryan met with state and local officials to discuss the impact of the floods on the Mukwonago Dam. Congressman Ryan is encouraging residents of communities affected by the flooding to report damage to the appropriate authorities. As communities continue to expand their recovery efforts, Ryan has issued the following statement: “In my discussions and visits with those hit hardest by the pervasive flooding, I’ve been given a fresh reminder of what makes Wisconsin great: the people of this State continue to demonstrate their compassion and determination to support each other in times of need. It is important for those impacted by the floods to report damage to appropriate authorities. I have made available a helpful guide for those seeking information on recovery assistance: www.house.gov/ryan/floodresponse.” Federal disaster declarations have already been issued for Kenosha, Milwaukee, Racine, Rock, Walworth and Waukesha Counties, along with 22 other counties throughout the State. Residents from these counties with flood-related damage are encouraged to contact FEMA officials at 1-800-621-FEMA or online at: www.fema.gov. Ryan and his colleagues in the Wisconsin Congressional delegation are working closely with government officials to provide assistance for the remaining affected counties. For the latest information on resources available, please visit: www.house.gov/ryan/floodresponse. Congressman Ryan has served as a vocal advocate for Wisconsin residents in Congress. Today, Ryan voted in favor of additional disaster response funding for the flood-ravaged Midwest. He has also joined with the Wisconsin Congressional delegation to urge timely consideration of Governor Doyle’s federal emergency declaration requests.
06.10.2008	WASHINGTON – Led by Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI), nine Members of Wisconsin’s Congressional delegation today appealed to Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt to grant Wisconsin a waiver to further expand its BadgerCare Plus program and give more Wisconsin residents access to affordable health care. Under federal rules, states are limited in the ways they can use federal Medicaid funds. Medicaid is the federal-state health insurance program for people with low incomes. Wisconsin has been a leader among states seeking innovative ways to expand health care coverage to all its residents. Last year, Wisconsin received a waiver to institute BadgerCare Plus, a Medicaid-funded program which provides health insurance for all children under the age of 19 years. The State now seeks a waiver for a second phase of BadgerCare Plus that will provide affordable health care coverage to low-income, uninsured, childless adults for implementation on January 1, 2009. In a letter sent today, Reps. Baldwin and Ryan, joined by Senators Kohl and Feingold and Representatives Obey, Petri, Kind, Moore, and Kagen asked Secretary Leavitt to grant a waiver that would provide access to health care coverage for an estimated 81,000 chronically uninsured adult Wisconsin residents. Along with today’s letter, Baldwin and Ryan issued the following joint statement: “BadgerCare Plus provides an innovative and financially responsible path toward ensuring the health and well-being of our state’s most vulnerable individuals. We are proud to work together and grateful for the support of other Members of our state delegation in offering this bipartisan letter of endorsement. We hope Secretary Leavitt will do the right thing and grant the waiver.” Wisconsin Governor Jim Doyle expressed appreciation for the Congressional support. “Here in Wisconsin, we have found a way to extend health insurance this year to 72,000 children. Now, we are looking at an innovative and responsible way to build on this success and get coverage for more people who need health insurance. I applaud Rep. Tammy Baldwin and Rep. Paul Ryan for their efforts,” Doyle said. Baldwin and Ryan expressed hope that this letter of Congressional support will prompt a timely decision on Wisconsin’s waiver request by the Department of Health and Human Services. Click here to view a copy of the the letter to Secretary Leavitt. Contacts: Jerilyn Goodman (Baldwin) 608-251-8737 Conor Sweeney (Ryan) 202-226-6726
06.09.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan has taken swift action in response to the recent damage across the State. Ryan has remained in close contact with local officials working to assist those hit hardest by the continued flooding. Having received numerous inquiries, Ryan has provided the following information for residents looking to report flood-related damage: County Number to report damage Emergency Management Kenosha (262) 605-7926 (262) 605-7900 Milwaukee (414) 278-3000 (414) 278-4709 Racine (262) 636-3308 (262) 636-3515 Rock (608) 758-8440 (608) 758-8440 Walworth (262) 741-4400 (262) 741-4400 Waukesha (262) 548-7110 (262) 548-7580 Racine is also offering an email address: RCEmergencyManagement@goracine.org Please note that these numbers are to report damage, and not for people to obtain immediate response assistance. If you need immediate response assistance, please call 911. In response to the severe storms and widespread flooding, Governor Jim Doyle has already declared a State of Emergency for 29 counties across Wisconsin. Ryan has joined with the entire Wisconsin Congressional delegation to offer their support should Governor Doyle formally request Federal disaster assistance. Click here for a copy of the delegation’s letter to Mr. R. David Paulison, Administrator of Federal Emergency Management Agency.
06.03.2008	Washington, D.C. – Following the announcement by General Motors that it planned to close its Janesville plant by 2010, U.S. Senators Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl and Representative Paul Ryan sent a letter to General Motors CEO Rick Wagoner asking him to reconsider the decision to close the Janesville GM plant and requesting a meeting to discuss the possible retooling of the plant for different production lines. Click here to view the letter. Contacts: Conor Sweeney (202) 226-7326 Zach Lowe (Feingold) – (202) 224-8657 Lynn Becker or Rohit Mahajan (Kohl) – (202) 224-5653
06.03.2008	JANESVILLE – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan made the following statement in response to today’s announcement by General Motors, indicating that the Janesville plant will likely close its doors by 2010: “Today’s news is downright gut-wrenching for Janesville. Growing up and living in Janesville, this is something we’ve always feared. First of all, my thoughts and prayers are with the workers and their families, many of whom I’ve grown up with and am still close friends with. If GM’s plans are fully carried out, this would be a big psychological and economic blow to our community and our state; but Janesville will survive this, because we simply have to survive this. As I have witnessed time and again, I have faith that our community will pull together to support one another in the difficult days ahead. It is my hope that as this 2010 shutdown date approaches, Janesville will be in a better position to reverse this decision.” In an effort to provide assistance and support for those hit hardest by this morning’s announcement, Congressman Ryan, a fifth-generation Janesville native, will continue to work closely with union leaders, GM officials, and members of the Janesville community.
05.21.2008	A Roadmap for America's Future: www.americanroadmap.org Wall Street Journal Op-Ed: How to Tackle the Entitlement Crisis WASHINGTON – Earlier today, Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan unveiled a bold, comprehensive proposal to solve America’s looming fiscal crisis. Ryan’s plan, titled “A Roadmap for America’s Future,” transforms the Federal Government and strengthens American society for future generations. The challenges facing the United States are immense. America’s health care crisis has left millions uninsured, with millions more facing skyrocketing medical costs. The cumbersome tax code punishes hard work and puts American businesses and American-made products at a competitive disadvantage against foreign competitors. Most troubling, the Federal Government is locked on an unsustainable fiscal path, with trillions of dollars of unfunded liabilities. Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security represent the promise of health and retirement security for millions of the most vulnerable Americans, yet these 20th-century programs are headed for bankruptcy. This fiscal reality is no longer in question. What remains in doubt is whether America’s leaders will lead and set a different course for the next generation. Ryan’s Roadmap tackles head-on the interrelated crises in health care, entitlement spending, the outdated Federal tax code, and our growing debt. “A Roadmap for America’s Future” includes specific policy proposals, backed up by numbers, which will be introduced as legislation. At a press conference earlier today, Congressman Ryan made the following remarks: “Washington is broken, and has yet to face up to our most pressing domestic challenges. My Roadmap for America’s Future will fulfill the promise of health and retirement security, lift the crushing burden of debt we’re passing to our children, and will strengthen American jobs and competitiveness for the 21st century. “As our nation’s leaders continue to drag their feet on these reforms, we risk severing the great American legacy. This legacy provides that each generation tackles their historic challenge and leaves the next generation more secure and more prosperous. It is our duty to leave our children with a better America, and I believe that my Roadmap for America’s Future will fulfill this duty.”
05.20.2008	WASHINGTON – 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan announced the schedule for listening sessions that will be held from May 27 to June 16, 2008. Ryan will be visiting 35 communities throughout Wisconsin's 1st Congressional District for these listening sessions. These meetings provide an opportunity for 1st District residents to share their ideas and ask questions they have about federal government issues. Among other issues, Ryan will discuss his bold new initiative to fulfill the mission of health and retirement security, lift our crippling burden of debt, boost American competitiveness abroad and set our nation on the right track for the 21st century. Ryan’s plan, titled “A Roadmap for America’s Future,” seeks to transform our domestic priorities to strengthen American society for future generations. “These listening sessions are a great opportunity for people to share their thoughts and concerns on issues ranging from health care to jobs and the economy to our national defense. I am also eager to discuss with my employers real solutions to our looming economic and fiscal crisis. I want to hear directly from area residents about their views and interactions with government, and these meetings provide a forum to do that,” Ryan said. Please click here for a complete schedule of upcoming listening sessions.
05.14.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Four leading farm bill reform advocates in the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Paul Ryan (R-WI), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) today criticized the farm bill conference report as a missed opportunity for the serious reform that would make our farm programs more equitable and fiscally responsible. Despite being touted as significant reform, the bill fails to address the most unjustifiable, market and trade distorting aspects of U.S. farm policies. “This bill was well designed to avoid every opportunity for serious reform of wasteful, outdated subsidy programs while actually piling on additional layers of unnecessary spending,” Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) said. “Commodity prices are through the roof and yet we are still funneling billions of dollars to farm households making up to $2.5 million a year in profit. I challenge any Member of Congress to justify these outrageous payments to their constituents who are right now struggling with the highest food and fuel costs ever. My colleagues and the President should reject these sham reforms, and demand a farm bill that helps only the family farmers who need it, and is worth the confidence of the American taxpayer.” “This farm bill is bad policy on several fronts,” said Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ). “Not only is it market-distorting and fiscally irresponsible, but it complicates our current trade obligations and will continue sending taxpayer money to wealthy farmers and landowners. I know that many of my Republican colleagues experienced buyer’s remorse after supporting the last farm bill in 2002. Given that the current bill is no better, I hope that they won’t feel compelled to vote for it.” Farm Bill Conference Report: Where’s the Reform? The conference report continues to subsidize millionaires. Much has been made of the means test being placed on subsidies. The reality is that by combining on- and off-farm income, households making up to $2.5 million are still eligible for all subsidies. Furthermore, even the very high limit for on-farm income applies only to Direct Payments. According to USDA, these limits could only affect 0.2 percent of producers (4,600 out of two million). Cuts to Direct Payments represent a drop in the bucket. At a time when farmers are receiving record prices for their commodity crops, the agreement cuts $300 million from Direct Payments, out of $50 billion, a cut of only 0.6 percent. Increases in target prices and loan rates will cost billions in the future. Defenders of the farm safety net like to point out that prices always fall from historic highs, and they will again. So while these increases may not mean much in the current market environment, they will be here to stay and will cost billions when prices do fall, money that is not being considered in current budget calculations. A permanent disaster program is a costly, unnecessary, and harmful additional layer of subsidies. The federal government already bankrolls crop insurance to help farmers when a crop fails, counter-cyclical payments when prices drop, marketing loans to allow farmers to finance a crop and guarantee a price, and Direct Payments for no reason at all. These existing programs are more than adequate for legitimate farming operations. Additional layers of subsidization foster inefficiency and incentivize production on marginal lands that should not support large-scale agriculture. Finally, $2-3 billion is not nearly as much as historical ad hoc payments, so Congress will inevitably be called on to provide billions more in future years. “At a time when Americans are struggling to pay their mortgage, food and energy bills, we should help people who need it and not lavish resources on people who don’t,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR). “With record high farm prices, we should not give money to couples earning up to $1.5 million in farm income and $1 million in non-farm income when most farmers still get little or no help. We should keep some of the farm bill’s modest reforms and reject the wasteful investments from the past. The Agriculture Committee has taken this bill as far as it can. Now it is time for the full House to take control. If the president vetoes the bill, we must finish the job by getting more to farmers who need help, meeting our environmental obligations and doing more for the hungry.” "The conferees have squandered yet another opportunity for meaningful reform,” said Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI). “The farm bill should be focused on providing a safety net for family farmers in times of need, yet Congress has instead opted to subsidize the wealthy at a time when food prices are surging. Our agricultural policies are in desperate need of commonsense reform and this bill fails to deliver.”
05.08.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan introduced legislation today that would impose a one-year earmark moratorium and strengthen the paychecks of American families. With the savings from this break in pork-barrel spending, Congress would provide some relief at the pump this summer and make much needed investments in our nation’s infrastructure. “The Gas Tax Relief and Earmark Moratorium Act of 2008” was unveiled at today’s Joint Hearing before the House Budget Committee and House Transportation Committee, which focused on financing infrastructure investments. Ryan’s proposal would suspend the Federal 18.4-cents-per-gallon gasoline tax for the high-demand summer months. Today’s announcement coincides with news that the price of a gallon of gas in Southern Wisconsin has set new record highs, averaging roughly $3.80 per gallon in some areas. With the revenues saved from the earmark moratorium, his bill would replenish the Highway Trust Fund, a critical source of funding aimed to strengthen our nation’s infrastructure. The Gas Tax Relief and Earmark Moratorium Act would go a step further by shoring up the fund’s projected shortfall for the coming fiscal year. Ryan’s earmark moratorium adheres to the reform efforts of Representatives Jack Kingston and Frank Wolf. The Kingston-Wolf proposal would conduct a full study of the broken practice of earmarking, bring greater transparency to these spending projects, and bar any new earmarks until the system is fixed. Ryan’s one-year earmark moratorium would provide an estimated $14.8 billion of additional revenue, more than enough to provide Americans relief at the pump and replenish the Highway Trust Fund so that road repairs can continue. Additional earmark savings would be dedicating to reducing the deficit. Challenging his colleagues again on the scourge of pork-barrel spending, Congressman Ryan issued the following statement: “The decisions made by Congress on taxes and spending impact the paychecks of working men and women. By clinging to this broken earmark practice, Congress is picking pork over paychecks, and pork over potholes. Simply saying no to earmarks for the remainder of the year could give folks in Wisconsin some relief at the pump this summer and fix the Highway Trust Fund’s deficit. I am hopeful that Congress will give up its addiction to pork and address the concerns of the American people.”
05.06.2008	WASHINGTON – 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that the winner of this year's 1st District Art Competition is Andrea Woodward, a junior at St. Joseph High School in Kenosha who submitted a graphite portrait titled: Outside the Touch of Time. Using graphite drawing pencils, Andrea drew a stirring portrait of herself and her brother. Andrea’s winning artwork will be displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol, along with the winning entries from other congressional districts throughout the country. Her art teacher at St. Joseph High School is Kathy Gagliardi. Congressman Ryan invited every high school in the 1st Congressional District to submit an entry to the annual art contest, and a panel of local artists judged the entries. The award ceremony took place at the Olde Towne Mall in Janesville, Wisconsin on Saturday, May 3, 2008. The competition was part of the 27th annual “Congressional Art Competition — An Artistic Discovery.” This nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by Members of Congress, provides high school artists with an opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity. "I want to thank all the students who participated in this annual competition and congratulate Andrea Woodward on her winning portrait,” Ryan said. “The tremendous skill and imagination of each of the young artists gave our judges a difficult task. This year, Andrea’s moving portrait earned top honors, and I look forward to seeing her artwork displayed at the Capitol.”
05.01.2008	WASHINGTON – On the heels of yet another interest rate cut, Wisconsin’s 1st District Congressman Paul Ryan today announced plans to introduce legislation that would recommit the Federal Reserve to controlling inflation. Since last September, the Fed has slashed the federal funds rate down to 2%. Congressman Ryan has been outspoken with his concerns on inflation, as interest rate cuts have persisted in the face of rising prices. While dealt a bad hand, the Fed has been unsuccessful in balancing their dual – and often contradictory – mandate of both short-term economic growth and long-term economic stability. Congressman Ryan has sought to set our monetary policy back on sound economic footing with the introduction of The Price Stability Act of 2008. This legislation would give the Federal Reserve a single mandate: price stability. The Price Stability Act would not alter the tools at the Fed’s disposal, but rather direct the Fed to make their overriding policy goal that of controlling inflation. As the negative impact of our monetary policy becomes increasingly clear to Americans, Congressman Ryan has issued the following statement: “Enough is enough. The continued rate cuts from the Federal Reserve have fueled price increases across the board. Inflation is an insidious threat to our economic well-being: it wipes away savings; it eats away at the paychecks of working people; and it devalues the quality of life of those living on fixed incomes. “Congress bears some of the responsibility for the Fed’s recent actions. The Congressional mandate given to the Fed must be reexamined. The Price Stability Act would refocus our monetary policy to tackling inflation. Our economic challenges require bold solutions – and this commitment to sound money is a vital component to strengthening our economy.” Click here for Congressman Ryan’s Op-Ed in today’s Wall Street Journal.
04.25.2008	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced that the 1st District Mobile Office will resume its regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin's First District in May. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. Please click here for a listing of scheduled stops for the 1st District Mobile Office. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the First District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing First District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. From 1999 through 2007, the mobile office has made over 1900 visits to area communities. “I need to hear from First District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their town or area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. First District residents can check their local paper or our website – http://www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Sites and addresses listed on the mobile office hours schedule indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by.
04.15.2008	WASHINGTON – As Americans ‘celebrate’ Tax Day, First District Congressman Paul Ryan reiterated the need to stop painful tax hikes called for by the House Majority. Amidst our current economic slowdown, there have been painful spikes in the cost of food, energy, health care, and more. To further burden American families with massive tax hikes is clearly a move in the wrong direction. In spite of our nation’s economic difficulties, the House Majority recently passed a budget resolution that calls for the largest tax increase in American history, totaling roughly $683 billion. While American workers and families are struggling to makes ends meet, the House has called for the following: increases the marginal rates for all workers; increases taxes $500 per child; reimposes the marriage penalty and death tax; and fails to permanently address the Alternative Minimum Tax. Congressman Ryan proposed an alternative budget resolution that would have eliminated the deficit without raising taxes. It also included a one-year earmark moratorium and took meaningful steps to address the unsustainable path of our vital health and retirement security programs. Unfortunately, this fiscally responsible budget alternative was voted down on the House floor on March 13, 2008. On the day that tax returns are due to the federal government, Congressman Ryan issued the following statement: “Wisconsinites are painfully aware that prices for nearly everything – from groceries to gas – are on the rise. To add further tax increases is a fundamentally flawed policy, yet the Democrat’s budget would do just that. They have chosen a path that would raise taxes on the average Wisconsinite by $2,965. We simply cannot afford the vicious cycle of ever-higher spending chased by ever-higher taxes. “Tax Day provides us an opportunity to reflect on the need to tackle our urgent fiscal challenges. The looming tax increases in the short-term pale in comparison to what will come should we fail to address the unsustainable fiscal path that Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security are currently on. Absent meaningful reform, these programs will overwhelm our federal budget, and double the tax burden on the next generation. “Congress is failing in its responsibility to be good stewards of taxpayers’ hard-earned money. The American people deserve better from their leaders, and I am optimistic that we can rise to meet the fiscal challenges before us. We must seize this opportunity to provide tax relief for American families and workers, and restore the retirement security and health safety net for our nation’s most vulnerable.”
04.03.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today announced the recipient of the latest Budget Boondoggle Award. The award, an homage to the late Wisconsin Senator William Proxmire’s Golden Fleece Award, is intended to highlight the most egregious, wasteful, and unnecessary spending American taxpayers were forced to fund. Congressman Ryan has awarded the dubious honor to our U.S. farm policy for handing out subsidies to hundreds of wealthy New York City residents. In 2005 – the most recent year for which complete data are available – more than 300 well-heeled “farmers” on the distinctly rural island of Manhattan received subsidies from the Department of Agriculture, which notes this largesse on its website. Among the recipients were: at least two billionaires; a former CEO of Seagrams; and numerous Wall Street power brokers. Additionally, a member of the prestigious Rockefeller family has received $228,000 in subsidies in the past 5 years. In response to this alarming misuse of taxpayer money, Congressman Ryan issued the following statement: “Our nation’s farm policies should be aimed to provide a safety net for family farmers in times of need, yet they continue to be a source of poorly targeted wasteful spending. As this award highlights, it is unacceptable when our farm policy subsidizes wealthy urban dwellers in Manhattan at the expense of rural family farms and American taxpayers. Meaningful reform to our nation’s farm policies is long overdue. It is my hope that by highlighting these abusive spending practices, we can greatly reduce the loss of taxpayer dollars to federal government waste.”
04.03.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Four leading farm bill reform advocates in the U.S. House of Representatives and two leading national conservation groups today formally objected to a proposal last week by farm bill negotiators to eliminate nearly $1 billion from conservation programs to provide more money for a permanent agricultural disaster assistance fund. U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Paul Ryan (R-WI), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) today joined with the Environmental Working Group and Environmental Defense Fund to highlight the importance of conservation programs and encourage the adoption of commonsense reforms that would achieve enough savings to preserve conservation initiatives and other farm bill priorities. “Conservation programs should not suffer because of misplaced spending priorities,” said Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI). “Increasing conservation funding is vital to address a tremendous unmet need and help more farmers be better stewards of the land. Negotiators should not put these programs on the chopping block in favor of additional subsidies for millionaire farmers who don’t need them. All the negotiators need to do is take a look at some commonsense reforms to the commodity programs to find more than enough savings to fund a vital increase in conservation, as well as other priorities.” "It is troubling to learn that negotiators may add billions of dollars to a duplicative disaster entitlement program, which would come at the expense of proven conservation programs,” said Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI). “Absent meaningful reform with our agricultural policies, we will fail in our responsibility to be good stewards of the environment and good stewards of taxpayer dollars." Farmers in only a few states would monopolize a costly new permanent disaster relief fund, which would shortchange voluntary conservation programs that help farmers in every state protect environmentally fragile areas and provide cleaner water and air. Right now, two out of three farmers and ranchers are denied conservation assistance because of inadequate funding. “To cut conservation programs to help fund a permanent disaster program is a one-two punch to the environment,” said Sara Hopper, an attorney for Environmental Defense Fund, who was staff member of the Senate Agriculture Committee during the 2002 farm bill. “It will encourage intensive crop production on environmentally fragile lands, and there will be less money to deal with the consequences.” "There is a risk of irreparable environmental damage and the loss of a generation of conservation accomplishments without the minimum increase of $5 billion in new funds over baseline," said Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group. The great unmet need for conservation dollars – coupled with the current market and economic conditions – make it particularly unreasonable to take money from conservation programs to pay for additional handouts to select producers. The prices of government-subsidized crops are at – or near –unprecedented levels and net farm income has reached a record high. Reps. Kind, Ryan, Blumenauer and Flake also highlighted common sense reforms they have identified that would allow conferees to develop a fiscally responsible farm bill that still makes needed investments in conservation, while providing a safety net to family farms, when needed. Adopting some – or all – of the reforms would ensure that vital investments in conservation can be made. “Congress has had many chances to reform the farm bill, but up until now it has missed the mark,” Rep. Blumenauer (D-OR) said. “Our priorities should be conservation, nutrition, and rural development, not increased subsidies that do very little for the vast majority of farmers, with 60% of them getting nothing at all.” Several of the possible reforms highlighted by the members included: reducing direct payments to farmers given record-high commodity prices, means testing farm subsidies to prevent farm households making more than $250,000 from receiving subsidies, capping farm subsidy payments at $250,000 per farmer, and reforming crop insurance to prevent windfalls to insurance agents and companies.
03.25.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan issued a statement in response to today’s release of the Social Security Trustees’ Annual Report. According to the report, Social Security and Medicare continue to face a mounting, and increasingly urgent, financial crisis that threatens U.S. fiscal and economic stability. The report also issues a third consecutive warning about the amount of funding Medicare is drawing from resources other than its dedicated revenue. In response to the report’s troubling yet unsurprising findings, Congressman Ryan issued the following statement: “The Social Security and Medicare Trustees today handed Congress a fresh reminder of its historic opportunity to transform these programs before it’s too late. “Congress has known for years that our largest entitlement programs – particularly Social Security and Medicare – simply cannot survive as currently structured. Without reform, these programs will grow themselves right into extinction, thereby eliminating the retirement security and health safety net for the very people they were designed to serve. “Congress knows it must act. If we act now, we have the opportunity to reform these programs in a rational, well-thought-out way. We can make them better, stronger, more responsive, more resilient, more sustainable, and more in line with the way our economy really works. There is no reason to wait; each year of delay increases the likelihood that Congress will be forced to make deep cuts in benefits or raise taxes or debt to unsustainable levels. “The alarm has been sounded – this is the third consecutive Medicare warning. Hitting the snooze button, yet again, is not the right choice. Congress is lucky enough to have yet another major opportunity – in the FY09 Budget Conference Report – to do the right thing. Americans should demand we take it. Because our actions on this issue, or lack thereof, will have an impact on these critical programs – and our nation’s economy – for generations to come.”
03.14.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today opposed House Democrats’ decision to ignore a bipartisan bill, passed by the Senate on February 12, 2008, updating the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). The Majority instead opted to push legislation that offers no long-term fix to close the gaps in America’s intelligence laws. The Senate-passed bill, known as the FISA Amendments Act of 2007, received overwhelming bipartisan support and has similar support within the House. The bill offered by House Democrat leadership, is another temporary measure, which again fails to provide retroactive immunity to companies that assisted the U.S. government with intelligence gathering after September 11th, 2001. Telecommunications companies that responded to America’s call have not received adequate protection, making them vulnerable to lawsuits for performing a patriotic service to the country. Although the bill passed the House on March 14, 2008 by a vote of 213 to 197, it is expected that it will meet stiff opposition in the Senate. President Bush has indicated he will veto legislation that does not provide a long-term update to provide American intelligence community the tools and flexibility needed to quickly respond to terrorist threats. Congressman Ryan issued the following statement: “It has been nearly one month since the House Democrat leadership allowed the Protect America Act to expire, and American security has suffered because of it. Without this badly needed modernization of FISA, America currently operates at a pre-9/11 intelligence capability. In the days after September 11th, telecom companies stepped forward during our nation’s time of need, providing much needed assistance to help keep us safe. Those noble acts deserve admiration – not lawsuits.” “It’s absolutely clear that if the Senate bill were brought to the House Floor, it would pass with the same spirit of bipartisanship that it received in the Senate. Unfortunately, House Democrat leadership has chosen to push for a bill that doesn’t meet the needs of our intelligence efforts. I will continue to press for House consideration of the bipartisan Senate bill and to provide our intelligence community the necessary tools to protect America from radical Islamic jihadists.”
03.13.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan, the Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, presented a budget alternative for Fiscal Year 2009 today. Congressman Ryan’s budget alternative would achieve balance by 2012 without raising taxes. It repeals the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) and supports national defense, boosts homeland security and veterans’ funding, and takes steps toward rescuing the Federal Government’s major entitlement programs – especially Medicare and Medicaid – from their currently unsustainable spending path. The budget also promotes accountability by imposing a moratorium on earmarks and requiring a vote in Congress before increasing the debt. Although Congressman Ryan’s budget received 157 votes, it was not enough to pass the House. Instead, the House voted largely along party lines in favor of the Democrat majority’s budget that includes record tax increases, out-of-control spending, and ignores the entitlement crisis. “Today’s vote on the federal budget was about priorities and choices,” Ryan said. “When prices are rising for gas, food and health care, the last thing taxpayers can afford right now is an enormous tax increase. When families are trying to make ends meet, Congress should not increase government spending while doing nothing to address the entitlement crisis, wasteful government spending and an abusive earmark process. The Majority’s budget, however, does just this by putting the taxpayer last while expecting them to pay more taxes to fund the Majority’s spending increases. This is a shocking lack of accountability and fiscal restraint that will cost residents of Wisconsin nearly $3,000 per person in additional taxes. And the absence of any effort at entitlement reform only makes matters worse for future generations.” “As stewards of the federal budget process, we have a responsibility to take action that will prevent our children from being left a legacy of debt and higher taxes. The alternative budget that I brought before the House would address each of these critical issues,” Ryan continued. “My budget, a pro-growth plan, would balance the budget in 2012 without a single tax increase, begin the process of rescuing the major entitlement programs, and halt the earmark process until there is real reform.” The Democrat Budget Resolution calls for the largest tax increase in American history. By allowing tax relief enacted in 2001 and 2003 to expire, the Democrats will raise taxes on the American public by $683 billion dollars. That translates to an average tax increase of $2,965 per person in the state of Wisconsin. The Democrat tax increases would: Cut the Child Tax Credit in half, from $1000 to $500, increasing taxes on 31 million taxpayers, on average, by $859. Reimpose the marriage penalty, increasing taxes on 31 million married taxpayers, on average, by $466 because they are married. Raise the 10 percent tax rate bracket to 15 percent, imposing the individual income tax on 6 million individuals who previously owed no taxes. Increase Dividend and Capital Gains tax rate, hitting senior particularly hard with an average increase of $2,540. In addition to these tax increases, the deficit for this year will double. Under Majority’s plan, discretionary spending increases $23 billion above the President’s request. At the same time, earmarks will continue as an earmark moratorium was rejected. The Democrat budget ignores the calls of numerous experts who have testified before the House Budget Committee that the entitlement programs are in crisis and action must be taken now. Comparatively, Congressman Ryan’s budget alternative would impose a fiscally sound plan for America’s future. The plan would achieve the following: Retains 2001/2003 Tax Relief. Contains no increases in marginal rates; no increase in taxes per child; no restoration of the marriage penalty or death tax; no increases in capital gains or dividends tax rates; and no expiration of other provisions of the 2001 and 2003 laws. Repeals AMT. Prevents expansion of the AMT for the next 3 years; begins phasing in repeal in 2012; achieves full repeal in 2013. Reforms Major Programs. Congressman Ryan’s budget takes steps toward rescuing the Federal Government’s major entitlement programs – especially Medicare and Medicaid – from their currently unsustainable spending path. These programs, as currently structured, will be unable to keep their promises to beneficiaries, and at the same time pose the greatest single threat to the budget and the economy. The reforms incorporated in Ryan’s budget alternative will make these programs meet their mission of providing retirement and health care security. Incorporates Bipartisan Legislative Line Item Veto. Includes provisions of the bipartisan Legislative Line Item Veto Act passed by the House in the 109th Congress. Imposes a Moratorium on Earmarks. Places a hold on congressional earmarks for the remainder of the 110th Congress, and dedicates the $14.8 billion in savings to keeping taxes low and balancing the budget. Strengthens PAYGO. Applies pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) to direct spending measures only, and prohibits the use of tax increases to finance increases in direct spending. Establishes discretionary spending limits in the House through 2010. These caps would act as an additional control over discretionary spending provided by annual appropriations bills.
03.05.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan, the Ranking Member on the House Budget Committee, declared his disappointment with the House Democrats’ federal budget proposal during committee debate today. The Democrats’ plan for the budget would raise taxes by a record amount, and dramatically increase spending with absolutely no strategy to deal with the ongoing entitlement crisis with Social Security and Medicare. “Republicans and Democrats agree on the need for a balanced budget, the need for sustainable economic growth and job creation, and the magnitude of the entitlement crisis. But the Democrats’ philosophy of big government, with more taxes and spending, makes it absolutely clear that we have significant disagreements about the best way to go about achieving those goals. Unfortunately, the Democrats’ plan is a swing and a miss on each one,” Ryan said. “Perhaps worst of all, the Democrats’ budget passes the buck on entitlement reform,” Ryan continued. “All of us have been told by countless experts that Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid are not sustainable without reforms. And we can not stand idly by while we know that this problem, once dismissed as somewhere off in the future, is already upon us. The first baby boomer has received her first Social Security check, and eighty million more are right behind her. It is fiscally negligent to ignore the glaring entitlement crisis, yet the Democrats’ budget does exactly that.” “In recent months, we’ve seen a host of legitimate concerns in the economy. Growth and job creation are slowing, and many homeowners are dealing with declines in their home’s value, combined with rising prices for food, energy and health care. We need to quickly enact commonsense solutions to deal with these problems. The worst thing we could do to a struggling economy – and struggling families -- is to raise taxes. But if we pass this budget, that’s exactly what we’ll be doing – imposing on the economy, and on every taxpayer – the largest tax increase in American history. And spending will be increasing in lockstep with the higher taxes, resulting in the highest annual increase in debt in our history. At the end of the day, the Democrats’ budget would make history in all the wrong ways.” “For these reasons, I will be offering an alternative balanced budget next week, one that won’t raise taxes, reigns in spending, and offers sensible reforms to our entitlement crisis. We have an opportunity to change the course of our fiscal future for the better, and my budget will do that.” Congressman Ryan and fellow Budget Committee Member Congresswoman Gwen Moore have offered a bipartisan amendment to express the sense of the House of Representatives that additional legislative action is needed to ensure that states pass 100 percent of child support on to families. By not penalizing families for administrative costs, child support fraud is reduced and participation increases. Based on the information released at today’s House Budget Committee debate and markup of the fiscal year 2008 budget resolution, the following are some of the key points of concern with the Democrat budget plan: Tax Increases Largest Tax Increase in History. Raises taxes by $683 billion over 5 years by claiming automatic, scheduled increases in marginal rates (including elimination of 10-percent bracket), higher taxes on marriage and children, higher taxes on investments, small businesses, and estates, and other tax hikes (current record tax increase is held by the 1993 Clinton tax increase of $240.6 billion over 5 years). Holds AMT Fix Hostage to $70-Billion Tax Hike. Contains no permanent AMT fix; and while claiming to protect 26 million additional taxpayers from the AMT for 1 year, the budget merely shifts the scheduled $70-billion tax increase to the subsequent 4 years. Higher Spending Adds $276 billion to the President’s budget over 5 years. With $3 trillion plus in annual spending, the Democratic budget solution is to increase discretionary spending above the President’s budget by $22 billion in FY 2009 and by $276 billion over the five year period. No Earmark Reform. Last year’s appropriations bills included 11,737 earmarks with a $16.9 billion price tag. The Democratic budget responds to this problem by funding all existing earmarks, adding $22 billion in FY 2009 spending and proposing no earmark reforms. 16 Tax and Spending “Reserve Funds”. Includes 16 reserve funds, which are mechanisms to increase taxes and spending above the levels proposed in the budget resolution. Last year, House Democrats used reserve funds to pass legislation that would increase spending by $200 billion over 10 years above the budget resolution’s levels. Fails to Do Anything to Rescue Social Security, Medicare & Medicaid Does nothing to address Social Security and Medicare’s unfunded liabilities of about $38.7 trillion and fails to address the Medicare trustees’ recent warning. By 2013, under the Democrats’ budget, unfunded liabilities grow to roughly $52.5 trillion. No Reform, Deficit Spending & Record Debt Abuses Fast-Track Reconciliation as follows: 1) jams a $70-billion tax increase to “pay for” a one-year AMT “patch” – though the patch only prevents exposing 26 million additional taxpayers from this tax for 1 year; 2) provides a nominal $750 million in 5-year savings to leverage unspecified Medicare changes with no real reform. Deficit Spending. Based on the analysis that the Democrats applied to the President’s budget, it does not balance the budget and leaves a deficit of $70 billion in 2012. Record Debt. The Democrats’ proposal raises the debt this year by $646 billion, the largest annual increase in the debt subject to limit in history.
02.28.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan introduced legislation providing enforcement tools to ensure a legal workforce and end document fraud and identity theft. The bill, known as the New Employee Verification Act, offers a secure and efficient way to protect employers from hiring illegal immigrants and protect employees from identity theft. One way to enforce our immigration laws and secure our country from illegal immigration is to stop undocumented workers from being hired illegally. While it is the employer’s responsibility to hire employees who are in the country legally, the current employee document verification system, based primarily on paper documents, simply does not work. As a result, many undocumented workers have been hired through the fraudulent use of someone else’s Social Security Number and identity. The New Employee Verification Act would replace the current paper-based, error prone work status verification process with a paperless and reliable Electronic Employment Verification System (EEVS). This user-friendly system would allow employers to enter EEVS data through an electronic portal that has already been proven effective in enhancing child support enforcement. Employers that avoid and ignore the law would face much stiffer penalties. This verification system would be administered by the Social Security Administration (SSA), avoiding unnecessary new bureaucracies. This bill also precludes the need for a new national database or a National I.D. card. Additionally, the legislation contains provisions to fight identity theft. The bill creates an alternate and voluntary Secure Electronic Employment Verification System (SEEVS) to verify an employee’s identity and work eligibility and to give the employee the ability to “lock” their own identity once verified. SEEVS would establish a network of private sector government certified companies to substantiate identities by using existing background check and document screening tools. The system would also provide additional security with the use of a biometric identifier, i.e. fingerprints. These tools, while helping to ensure a legal workforce and securing worker identities, also prevents wages earned through future unauthorized work from being used to determine benefits. “I firmly believe that ensuring a legal workforce and securing worker identities is essential to stemming the tide of illegal immigration,” Ryan said. “The issue of a legal, secure, and immediate employment verification system is far too important to leave to the honor system. Paper documents have proven too easy to forge and the time is now for a new, easy-to-use, and protected verification process. The New Employee Verification Act raises the accountability of employers while providing a tested and effective way to immediately authenticate an employee’s legal status.” “Illegal immigration and identity theft are often one and the same. This bill will help Americans reclaim their identity without resorting to a new ‘big brother’, one-size-fits-all federal government database and national I.D. card. The nature of this proposal is to guard against both identity theft and any possible invasion of our privacy.” Background: Congressman Ryan has also supported additional legislation to stop illegal immigration, including establishment of the 287 (g) program. The 287 (g) program, provides state and local law enforcement with training and authorization to identify, process, and detain immigration offenders they encounter during regular, daily law enforcement activity. Also under this program, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) provides training for local designated officers. In addition, Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor of the CLEAR ACT, which would do the following: Affirm that state and local law enforcement officials already have existing authority to assist in enforcing immigration laws during the course of routine duty. Would deny SCAAP (State Criminal Alien Assistance Program) funding to "sanctuary cities" that refuse to assist with immigration enforcement. By acting as a sanctuary for illegal immigrants and preventing city officials from working with DHS, these local governments encourage illegal immigrants to break the law. Would require DHS to provide the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) all information on illegal immigrants who have a final order of removal; who have a signed voluntary departure agreement; who have overstayed their visa; and who have had their visa revoked. Authorize local authorities to procure equipment, facilities to assist in the enforcement of immigration law. Authorize additional construction for detention space. Require DHS to take into custody within 48 hours anyone who is in this country illegally.
02.26.2008	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan, along with the entire Wisconsin Congressional Delegation, today sent a letter to President Bush requesting emergency snow removal assistance for thirteen Wisconsin counties. The letter details the extreme hardships that the record snowfalls of this winter have caused. Congressman Ryan has asked that the President give prompt consideration of Governor Doyle’s call for federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts. “Our state and local communities have been overwhelmed this winter with snow removal costs exceeding their budgets in response to the record snowfall and the conditions remain dangerous,” Ryan said. “The situation is serious and I urge the President to respond quickly to this request for Federal help.” Background: The request for emergency federal aid for snow removal includes the following counties: Dane, Dodge, Green, Jefferson, Kenosha, Lafayette, Milwaukee, Ozaukee, Racine, Rock, Walworth, Washington, and Waukesha.
02.14.2008	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan released a statement in response to the President’s proposal to address unsustainable growth in the Medicare program. The Medicare Modernization Act [MMA] of 2003 includes a “trigger” mechanism – which was set off when the past two consecutive Medicare Trustees reports projected that the program’s spending from general revenues would exceed 45 percent, an additional warning of Medicare’s urgent financial problems. This trigger requires that the Administration submit to Congress legislation to get Medicare’s spending growth back on a sustainable track. Congressman Ryan’s remarks follow: “Congress has known for some time that Medicare – as currently structured – is unsustainable. But the Medicare Trustees’ report confirms that the problem isn’t simply off somewhere in the future – it is upon us today. “Medicare currently has an unfunded liability of $34 trillion. That translates into an obligation of more than $300,000 for every household in the country – about twice the average price of a home in the district that I serve. And that’s the cost of just this one program. “The only way to ensure this critical program can survive, and continue to fulfill its mission in the 21st century, is through fundamental reform. “The Administration has today proposed a Medicare reform package that would increase transparency and quality, reduce government subsidies to the wealthiest beneficiaries, and lower medical liability premiums. “It’s now Congress’ turn to act, and it is my sincere hope it takes this latest warning of Medicare’s fiscal instability very seriously. Our actions on this issue – or lack thereof – will have an impact on this critical program and our nation’s economy for generations to come.”
02.14.2008	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan spoke out for the need for a long-term fix to close the gaps in America’s intelligence laws. On Tuesday, the Senate, in a vote of 68-29, passed the FISA Amendments Act of 2007. This is a bi-partisan bill updating the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) that would provide American intelligence community the tools and flexibility needed to quickly respond to terrorist threats. Rather than voting on the Senate passed legislation, the Democratic Leadership in the House of Representatives has elected to allow the updates to FISA to expire. Congressman Ryan issued the following statement in response to House Democratic Leadership’s refusal to allow a vote on the Senate bill: “I am extremely disappointed that the House Democratic leadership has chosen to allow the Protect America Act to expire rather than take the necessary steps to safeguard America. This legislation offers a badly needed modernization of FISA, and without it, the ability of our intelligence community to gather information will be significantly weakened. It is an inexcusable choice that could have disastrous consequences. By refusing to allow a vote, Speaker Pelosi is ignoring the will of Congress. It seems plain to me that, at the very least, our national security is far too important to allow politics to circumvent good policy,” Ryan said. “Earlier this week, the Senate passed a bipartisan update to FISA that contains critical tools that protect our national security and help keep us safe at home. I believe that my colleagues in the House are capable of the same spirit of cooperation. It is absolutely essential that we update FISA for the long-term because, plain and simple, the jihadists will not rest. We must utilize each tool at our disposal to combat them at every turn, and match their resolve with equal measure.”
02.07.2008	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted in favor of the Senate amended H.R. 5140, the Recovery Rebates and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act, also referred to as the “Economic Stimulus bill” to allow taxpayers to keep more of their own money. The Economic Stimulus bill would provide rebate checks to individuals and families, bonus depreciation for businesses for new equipment purchases, increased expensing limits for small businesses and an increase in loan limits for Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as well as the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). The amended version of the bill also expands the rebate to seniors and disabled veterans. Additional safeguards were added to ensure that illegal immigrants will not receive a rebate. “Allowing American families to keep more of their own hard-earned money is a good policy. Americans are already overburdened by taxes and are facing the threat of outrageous tax hikes. I firmly believe that increasing personal economic freedom is good for our economy. Businesses will benefit from the incentives included in this bill,” Ryan said. “Yet I can not stand behind the idea that tax rebates will add any lasting strength to our economy,” Ryan continued. “Growth of a strong free market economy is not founded on government rebates, but in policy rooted in lower taxes and an inviting atmosphere for business. Real economic growth will come from low tax rates on workers and business owners alike. I supported this bill because working men and women, who are simply trying to keep up with the cost of living, deserve to have more control over their own money.” Specifically, H.R. 5140 includes the following provisions: Rebate Checks for Individuals and Families: Rebate check amounts would be determined by the greater of two options: (a) income tax paid in 2007, with a maximum of $600 for a single taxpayer and $1,200 for married couples; or (b) $300 for an individual and $600 for a married couple, provided the individual or couple earned income of at least $3,000 in 2007. The rebate check amounts would phase-out with adjusted gross incomes above $75,000 for a single taxpayer and $150,000 for married couples. A children’s bonus would be included in the rebate check calculation. Anyone qualifying for the base amount would also receive an additional $300 per child, with no cap on the number of children. Bonus Depreciation for Businesses: A 50 percent bonus deduction on new equipment in the year it is placed in service, with certain exceptions for equipment with a “long life.” This provision expires at the end of this year. This tax relief provides an incentive to small businesses to invest now and create more jobs. Small Business Expensing: Current law permits small businesses to immediately expense (rather than deduct over time), costs for the first $125,000 of purchases each year. Current law phases out that benefit, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, when purchases exceed $500,000. The agreement increases those limits for 2008, to $250,000 and $800,000. This provision expires at the end of this year. It would provide small businesses an incentive to invest now in their business so they can keep the workers they employ and create more jobs. Amendments passed by the House and Senate: The amendments added by the Senate and passed by the House would expand the “rebate” eligibility to those seniors and disabled veterans with at least $3,000 in Social Security or veterans benefits, but who did not qualify for a rebate under the House-passed bill because they did not pay any income taxes or have a high enough earned income. Security Safeguards: The newly passed version also includes additional safeguards to ensure that illegal immigrants do not receive a rebate. In order to qualify, the bill requires a Social Security Number for both the parent and child, which is more stringent than current law for the Child Tax credit.
02.04.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan, the Ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee, released the following statement in response to the President’s Fiscal Year 2009 budget proposal. The President’s proposal provides Congress with a starting point for discussion of upcoming appropriations bills. Ryan’s remarks follow: “The President's budget achieves the important goal of balancing the budget in the near term – without raising taxes – through fiscal policies that promote economic growth, and limit federal spending to realistic levels. “The President's budget also recognizes that our nation's challenges go well beyond the next few years. This budget takes a significant, critical step toward addressing the greatest threat to our nation's future strength and prosperity -- the unsustainable growth of our largest entitlement programs. While acknowledging it doesn't 'fix' the entitlement problem in one fell swoop, this budget proposes reforms that would reduce Medicare's long-term unfunded liability by nearly one third. “Last year, this Congress adopted a budget that called for massive increases in the already-unsustainable rate of federal spending -- all to be financed by the largest tax increase in our nation's history. It also failed to propose critical entitlement reforms – instead choosing to further expand these programs that we know, today, cannot keep their promises as currently structured. With each year Congress fails to address the entitlement crisis, the worse the problems, and more difficult the solutions, become. “There are two key goals Congress must keep in mind as it crafts this year's budget: first, to keep taxes low and spending in check; and second, to set a sustainable path for our nation's future.”
01.29.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted in favor of H.R. 5140, the Recovery Rebates and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act, also referred to as the “Economic Stimulus bill” to allow taxpayers to keep more of their own money. The House passed this bill by a vote of 385 to 35 with one member voting present. The Economic Stimulus bill would provide rebate checks to individuals and families, bonus depreciation for businesses for new equipment purchases, increased expensing limits for small businesses and an increase in loan limits for Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as well as the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). “Since my first day in Congress, I have focused on protecting peoples’ paychecks. People are overtaxed and the best aspect of this proposal is that it allows people keep more of their hard-earned money. I also believe the business incentives will help create jobs,” Ryan said. “I will not pretend, however, that this bill will do much to ‘stimulate’ the economy. This bill is more about good politics for both parties, than it is about sound economic policy. The idea that sending $100 billion back to people to spend at the mall will turn around a $14 trillion economy is fallacy and we shouldn’t oversell this bill.” Ryan said, “The bottom line is this: people are struggling to keep up with the cost of living and letting them keep more of what they earn is the right thing to do. That is why I voted for this bill.” Specifically, H.R. 5140 includes the following provisions: Rebate Checks for Individuals and Families: Rebate check amounts would be determined by the greater of two options: (a) income tax paid in 2007, with a maximum of $600 for a single taxpayer and $1,200 for married couples; or (b) $300 for an individual and $600 for a married couple, provided the individual or couple earned income of at least $3,000 in 2007. The rebate check amounts would phase-out with adjusted gross incomes above $75,000 for a single taxpayer and $150,000 for married couples. A children’s bonus would be included in the rebate check calculation. Anyone qualifying for the base amount would also receive an additional $300 per child, with no cap on the number of children. Bonus Depreciation for Businesses: A 50 percent bonus deduction on new equipment in the year it is placed in service, with certain exceptions for equipment with a “long life.” This provision expires at the end of this year. This tax relief provides an incentive to small businesses to invest now and create more jobs. Small Business Expensing: Current law permits small businesses to immediately expense (rather than deduct over time), costs for the first $125,000 of purchases each year. Current law phases out that benefit, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, when purchases exceed $500,000. The agreement increases those limits for 2008, to $250,000 and $800,000. This provision expires at the end of this year. It would provide small businesses an incentive to invest now in their business so they can keep the workers they employ and create more jobs.
01.28.2008	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan tonight made the following comments regarding the President’s State of the Union speech: “I am pleased the President focused on the economy and the need for bipartisan action to create jobs. While I am encouraged that the stimulus package did not include a congressional wish list of new spending, I am doubtful this package will do much to actually create sustainable job growth. I believe it should have included more immediate tax reform to create more jobs in our country and provide more growth to our nation’s economy. Earmark reform is also critical to restoring accountability and fiscal responsibility to the federal budget. While I am pleased that the President is committed to reducing earmark spending, I do not believe the President went far enough. Congress should immediately impose a moratorium on earmarks and reform the spending process to end this pork barrel spending as we know it. The President also needs the Legislative Line Item Veto to stop earmarks like the “Bridge to Nowhere” from becoming law. I, along with Senator Russ Feingold, introduced the Congressional Accountability and Line Item Veto Act to provide this tool to the President to stop wasteful government spending. In addition, I support the President’s call to balance the budget by 2012 without raising taxes. As the Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, I look forward to working with the other side of the aisle to ensure that taxpayers are not overburdened with tax increases and that taxpayer dollars are not spent on wasteful government programs.”
12.21.2007	First District Congressman Paul Ryan today announced that his Kenosha Constituent Services Center will be moving to a new location on Sheridan Road in Kenosha at the beginning of January. The office will be operational at its new site – 5455 Sheridan Rd, Suite 125 – as of January 3, 2008. Its phone and fax numbers will remain the same. Ryan will host a grand opening ceremony and open house on Monday, January 14 to welcome Kenosha-area residents to the new constituent services center and let them know about the resources it provides. WHAT: Grand Opening and Open House at Ryan’s Kenosha Constituent Services Center WHERE: New Location of Kenosha Constituent Services Center: 5455 Sheridan Rd., Suite #125, Kenosha, WI 53140 WHEN: Monday, January 14, 2008 2:00 - 4:00pm
12.21.2007	First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced the schedule for listening sessions that will be held from January 8 – 10, 2008. Ryan will be visiting 15 communities throughout Wisconsin's First Congressional District for these listening sessions. These meetings provide an opportunity for First District residents to share their ideas and ask questions they have about federal government issues. Among other issues, Ryan will discuss the rising cost of health care and what can be done to lower costs while improving quality. He will also talk about taxes and his legislative proposal to give taxpayers the option of a simpler alternative to the current overly complicated income tax system. National security matters and the war in Iraq will also be addressed at these meetings. “These listening sessions are a great opportunity for people to share their thoughts and concerns on issues ranging from health care to jobs and the economy to our national defense. I want to hear directly from area residents about their views and interactions with government, and these meetings provide a forum to do that,” Ryan said. Please click here for a complete schedule of upcoming listening sessions.
12.19.2007	WASHINGTON – Today the U.S. House of Representatives concluded the year with votes on measures including a straightforward extension of funding for the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), a one-year Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) “patch” without tax increases to offset the cost of this correction, and a Senate amendment to the omnibus appropriations bill to provide supplemental funding for our troops in Iraq. Congressman Ryan voted in favor of these measures, which passed the House and now proceed to the President. Brief descriptions and statements by Congressman Ryan about these votes are below: SCHIP Extension (S. 2499) Among its provisions, S. 2499 extends SCHIP funding through March 31, 2009. (The bill also provides a temporary update to the Medicare physician reimbursement rate through June 30, 2008.) Ryan had supported and cosponsored previous legislation to extend the existing program. He opposed flawed legislation that would have significantly expanded government-run health care through SCHIP, providing taxpayer-funded coverage for middle-income families and people who already have insurance. Today’s bill is a simple extension of funding for the existing program. “I’m glad to see this clear-cut extension of the existing SCHIP pass,” said Ryan. “I’ve always supported an extension, but until now this Congress has insisted on expanding the program beyond its original scope and putting even greater pressure on our already unsustainable entitlement spending. Now we need to make progress on health care reform that gives everyone access to health coverage, while improving quality and making sure patients and their doctors are in charge of their medical care – not bureaucrats.” Temporary AMT patch (Senate Amendment to H.R. 3996) The Senate-amended version of H.R. 3996 places a clean one-year “patch” on the exemption level for the AMT to help protect middle-income taxpayers from the ever-growing reach of this illegitimate tax. When the AMT was created in 1969, it was aimed at preventing 155 wealthy taxpayers from escaping their legitimate tax obligations; however, it was not indexed for inflation and threatened to ensnare 23 million taxpayers in 2007 if Congress did not enact a fix. Unlike legislation considered earlier this fall by the House, today’s “patch” does not try to raise taxes to prevent an AMT tax increase on middle-income Americans. Nor does it propose controlling spending to lessen the impact of this patch on revenues flowing into the federal government. Unfortunately, by delaying approval of this patch until mid-December, the Majority has likely caused unnecessary delay in the IRS’ efforts to provide tax refunds and confusion on the part of taxpayers trying to prepare their returns for 2007. Ryan voted in favor of the temporary patch, although he would rather see Congress repeal the AMT altogether to prevent the recurring problem of this unintended tax hike on middle-income taxpayers. Ryan has introduced the Taxpayer Choice Act, which repeals the AMT and gives taxpayers the option of a simpler alternative to the current income tax. “The AMT was never intended to grow out of control and become the burden it is today for law-abiding, middle-income taxpayers,” Ryan said. “I’d rather see Congress eliminate this unfair tax altogether, but I’m glad that at least a short-term patch was finally approved – without other tax hikes that hurt our economy. I have introduced a plan to repeal the AMT once and for all and give taxpayers the choice of a simpler income tax system, and I’ll continue to push for this solution next year.” Senate Amendment to Add Funding for Troops in Iraq to Omnibus Spending Bill (Senate Amendments to H.R. 2764) On Monday, Congressman Ryan voted against an omnibus appropriations bill (H.R. 2764) that rolled together spending for 11 regular appropriations bills into one mammoth package. The 3,565-page bill, which stood more than a foot tall, was filed at 12:30am on Monday – giving Members of Congress less than 24 hours to examine its contents before the vote later that day. It contained over 9,000 earmarks – around 300 of which were “air-dropped” in at the end of the process, without receiving scrutiny by the House and Senate during earlier consideration of spending bills. It also included billions in emergency-designated spending, some of which was for predictable funding, such as $100 million for presidential security at political conventions, $14.5 million for Court of Appeals salaries and expenses, and $20 million for Farm Service Agency salaries and expenses. This suggests the use of the “emergency spending” designation as a budget gimmick to avoid budget restraints. On top of this, the bill on which the House voted Monday did not include funding for U.S. troops in Iraq – though it provided $31 billion in war funding for Afghanistan. The Senate amended this sweeping spending bill to include funding for operations in Iraq, and Congressman Ryan voted today to agree to the Senate’s amendment inserting this troop funding. “Our troops in Iraq are doing their jobs extremely well under difficult circumstances and achieving results. The security situation has been improving, and our military men and women need our support to continue their progress, so they can come home as soon as possible – leaving a more stable Iraq that’s able to defend itself. Unfortunately, the overall omnibus bill shows Congress still lacks discipline when it comes to spending. At the very least, Congress and the public should have had more of a chance to examine the contents of this huge bill before it came to a vote,” Ryan said.
12.13.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted against the House-Senate brokered version (conference report) of a bill that includes pork-barrel earmarks at the expense of additional funding to bolster human intelligence resources. The House of Representatives passed the conference report to H.R. 2082, the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, by a vote of 222-199, despite the fact that it ignored a strong bipartisan vote the House cast nine days ago to strip earmarks from the legislation. On December 4, 62 Democrats voted with House Republicans to instruct House conferees on the intelligence bill to strike all earmarks and insist on provisions authorizing the maximum level of funding permissible for human intelligence collection activities. This would have included striking a controversial earmark requested by Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Murtha for the National Drug Intelligence Center in his district. However, this common-sense directive on earmarks was ignored and the final version of the legislation brought to the House floor today kept the earmarks intact. Given another opportunity to remove earmarks from the bill and redirect those funds to human intelligence, through a vote today on a motion to recommit the conference report, 51 Democrats changed their votes – rejecting this proposal that mirrors the one they voted for last week. “It’s clear that we need to strengthen our nation’s intelligence capabilities so we have access to reliable, timely information to protect Americans at home and overseas,” Ryan said. “Improving our human intelligence resources should be the priority – not delivering pork-barrel earmarks or growing the bureaucracy in Washington. Unfortunately, this legislation gets it wrong.” Among its problems, the Intelligence Authorization Conference Report: Fails to provide adequate resources for human intelligence collection. America’s human intelligence collection remains inadequate – as demonstrated just last week by the startling reversal by the intelligence community of its past “high confidence” analysis on Iran. This legislation fails to provide adequate resources for the necessary expansion of human intelligence collection – while continuing to fund earmarks. Fails to remove earmarks. Contrary to the bipartisan instructions of the House, which passed a motion on December 4 directing conferees to strike all taxpayer-funded earmarks in the Intelligence Authorization Act, this legislation includes a list of 26 congressional earmarks totaling approximately $96 million – defying the principle that our intelligence funding should be based on its national security merits, not special interests. Fails to provide for long-term authority to streamline surveillance of foreign terrorist targets in foreign countries to detect and prevent potential attacks. Omits bipartisan House language to constrain the rapidly growing bureaucracy within the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Directs precious intelligence resources to conduct a formal intelligence assessment of the “national security” aspects of global warming.
12.06.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted against a flawed energy bill (H.R. 6) that fails to increase the supply of many proven energy resources that exist in abundance in the U.S., raises taxes on American companies by more than $20 billion, and relies on a big-bureaucracy approach to energy policy that creates many opportunities for waste and abuse – and would likely increase costs for consumers. The bill, which was cobbled together behind closed doors rather than through the usual conference process for resolving differences between the House and Senate, passed the House by a vote of 235-181 and faces an uncertain future in the Senate. The text of this mammoth legislation, which exceeds 1000 pages, was only released yesterday – offering little time for thorough examination of its contents. Among its key provisions, this legislation would boost the mandatory fleetwide Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standard for new cars and light trucks to 35 miles per gallon by 2020, while permitting separate standards for cars and light trucks. America’s auto manufacturers have accepted this compromise deal that – while not ideal – factored in U.S. auto makers’ concerns with earlier CAFE proposals. Although he does not approve of the overall legislation, Ryan supports some components of the bill – most notably the provision that requires electric suppliers, other than rural electric cooperatives and governmental entities, to provide 15 percent of their electricity using renewable energy resources by the year 2020. This policy builds on Wisconsin’s leadership in this area. (The state already has its own requirement in place to prompt greater reliance on renewables to generate electricity – requiring 10 percent of electricity to come from renewable energy resources by 2011.) Ryan voted for this policy in August when the House considered a different version of energy legislation. “I’m pleased that, at the very least, this bill averts a CAFE crisis, by taking into account what GM, Chrysler and other American auto makers say they need to stay competitive. I would have preferred to see a clearer move toward separate fuel economy standards based on vehicle class – not a standard that applies to a manufacturer’s whole fleet of vehicles – but this is better than earlier versions that would have been disastrous for our home auto industry. Unfortunately, the overall bill still falls far short of a workable, comprehensive energy plan,” Ryan said. “As we’ve seen gas prices soar in recent weeks, it’s clearer than ever that we need to end our addiction to foreign oil imports. This bill won’t do that – and will actually make matters worse by raising taxes on U.S. oil and gas producers and tilting the competitive advantage to overseas producers. We need to develop renewable energy sources and improve energy conservation, while at the same time pursuing clean, conventional domestic fuel sources that will help lower energy costs. These approaches to energy security should complement one another – not work against each other,” Ryan said. “I was also disappointed to see this bill misuse taxpayer dollars to fund questionable ‘green pork’ tax credit bonds and other measures that open the door to waste and abuse.” Among its misguided policies, H.R. 6 would: Waste tax dollars on “green pork” – creating a new slush fund for governors and local officials in the form of billions in tax credit bonds, with only the loosest restrictions on how that money can be spent and no assurances that bond projects will reduce energy consumption or greenhouse gas emissions. For example, such bonds could be used to help complete an “indoor rainforest” project in Iowa, which is stalled for lack of local money, or to purchase hybrid snowmobiles for ski resorts in Aspen. Create “forestry conservation tax credit bonds” that, upon closer examination, appear to be a specific tax earmark. According to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, this $500 million provision applies to only one parcel of land in Montana that is owned by a large private timber company. Repeals the domestic manufacturing deduction for five American companies that explore, extract and refine oil and natural gas – forcing these companies to pay more taxes than other American manufacturers. Raising taxes on domestic oil and gas production reduces incentives to produce here in the U.S. and could lead to increased oil imports, and higher oil and gas prices. Create dozens of new, often duplicative government programs. Authorize funds for clean and energy efficient technologies in other countries. In addition, the bill lacks language expediting the oil refinery permitting process so that more fuel could be brought to market faster.
11.26.2007	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Kevin Martin voicing the concerns of constituents who are not able to watch this Thursday’s Green Bay Packers game or Wisconsin Badgers’ basketball games due to disputes between cable providers and the NFL Network and the Big Ten Network. In his letter, Ryan urged the FCC to consider rule changes that facilitate the appointment of an arbitrator in disputes such as these, so they can be resolved more quickly and with consumers’ interests foremost in mind. He also applauded the Chairman’s decision to review the cable television market and urged him to ensure that free market competition can thrive. “When so many Wisconsin Packers and Badgers fans can’t watch their teams play, it’s a sign that something’s very wrong with the cable market,” Ryan said. “People all across Wisconsin want to be able to stay home and watch Thursday’s game against the Cowboys and future Badgers games too, so the demand is there. It’s frustrating that fans are losing out because of disagreements between cable carriers and the NFL and Big Ten networks. The FCC should ensure future rules changes boost free market competition and consumer choice – and promote speedy resolution of such disputes.” Please click here to see Congressman Ryan’s letter to FCC Chairman Martin.
11.15.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan last night voted against H.R. 4156, a supplemental spending bill which sets (and advertises to the enemy) an arbitrary troop withdrawal timeline – requiring the President, within 30 days of this bill’s enactment, to begin withdrawing troops from Iraq with the goal of transitioning to a “limited presence” by December 15, 2008. The House passed the measure by a vote of 218-203, and it awaits Senate consideration. The President has indicated he will veto this bill if it is presented to him. The bill is the latest in a series of politically driven, and ultimately unsuccessful, votes to set specific withdrawal dates or otherwise take steps that limit U.S. commanders’ ability to fight and prevail in the war in Iraq. It ties funding for our troops in Iraq to requirements for their withdrawal according to arbitrary timeframes, rather than relying on U.S. military leaders to make such strategic determinations based on conditions on the ground. The legislation also seems to ignore the reality of recent security developments in Iraq, including reports that the U.S. military will be sending about 3,000 soldiers home from Diyala province in Iraq by January – the “second large unit to leave Iraq as troop levels are cut after a 30,000-strong ‘surge’” according to Reuters. In addition, the Associated Press reported earlier this week from Baghdad: “Rocket and mortar attacks have fallen to their lowest level in nearly two years. Civilian deaths have dropped sharply since summer. Shoppers are venturing out, even in Baghdad’s most dangerous neighborhoods. Iraq’s capital is by no means yet safe. But the trend toward better security is indisputable.” “Congress needs to pass a bill to fund our troops in Iraq without conditioning this funding on the adoption of arbitrary withdrawal timelines set by politicians. We all want our troops to return home as soon as possible and we are finally starting to see this happen, but our military commanders on the ground are best equipped to make decisions on how to do this safely – without jeopardizing the hard-won gains in security that we’ve witnessed in recent months. As I’ve said in the past, I also think it’s counterproductive to give al Qaeda and our other enemies a specific timeframe stating when America must withdraw troops. This will just give them hope and help them plan future attacks. It also sends the wrong signal to the local Iraqis and tribal leaders who have been turning against al Qaeda in Iraq,” Rep. Ryan said.
11.09.2007	WASHINGTON – While he strongly supports protecting taxpayers from the ever-expanding burden of the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) and has introduced a bill to repeal the AMT once and for all, First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted against a harmful plan that uses permanent tax hikes on businesses and individuals to delay for one year the full imposition of the AMT. This legislation (H.R. 3996), which passed the House by a vote of 216-193, raises $76 billion over 10 years through tax increases that would discourage investment and hurt the competitiveness of U.S. businesses in the global economy, in order to delay an unintended AMT tax increase for one year and provide other temporary benefits such as one-year extenders of certain tax credits and deductions. The legislation is based on the faulty premise that the government is entitled to the increasingly higher tax revenues that are forecast to pour into the federal Treasury due to the AMT – even though the AMT was never meant to generate such revenues. When the AMT was created in 1969, it was aimed at preventing 155 wealthy taxpayers from exploiting loopholes in the tax code to escape their legitimate tax obligations. However, partly because it was never indexed to account for inflation, the AMT next year will subject over 20 million more taxpayers to an automatic tax increase – hitting many middle-income Americans with a stealth tax increase that was never intended. Congressman Ryan tried to offer an amendment to H.R. 3996 that would have allowed the one-year AMT patch to move forward without raising taxes; however, his amendment was not allowed to be considered on the House floor. “Congress needs to act quickly to stop a huge AMT tax hike, but today’s bill that relies on permanent tax increases to patch the problem for a year is just bad policy. When it comes down to it, the plan would still make taxpayers pay for the government’s mistake, and that’s wrong,” Ryan said. “We need a permanent repeal of the AMT or, at the very least, a short-term fix that will prevent this illegitimate tax hike from hitting more and more families next year. But raising taxes to stop an AMT tax increase makes no sense, and this circular logic hurts America’s economy. If our businesses are going to compete successfully around the world, they need a tax code that encourages investment and job creation – not one that raises taxes whenever it needs to correct the government’s past mistakes.” “This tax hike bill is also troubling because it is essentially a down payment on a much larger tax increase proposal that House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Rangel recently introduced. The larger plan has been called the ‘Mother of all Tax Reforms’ but really should be known as the ‘Mother of all Tax Hikes’ because it would raise taxes by $3.5 trillion over 10 years – the largest individual income tax increase in history. If this is allowed to occur, the federal government would end up consuming an ever-growing share of the American economy. Instead of keeping tax revenue around its historical level of about 18.3 percent of the economy, federal taxes would consume roughly one-fourth of U.S. economic resources by mid-century,” Ryan said. In addition to the policy-related problems inherent in the legislation, by bringing up H.R. 3996 – instead of a “clean” AMT patch that the Senate would be more likely to pass and the President to sign – the Democratic House leadership risks delaying taxpayer refunds and costing the government millions of dollars. The Senate has sent clear signals that it does not intend to take up this bill in its current form, and Rep. Jim Cooper (D-Tenn.) acknowledged this earlier in the week when he was quoted saying: “This is a 130-percent tax increase, and we know it’s going nowhere in the Senate.” The Democratic Senate majority has already announced that they will not consider this bill. Delaying passage of a viable AMT patch threatens to cause chaos during the upcoming tax filing season. In a letter to Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member McCrery, Treasury Secretary Paulson cautioned that enactment of a patch in mid-to-late December “could delay issuance of approximately $75 billion in refunds to taxpayers who are likely to file their returns before March 31, 2008.” These delays could impact up to 50 million taxpayers, half of whom are not even subject to the AMT.
11.08.2007	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan called for an end to the gamesmanship that has delayed the annual veterans and military construction spending bill, which has broad bipartisan support, from being signed into law. Ryan supports rapid passage of the measure as a stand-alone bill, which was introduced Wednesday night by Congressman Wicker, the ranking Republican on the House Appropriations Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Subcommittee, so that the President can sign it by Veterans Day. Ryan is a cosponsor of this stand-alone bill. The original veterans spending bill passed the House in June with strong bipartisan support by a vote of 409-2, and the Senate passed its version of the bill by a similar overwhelming margin in September. But instead of resolving differences and sending it as a stand-alone bill to the President, the Democratic leadership and appropriations negotiators waited until November and combined this bill with another spending bill – the controversial Labor-Health and Human Services (Labor-HHS) appropriations bill, which is about $10 billion above the President’s budget request and is expected to be vetoed. Yesterday, Senate Republicans used a procedural vote to successfully separate the two very different spending bills, and the Senate sent the final Labor-HHS measure on its own back to the House. After the Senate’s vote, Congressman Wicker introduced the veterans spending bill conference agreement as a stand-alone bill (H.R. 4104) and urged the House leadership to act quickly to pass the measure so that the Senate can vote and the President can sign it before Veterans Day – ending this unnecessary delay of legislation that a broad bipartisan majority favors to fund veterans programs and benefits as well as military construction projects. “There’s no good reason to keep delaying this veterans spending legislation, that has such broad support from lawmakers and would easily pass both the House and Senate and be signed into law if it were brought up as a stand-alone bill,” Ryan said. “Our veterans deserve the certainty of knowing this funding is on its way and that it won’t continue to be held up in the dispute over other spending bills. I hope the Democratic leadership in Congress will allow this veterans legislation to be considered on its own merits and voted on this week, not lumped together with unrelated spending.”
11.06.2007	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan, who has fought hard for earmark reform and other changes to improve fiscal accountability in Congress, today signed a new earmark reform pledge that goes above and beyond current earmark disclosure rules to boost transparency and demand higher standards from members of Congress for future earmark requests. The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW), a national taxpayer advocacy group that aims to eliminate waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement in government, today unveiled this new pledge, which current members of the House and Senate have the opportunity to sign. This call for higher standards and more effective disclosure comes at a time when it is becoming increasingly clear that the earmark disclosure rules enacted this year in Congress have not eliminated earmark overuse and abuse. A Nov. 4th article in the New York Times, for example, led off its examination of earmarks in the military appropriations bill by noting: “Even though members of Congress cut back their pork barrel spending this year, House lawmakers still tacked on to the military appropriations bill $1.8 billion to pay 580 private companies for projects the Pentagon did not request.” Similarly, an Oct. 30th article in The Wall Street Journal looked at how Congressman John Murtha – currently the chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense – has steered billions in federal spending to his Pennsylvania hometown. Journal reporter John Wilke wrote: “A review by the Wall Street Journal of dozens of such contracts funded by Mr. Murtha’s committee shows that many weren’t sought by the military or federal agencies they were intended to benefit. Some were inefficient or mismanaged, according to interviews, public records and previously unpublished Pentagon audits. One Murtha-backed firm, ProLogic Inc., is under federal investigation for allegedly diverting public funds to develop commercial software, people close to the case say. The company denies wrongdoing and is in line to get millions of dollars more in the pending defense bill.” “It has become all too clear, with every new media report on abusive, special-interest spending in Washington, that we have to drain this earmark swamp,” Congressman Ryan said. “For citizens to regain faith in their government, we have to change the way Congress spends taxpayer dollars. This earmark reform pledge is helpful because it calls on lawmakers to make sure that any earmarks are subject to intense scrutiny and meet strict standards. The point is to prevent abusive earmarks, change the culture that has allowed spending bills to become a wish-list for powerful members of Congress, and save taxpayer dollars in the process.” Click here for a copy of the CCAGW’s new Earmark Reform Pledge, which Congressman Ryan signed.
10.18.2007	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today failed to override the President’s recent veto of flawed and costly legislation to greatly expand the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). While Congressman Paul Ryan supports and cosponsored a separate bill to extend the existing program, he has major concerns about the approach taken in the SCHIP expansion bill that the President vetoed. As a result, he voted to sustain the President’s veto. Ryan made the following statement about this vote: “All of us share the goal for every child to have good, reliable health coverage. Unfortunately, this SCHIP expansion plan takes the wrong approach – making more and more Americans dependent on government for their health care and driving people who already have health insurance into this taxpayer-funded government program. With roughly 48,000 low-income Wisconsin children still lacking coverage, Congress shouldn’t be expanding the program to people who already have insurance. Federal health-care entitlement spending is already rising at an unsustainable rate and this fiscally irresponsible bill would make the problem worse over the long run – a debt burden our kids shouldn’t have to bear,” Ryan said. “I believe we can find a better way to help the uninsured and make sure that affordable health coverage is within every American’s reach. First, reform should be comprehensive. We have to start looking at the whole picture – health care, Medicare, and the tax code. If you try to fix one apart from the others, any short-term benefits will quickly be overwhelmed by the other problems that haven’t been addressed. Second, it must provide security. We want to ensure that everyone has access to coverage, and that includes low-income families, middle-income families, children, and people with medical conditions who get labeled as ‘uninsurable.’ Third, reform must enhance our economic competitiveness. Health care reform has to ease – not add to – the upward pressure on medical costs. Finally, individual ownership of health care coverage should play a critical role. We wouldn’t let someone else choose our cars or appliances or what we’re going to have for dinner tonight, and yet with something as vital and personal as health coverage, that’s exactly what many Americans do: they let employers or the government decide what kind of health coverage they should have,” Ryan said. “If Congress can put politics aside, we can make progress on real reform that addresses the overall crisis of the uninsured. In the meantime, we need to extend the existing children’s health insurance program, so that it can insure the low-income children it was created to help in the first place,” Ryan said. Among its flaws, the SCHIP expansion bill the President vetoed: Misleads taxpayers about the long-term cost of the plan. Without the budget gimmick of dropping funding abruptly after five years, the true cost of the bill would likely be more than $113 billion over ten years. Drives about 2 million individuals who currently have private health insurance to drop their insurance and move into the government-run program, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Would enable expansion of SCHIP beyond the low-income children for whom it was originally intended to middle-income families and allows states to establish their own eligibility standards – meaning that states could expand coverage for higher-income families by excluding certain family income from eligibility tests. In particular states, such as New Jersey – which could still be allowed to cover families with incomes over $70,000 – the problem of using tax dollars to subsidize middle-income families is especially clear. Makes it simple for illegal immigrants to fraudulently qualify for the Medicaid and SCHIP programs. Current law requires that states must determine whether people who apply for Medicaid and SCHIP are U.S. citizens. States can satisfy this requirement by having applicants show specified types of identity documents such as drivers’ licenses or birth certificates. The proposed SCHIP expansion bill weakens the current rules – allowing states to disregard the requirement to review actual identity documents and instead submit the names and Social Security numbers of applicants to the Social Security Administration (SSA). As the SSA Commissioner has indicated, this new provision would fail to identify and therefore prevent some people from illegally getting health care benefits through Medicaid or SCHIP. This includes illegal immigrants who are fraudulently using another person’s valid name and Social Security number. Attempts to pay for an expanding government program with a shrinking revenue stream. The number of smokers in the U.S. has been declining for decades, and increasing the tobacco tax will cause tobacco use to decrease even more sharply. Includes at least one pork-barrel earmark (directing taxpayer funding to a health care facility located in Tennessee freshman representative Steve Cohen’s district) – despite the bill being certified as “earmark-free”.
10.16.2007	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 2102, the Free Flow of Information Act of 2007 (also know as the media shield bill) – legislation cosponsored by First District Congressman Paul Ryan that would help safeguard the free flow of information from the media to the public and provide protection at the federal level for the relationship between reporters and their confidential sources. Congressman Ryan voted in favor of the bill. As the Washington Post put it in a recent editorial: “Protecting the identity of a source is a bedrock of American journalism. Unfortunately, recent history has shown that some federal prosecutors and civil litigants do not value this flow of information as much as those of us in the media and the public do. In recent years, more than 40 reporters have been hauled into federal court and questioned about their sources, notes and reports in civil and criminal cases. While 49 states and the District of Columbia have shield laws or court decisions that protect the relationship between reporters and their sources, there is no statutory protection at the federal level.” H.R. 2102 draws largely on internal Justice Department guidelines put in place more than 30 years ago, so it is not a radical departure from time-honored practices regarding journalists’ right to report stories and seek sources without fear of imprisonment. Rather, it prevents journalists from being compelled by a federal entity to testify, produce documents, or disclose sources in civil and criminal cases, unless certain standards and conditions are met. “This legislation helps ensure that our freedom of the press does not erode and that the free flow of information between the media and the American public continues unhindered,” Ryan said. “Reporters should be able to do their jobs and whistleblowers and other confidential sources should be able to speak to the media without undue fear that they will end up in court. The American public benefits when the public and the media can share information freely, and we need to protect this right. At the same time, this bill makes reasonable allowances for cases where life or death hangs in the balance.” Under the Free Flow of Information Act, a federal entity may not compel a journalist (or their supervisor, employer, parent, subsidiary or affiliate) to provide testimony or produce any document related to information they obtained or created as part of their journalistic endeavors, unless a court determines by a preponderance of the evidence – after providing notice and an opportunity to be heard to the journalist – that certain conditions have been met. These conditions are as follows: That the party seeking to compel the journalist’s testimony or production of documents has exhausted all reasonable alternative sources of the testimony or document. That in a criminal investigation or prosecution there are reasonable grounds to believe that a crime has occurred, and the testimony or document sought is critical to the investigation or prosecution or to the defense against the prosecution; or in a matter other than a criminal investigation or prosecution, the testimony or document sought is critical to the successful completion of the matter. In the case that the testimony or document sought could reveal the identity of a source of information or include any information that could reasonably be expected to lead to the discovery of the identity of such a source, that disclosure is necessary to prevent an act of terrorism against the United States or its allies or other significant and specified harm to national security with the objective to prevent such harm; disclosure is necessary to prevent imminent death or significant bodily harm with the objective to prevent such death or harm; or disclosure is necessary to identify a person who has disclosed a trade secret or private medical or financial information. That the public interest in compelling disclosure of the information or document involved outweighs the public interest in gathering or disseminating news or information. An amendment by bill sponsor Rep. Boucher was adopted on the House floor today that provides that this media shield can be pierced to prevent or identify the perpetrator of a terrorist attack or harm to national security. The amendment also provides that, in cases involving leaks of properly classified information, the disclosure of the leaker’s identity can be compelled. Additionally, this amendment permits law enforcement to obtain an order compelling the disclosure of documents and information obtained as the result of eyewitness observations of alleged criminal or tortious conduct. It also specifies that for a person to be covered by this media shield, they must regularly engage in the listed journalistic activities. In addition, this legislation clarifies that it does not apply to a person who is a foreign power or an agent of a foreign power, or to any organization designated by the Secretary of State as a foreign terrorist organization.
10.16.2007	WASHINGTON – Inspired by the efforts of the late Wisconsin Senator E. William Proxmire, who launched the “Golden Fleece Award” in the 1970s to highlight some of the most outrageous examples of wasteful spending by the federal government, First District Congressman Paul Ryan together with other House Budget Committee Republicans today unveiled the “Budget Boondoggle Award” to help identify and draw attention to waste, fraud and abuse in government spending. Ryan and the other Budget Committee members today spotlighted examples of wasteful spending from across the spectrum of government programs – providing, as nominees for the inaugural Budget Boondoggle Award, one example from each of the twelve fiscal year 2008 appropriations bills passed by the House of Representatives. Throughout the coming year, they will continue to expose the worst examples of waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayer dollars. The launch of the Budget Boondoggle Award, coincides with a looming confrontation between the Congress and the President over spending levels. Although the new fiscal year started two weeks ago, the majority in Congress has failed to send even one regular 2008 appropriations bill to the President. Moreover, the majority has called for about $21 billion more in annually appropriated spending than the President requested, (even though the $933 billion the President requested is an increase of 6.9 percent over 2007.) By targeting ongoing government abuses, Ryan and his colleagues are standing up for the best interests of taxpayers and driving home the point that eliminating wasteful spending can help reduce the divide between the majority in Congress and the President. “They say imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. Well, today we’re following the example of a great Wisconsinite – the late Senator Proxmire – whose Golden Fleece Award brought so many cases of frivolous and wasteful government spending to light. Today there is still, I’m sorry to say, far too much waste in the federal government, and our constituents deserve better,” Ryan said. “We hope the Budget Boondoggle Award will help Congress be more careful with taxpayer dollars. And those who suggest that the spending bills currently making their way through Congress leave no room for further savings, should take a close look at the list of nominees.” Click here for a list of nominees for the Budget Boondoggle Awards.
10.10.2007	Taxpayer Choice Act Summary Detailed Description WASHINGTON – In an effort to head off a massive tax hike that will impact more and more middle-income taxpayers in the next few years and give taxpayers the option of a simpler, fairer alternative to today’s overly complex tax system, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today introduced the Taxpayer Choice Act, which repeals the alternative minimum tax (AMT) and establishes a highly simplified alternative to the current individual income tax. When the AMT was created in 1969, as a mandatory add-on to the existing tax code, it was aimed at preventing 155 wealthy taxpayers from exploiting loopholes in the tax code to escape their legitimate tax obligations. However, partly because it was never indexed for inflation, the AMT next year will subject close to 30 million more taxpayers to an automatic tax increase – ensnaring many middle-income Americans who dutifully pay their taxes with a stealth tax increase that was never intended. The bill Ryan introduced today with several colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives would repeal this illegitimate tax and offer people the choice of an alternative tax system that is transparent, simple and efficient. “The AMT was never meant to become the burden on law-abiding taxpayers that it is today – especially for a rapidly growing number of middle-income families. And Congress should do more than apply just a temporary fix, as we have in recent years. We need to do away with this unfair tax before it automatically raises the tax bills of even more working Americans,” Ryan said. “We must change the debate in Washington to put the taxpayer first – not the government. At the same time, we can take a big step toward making the tax code more efficient and less complicated by giving taxpayers the option to choose a simplified income tax if they wish. This will start us on the path toward a more user-friendly tax system that’s easier to comply with and doesn’t contain stealth tax hikes.” If left unaddressed, over the next ten years the AMT will impose $841 billion in higher taxes, largely on middle-income families. Under current tax law, for instance, in tax year 2007, about 70 percent of married taxpayers (with children) earning $75,000 to $100,000 will be subject to AMT. Various proposals for addressing this looming problem have been floated, and the House Ways and Means Committee chairman has announced that his committee will soon consider an AMT reform bill. It is expected that the chairman’s plan will replace the AMT tax hike with other tax increases that could have a negative impact on our economy. The Taxpayer Choice Act offers a different approach to solving the AMT dilemma, without replacing the AMT with further tax hikes. Among its highlights, the Taxpayer Choice Act would: Eliminate the $841 billion tax increase that would result from the automatic expansion of the AMT, or from other tax increases imposed to “offset” the AMT. The Taxpayer Choice Act would prohibit the AMT from being imposed on individual taxpayers in any taxable year after 2006. Provide comprehensive reform – establishing a highly simplified alternative to the current individual income tax, one designed to keep federal tax revenue near its historical level (around 18.5%) as a share of the overall economy (GDP). Offer taxpayer choice. Under this proposal, taxpayers can choose either to pay their taxes under the Simplified Tax or to continue paying taxes under the existing code. The advantages of the new tax system lie mainly in its simplicity and transparency: it has just two income tax rates (10 percent and 25 percent), a generous standard exemption amount, and no special tax preferences. The Simplified Tax system has two income tax rates: 10 percent on taxable income up to $100,000 for joint filers, and $50,000 for single filers; and 25 percent on taxable income above these amounts. Under the Simplified Tax, taxable income equals gross income minus a standard deduction and personal exemption. The standard deduction is $25,000 for joint tax filers, $12,500 for single filers. The personal exemption is $3,500. The combination is equivalent to a $39,000 exemption for a family of four. There are no additional credits or itemized deductions. Retain the current allocation of tax burdens. Analysis shows that if all taxpayers chose to pay taxes under the Simplified Tax, the distribution of tax burdens among income groups would remain close to what it is today. Deter “gaming” the system. This proposal doesn’t permit year-by-year tax code switches (“gaming”) aimed at avoiding legitimate tax liabilities. In general, individuals can choose to pay taxes under the new system at some point within ten years of the date of enactment. After that initial choice, individuals are allowed one additional changeover between the two tax systems over the course of a lifetime. Individuals are also allowed to change tax systems if a major life event (death, marriage, divorce) alters their filing status. Otherwise the choice is essentially permanent. Maintain economic growth-oriented tax relief. The legislation makes permanent the capital gains and dividend tax relief of 2003.
10.02.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today reminded students and eligible military personnel in the First Congressional District who seek a nomination to the U.S. Air Force, Military, Naval, or Merchant Marine Academies that his Janesville constituent services center must receive their completed applications by November 1, 2007. Evaluations for nominations will begin in the near future and will be based on a variety of factors including test scores achieved on the SAT or ACT, class rank, grade point average, school records, extracurricular activities, leadership potential, motivation, recommendations, and interviews. “America’s service academies have a reputation for rigorous academics and for providing training that helps graduates become leaders in military and civilian life. Young people who know that they want to serve in our nation’s armed forces and are committed to doing the hard work the academies require may be interested in applying to one or more of the academies,” Ryan said. Young men and women interested in attending one of the U.S. service academies are encouraged to submit their applications for a nomination as soon as possible, in order to meet the approaching November 1 deadline. Students applying for an appointment to a U.S. service academy must have a nomination from an authorized nominating source. Members of Congress are authorized to nominate candidates, as are the President, Vice President, and the Secretaries of the Army, Navy and Air Force. Students seeking a nomination from Ryan should contact the office by calling toll-free 1-888-909-7926. Nomination forms are available through the congressional website at http://www.house.gov/ryan/academy. Completed nomination application forms must reach the Janesville office by the November 1, 2007 deadline, for the class entering in 2008. Students should send their applications to Ryan’s Janesville constituent services center, to the attention of Chad Herbert. The address and phone number for this office are listed below: Congressman Paul Ryan Attention: Chad Herbert Janesville Constituent Services Center 20 S. Main Street, Suite 10 Janesville, WI 53545 phone: 1-888-909-RYAN (7926) Applicants for academy nominations from Congressman Ryan must be: citizens of the United States and residents of the First Congressional District of Wisconsin, at least 17 years of age and must not have passed their 23rd birthday on July 1 of the year of entry, unmarried and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents, at the time of admission to an academy. Competition to enter the academies is intense, and receiving a nomination does not guarantee acceptance by an academy. *** Special note: Students should not send their nomination application materials to Ryan’s Washington, D.C. office. Mail deliveries for congressional offices in Washington are still subject to delays due to required security precautions.
09.25.2007	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation (H.R. 976) that exploits the renewal of a popular children’s health insurance program to expand government-run health care and uses a spending gimmick to understate the true cost of this legislation over time. First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted against the flawed, fiscally irresponsible measure, citing the need for a more comprehensive solution to help the uninsured. The President has indicated he will veto the bill, and Congress is expected to take up a short-term extension of the expiring State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) as part of a larger bill later this week. Ryan supports an extension of the existing program. The legislation the House considered today goes well beyond simply extending SCHIP, which was originally intended to serve low-income, uninsured children whose family incomes were a little too high to qualify for Medicaid assistance. Instead, it expands this government program by $35 billion over five years, financed by a 61-cent-a-pack increase in federal tobacco taxes. But after giving states an incentive to sign up as many children as possible (some of whom already have private health insurance) in SCHIP during the next five years, the bill relies on an abrupt drop in the funding level to evade pay-as-you-go constraints and downplay the long-term cost to taxpayers. In order for the Majority’s math to work, under today’s bill the SCHIP program would spend more than $8.3 billion in 2012, drop to only $2.3 billion in 2013 and then cut $500 million from existing SCHIP funding levels in 2014. If this actually occurred, millions of new enrollees could be left without coverage or moved to Medicaid. More likely, a future Congress would be pressured to greatly increase SCHIP funding. In addition, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that, under the SCHIP expansion, about 2 million individuals who have private health insurance would shift into the government-run program. If funding drops off sharply after five years, as provided under this legislation, these families could find themselves without health coverage, and – after five years of market-distorting federal spending – they will be unlikely to find affordable private health insurance. “Solving the problem of uninsured children and all who lack health coverage must be a top priority of Congress, but this bill goes in the wrong direction while hiding the true cost of expanding this government program. This is a case of bait-and-switch salesmanship – luring supporters with promises that downplay costs, then raising the price. More government-run, big-bureaucracy health care that pushes people out of private coverage isn’t the answer to our health care crisis,” Ryan said. “We need a more comprehensive fix that will put health coverage within everyone’s reach, without bankrupting taxpayers down the road. Making the health care marketplace work to lower costs, boost competition, and improve quality – not expanding government’s reach – should be the focus of our efforts.” On top of concerns about the way today’s proposal to expand SCHIP misleads taxpayers by understating the long-term cost of expanding this program and drives some children from middle-income families that already have private coverage into a growing government-run health care system, there are other significant flaws with the bill, including the fact that it: Makes it easier for illegal immigrants to fraudulently qualify for the Medicaid and SCHIP programs. Current law requires that states must determine whether people who apply for Medicaid and SCHIP are U.S. citizens. States can satisfy this requirement by having applicants show specified types of identity documents such as drivers’ licenses or birth certificates. The proposed SCHIP expansion bill weakens the current rules – allowing states to disregard the requirement to review actual identity documents and instead submit the names and Social Security numbers of applicants to the Social Security Administration (SSA). As the SSA Commissioner has indicated, this new provision would fail to identify and therefore prevent some people from illegally getting health care benefits through Medicaid or SCHIP. This includes illegal immigrants who are fraudulently using another person’s valid name and Social Security number. Attempts to pay for an expanding government program with a shrinking revenue stream. The number of smokers in the U.S. has been declining for decades, and increasing the tobacco tax will cause tobacco consumption to decrease even more sharply. Logically, this raises the question of whether sufficient revenues from the cigarette tax hike will, in fact, materialize to cover the short-term cost of expanding this program. Was rushed through Congress after being hidden from public view until yesterday evening and includes at least one pork-barrel earmark (directing taxpayer funding to a health care facility located in Tennessee freshman representative Steve Cohen’s district) – despite the bill being certified as “earmark-free”.
09.11.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan attended yesterday’s joint hearing of the House Armed Services and Foreign Affairs Committees to listen to the testimony of General David Petraeus, Commanding General of the multi-national force in Iraq, and U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker. Today Congressman Ryan made the following statement regarding the assessments and recommendations that General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker have shared with Congress: “First, I would like to commend and thank our troops for the significant progress they have made, working together with Iraqis, toward securing Iraq and defeating al Qaeda in Iraq. Without downplaying the enormous challenges ahead, General Petraeus cited concrete examples of how the security situation in Iraq has been improving since new strategies and the troop surge were enacted. Our military men and women and their leaders in the field deserve credit for these hard-won gains.” “I was also encouraged that General Petraeus spoke of reducing U.S. troop levels in Iraq over the months ahead – something all of us are very anxious to see happen. That is why it is key that we continue helping the Iraqis to prepare their security forces to take the lead in operations. We want to see this transition happen as soon as possible, so that our troops can come home. While I would prefer to see an accelerated timetable that brings our soldiers home sooner than the General outlined, I understand that drawing down our forces suddenly, without regard for the conditions on the ground or the ability of the Iraqis to defend themselves, would forfeit the progress our troops have made and have devastating consequences. This is why we can’t overstate the importance of getting the Iraqi security forces ready to take charge of defending their country.” “Though General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker’s testimony demonstrated forward momentum, I’m disappointed that political advances in Iraq haven’t kept pace with the military progress we’ve seen in recent months. An August 26 communique issued by five prominent Iraqi national leaders about agreement on draft legislation shows promise, but we need to start seeing more cooperation and real results.” “It’s clear the troops are succeeding, but it is unclear the Iraqi government is working. While there is reason for hope on a political breakthrough, we need to do more to pressure Iraqi politicians to bring political reconciliation so we can accelerate this transition to a stable Iraq so that we can bring our troops home as soon as possible."
09.05.2007	WASHINGTON -- First District Congressman Paul Ryan will be hosting passport fairs in Oak Creek and Janesville next week in conjunction with the U.S. Postal Service to help residents of the First Congressional District who will be traveling outside the country get answers to their passport questions and begin the process of applying for a passport. This year, Americans traveling outside the country have experienced major delays in obtaining passports as the State Department has struggled to meet growing demand for passports as new security regulations for air travel are implemented under the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative. In addition, if the next phase of this security initiative proceeds as scheduled, individuals who plan to travel to Canada and Mexico by land will also be required to secure U.S. passports to reenter the U.S. by the end of January 2008. As a result, a new wave of passport applications could lead to further backlogs. For information about the changing regulations and assistance with applying early for passports in order to avoid problems, Congressman Ryan encourages First District residents who may be traveling outside the U.S. in the months ahead to attend one of these passport fairs. U.S. Postal Service employees who are certified by the State Department to process and accept passport applications will be at these meetings to respond to travelers’ questions and accept passport applications. Area residents who would like to submit an application at the passport fair should visit the web site: www.travel.state.gov/passport in advance to get information about the fees, documents, photos and other required materials that they will need to bring with them to the passport fair. First District Passport Fairs Wednesday, September 12 11:00am – 2:00pm Oak Creek Law Enforcement Center 301 W. Ryan Rd., Oak Creek, WI Thursday, September 13 11:00am – 2:00pm Mercy Health Mall 1010 N. Washington St., Janesville, WI
09.04.2007	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the First District Mobile Office schedule for mid-September through October. The mobile office makes regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin’s First Congressional District. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. Please click here for a listing of scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the First District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing First District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. “I need to hear from First District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. First District residents can check their local paper or our website – www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of mobile office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by.
08.27.2007	WASHINGTON – Members of the Wisconsin congressional delegation today sent a letter to the President calling for prompt consideration of the significant flood damage that has occurred in the seven additional Wisconsin counties for which Governor Doyle declared a state of emergency late last week. These are Dane, Grant, Green, Jefferson, Kenosha, Racine and Rock counties. The letter expresses appreciation for the President’s cooperation in ordering federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts in the counties of Crawford, La Crosse, Richland, Sauk and Vernon, and encourages timely consideration of Wisconsin’s request for additional counties that have been affected by the devastating floods. Click to view the a copy of the Delegation's letter to the President. For additional information, contact: Kate Matus (Ryan): 202-226-7326 Curt Finkelmeyer (Baldwin): 608-251-8736 Anne Lupardus (Kind): 202-225-5506 Raj Bharwani (Sensenbrenner): 202-225-5101 Deirdre Murphy (Moore): 202-225-4572 Niel Wright (Petri): 202-225-2476 David Williams (Kagen): 202-225-5665 Ellis Brachman (Obey): 202-225-3365 Joe Bonfiglio (Kohl): 202-224-5653 Zach Lowe (Feingold): 202-224-8657
08.07.2007	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan will host an African American Community Issues Forum and listening session in conjunction with Racine County Supervisor Ken Lumpkin in Racine at Flatiron Mall on Thursday, August 16 from 1:30 to 3:00pm. The forum will provide a venue for discussing matters of local concern that have an impact on the area’s African American community, including minority business development and faith-based and community initiatives. This gathering will also offer an opportunity to talk about a wide range of issues before Congress. “This forum offers a great chance for area residents and community leaders to gather together to voice concerns, share ideas, and get information on issues that affect the day-to-day lives of African Americans in southeastern Wisconsin,” Ryan said. WHAT: African American Community Issues Forum WHEN: Thursday, August 16, 1:30 – 3:00 pm WHERE: Flatiron Mall, 1661 Douglas Ave., Racine People who would like more information about this community issues forum can call Paul Ryan’s office via the toll-free constituent services hotline: 1-888-909-7926 or Ken Lumpkin at 262-632-9370.
08.04.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted against companion energy bills (H.R. 3221 and H.R. 2776) that ignore – and even in some cases restrict access to – many domestic fuel resources that exist in abundance in the U.S. and chart a path that is likely to end up hurting American consumers. These bills passed the House and were merged together before proceeding to the Senate. The legislation creates dozens of new, often duplicative government programs – spending billions of taxpayer dollars on a hodgepodge of top-down, government-directed initiatives that pick winners and losers in the energy marketplace with little consideration for free-market forces. In addition, one of the bills includes $15 billion of energy tax increases over ten years, imposed on America’s oil and gas industry, which will almost surely be passed on to consumers in the form of higher prices. Ryan supported some aspects of the energy legislation, most notably the amendment offered by Rep. Tom Udall (D-NM) that requires electric suppliers, other than rural electric cooperatives and governmental entities, to provide 15 percent of their electricity using renewable energy resources by the year 2020. It allows four percent of the requirement to be satisfied with electricity efficiency measures. This policy builds on Wisconsin’s leadership in this area. The state already has its own requirement in place to prompt greater reliance on renewables to generate electricity – requiring 10 percent of electricity to come from renewable energy resources by 2011. While Ryan voted in favor of this amendment – which passed – he did not support the larger legislation, which creates many opportunities for government waste and abuse and would lead to less domestic oil and gas production – increasing our reliance on foreign energy sources. “In a summer of skyrocketing gas prices, Congress shouldn’t be discouraging domestic oil and gas production. Over the short term, we can lower energy costs by using clean drilling technologies to tap into more of our domestic fuel sources, clearing the way for new refineries to be built, and streamlining fuel regulations to improve our fuel supply. Unfortunately, the bill the House passed today doesn’t take these steps and will make us more dependent on foreign oil, not less. At the same time, we need to develop our renewable energy sources, so we can kick the fossil fuel habit and enjoy clean and plentiful energy produced here at home. This legislation makes some progress on renewables, but overall it takes the wrong approach – relying mainly on big government programs that squander taxpayer dollars and expand the federal bureaucracy,” Ryan said. Just a few of the misguided policies included in this mammoth legislation are as follows: It prohibits surface occupancy of leases issued for federal minerals in the Roan Plateau, Colorado, essentially cutting off production from a large, clean natural gas field in Colorado. Some estimate that this provision would prevent access to 4.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. It amends existing law to establish a slower approach to a commercial leasing program for oil shale and tar sands resources on public lands – running the risk of driving investors overseas and costing manufacturing jobs. (Of the 2 trillion barrels of oil shale in the U.S., about 80 percent are on federal lands.) Estimates are that the U.S. oil shale reserves hold enough energy to supply all of our nation’s oil needs for 228 years. It creates a new agency – and accompanying multibillion-dollar fund in the U.S. Treasury – to support the development of energy technologies (much of which the federal government is already doing). It authorizes $1 billion over five years for clean and efficient energy technologies in other countries. It allows individuals to sue the federal government for damages (of up to $1.5 million per year) caused by global warming. It creates a $6 billion slush fund for green pork projects, financed by a new class of bonds (tax credit bonds) that is particularly costly and inefficient. Furthermore, there’s no guarantee that the proceeds from these bonds will be spent on worthwhile projects. For example, the money could be spent on hybrid snowmobiles for ski resorts or for a Wal-Mart building with a handful of solar panels.
08.03.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today introduced the Medicare Quality Enhancement Act with Congressman Artur Davis (D-AL) to provide certain qualified private-sector organizations access to Medicare data so they can analyze the information and issue reports on the quality, cost, efficiency and effectiveness of our health care system. These reports will help inform the public so individuals can make better decisions about their medical care. Additionally, this information will aid health care providers, policymakers, patient advocacy groups and others with improving the quality and lowering the cost of health care – all while maintaining patient privacy. In the U.S. Senate, this legislation has been introduced by Senators Judd Gregg (R-NH) and Hillary Clinton (D-NY). “In order for patients and their families to make the best decisions about their medical care, they need reliable information on the cost and quality of care that doctors and hospitals provide. This bill will help by making better use of the vast amount of health care data the federal government holds through Medicare. If researchers are able to analyze this information and release their findings to outside groups and the public, this will help pinpoint problems, improve quality, and drive down costs,” Ryan said. This bipartisan legislation authorizes the secure disclosure of Medicare data to qualified organizations, known as Medicare Quality Reporting Organizations (MQROs) with whom the government enters into a contract. These organizations will analyze the data and develop reports, while observing necessary safeguards to protect patient privacy. MQROs must have the information technology infrastructure to securely store the entire Medicare claims database and have research expertise to develop reports on health care quality and efficiency. Private-sector organizations can submit a request to an MQRO for a report based on Medicare data and private data that is publicly available or is provided by the entity making the request for the report. MQROs may charge the group making the request a reasonable fee for the development and release of the report. The report must be made available to the public through the website of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and other appropriate means no later than one year after the date that the report is released to the entity who requested it. The Medicare Quality Enhancement Act requires the protection of Medicare beneficiary privacy under both the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and the Privacy Act, and it requires a privacy review by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services of each analytical report prior to release.
08.01.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted against legislation that exploits the reauthorization of a popular children’s health insurance program to expand government-run, bureaucracy-driven health care and greatly increase already unsustainable entitlement spending. The bill would hurt seniors, working families, and taxpayers through a combination of Medicare cuts and tax increases to pay for this fiscally irresponsible proposal. The House of Representatives passed this bill (H.R. 3162) by a vote of 225-204. The legislation goes far beyond simply extending the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which was intended to serve low-income, uninsured children whose family incomes were a little too high to qualify for Medicaid assistance. Ensuring that SCHIP continues to serve these children as well as pregnant women whose family income is about $40,000 would cost about $4.9 billion over five years. In contrast, the SCHIP expansion the House approved today would spend $27.5 billion over five years and $132.6 billion over ten years in new mandatory spending, increasing the deficit over ten years by more than $72 billion. Furthermore, this bill vastly expands the SCHIP program beyond its original intent so that it covers not only low-income, but middle and higher-income children and pushes individuals who already have coverage under private health insurance into government health care. In fact, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that H.R. 3162 would shift about 2.4 million children who are currently in private health care plans to government-run health care. “Congress should be making thoughtful reforms to help insure the uninsured, lower the high cost of health coverage, and give patients the options they need to access quality care. Instead, this bill uses a children’s health insurance program as an excuse to push people from private health insurance to government health coverage, while taking away coverage choices from seniors,” Ryan said. “It essentially creates a costly new entitlement program at a time when our existing major entitlements are going broke. While I support extending the State Children’s Health Insurance Program so it can keep fulfilling its original purpose, this fiscally irresponsible bill, with its tax hikes and Medicare cuts, goes far beyond this goal and does more harm than good.” The legislation makes it possible for – and even encourages – states to provide SCHIP benefits to families with incomes of up to $83,000 per year or even more. The more individuals that states enroll, regardless of income or legal eligibility, the more money states receive. States could also cover larger numbers of adults under this proposal. Besides allowing states to establish their own eligibility standards, H.R. 3162 would not require enrollees to prove their income. In other words, a millionaire could claim he qualifies for SCHIP coverage under the state’s requirements and that would be sufficient proof. The legislation pays for this massive expansion of an entitlement program partly by cutting payments to consumer-oriented Medicare Advantage (MA) plans. MA plans allow seniors to choose a private insurance plan that works for them and typically provide more supplemental benefits than standard Medicare. This cut is expected to force one in five Medicare beneficiaries out of their existing coverage under Medicare Advantage. A recent study coauthored by a former Clinton Administration official predicts that Wisconsin would lose more than 100,000 MA enrollees if such a reduction in MA rates is enacted. Among its major problems, H.R. 3162: Cuts Medicare Advantage by $157 billion, resulting in less quality and choice of programs for seniors. Cuts Medicare Part A for seniors by $8.8 billion, including rehabilitation facilities and long term care hospitals. Includes Medicare cuts of $3.6 billion to the end-stage renal disease program for seniors. Cuts Medicare Part B for seniors by $9.6 billion, including payments for oxygen and brachytherapy. Includes a stealth tax increase on private insurance plans that will raise the cost of health insurance and drain money from the Medicare Trust Fund (already projected to reach bankruptcy in 2019). Puts no income limit on SCHIP eligibility, enabling states to expand coverage for increasingly wealthy beneficiaries – going well beyond SCHIP’s original intent. Requires no means testing – essentially allowing anyone to be eligible for government health care. Encourages states to spend more by shortening the amount of time a state has to spend its annual SCHIP allotment, creating new bonus payments to states that enroll more children, and requiring the federal government to pay the state more money if it exceeds its allotment as a result of covering more individuals. Raises the cigarette tax, which falls disproportionately on lower-income Americans, by 45 cents per pack. This revenue source is constantly declining, calling into question the ability of this tax to really offset as much of the cost of the bill as expected. Uses a budget gimmick to reduce the cost of the measure on paper – increasing Medicare payments to physicians over the short-run, but at the same time scheduling a 12 percent cut to physicians in both 2010 and 2011 and then freezing payments to doctors after 2012.
07.30.2007	WASHINGTON -- First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced the schedule for listening sessions that will be held from August 13–15. Ryan will be visiting 15 communities throughout Wisconsin's First Congressional District for these listening sessions. These meetings provide an opportunity for First District residents to share their ideas and ask questions they have about federal government issues. Among other issues, Ryan will discuss the need to make government more accountable for what it spends and balance the budget without raising taxes. He will also talk about reforms that can help bring down the high cost of health care and create more competition between medical providers to improve prices and quality for patients. “These listening sessions give First District residents a great opportunity to share their concerns and ideas on a wide range of issues that Congress deals with – from health care costs, to government overspending, to the fight against terrorism. It’s important that I hear from people across the district in order to do my job, and these meetings also provide a chance to share information about what Congress has been doing,” Ryan said. Please click here for a complete schedule of upcoming listening sessions.
07.27.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted against H.R. 2419, the Farm Bill Extension Act, expressing disappointment in the deeply flawed legislation which delivers no real reform to address the problems that plague the current agriculture subsidy system. The House passed the Farm Bill reauthorization by a vote of 231-191. Together with Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and a bipartisan coalition of members of Congress favoring farm policy reform, Ryan had proposed amendments to ensure that there is a fair and effective safety net for family farmers during difficult times, while at the same time tackling abuses within the present system and exercising greater care with taxpayer dollars. Unfortunately, these improvements were not adopted. The Farm Bill that the House passed is largely a continuation of the status quo with its inequities and distortions. According to Citizens Against Government Waste, under existing agricultural policies, “subsidies overwhelmingly go to the largest farmers and agribusinesses. In 2003, the top 10 percent of farm subsidy recipients collected 72 percent of total subsidies.” In some cases – such as by providing a higher government support price for sugar and eliminating the current law limit on marketing loan benefits – today’s farm bill actually makes matters worse. Moreover, this fiscally irresponsible legislation contains budget gimmicks and increases taxes on certain American businesses owned by foreign companies – discouraging foreign investment and job growth here in the U.S. and violating existing tax treaties. “Federal farm programs should provide a safety net for family farmers in times of need – not big subsidies for profitable corporate farms. Taxpayers and family farmers deserve better than the current system,” Ryan said. “The Farm Bill the House adopted not only fails to deliver real farm policy reform, but it also breaks the budget and risks American jobs by raising taxes on some foreign-owned businesses that operate in the U.S. Southern Wisconsin businesses such as Nestle and Case New Holland could be affected by this tax hike. I’m disappointed by this setback for our reform coalition but look forward to opportunities to build on the progress we made working together across party lines throughout this debate.” A bipartisan group of representatives, backed by a diverse gathering of organizations including fiscal watchdogs, environmentalists, and anti-hunger activists, fought the status quo and put forward real reform solutions during the Farm Bill debate. Specifically, a comprehensive reform amendment to the Farm Bill – the “Fairness in Farm and Food Policy Amendment” – offered by Reps. Kind, Ryan, Flake (R-AZ.), Blumenauer (D-OR) and others on both sides of the aisle would have reined in the wasteful spending of the current subsidy system, directing the savings to deficit reduction, conservation programs, and hunger assistance. This amendment would have made sure struggling family farmers get assistance during difficult times, while curtailing subsidy payments to wealthy commercial farmers. Unfortunately, the amendment failed to win a majority of votes. This amendment would have: Replaced Depression-era price guarantees with a modern revenue-based safety net that better protects family farmers from declines in crop prices and crop yields compared to the current price-based payments. Denied subsidies to large commercial farmers with average annual adjusted gross income greater than $250,000 and limited annual subsidies to $250,000 per person. Gradually reduced direct payments for commodities, which were intended as “transitional” temporary payments under the 1996 Farm Bill, but have since been extended and increased. Limited-resource farmers would have been exempted from cuts. Created optional Risk Management Accounts that would be available to every farmer and rancher and would work together with crop and revenue insurance already held by about 80 percent of producers. These “rainy day” accounts would have helped farmers set aside savings during profitable years to supplement their income during downturns. Reformed crop insurance and reduced excessive payments to crop insurance companies that administer the program. Reduced the deficit by $1.9 billion over five years and by roughly $14 billion over 10 years – without resorting to budget gimmicks or tax hikes. Dedicated part of the savings generated by reforms to conservation and nutrition programs. Additionally, Reps. Paul Ryan and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) tried to offer a separate bipartisan amendment that would have capped farm subsidy payments at $250,000 per year; however, the House Rules Committee did not allow the House to consider or vote on the amendment – apparently because Democratic House leaders feared it could pass. This reform amendment would have prevented taxpayer dollars from being squandered on huge subsidies for large corporate farms. The savings from this amendment would have been directed toward deficit reduction and conservation and forestry programs.
07.19.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today offered an amendment to the annual Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education spending bill to ensure that funds for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) are no longer squandered on unnecessary luxuries and wasteful programs. The House of Representatives approved his amendment with bipartisan support by a voice vote. Ryan speaks out against wasteful spending at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (click to watch) While acknowledging the dedication of many CDC employees and their vital role in protecting the health of our nation, Ryan highlighted recent examples of frivolous spending by this government agency and offered an amendment to prevent further abuses of taxpayer dollars. These examples of irresponsible spending by CDC are drawn from a recent congressional report titled CDC Off Center that was produced under the direction of Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma. Among other irresponsible spending, this report describes how the CDC recently provided its employees with extravagant zero-gravity chairs, mood-enhancing rotating pastel lights, and dry-heat saunas. The report also discusses how the CDC, through its Entertainment Education Program, has spent more than $1.7 million on a Hollywood liaison program run by a former employee to advise TV shows such as “ER” and “House” on health and medical information included in their programming – clearly an inappropriate expense for America’s taxpayers to bear. Another unnecessary expense outlined in this report deals with funding for ombudsmen (outside contractors who happen to be former CDC managers) intended to help improve CDC employees’ morale and quality of life. “Taxpayers expect the CDC to use their money wisely to fight life-threatening diseases and defend against the threat of bioterrorism – not waste funds on unnecessary luxuries and programs that stray from its core mission,” Ryan said. “I offered this amendment to hold the agency accountable for specific cases where it squandered taxpayer dollars and prevent this from continuing. I respect the vital work of CDC employees dedicated to disease prevention and believe the agency should carefully use its resources to advance this goal.” Ryan’s amendment contains three key provisions. It specifies that none of the funds in this spending bill may be used for the following purposes: To carry out the Entertainment Education Program (Hollywood liaison) of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; For the CDC’s morale-building ombudsman program; To provide additional rotating pastel lights, zero-gravity chairs, or dry-heat saunas for the CDC’s fitness center. Regarding the fiscal year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education [LHHS] spending bill in which this amendment is included, Ryan has expressed concerns over the substantial increase in spending and the impact this would have on efforts to eliminate the deficit. The LHHS spending bill provides for an increase of nearly $11 billion over the President’s request for these government departments, $7 billion more than the 2007 level, and $2.3 billion more than the Senate version of this bill.
07.12.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted against H.R. 2956, which sets (and broadcasts to the enemy) an arbitrary troop withdrawal timeline – requiring a reduction in U.S. Armed Forces in Iraq starting within 120 days of the bill’s enactment, to be completed by April 1, 2008. Ryan made the following statement regarding this flawed approach: “It’s poor strategy to advertise to our enemies the dates we intend to start and finish withdrawing forces from Iraq. There’s no question that we all want our troops to return home as soon as possible, but decisions on when and how to do this should be made by our military commanders on the ground in Iraq – not Washington politicians seeking to score political points. On top of this, today’s vote gives our enemies hope at a critical point. Just as more local Iraqis and tribal leaders have been turning against al Qaeda in Iraq, the House adopts a retreat schedule that could discourage this sort of progress,” Ryan said. Ryan also noted that the deadly consequences of withdrawing from Iraq before Iraqis are able to defend against radical militias, terrorists, and insurgents deserve serious consideration. An editorial in today’s Washington Post makes this important point. An excerpt of the editorial, “Wishful Thinking on Iraq” appears below: “Advocates of withdrawal would like to believe that Afghanistan is now a central front in the war on terror but that Iraq is not; believing that doesn't make it so. They would like to minimize the chances of disaster following a U.S. withdrawal: of full-blown civil war, conflicts spreading beyond Iraq's borders, or genocide. They would have us believe that someone or something will ride to the rescue: the United Nations, an Islamic peacekeeping force, an invigorated diplomatic process. They like to say that by withdrawing U.S. troops, they will ‘end the war.’ “Conditions in Iraq today are terrible, but they could become ‘way, way worse,’ as the U.S. ambassador to Iraq, Ryan C. Crocker, a career Foreign Service officer, recently told the New York Times. If American men and women were dying in July in a clearly futile cause, it would indeed be immoral to wait until September to order their retreat. But given the risks of withdrawal, the calculus cannot be so simple. The generals who have devised a new strategy believe they are making fitful progress in calming Baghdad, training the Iraqi army and encouraging anti-al-Qaeda coalitions. Before Congress begins managing rotation schedules and ordering withdrawals, it should at least give those generals the months they asked for to see whether their strategy can offer some new hope.”
07.12.2007	WASHINGTON – In order to reduce medical errors, improve efficiency and lower health care costs, and give every person a chance to own his or her secure electronic medical record, First District Congressman Paul Ryan has coauthored legislation to pave the way for a nationwide health information network of electronic medical records. The bipartisan bill (H.R. 2991), which resembles legislation that Ryan introduced last year, was introduced in the House of Representatives this week by another coauthor – Congressman Dennis Moore of Kansas. In the Senate during the last Congress, Senator Sam Brownback introduced similar legislation, and he intends to do so again in the near future. It would lay the regulatory groundwork for the creation of Independent Health Record Trusts (IHRTs) to maintain electronic health records for those who choose to participate. This legislation – the Independent Health Record Trust Act – would give patients a way to make sure their up-to-date medical information can easily travel with them to whatever doctor or hospital they visit, improving treatment and reducing mistakes in the process. Moving from paper-based records to electronic medical records will also help reduce excess paperwork, lower administrative costs, and streamline the reporting of public information – lowering the cost of health care in the process. A RAND study released two years ago found that the use of electronic medical records and establishment of a nationwide health information network could save $152 billion a year. “With the technology that’s available today, there’s no reason that patients can’t have electronic access to their complete medical history and current treatment information,” Ryan said. “Just as people can check their bank account information online or using their ATM card, patients who want to should have electronic access to their medical records and be able to share this information with their doctors. This will help improve treatment and avoid errors such as harmful prescription drug interactions.” Currently, the U.S. has no unified, electronic system for storing health records. The Independent Health Record Trust Act provides legal and regulatory guidelines for the establishment of independent health record trusts that would store and manage a patient’s electronic health records, in effect creating a nationwide health information network. Under this proposal, individuals could choose to file their medical information in an “account” with an accredited Independent Health Record Trust (IHRT) that is certified and regulated through the Federal Trade Commission. Within one year of the bill’s enactment into law, the FTC and the National Center for Vital and Health Statistics (NCVHS) would develop standards for establishment of IHRTs. Health record trusts would be operated by member-owned institutions, much like credit unions. To be eligible to participate in an IHRT, an individual would submit their medical information to the IHRT (or allow the trust to retrieve this information) and enter into a privacy protection agreement with the IHRT. Account holders and their doctors or other health-care providers would update their records as check-ups and medical treatments are provided. These health information trusts would manage medical information in a manner similar to the way today’s financial institutions, such as banks, manage financial data – with safeguards to protect patient confidentiality. Specifically, the IHRT would have to obtain a patient’s consent before releasing health information to doctors, hospitals, or others. In the case of emergency room visits, IHRTs may allow health care providers access to some limited information from the patient’s record without prior authorization; however, the account holder may opt out of this type of sharing. This electronic account system could be particularly critical during emergencies and natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina, where people are away from their regular doctor or hospital. Having real-time access to patients’ medical information, with their consent, would help save lives. Under this system, individual account holders would own their medical record and be permitted to add personal health information. At the same time, they could not alter or falsify information entered into the record by a health care provider. This legislation also would help our nation set standards for interoperability of health information technology – so physicians and hospitals in one part of the country can communicate and share information easily and confidentially with their counterparts in another part of the country. One of the other benefits of using IHRTs to establish a secure nationwide health information network is that they would be financially self-sustaining – avoiding a costly government program. IHRTs would be permitted to raise revenue through the sale of non-identifiable health data for research purposes, as authorized by the account holder. If a patient agrees to allow the IHRT to provide some of his medical information for research purposes, as long as the data doesn’t identify the patient, then the patient would be able to share in revenue generated by the sale of that information. Of course, the IHRT would need the patient’s consent before providing any of his medical data for research purposes. IHRTs would also have the option of charging account fees to those who use them.
07.11.2007	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan, who serves as Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, today made the following statement after the Administration’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB) released its annual mid-year budget update, which shows that its deficit forecast for this year has declined to $205 billion – a reduction of $39 billion from the OMB’s February estimates. According to the OMB, the deficit is down primarily due to the significant increases in tax receipts generated by the growing economy. “The fact that the deficit continues to shrink for the third year in a row reflects solid and ongoing economic growth since Congress lowered taxes in 2003. While this is a welcome sign, I worry that this progress will stall or reverse as congressional Democratic leaders keep pushing for higher spending and higher taxes. We need to rein in Washington’s spending habit, while keeping taxes low, if we’re going to eliminate the deficit once and for all,” Ryan said. The information released by the OMB today shows that tax revenue flowing into the Treasury is $34 billion higher than OMB estimated in February. Revenues grew by 11.8 percent in 2006, and they are expected to increase by 6.9 percent – or $167 billion – this year. The OMB’s budget update indicates that the federal government is on track to reach a balanced budget – and even register a surplus – in 2012. These estimates assume the government will adhere to the spending levels the President has proposed; however, the Democrats’ budget calls for adding $21 billion to the President’s spending levels and promises another $190 billion in new entitlement spending – without identifying how to pay for this entitlement spending. This is on top of spending hikes that have already taken place this year, namely $6 billion added to the 2007 omnibus and $17 billion added to the Iraq supplemental.
06.28.2007	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the First District Mobile Office schedule for July through the first week in September. The mobile office makes regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin’s First Congressional District. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. Please click here for a listing of scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the First District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing First District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. “I need to hear from First District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. First District residents can check their local paper or our website – www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by or make an appointment by contacting Conor Sweeney at (262) 654-1901.
06.15.2007	WASHINGTON – As one of the lawmakers who has been leading the charge against secret earmark slush funds and objecting to House Democratic leaders’ disregard for earmark disclosure rules, First District Congressman Paul Ryan welcomed progress made late this week to bring earmarks back into the open and restore representatives’ ability to challenge wasteful spending on the House floor. In protest against House Democratic leaders’ plan to add earmarks to spending bills only at the end of the process, when there’s no opportunity to challenge individual earmarks through amendments, Republicans used procedural tactics to delay debate. However, an agreement was reached between Democratic and Republican leaders to bring back earmark accountability and allow the appropriations process to move forward. “Congress needs to show taxpayers how it intends to spend their money, and this means being open from the start about which earmarks are attached to spending bills. This way, wasteful pork-barrel items can be rooted out and representatives will be held accountable for the spending they request. It’s important that we were able to stand up for earmark reform and get the House leadership to back down from its plan to reveal earmarks much later in the process. While this agreement isn’t perfect, it’s a big win for taxpayers. We have to keep shining sunlight on spending and keep serving as watchdogs on federal spending,” Ryan said. The agreement provides that, following House votes this week on two spending bills (Homeland Security, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs), all ten remaining appropriations bills will have their earmarks fully disclosed and subject to challenge on the House floor by any Member of Congress. In the unique case of the Energy and Water bill, earmarks included in that measure will move to the floor in a package separate from the non-earmark portion of the bill, but the earmarks will be fully disclosed and subject to challenge. In addition, under this agreement, if earmarks that did not appear in initial House or Senate versions of the ten remaining appropriations bills are air-dropped into spending legislation at the end of the process, during conference negotiations with the Senate, the legislation would be subject to a point of order – a potential vote in the House to send the legislation back to conference.
06.12.2007	Ryan speaks up against House leaders’ reversal on earmark reform (click to watch) WASHINGTON – As the House of Representatives today took up the first of its annual spending bills, Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan expressed deep disappointment that House Democrats do not intend to reveal the earmarks that will be included in spending bills until much later in the process, when there’s no opportunity to challenge individual earmarks through amendments offered on the House floor. Contrary to the intent of earmark disclosure rules adopted in January, House Appropriations Committee Chairman Obey has indicated that earmarks will be added when House and Senate negotiators hammer out a consensus version (conference report) of the legislation. Conference reports cannot be amended and typically are considered the day after the House-Senate conference committee comes to agreement, offering very limited time for review of the final bill’s contents. The bills the House will consider in the coming weeks carve out room for billions in taxpayer-funded projects, without disclosing what those projects will be – essentially creating slush funds for earmarks. For example, a Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, slated for a House vote later this week, reserves about $20 billion for undisclosed projects to be inserted later by Chairman Obey. “Just when we were making progress on bringing earmarks into the light of day, House Democrats have done an about-face. By forcing the House to vote on spending bills with undisclosed earmarks, they are making the process less open and accountable,” Ryan said. “I had high hopes at the start of this Congress when we adopted earmark disclosure rules, but the Democrat leadership is dodging these rules – shifting even more power to the Appropriations Committee and away from American taxpayers and their representatives in Congress. The public, the press, and lawmakers deserve to see what earmarks are attached to which bills and who requested them before Congress votes on this spending.” Last September, the House approved a rules change to shine sunlight on earmarks by requiring that all reported bills and conference reports considered in the House include a list of earmarks and the name of the representative requesting each earmark. In January of this year, the new House leadership put forward its version of earmark disclosure rules, which the House approved. These required that bills or joint resolutions considered in the House include either a list of earmarks in the text or committee report and the name of the Member of Congress requesting each earmark or a statement that no such earmarks are included. The rules also require every Member of Congress requesting an earmark to provide a written explanation of the request and certifying that the Member or spouse has no financial interest in the earmark.
06.12.2007	WASHINGTON – In response to the news that Chrysler will announce on Wednesday its plans to retool the Kenosha Engine Plant to produce the new Phoenix V-6 engine line, First District Congressman Paul Ryan today issued the following statement: “Chrysler’s decision to retool the Kenosha plant to build the new engine line means the world to Kenosha, and it’s an important investment in the company’s future. The skill and commitment of the plant’s workforce and the Kenosha community overall is a tremendous asset to Chrysler, and that’s at the heart of this decision. After spending years talking with Chrysler about its plans in Kenosha, it’s great to see this day finally arrive and know that Kenosha will continue to be key to Chrysler’s future.”
06.08.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today shared the latest information released by the U.S. Departments of State and Homeland Security about a temporary policy change regarding passport requirements for travelers to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda. The change was sparked by current delays in processing passport applications. Since January 23, 2007, all citizens of the United States, Canada, Mexico, Bermuda or the Caribbean have been required to present a valid passport when entering the United States at any airport. Now, faced with record demand that has led to longer processing times for passport applications, the federal government is making an accommodation for air travel. According to the State and Homeland Security Departments, U.S. citizens traveling to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda, who have already applied for – but not yet received – passports, can temporarily enter and leave the U.S. by air with a government-issued photo identification and official proof of application for a passport from the Department of State. Children under 16, who are traveling with their parents or legal guardian, will be permitted to travel with the child’s proof of passport application. This policy is in effect through September 30, 2007. U.S. citizens with pending passport applications can obtain proof of application at the Department of State’s web site at http://www.travel.state.gov. It’s important to note that this policy change does not affect entry requirements to other countries. In other words, Americans traveling to a country that requires passports must still present those documents. Currently, it takes about 14 weeks or more to get a passport from the federal government, so Congressman Ryan urges prospective overseas travelers to apply early for passports – well in advance of any trip – to avoid problems caused by processing delays. Constituents who have questions or are experiencing difficulty getting a response from the State Department about their passport application can contact Ryan’s Constituent Services Center via the toll-free constituent line: 1-888-909-7926, and should also visit his emergency passport assistance web page web page.
06.07.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted against S. 5, legislation that would expand the ability of the federal government to force taxpayers to fund human embryo-destroying research. The House of Representatives passed the bill by a vote of 247-176, which is not a large enough margin to override an expected presidential veto. “With all the news about groundbreaking developments in ethical stem cell research, I’m disappointed the House leadership missed an opportunity to bring Congress together on this issue. Instead, they pushed forward with a divisive bill the President is sure to veto,” Ryan said. “The bottom line is that our government doesn’t have to choose between pursuing stem cell cures and maintaining the highest ethical standards. Now, more than ever, it’s clear we can do both. We can respect human life at all its stages of development, while supporting advances in research on adult stem cells and other cells that can become like embryonic cells.” S. 5, like similar legislation voted on by Congress in the past, is not a bill to legalize human embryonic stem cell research. Such research is already legal in the U.S. and is being conducted at facilities around the country. This bill seeks to expand taxpayer funding of embryo-destroying research, a practice that many Americans object to. House Republicans offered an alternative proposal, which did not pass, that would have directed the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to conduct and support research involving stem cells that have “pluripotent” or embryonic-like qualities but are not derived from a human embryo. Ryan voted in favor of this alternative. The promise and immense potential of such ethically noncontroversial research was spotlighted in newspapers around the country today, which reported on a scientific breakthrough that could generate what are essentially embryonic stem cells without harming living human embryos. According to the Washington Post: “Three teams of scientists said yesterday they had coaxed ordinary mouse skin cells to become what are effectively embryonic stem cells without creating or destroying embryos in the process – an advance that, if it works with human cells, could revolutionize stem cell research and quench one of the hottest bioethical controversies of the decade.”
06.06.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today made the following statement about the President’s nomination of former Congressman Mark Green to be the U.S. Ambassador to Tanzania: “Mark Green’s nomination is great news. In all the years that we served side by side in Congress, Mark worked extremely hard for the people of his district, and I know that he would bring the same diligence to the role of U.S. Ambassador. He has demonstrated integrity and an energetic commitment to service that are important traits for America’s diplomats. On top of this, his past work as a volunteer teacher in Kenya makes him especially well-suited for this post. Mark was an Africa expert on the House International Relations Committee, and he’s exceptionally qualified to serve as Ambassador. His lifelong interest in conditions and development in Africa will help him strengthen U.S. relations with the people of Tanzania. I hope the Senate grants him speedy approval,” Ryan said.
05.25.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan this week voted against the so-called Federal Price Gouging Prevention Act (H.R. 1252) because this poorly written legislation lacks an adequate definition of price gouging and would ultimately hurt consumers rather than easing supplies and prices at the gas pump. “This is feel-good legislation that does nothing to lower gas prices and, in fact, may cause supply shortages,” Ryan said. “Supporters of this bill probably mean well, but it’s so flawed that it won’t bring relief to drivers and could even make the gas supply crunch worse. Price gouging is never acceptable, and we can all agree that illegal actions that artificially boost gas prices should be prosecuted. I have voted in the past for legislation to increase our gas supply that also outlawed price gouging, but the current bill looks like it will only deliver windfalls to trial lawyers – not results for cash-strapped drivers and businesses.” H.R. 1252 describes price gouging as raising the price of gasoline to a level considered “unconscionably excessive,” without adequately defining what that actually means. To bring down skyrocketing gas prices, Ryan supports reducing our nation’s dependence on foreign oil and natural gas, and increasing our domestic supply of energy. In the short term, this means conducting environmentally sound exploration in places such as the Gulf of Mexico and Alaska. At the same time, Ryan believes we should be pursuing renewable sources of energy, alternative fuels, and new technologies to make us less dependent on oil now and in the future.
05.24.2007	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives voted today on a war supplemental spending bill that provides necessary funding to support U.S. troops but pairs this with about $17 billion in non-war and non-emergency spending that adds to the deficit. The vote took place in two parts – one vote on funding for our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere; and a separate vote on a wide range of projects and policies unrelated to the war. Since the House passed both portions, they will be automatically joined together into one legislative vehicle and sent to the Senate. First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted in favor of the troop-funding portion of the bill, but opposed adding unrelated, non-emergency spending to the emergency war supplemental bill – even though he supports some provisions that are included in the non-defense related part, including an extension of the waiver for Wisconsin’s SeniorCare program through December 2009. “Congress needs to deliver the funding for equipment and other resources for our troops. They have been waiting too long while congressional leaders played politics and passed unworkable bills,” Ryan said. “I’m glad they have dropped their demand for surrender dates that send the wrong message to our enemies and to Iraqis who are still deciding whether to support their government. This bill supports our troops and their mission, instead of cutting off funds and eliminating the chance for the ongoing surge to succeed in stabilizing Iraq before our forces leave.” “It’s a shame that the House insists on attaching this vital troop funding to a package of unrelated spending projects. While some of these programs may have merit, they shouldn’t be tacked onto an emergency wartime spending bill. It was wrong when Republicans added non-emergency pork to such bills in the past, and it’s wrong today when Democrats do it,” Ryan said. “Even though I support a SeniorCare extension, I could not vote for this reckless abuse of the budget process. I can’t criticize porking up emergency spending bills one day and vote for that very practice the next day. Congress needs to change its ways and vote on these programs on their own merits – not just attach them to must-pass emergency legislation. I’m glad that, if this becomes law, our state will have more options and more time to choose the path that best serves our seniors. Unfortunately, Congress chose the wrong way to reach this outcome.” Please click here for a Budget Committee description of the non-war funding included in the supplemental legislation.
05.17.2007	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today passed the final version of the Democrats’ fiscal year 2008 budget plan by a vote of 214-209. The budget plan, or “conference report,” sets the parameters within which Congress will move forward with its annual spending legislation. First District Congressman Paul Ryan, who serves as the Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, voted against this budget blueprint because it sets the stage for at least the second largest tax hike in American history, promises immense new spending, and fails to stop the government’s raid on Social Security – while doing nothing to address the entitlement crisis our nation faces as the baby boomers retire. “This budget plan sets off a vicious cycle of higher taxes and higher spending that will lead to even more tax hikes. In short, it puts government spenders first and puts taxpayers at the back of the line,” Ryan said. “It also continues the federal government’s raid on Social Security surpluses, even though we succeeded last week in getting a bipartisan majority in the House to vote for ending the raid. Actions – and numbers – speak louder than words, and these budget numbers just don’t add up to fiscal discipline. They chart a course for major tax hikes and overspending, without any attempt to fix entitlement programs to prevent the looming crisis. Washington does not have a revenue problem; it has a spending problem, which this tax-and-spend budget fails to address.” In contrast to the budget plan that Ryan proposed earlier this spring, which would have balanced the budget by controlling spending, without raising taxes and without dipping into the Social Security surplus, the budget conference report the House passed today does the following: Includes a tax hike of at least $217 billion by fiscal year 2012 – the second largest tax increase in U.S. history. This includes increases in marginal rates, capital gains rates, dividends taxes, and others. Contains a tax hike “trigger” to automatically raise taxes even higher if surpluses do not materialize – in other words, if Congress spends too much. The majority claims their budget plan will maintain certain popular tax relief provisions, but the trigger automatically turns off this tax relief – reimposing the marriage penalty, cutting the child tax credit in half, among others – if Democrats spend too much and future surpluses fail to materialize. This would raise the budget plan’s tax increase right back to the initial House-passed amount of nearly $400 billion – the largest tax hike in American history. Fails to protect Social Security. Despite massive tax increases, the Democrats’ budget plan fails to provide a surplus large enough to halt the government’s raid on Social Security – contradicting House Members’ commitment last week to do so when they voted for Ryan’s motion to instruct budget conferees. Increases non-defense appropriations spending by $22 billion in the next fiscal year (FY08) alone. To put this in context, this is on top of the $6 billion the Majority in Congress added to the omnibus and the more than $20 billion of extraneous spending they are pushing for in the war supplemental. Abandons the emergency set-aside fund that Ryan had helped secure in last year’s budget resolution, and drops any limitation on what Congress can call an “emergency,” exempting the spending from any limits. Without an emergency set-aside fund and a clear definition of what counts as “emergency spending,” there’s nothing to prevent non-emergency, pork-barrel items from being included in “emergency” bills. Contains 23 reserve funds that include promises of more than $190 billion in additional spending – without providing any means to pay for it. If these promises are kept, it will almost surely lead to even more tax increases. Ignores non-partisan experts’ repeated warnings about the unsustainable rate of entitlement spending and puts off any significant entitlement reform for at least five years. In addition, this budget plan fails to comply with the pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rule that Democrats adopted, with much fanfare, at the beginning of this Congress.
05.16.2007	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan has announced that he will be holding listening sessions in Kenosha and Racine on Tuesday, May 29 for members of the First District Hispanic community to share their concerns and ask questions about federal government issues. El Congresista Paul Ryan tendra platicas (listening sessions) para la comunidad Hispana. Date (Fecha): Tuesday, May 29 El Martes 29 de Mayo Time/Place (Hora/Lugar): KENOSHA 4:30 – 5:30pm St. Mark’s Church (gymnasium) / La Iglesia de San Marcos (gymnasio) Sheridan Road and 73rd Street / En la esquina de la Sheridan Rd. y calle 73 RACINE 6:00 – 7:00pm Racine Public Library / Biblioteca de Racine 75 7th Street The event will be held in English and Spanish and is open to the public. For additional information, please call Teresa Mora at (262) 637-0510. El evento sera conducido en Ingles y Espanol y sera abierto al publico. Para mas informacion, favor de llamar al (262) 637-0510 y pregunte por Teresa Mora.
05.10.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan expressed serious concern over several bills on which the House of Representatives has voted or will vote today that essentially set surrender dates for precipitous withdrawal in Iraq, make only short-term funding available to support U.S. troops in Iraq, and divert intelligence resources to study climate change. “Our troops deserve better than this. They need the resources and support from this Congress to succeed at their mission. They don’t need further stalling and half-measures that hinder their progress and could put them in greater danger,” Ryan said. “Bills that set withdrawal dates or put necessary funding for our troops on an installment plan are counterproductive. They send the wrong signal to the terrorists and insurgents, as well as Iraqis who may be on the fence trying to decide whether to support their government in securing a free Iraq. From what I learned from talking to our troops in Iraq, this could make things tougher for them.” “We also need to invest in quality intelligence gathering and analysis that will keep America safe from terrorism and other threats. CIA personnel should be focused on that – not on global climate change,” Ryan added. While H.R. 2237, the troop withdrawal measure, was defeated soundly in the House by a vote of 171-255, the short-term war supplemental spending bill (H.R. 2206) passed by a vote of 221-205. The President has already stated he would veto the supplemental bill in its current form. The intelligence authorization bill (H.R. 2082) is expected to pass in the House later tonight. Ryan voted against H.R. 2237 and H.R. 2206, and intends to vote against H.R. 2082. The war supplemental splits troop funding into stages, making over half the funding conditional on further congressional action in July – delaying the availability of this funding until late July at the earliest. The bill also retains about $16 billion in non-war and non-emergency spending, and it violates budget rules that Ryan worked to secure last year to prevent such spending from being tucked into emergency spending legislation. The Secretary of Defense Robert Gates warned in a letter to congressional leadership about the supplemental: “In my view, such a proposal would cause significant disruption to the effective and efficient operation of the Department of Defense and the health and welfare of the U.S. military.” The intelligence authorization act is also cause for concern as it includes deep cuts to classified CIA programs and begins to return America to the failed intelligence policies of the 1990s – when intelligence funding was cut and resources were diverted to pursue politically correct projects such as using spy satellite time to survey the polar ice caps and sea turtle nests. While much of the intelligence authorization bill is classified, one of the unclassified items calls for the Director of National Intelligence to submit to Congress a national intelligence estimate on the geopolitical effects of global climate change. The U.S. is already spending more than $6.5 billion this fiscal year to study global climate change, and this is not the proper use of intelligence resources. As Congressman Hoekstra, a former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, put it in an opinion editorial for the Wall Street Journal: “My objection is not about the validity of global climate change. I am concerned about whether it is an intelligence issue. Does it require analysts to make assessments using classified information that can only be acquired from sensitive human sources and billion-dollar spy satellites? Does it take holding a high-level security clearance and reviewing information in high-security, classified offices to write assessments about the environment?”
05.09.2007	WASHINGTON – In light of today’s announcement by Governor Doyle unveiling WisconsinCare, a wrap-around program that has been approved by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to assist those who currently benefit from SeniorCare when the transition is made to Medicare Part D, First District Congressman Paul Ryan today issued the following statement: “I am encouraged that the Governor and HHS were able to work together and agree on a plan that will help protect Wisconsin seniors’ benefits, easing the transition from SeniorCare and improving upon Medicare Part D. Our original aim was to extend SeniorCare over the long-term, but when that was denied by the administration, we worked to secure a short-term extension that would give the state time to put forward a new program and enable a smooth transition for Wisconsin seniors. I am glad the Governor worked with HHS to give seniors plenty of time for a smooth transition. This new program clearly improves upon Medicare’s drug benefit for so many Wisconsin seniors.”
05.08.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan, who serves as the Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, today succeeded with a bipartisan vote of 364-57 in winning overwhelming House approval to stop the government’s raid on Social Security and reject the House Democrat tax hikes in the final version of the federal Budget Resolution. Ryan’s proposal passed today under a motion to instruct conferees on the federal Budget Resolution. “The budget plan that I proposed earlier this spring proved that we can balance the budget without raiding the Social Security surplus and without raising taxes,” Ryan said. “Now that the Democrat leadership has moved ahead with its budget and tax hike plan, we’re trying to limit the damage and ensure that Social Security is protected. Today’s vote sends a clear message to the Members of Congress who will negotiate the final budget that they should stop government’s raid on Social Security and keep tax increases to a minimum.” Ryan’s instructions, to which the vast majority of the House agreed, direct budget conferees to commit to the following: Reject the massive tax increase in the House budget. Conferees are instructed to reject the $392.5 billion tax increase in the revenue levels of the House-passed budget – the largest tax increase in American history. These tax hikes include reimposing the marriage penalty and the death tax, cutting the child tax credit in half, and raising marginal income tax rates. Insist on the lowest possible level of taxes. This expresses the belief that budget conferees should adopt the lowest possible revenue level allowed within the scope of the House-passed and Senate-passed Democrat budgets. Stop the raid on Social Security. This legislative motion also instructs conferees to stop raiding Social Security for the government’s operating budget. They should do this by producing a “unified” surplus (including Social Security) of at least $96 billion, equal to Social Security’s cash surplus, in fiscal year 2012.
05.04.2007	MADISON – At a news conference today in Madison, First District Congressman Paul Ryan shared a letter he just received from U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Michael Leavitt which states that the federal government will grant a six-month waiver extension to allow Wisconsin’s SeniorCare program to continue to the end of this year, instead of letting the state’s SeniorCare waiver expire as originally scheduled on June 30, 2007. Please click here for a copy of HHS Secretary Leavitt's letter. Ryan and the entire Wisconsin congressional delegation have been outspoken advocates of SeniorCare and expressed their deep disappointment when HHS last month denied a long-term waiver extending SeniorCare. Ryan issued the following statement regarding the temporary SeniorCare waiver extension: “The governor, the state legislature, and our congressional delegation need to work together with HHS to craft a new SeniorCare benefit that fits within Medicare and works for Wisconsin’s seniors. Today’s extension announcement gives seniors the comfort of knowing their benefits will not end next month, and it gives us the time to work together to make the best of the situation.”
04.27.2007	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced that the First District Mobile Office will resume its regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin's First District in May. Please click here for a listing of scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the First District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing First District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. From 1999 through 2006, the mobile office has made 1730 visits to area communities. “I need to hear from First District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their town or area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. First District residents can check their local paper or our website – www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by.
04.25.2007	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted against the conference report for the Fiscal Year 2007 war supplemental appropriations bill because this fiscally irresponsible legislation contains more than $20 billion in non-emergency spending unrelated to winning the war on terrorism, and it puts politicians in the position of micromanaging America’s military commanders in the field. The legislation passed in the House by a vote of 218-208. “Congress should consider a clean war supplemental that’s not larded up with unrelated spending. Some of these provisions have merit, but they don’t belong in a wartime emergency spending bill and they should be considered separately. I also think it’s counterproductive to give insurgents and terrorists troop withdrawal dates to circle on their calendar. By setting dates for military withdrawal from Iraq, the bill could also discourage wary Iraqi citizens from working with our troops and Iraqi security forces to quell the violence there,” Ryan said. This bill violates the emergency spending reforms Rep. Ryan helped put in place last year. These reforms were meant to prevent non-emergency spending from being inserted into emergency supplementals. This measure waives those safeguards.
04.23.2007	OAK CREEK, WI – First District Congressman Paul Ryan and Senator Russ Feingold announced at a press conference this morning that they are introducing new legislation to create a line-item veto to target wasteful earmarks, improve congressional accountability, and deter lawmakers from inserting “Bridges to Nowhere” or other frivolous spending into future bills. Feingold and Ryan, both from Janesville, have teamed up to advance their shared goal of eliminating wasteful spending and bringing greater fiscal discipline to Washington. The pair will introduce legislation in the House and Senate early this week that would enable the President to single out egregious earmarks in bills that arrive on his desk for signature and send these specific items back to Congress for expedited votes on whether to rescind, or cancel, funding for these provisions. Their approach protects Congress’ constitutional authority to make spending decisions by requiring both House and Senate to vote to approve the President’s proposed rescissions, before they can become law. If either chamber votes against a rescission by a simple majority, it will not be enacted. As a result, this legislation is fundamentally different than the line-item veto the Supreme Court struck down in 1998, which did not require congressional approval for the President’s rescissions to take effect. “Coming from Wisconsin’s long tradition of fiscal responsibility, we are convinced that this system has to change,” Feingold said. “We think it’s time to bring these earmarks out into the open, and make sure that they get the toughest possible scrutiny from both Congress and the President. There is no excuse for a system that allows that kind of wasteful spending year after year.” “There’s too much pork in Washington, and we need every tool we can get to cut this pork out of spending bills,” Ryan said. “The legislation we’re proposing provides a tool to enforce spending restraint and get rid of abusive earmarks. It will also discourage members of Congress from trying to slip unjustifiable funding into large spending bills. If lawmakers know their earmarks could be singled out and sent back to Congress for a vote on their own merits, they will think twice about making unnecessary spending requests.” Among its key provisions, Ryan and Feingold’s Congressional Accountability and Line-item Veto Act will: Ensure timely congressional consideration of earmark rescission requests by the President. This will enable the President to propose the removal of wasteful earmarks from legislation that arrives on his desk for signature and send these earmarks back to Congress for expedited votes on whether or not to rescind funding. Give the House and Senate 12 legislative days after the President sends a rescission request to Congress to bring a rescission bill for consideration on the floor of the full House and Senate. Respect and preserve Congress’ constitutional responsibilities by requiring that both the House and Senate pass a rescission request before it can become law. If either the House or Senate votes against a rescission by a simple majority, it is not enacted. Require the President to submit earmark rescission requests to Congress within 30 calendar days of signing a bill into law. Limit the number of rescission requests per bill, to guard against gridlock in Congress due to multiple rescission proposals. Under this legislation, the President can propose one rescission package per ordinary bill, or two rescission packages for omnibus legislation. Each rescission request may include multiple earmarks. Sunset at the end of 2012, after two presidential administrations have had the opportunity to work with Congress to employ this tool to control spending. The sunset provision would give Congress the ability to review this legislation and decide whether to renew it.
03.29.2007	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan, the Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, proposed a fiscally responsible alternative budget resolution that garnered substantial support when it came to a vote today in the U.S. House of Representatives. Ryan’s federal budget plan reaches balance in 2012 without raising taxes, while ending Washington’s raid on Social Security and promoting policy tools to strengthen budget enforcement. Although 160 Members of Congress voted in favor of this substitute amendment to the Democrats’ budget resolution, it wasn’t sufficient to pass the measure. Instead, the House voted largely along party lines to adopt the Budget Resolution offered by the Democrat majority, which amounts to the largest tax hike in American history and puts off entitlement reforms that are needed to improve our nation’s fiscal health over the long term. Now the House will work with the Senate to resolve differences between the House and Senate versions of the Budget Resolution. “Since entering Congress, I’ve been fighting to stop the raid on Social Security surpluses, and the budget I wrote does that, while at the same time controlling spending and preventing job-killing tax hikes,” Ryan said. “Washington doesn’t have a revenue problem. It has an overspending problem, and any lasting solution must rein in the growth of government spending and make government more accountable for the tax dollars it spends.” “Our Republican budget alternative would balance the budget in five years, while protecting taxpayers and small businesses from having to bear the largest tax increase in our nation’s history. Our budget plan also works to address the crisis facing our entitlement programs, which are growing at an unsustainable rate. We need to improve these programs – making them more responsive and sustainable – if the U.S. is going to get back on the right track and stay competitive in the global economy.” “Unfortunately, the budget that passed the House today goes in the wrong direction – relying on huge tax hikes and gimmicks to balance the books temporarily, while putting off real solutions that will help us pay down debt and make our economy stronger over the long term.” In order to bring the budget into balance by 2012, the Democrat Budget Resolution relies on revenue assumptions that factor in the expiration of the widespread tax relief that Congress enacted in 2001 and 2003, raising taxes on the American people by nearly $400 billion over five years – the largest tax increase in our nation’s history. For more than 2 million Wisconsin taxpayers this would mean an average tax hike of $2,964. The resolution also fails to provide even a one-year patch for the alternative minimum tax (AMT). Instead the budget employs a “reserve fund” that allows AMT relief only if offset by equivalent tax increases or spending cuts –which are not spelled out. The Democrat Budget Resolution not only raises taxes, but it also proposes an increase of more than $22.5 billion in nondefense, nonemergency annual appropriations for fiscal year 2008. Furthermore, the resolution sets the stage for future overspending by assuming that annual nondefense, nonemergency appropriations will increase by an average of 2.4 percent per year for the years 2009-2012, which is greater than the projected rate of inflation. The majority’s Budget Resolution also ignores repeated warnings from individuals, including the Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, about the rapidly escalating costs of entitlements. It puts off any significant reform for at least five years – allowing the problem to worsen. The Democrat budget also uses gimmicks, such as ten “reserve funds” that promise extra funding for pet initiatives if offsets are included. These reserve funds have no real effect because budget rules already permit initiatives not assumed in the budget to be financed by offsets. In contrast, Congressman Ryan’s alternative budget proposal would: Balance the budget by 2012, without increasing taxes. It maintains provisions of the tax relief laws adopted in 2001 and 2003, so that there will be no increase in marginal income tax rates, no increase in the 10 percent bracket for low-income taxpayers, no reduction of the child tax credit, no rollback of marriage penalty or death tax relief, and no increases in capital or dividend tax rates. This proposal also provides for one-year extensions of alternative minimum tax (AMT) relief, the state and local sales tax deduction, and the research and experimentation (R&E) tax credit. End the raid on Social Security – balancing the budget without using excess Social Security payroll tax receipts. Pay down $99.5 billion of debt. Essentially freeze annually appropriated non-defense spending for the next fiscal year at the 2007 level (excluding emergencies). Within this amount, the alternative budget recommends priority increases for homeland security, veterans’ health care and related activities, medical research, Community Development Block Grants, and science and technology. Promote continued reforms to improve the government’s major entitlements, making them more sustainable. The plan calls for moderating the average annual growth of overall entitlement spending from 5.2 percent per year to 4.3 percent when reforms are implemented. Make Congress more accountable by strengthening earmark transparency and adopting the legislative line-item veto as passed by the House last year. Establish a set-aside fund that specifically budgets $6.45 billion for domestic emergencies, as in the House-passed budget resolution for fiscal year 2007. For emergency-designated amounts above the level of the set-aside, requires a Budget Committee vote to approve an adjustment for the additional amounts. (The Democrat budget has no emergency set-aside and no definition of “emergency.”) Refine and strengthen pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules, requiring direct spending increases to be offset by spending reductions, not tax increases. Establishes discretionary spending limits in the House through 2010. These caps would act as an additional control over discretionary spending provided by annual appropriations bills.
03.23.2007	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted against the supplemental appropriations bill H.R. 1591 – a bill that was intended to provide additional funding to support U.S. troops fighting overseas but that became a vehicle for billions in pork-barrel projects and spending unrelated to the war on terror. In addition, this budget-busting legislation puts Members of Congress in the position of giving orders to America’s military commanders in the field, setting specific troop withdrawal deadlines regardless of conditions on the ground in Iraq. The legislation passed in the House by a vote of 218-212. A Washington Post editorial today criticizes this legislation, noting: “As it is, House Democrats are pressing a bill that has the endorsement of MoveOn.org but excludes the judgment of the U.S. commanders who would have to execute the retreat the bill mandates.” Among the numerous “urgent” items that have nothing to do with supporting our troops, but were included anyway in this emergency funding bill are: $25 million for spinach farmers $50 million for the “Capitol Hill Power Plant” $74 million for peanut storage costs $120 million for shrimp and menhaden fishing industries $100 million for citrus producers “I’m not a General, and I don’t want to start acting like one now,” Congressman Ryan said. “Besides micromanaging our military commanders, this bill is larded with $21 billion in unrelated spending and other pork-barrel items that have nothing to do with supporting our troops in the war on terror. It jeopardizes our ongoing efforts to prevail in Iraq, and it’s harmful to our nation’s fiscal health too.” This bill also removes the emergency spending reforms Rep. Ryan helped put in place last year. These reforms prevented non-emergency spending from being inserted into emergency supplementals. This bill waives those safeguards.
03.22.2007	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan, the Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, expressed alarm at the contents of the House Democrats’ federal budget plan during the committee’s debate yesterday and following its vote on the proposal early this morning. The budget resolution, which favors tax hikes and major spending increases, was approved by the Budget Committee by a vote of 22-17, with Ryan voting against the measure. “We can and should balance the budget without raising taxes,” Ryan said. “Regrettably, the Democrats’ budget plan amounts to the largest tax hike in American history, and it still doesn’t get to the heart of the problem – the fact that government is spending taxpayer dollars at an unsustainable rate. In fact, this budget proposal piles on a lot more new spending and doesn’t even attempt meaningful entitlement reforms.” “We must do better than this. The longer we put off solving the problem of soaring entitlement costs, the harder it will be for our children – America’s future workforce – who would have to bear massive debts and pay twice as much in taxes just to maintain the status quo. We cannot tax our way out of this fiscal chasm. We need to restrain spending and enact reforms that improve the way entitlement programs work. Unfortunately, the House Democrats’ budget resolution does neither. While I agree strongly with the goal of balancing the budget by 2012, the tax and spend policies used to get there in this budget will end up driving us right back into deficits, while hurting job growth and our economy. Washington doesn’t have a revenue problem; it has a spending problem,” Ryan said. “The budget presents a great opportunity to set our nation on the right fiscal path for the future. Sadly, in this case, it’s a missed opportunity. This is why Republicans will be offering a different balanced budget plan next week that instills fiscal discipline, does not raise taxes, and addresses the challenge of entitlement reform.” Congressman Ryan and fellow Budget Committee Member Congresswoman Gwen Moore did succeed in getting an amendment to the budget proposal approved by the committee that helps pave the way for 100 percent of child support payments to get directly to the families they are meant to assist, which is the goal of legislation that Ryan and Moore coauthored last year. This provision expresses the sense of the House that additional legislative action is needed to ensure that states have the necessary resources to collect all child support that is owed and to allow them to pass 100 percent of child support payments on to families without financial penalties. Based on the information revealed at yesterday’s House Budget Committee debate and markup of the fiscal year 2008 budget resolution, here are some of the key points of concern with the Democrat budget plan: Higher Taxes The revenue assumptions behind this budget resolution rely on the expiration of the widespread tax relief Congress enacted in 2003, raising taxes on the American people by nearly $400 billion over five years – the largest tax increase in our nation’s history. Failure to renew the tax relief would impact taxpayers by: Raising marginal rates on all taxpayers; Eliminating the ten percent bracket that has benefited numerous low-income individuals; Raising the tax on capital gains and dividends and discouraging investment in our economy; Cutting the child tax credit in half; Reinstating the marriage penalty; Reimposing the death tax. This budget sets a double standard by assuming that tax relief expires – causing automatic tax hikes – but spending programs continue indefinitely. Huge Spending Increases Having already increased current-year spending by $6.1 billion, and adding more than $20 billion to the Iraq supplemental, Democrats are proposing another increase of more than $22.5 billion in nondefense, nonemergency annual appropriations for fiscal year 2008. The budget proposal also sets the stage for future overspending. For the years 2009-2012, it assumes annual nondefense, nonemergency appropriations will increase by an average of 2.4 percent per year, which is still greater than the projected rate of inflation. No Significant Reform or Offsets This budget ignores repeated warnings from individuals, including the Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, about the rapidly escalating costs of entitlements. It puts off any significant reform for at least five years – allowing the problem to worsen. Gimmicks Among the gimmicks in this budget are the “reserve funds.” Instead of providing funding for promised initiatives, the budget proposal includes ten reserve funds that promise extra funding for pet initiatives if offsets are included. The reserve funds have no real effect because budget rules already permit initiatives not assumed in the budget to be financed by offsets. Note also that this budget plan fails to provide even a one-year patch, let alone a permanent reform of the alternative minimum tax (AMT). Instead, this budget employs a “reserve fund” that allows AMT relief only if offset by equivalent tax increases or spending cuts – which are not spelled out.
03.16.2007	WASHINGTON -- First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced the schedule for listening sessions to be held from March 30 – April 6. Ryan plans to visit 34 communities throughout Wisconsin's First Congressional District. These meetings provide an opportunity for First District residents to share their ideas and ask questions they have about federal government issues. Among other issues, Ryan will discuss the need to balance the budget without raising taxes and make government more accountable for what it spends. He will also talk about reforms that can help lower the cost of health care and put power and information in patients’ hands. “These listening sessions give me the chance to hear directly from those who live and work in the First District about what concerns them – from health care costs, to government overspending, to the situation in Iraq. I hope that people will find at least one meeting in their area that they can attend,” Ryan said. Please click here for a complete schedule of upcoming listening sessions.
02.23.2007	JANESVILLE – First District Congressman Paul Ryan returned yesterday from a bipartisan congressional delegation trip to Iraq and several other nations. Ryan and five other members of the U.S. House of Representatives traveled to the region to talk to U.S. and Iraqi troops and their commanders and see firsthand how the strategy for stabilizing the country and turning over its defense to the Iraqis is being implemented. In Iraq earlier this week, the congressional delegation met with U.S. officials and military leaders including General Petraeus, the commander of U.S. forces in Iraq, to discuss current operations and, in particular, the training of the Iraqi military. The group also met with Ambassador Khalilzad, the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, and Ambassador Carney, the Coordinator for Economic Transition in Iraq, among others. The delegation received intelligence briefings from the CIA and DIA, and sat down to meals with U.S. troops. In addition, Ryan and the others toured Camp Taji and the Counterinsurgency Center for Excellence (COIN) to observe the training of Iraqi Security Forces. They also visited Camp Dublin and met an Iraqi emergency response unit, and they received briefings from Baghdad Police Academy trainers. “I learned more from this trip to Iraq than I could have learned in years of Washington briefings and committee hearings,” Ryan said. “First of all, I was impressed with the bravery and expertise of our troops deployed there. It is an extremely tough situation on the ground, but I believe the current plan for securing Baghdad and increasing the Iraqis’ capability of defending themselves holds a chance for success. We should know within a matter of months if this strategy is helping us turn the corner there.” The delegation also spent time in Kuwait and Jordan. In Kuwait they received briefings and talked with troops at Camp Arifjan, and they visited the site where all military vehicles hit by improvised explosive devices (IEDs) are taken. In Jordan, they toured the Jordan International Police Academy (JIPTC) and met with its directors and trainers. En route back to the U.S., they stopped in Brussels and received a NATO briefing at the U.S. Mission to NATO F-Wing.
02.16.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted against H. Con. Res. 63, a non-binding resolution that passed the House of Representatives today that expresses congressional disapproval of the strategy of deploying additional combat troops to Iraq. Ryan, who on Wednesday spoke against this resolution on the House floor, today made the following statement about the vote: “Although it would have been easier, politically, to vote for this resolution, I cannot in good conscience send our troops such a demoralizing message that undermines their mission,” Ryan said. “Though it may be well-intentioned, this resolution does nothing but broadcast to our brave men and women in Iraq – and their enemies – that Congress doesn’t believe they can succeed at the mission they are trying to achieve. This is a dangerous message to send at this critical point. It hurts our troops’ morale and gives hope to the terrorists and insurgents.” “This resolution is the wrong way of conducting the debate our country needs to have about the way forward in Iraq. It criticizes, without offering an alternative plan for winning in Iraq. And it does nothing to acknowledge the very real consequences of failure, which include the likelihood of sectarian genocide in Iraq, the creation of a safe haven for terrorists to strike at us and other free societies, and power grabs by hostile nations such as Iran and Syria.” “We can have honest disagreements about strategy in Iraq, but we should be careful not to undermine our soldiers in the process. Today’s purely symbolic resolution may send a message to the President, but it sends an even louder negative message to our troops in harm’s way and the deadly enemy they face, telling them that Congress has no confidence we can win. That’s not a message we should be sending.”
02.08.2007	WASHINGTON – Making health-care coverage more affordable and accessible to people, whether or not they have employer-sponsored health insurance, is the goal of health-care legislation that First District Congressman Paul Ryan introduced today in the House of Representatives. Ryan’s bill, H.R. 914 – the Tax Equity and Affordability Act, would provide an annual advance tax credit (in effect, a voucher) to assist those who do not have employer-based health insurance with purchasing health coverage. This is a different approach than the tax deduction the President recently proposed, because it would deliver up-front assistance for individuals seeking to buy health coverage. The legislation works to make the tax code more equitable in its treatment of individuals and families without employer-sponsored health benefits, while helping bring down the high cost of coverage which is a growing burden for both workers and employers. At the same time, it protects the important role of employer-based health insurance, because it improves tax fairness without discouraging employers from offering health coverage as part of their employee benefits package. Under the current system, our tax code strongly favors those who have employer-sponsored health coverage over those who try to obtain insurance on their own. This unfair tax treatment also does nothing to discourage price inflation – a problem that makes it difficult not only for the uninsured and self-insured, but also for those who have employer-sponsored, gold-plated health coverage who pay ever-growing premiums as the cost of these plans escalates. “It is totally unacceptable that we have 46 million Americans without health insurance. I intend to focus my efforts on fixing this crisis and on bringing down health-care costs,” Ryan said. “We need to get a handle on the rising cost of health care and the tax biases that distort coverage options and prices under the current system,” Ryan said. “This bill seeks to even out tax treatment for those who have employer-based health insurance and those who do not. It delivers immediate assistance to people without employer-provided insurance to help them get coverage, improving access and affordability for many who are at a disadvantage today. On top of this, it creates an incentive for employees who do have coverage through their workplace to choose a moderately priced policy, rather than the most expensive option. This will help control costs and make health coverage more affordable.” The Tax Equity and Affordability Act would: Establish an advanceable, refundable tax credit for individuals and families without employer-based health insurance. Lower-income individuals would be eligible for a credit worth up to $2,000 annually. Lower-income families would be eligible for a credit worth up to $4,000 annually. Individuals earning over $30,000 and families earning over $60,000 would be eligible for annual tax credits worth $1,250 and $2,500, respectively. Help the uninsured get coverage, while promoting personal choice and ownership of health insurance policies. By providing an advance tax benefit to the uninsured, the self-employed, and others who lack health coverage through their workplace, this bill establishes more equitable tax treatment for these people, extending to them the same kind of benefit that people with employer-sponsored health care have enjoyed for many years. At the same time, by encouraging ownership of one’s health insurance, the bill encourages portability of coverage from job to job or during periods of unemployment – which will help reduce the number of uninsured and promote continuity of care for individuals who rely on a specific set of doctors. Cap the current open-ended, employment-based tax exclusion for health benefits. Under current law, non-taxable compensation for health-care benefits is unlimited – no matter how expensive the benefit or how high the person’s income. This bill would keep employer-based health coverage tax-exempt up to an $11,500 cap for family coverage and a $5,000 cap for self-only coverage. Health benefits above that amount would be taxable. These caps mirror the average cost of health insurance nationwide for families and individuals. By establishing these reasonable caps for tax-exempt employer-sponsored health coverage, we can encourage more people to opt for better-value coverage options, instead of the most expensive plan available. This will combat further escalation of insurance costs, and it will help businesses stay competitive by lowering the cost of providing health coverage for their workers. Promote fiscal responsibility. While the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation is still working on a cost evaluation of this legislation, an earlier estimate of similar legislation showed that this proposal more than pays for itself – saving the federal government money over five- and ten-year periods.
02.05.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan, the Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement about the President’s fiscal year 2008 budget proposal, which the Administration unveiled today: “I hope that lawmakers of both parties will embrace the President’s goal of balancing the budget – without raising taxes – by supporting continued economic growth and job creation, and by further restraining federal spending.” “Current pro-growth policies have fueled the sustained economic expansion that has created over seven million new jobs, boosted federal revenues, driven down the deficit, and put us on a path to balancing the budget.” “To make sure this trend continues, Congress must keep tax burdens low, and further efforts to restrain spending. With meaningful entitlement reforms and reasonable limits on other spending, we can not only balance the budget in the near term, but also position our nation to address the longer-term challenges we face when the baby boomers retire.” “The President’s proposal gives Congress a solid starting point as we begin deliberation of the fiscal year 2008 budget. I will be taking a close look at its specific suggestions for saving taxpayer dollars, and it is my hope that the Budget Committee will now take the lead and work in a bipartisan way to craft a plan to best meet our nation’s needs over the short and long term.”
01.31.2007	First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that constituent services representatives from his office will be holding office hours in Milwaukee and Waukesha County communities that do not have permanent congressional offices. The purpose of these office hours is to give First District residents who do not live near one of the constituent services centers an opportunity to speak face to face with a member of Ryan’s staff. Constituents can use these office hours to communicate their concerns and ideas or to request help with a problem they are having dealing with the federal government. A complete schedule of office hours – dates, times and locations. For more information about the schedule, or to make an appointment during one of the scheduled office hours, constituents should call Danyell Tremmel in Rep. Ryan’s Janesville office using the toll-free constituent services hotline: 1-888-909-7926.
01.26.2007	First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that constituent services representatives from his office will be holding office hours in Walworth County communities that do not have permanent congressional offices. The purpose of these office hours is to give First District residents who do not live near one of the constituent services centers an opportunity to speak face to face with a member of Ryan’s staff. Constituents can use these office hours to communicate their concerns and ideas or to request help with a problem they are having dealing with the federal government. A complete schedule of office hours – dates, times and locations. For more information about the schedule, or to make an appointment during one of the scheduled office hours, constituents should call Danyell Tremmel in Rep. Ryan’s Janesville office using the toll-free constituent services hotline: 1-888-909-7926.
01.24.2007	WASHINGTON – The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) today released its latest deficit projections, which show the budget deficit falling from $248 billion in Fiscal Year 2006 to $172 billion in Fiscal Year 2007 (FY07), primarily due to robust federal tax revenues. CBO even forecasts a deficit decline, though by a smaller amount, when additional appropriations for Iraq are enacted – estimating that the deficit would be “in the vicinity of $200 billion” in FY07. Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan, the Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, said that, based on a committee staff analysis of today’s CBO budget outlook, Congress is within reach of balancing the budget without raising taxes, if we rein in unnecessary spending and enact meaningful reforms to address the unsustainable growth of entitlements – working to protect the long-term health of Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. “Higher revenues flowing into the Treasury, as a result of economic and job growth, have given us a real chance to balance the budget and put government spending on a sustainable path,” Ryan said. “We need to seize this opportunity to put our fiscal house in order. We can start by getting rid of wasteful spending such as frivolous earmarks. Earmark reform and enacting a legislative line-item veto can help us enforce such spending discipline. But any honest attempt to eliminate the deficit over the long term must address the out-of-control growth in entitlement spending that will reach critical levels with the retirement of the baby boomers. To make sure Social Security, Medicare and other programs will be able to help current and future generations, lawmakers from both parties should work together to undertake fundamental, structural reforms,” Ryan said.
01.23.2007	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan tonight made the following comments regarding the President’s State of the Union speech: “On Iraq and the war on terror, I agree that this is the decisive ideological struggle of our time. The stakes are extraordinarily high and we must defeat the extremists who stand against freedom and our way of life. I intend to visit Iraq in the next few weeks to see firsthand whether the proposed strategy for victory is workable.” “I am also very glad that the President is seeking solutions for key problems on the home front that confront us – particularly dependence on foreign oil and rising health care costs. I do believe that, as we increase our supply of renewables, we must continue working to streamline our gasoline system and reduce the number of boutique fuels in order to prevent price spikes. On health care, by offering a bold proposal to boost access to health coverage and put more power in patients’ hands, the President is starting the debate on the right foot. We need bold solutions to address our health care crisis, and I look forward to seeing more details of the plan.” “In addition, I support the President’s call to balance the budget within five years without imposing tax hikes on the American people.”
01.18.2007	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan expressed concern about H.R. 6, a bill that passed the House of Representatives today that would raise taxes on U.S. production of oil and natural gas, encouraging heavier dependence on foreign energy and costing America manufacturing jobs in the process. Ryan voted against this measure because he believes America must decrease its reliance on foreign oil and refined fuel products, for both security and economic reasons, and that this legislation will have the opposite effect. He also noted that higher taxes could end up being passed on to consumers in the form of higher gasoline and home heating costs – an unnecessary burden that Wisconsinites should not have to bear. “We should be improving our energy independence at the same time as we develop renewables and alternative fuels. Unfortunately, this misguided legislation targets U.S. oil and gas businesses with higher taxes, putting them at a disadvantage compared to OPEC and other foreign producers. Ultimately, this approach raises gas prices and drives good jobs and investment overseas,” Ryan said. “The last thing Wisconsinites need is higher gas and energy prices. That’s why we should encourage more domestic production including alternative fuels, boost U.S. refining capacity, and streamline our nation’s overly complex gasoline system to prevent price spikes.” The legislation that passed the House today (H.R. 6) excludes the oil and gas industry from manufacturers’ tax relief (Section 199) contained in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The 2004 law provides a deduction which lowers taxes for all manufacturing income, and H.R. 6 would deny this deduction to domestic energy exploration and production – a $6.5 billion tax increase between 2007 and 2016. “If you listen to the rhetoric in Washington, it sounds like oil and gas production was given special tax treatments that are now being taken away. This is false. Instead, this legislation singles out oil and gas production as the only exception among domestic manufacturing industries to pay higher taxes. This will undoubtedly increase our dependence on foreign oil and gas,” Ryan said. The goal of this tax policy was to keep manufacturing jobs in America by taxing domestic production at a lower rate than foreign production. This bill singles out American oil and gas production by taxing it at the higher foreign rate. Finally, this legislation leaves the door open for irresponsible use of tax dollars. It would place the revenue generated by the tax hikes on domestic energy producers into a new account to be used for funding unspecified future legislation that promotes alternative and renewable fuels and energy efficiency; however, there is nothing in the bill that would guarantee that the increased revenues would be spent on alternative energy. This slush fund calls to mind the Carter-era Synthetic Fuels Corporation, which the Wall Street Journal recently described as “one of the more notorious Washington boondoggles of all time, having spent $2.1 billion of tax dollars on alternative fuels before declaring bankruptcy.” (WSJ, 1/16/07)
01.12.2007	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today passed the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act of 2007 (H.R.4), a bill requiring the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to negotiate the price of drugs covered under the Medicare Part D program. First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted against this bill, citing nonpartisan reports and evidence that shows government price negotiation would either have no impact on drug prices and on savings for taxpayers or – worse yet – would reduce seniors’ access to prescription drugs and increase costs for veterans. As it exists today, Medicare Part D provides seniors with coverage for high-quality prescription drugs at discounted prices, the ability to choose a plan that offers the medications they want, and savings of more than $1,100 per year. Among the indications that the program is working to lower costs, while providing seniors the options they need for quality coverage are the following: The cost of premiums has dropped 40 percent below expected projections; Prescription drug plans for 2007 are covering roughly 4,300 drugs; The costs of administering the program in 2006 were roughly $13 billion less than projected; The costs of administering this program over the next 10 years have been reduced by nearly $200 billion. At the same time, beneficiary satisfaction is extremely high. According to a Kaiser Family Foundation study, more than 80 percent of seniors are satisfied with Medicare Part D. “Competition has driven down the cost of these plans even further than we anticipated. And while the cost of plans continues to go down, satisfaction continues to go up,” Ryan said. “Seniors should be able to choose their doctors, pick their pharmacies, and have access to the drugs their doctors prescribe. This legislation would compromise that. The legislation proposed today would force seniors into a one-size-fits-all drug plan, taking medical decisions away from physicians and putting them into the hands of bureaucrats.” Furthermore, there is no evidence that allowing the government to negotiate drug prices will result in additional savings to the taxpayer. In fact, the Acting Director of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) stated in a letter this week that, “CBO estimates that H.R. 4 would have a negligible effect on federal spending because we anticipate that the Secretary would be unable to negotiate prices across the broad range of covered Part D drugs that are more favorable than those obtained by [prescription drug plans] under current law.” Veterans may also face consequences as a result of government attempts to negotiate Medicare prescription drug prices. The American Legion, a veterans’ organization with nearly 3 million members, is opposed to this legislation, noting that: “Every time the Federal government has enacted pharmaceutical price control legislation, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) experienced significant increases in its pharmaceutical costs as an unintended consequence.” In fact, due to already significant existing government controls within the VA health system, about two-thirds of the most commonly used brand name drugs seniors use are not covered by the VA. As a result, more than one million veterans, roughly 40 percent of all Medicare-eligible VA beneficiaries, have decided to enroll in Medicare Part D. “The legislation that was pushed through the House today is short-sighted and potentially harmful to seniors,” Ryan said. “It is bumper-sticker politics at its worst – pushing through a policy that sounds good in a sound bite, but ignores the problems that come with government interference in this program that’s beginning to work to lower costs while providing seniors access to the prescription drugs that best treat their conditions. I hope Congress will consider legislation in the future that corrects this mistake.”
01.10.2007	JANESVILLE – First District Congressman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin released the following written statement on the President’s address to the nation on Iraq: “Tonight, the President said what needed to be said: the current strategy in Iraq is failing. The question now before Congress and the American people is whether this new strategy will work or not. In my opinion, the key elements of a successful strategy include placing the responsibility for success on the Iraqis, giving the Iraqi people a real stake in their government, and securing Baghdad so that security can be maintained by Iraqi troops in the future. These points were addressed. In the coming days, it is our job in Congress to dig into the details of this new strategy to assess its prospects. As we do this, we must bear in mind the consequences of failure in Iraq and how that affects American’s national security. It is my sincere hope that this new change in strategy will hasten the day our brave troops come home and Iraq will not become a safe haven for terrorists.”
01.05.2007	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today completed votes on a new House rules package to govern House debate and consideration of legislation throughout the 110th Congress. The rules package was broken up into sections that were voted on separately. All passed the House, so the new rules now take effect. While First District Congressman Paul Ryan supported significant portions of the new rules package, he voted against rules changes that have the practical effect of encouraging tax hikes to pay for higher spending. As the Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, Ryan spoke on the House floor during today’s debate. He commended the new majority in the House for putting forward a serious set of earmark reforms that build on similar reforms that were passed last fall by the House. The earmark reforms contained in the new rules package require that bills or joint resolutions considered in the House include either a list of earmarks in the text or committee report and the name of the Member requesting each earmark or a statement that no such earmarks are included. The rules also require every Member requesting an earmark to provide a written explanation of the request and certifying that the Member or spouse has no financial interest in the earmark. On the other hand, Ryan expressed disappointment with another part of the rules package that creates a bias towards raising taxes and does not adequately address the real challenge to balancing the federal budget: unsustainable government spending. This portion of the new rules is referred to as PAYGO, which stands for “pay-as-you-go”. While Ryan supports a version of PAYGO that requires spending increases to be offset by spending reductions, he criticized the type of PAYGO that passed today because it’s a weak version that won’t restrain spending but will make it easier to raise taxes to chase higher spending. “If we are serious about balancing our budget, we have to recognize that Washington does not have a revenue problem – it has a spending problem. Tax receipts have grown by double-digit percentages over the past two years, thanks to the strong economic and job growth that was sparked by tax relief. Unfortunately, the new PAYGO provisions in the House rules simply pave the way for higher taxes, and they lack teeth when it comes to reducing spending or the deficit.” Ryan said. “With this rules package, we are making good progress on earmark reforms, but moving in the wrong direction toward tax-and-spend budgeting when it comes to PAYGO.” In summary, the new PAYGO rules: Allow the House to increase spending as much as it likes – as long as they “pay for” it by cutting other spending or – more likely – increasing taxes. Don’t reduce spending. It applies only to new spending and does nothing to reduce current spending, which is already growing at unsustainable rates. Don’t reduce deficits. This version of PAYGO only works to maintain the deficit at its current level. Set a double standard favoring higher spending by assuming that spending is forever while tax relief is temporary. This PAYGO protects all current spending – even the programs scheduled to expire. On the other hand, it assumes that expiring tax relief will lapse, and thus requires offsets to simply maintain current tax rates (since the 2001 and 2003 tax relief is scheduled to automatically expire in the next few years). Contain a huge spending loophole. The version of PAYGO that passed today includes a significant loophole that enables the House to “pay for” spending in the near term by promising spending cuts down the line – cuts that are highly unlikely to go into effect. This “buy now, pay later” policy poses serious problems down the road. Are a weak, watered down version of PAYGO. Previous PAYGO versions were enforced by across-the-board spending cuts, which created the incentive to control spending. However, this version is enforced only by a point of order – which the majority can easily waive for popular spending increases. It also fails to include caps on annual appropriations, which have accompanied PAYGO requirements in the past. In addition, the new rules make it easy to raise taxes and difficult to reduce them. The new rules allow the use of expedited procedures (budget reconciliation) to raise taxes. At the same time, they prohibit using reconciliation for adopting tax relief. Although he didn’t support the PAYGO rules contained in this package, Congressman Ryan voted in favor of other portions of the rules package, including the section on House ethics reforms. Among other things, the ethics rules expand the current ban on reimbursement for privately funded travel from lobbyists to also include a ban on travel reimbursement by private entities where lobbyists have had any involvement in planning, organizing, requesting or arranging the trip (with an exception for institutions of higher learning). The rules require Members and staff, before accepting travel otherwise permitted under House rules, to provide specific written certification from the source of the trip to the House Ethics Committee that the trip complies with specific rules. The ethics rules also bar Members and employees of the House from knowingly accepting gifts from lobbyists and private entities that employ lobbyists regardless of value (while maintaining current exemptions, such as if the giver is a relative.)
01.03.2007	JANESVILLE – First District Congressman Paul Ryan, who will serve as the Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee after the new Congress is sworn in this week, today expressed support for the President’s call to balance the federal budget. The President discussed several key goals in an opinion article in today’s Wall Street Journal, emphasizing the need to balance the budget through pro-growth economic policies and spending restraint. Ryan, who has fought for fiscal responsibility throughout his service in Congress, made the following statement: “I am extremely pleased by the Administration’s call today to balance the federal budget – without imposing tax hikes on the American people. This has long been one of my top priorities, and I couldn’t agree more. By restraining spending and continuing the pro-growth economic policies that have fueled job creation and surging tax revenues, we can balance the federal budget without resorting to job-destroying tax hikes.” “I too believe we should balance the budget without raising taxes. Washington does not have a revenue problem. It has a spending problem, and that is where discipline is needed.” “I hope that members of the new Congress will look at the lessons history has taught us – particularly our experience over the past few years – about the positive impact that broad-based tax relief has on our economy, jobs, and tax revenue. Last Congress, the House passed with bipartisan support my constitutional line-item veto bill. Now we have a tremendous opportunity to move forward in a bipartisan fashion to pass this legislation again, along with meaningful earmark reform, and work to ensure a balanced budget that restrains spending and makes our pro-growth tax relief permanent.” “I look forward to receiving the details of the Administration’s plan in their Fiscal Year 2008 budget. It is my hope that the Budget Committee then will take the lead, and work in a bipartisan way to achieve the goal of a balanced budget.”
12.08.2006	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today passed the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006, which contains legislation coauthored by First District Congressman Paul Ryan to expand opportunities for both workers and employers to contribute to health savings accounts (HSAs). In September, the Ways and Means Committee had approved Ryan’s HSA legislation that builds on HSAs’ potential and enables patients and businesses to make the most of this new tool to manage health care expenses. This HSA expansion legislation was included in a larger package of tax and health care provisions that the House approved today by a vote of 367-45. It awaits a vote in the Senate. HSAs have been a health coverage option since the Medicare prescription drug law took effect in January 2004. Congressman Ryan coauthored the provision in that law that allowed HSAs as a vehicle for health care savings. Health savings account holders or their employers purchase a high-deductible insurance plan that covers large hospital bills and major expenses due to serious illness, while the patient’s routine medical expenses are paid for out of their health savings account – an account where they set aside tax-free savings for lifetime health care needs. Individuals, employers, or even family members can contribute money to an HSA, and these accounts are portable from job to job. Reliance on HSAs has grown dramatically since they became a viable option for health coverage. In November 2004, about 438,000 individuals were covered by HSA-type insurance plans. Today, roughly 3.2 million people are covered by HSA-type plans. Many of the new HSA holders were previously uninsured. For example, forty-one percent of eHealthInsurance’s HSA plan purchasers in 2005 reported being uninsured prior to buying their HSA plan. “By putting consumers in the driver’s seat, HSAs are beginning to help control medical costs and put health insurance within reach for many self-employed individuals and small businesses seeking viable coverage options. By making them more accessible and fixing glitches in tax law that limit their usefulness, we can ensure that HSAs live up to their potential,” Ryan said. “We need to pave the way for more patient-centered reforms like this to help lower the cost of quality health care.” Once enacted, Ryan’s HSA legislation will make it easier for individuals and small businesses to contribute to HSAs and effectively use this savings option to pay for health care costs. Specifically, Ryan’s HSA legislation: Repeals the annual deduction limitation on HSA contributions. Currently, taxpayers with a high-deductible health plan are permitted to make deductible contributions to an HSA equal to the lesser of the amount of the high deductible or an indexed amount (currently $2,700 for a single coverage and $5,450 for family coverage.) The bill simplifies compliance with the contribution limits by setting the limits at indexed amounts (currently $2,700 for single coverage and $5,450 for family coverage.) Improves notification regarding the cost of living adjustment. Under current law, the deductible requirements and contribution limits are indexed against inflation. This bill requires the Secretary of the Treasury to announce adjustments to the amounts by June 1st of each year – simplifying planning decisions for both employees and employers. Expands the contribution limit for part-year coverage. Current law limits taxpayers creating an HSA during the year outside the enrollment window to a deduction of no more than one-twelfth of the annual limit for each month the taxpayer is eligible for an HSA (in effect, prorating the amount they can contribute tax-free to an HSA that year), but subjects taxpayers to the full non-prorated high deductible amount – effectively discouraging HSA adoption. This bill would permit taxpayers starting an HSA during the year to contribute an amount up to the full annual limit. Permits employers to contribute more to the HSAs of lower-paid employees. Current law requires employers to make comparable contributions to an HSA for all employees. Under this bill, an employer may make higher contributions for non-highly compensated employees, enabling employers to provide additional resources to employees who are neither owners of 5 percent or more of the business nor among the most highly-paid in the company. Allows the transfer of funds from Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) to HSAs. Under present law, a taxpayer cannot withdraw funds from an IRA prior to age 59 ½ without paying a penalty in addition to income tax (if any) on IRA funds. This bill allows taxpayers to make a one-time distribution (tax-free) from an IRA to an HSA, so HSA funds are immediately available to meet family health needs. The “roll-over” cannot exceed the HSA contribution limit for the year. Allows employees to fund HSAs with Flexible Spending Account (FSA) and Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) funds. Today, unused FSA benefits expire two and a half months after the end of a year. HRAs are employer arrangements which allow employees to draw against employer resources. Under current law, neither account may be used to fund an HSA, nor do FSAs and HRAs belong to the employee as HSAs do. As a result, employees may lose FSA and HRA benefits. Under this bill, employees would have the ability to start an HSA by making a one-time tax-free transfer of FSA and HRA amounts in their accounts as of September 21, 2006 to an HSA which would belong to the employee. The transfer must be made before January 1, 2012.
12.07.2006	WASHINGTON – Today the steering committee in charge of determining the minority party’s leadership of House committees for the new Congress selected Rep. Paul Ryan (R.-Wis.) to be the ranking member of the House Budget Committee. The 36-year-old Ryan leapfrogged over 12 more senior Republican members of the Budget Committee to attain this leadership position, for which he was the dark-horse candidate. As the leading Republican on this committee, Ryan will have the responsibility of spearheading the minority’s efforts to enact a fiscally responsible budget, improve accountability for spending requests, and closely monitor federal spending throughout the entire budget and appropriations process to prevent waste and abuse. Upon being chosen as ranking member, Rep. Paul Ryan made the following statement: “We have a lot of ground to cover next year, and I’m excited to have the privilege of serving as lead budget watchdog,” Ryan said. “I look forward to working with my dedicated colleagues on the Budget Committee and throughout Congress to fight for a fiscally responsible budget and root out unnecessary spending.” “We owe it to taxpayers to spend prudently on key priorities – not wasteful pork-barrel earmarks, and we owe it to America’s workers to resist job-killing tax hikes. By working together to instill fiscal discipline in federal spending, we can restore Americans’ faith in good government and strengthen our economy for the challenges ahead. I would like to thank the steering committee for this great opportunity,” Ryan said.
12.01.2006	First District Congressman Paul Ryan today announced that his Racine Constituent Services Center will be moving to a new location on 6th Street in Racine, just east of its current location, at the beginning of December. The office will be operational at its new site, 216 6th St., as of December 4. Its phone and fax numbers will remain the same. Ryan will host a grand opening ceremony and open house on December 21 to welcome Racine-area residents to the new constituent services center and let them know about the resources it provides. WHAT: Grand Opening and Open House at Ryan’s Racine Office WHERE: New Location of Racine Constituent Services Center 216 6th Street, Racine, WI 53403 WHEN: Thursday, December 21, 2006 11:00am – 1:00pm This event is open to the public.
11.28.2006	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today announced that, beginning in January, he will serve as a co-chairman of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus. Over 300 members of the House of Representatives and the Senate currently belong to this bipartisan caucus, which works to protect the rights of America’s hunters, anglers, and trappers and promote wildlife habitat conservation. Fellow Wisconsin representative Ron Kind will serve as the other House co-chairman. The term of co-chair lasts two years, throughout the duration of the 110th Congress. “I’m excited about co-chairing this caucus and working in a bipartisan way on issues that impact my fellow hunters, fishers, and all who enjoy the outdoors,” Ryan said. “Hunting and fishing are ingrained in Wisconsin’s culture, and it’s an honor to be able to chair this caucus and pursue our shared goals of habitat conservation and preserving sportsmen’s rights.” Ryan, a bow and gun hunter, presently serves as a vice-chairman of the caucus.
11.08.2006	JANESVILLE – Below is Congressman Paul Ryan’s statement regarding the President’s announcement today that U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld will be stepping down, and that the President will nominate Robert Gates to replace him. “The President’s decision to bring new leadership to the Defense Department is the right thing to do, and it’s a change that’s overdue. I have maintained that this decision should be the President’s to make and should not be politicized, especially with our troops fighting overseas. I thank Secretary Rumsfeld for his service to our nation, and my hope is that this paves the way for positive changes in our Iraq strategy that will help us prevail in this war that is so crucial to our security and the security of the Middle East,” Ryan said.
10.13.2006	First District Congressman Paul Ryan today reminded students and eligible military personnel in the First Congressional District who seek a nomination to the U.S. Air Force, Military, Naval, or Merchant Marine Academies that his Janesville office must receive their completed applications by November 1, 2006. Evaluations for nominations will begin in the near future and will be based on a variety of factors including test scores achieved on the SAT or ACT, class rank, grade point average, school records, extracurricular activities, leadership potential, motivation, recommendations, and interviews. “The academies are known for providing a top-quality education as well as training that prepares graduates to lead in both military and civilian life. Young people who have a strong desire to serve in our nation’s armed forces, as well as the determination to study very hard, should consider the possibility of applying to a U.S. service academy,” Ryan said. Young men and women interested in attending one of the U.S. service academies are encouraged to submit their applications for a nomination as soon as possible, in order to meet the approaching November 1 deadline. Students applying for an appointment to a U.S. service academy must have a nomination from an authorized nominating source. Members of Congress are authorized to nominate candidates, as are the President, Vice President, and the Secretaries of the Army, Navy and Air Force. Students seeking a nomination from Ryan should contact his office by calling toll-free 1-888-909-7926. Nomination forms are available through Ryan’s office and on his congressional website at http://www.house.gov/ryan/academy. Completed nomination application forms must reach the Janesville office by the November 1, 2006 deadline, for the class entering in 2007. Students should send their applications to Ryan’s Janesville office, to the attention of Chad Herbert. The address and phone number for this office are listed below: Congressman Paul Ryan Attention: Chad Herbert Janesville Constituent Services Center 20 S. Main Street, Suite 10 Janesville, WI 53545 phone: 1-888-909-RYAN (7926) Applicants for academy nominations from Congressman Ryan must be: citizens of the United States and residents of the First Congressional District of Wisconsin, at least 17 years of age and must not have passed their 23rd birthday on July 1, 2007, unmarried and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents, at the time of admission to an academy. Competition to enter the academies is intense, and receiving a nomination does not guarantee acceptance by an academy. *** Special note: Students should not send their nomination application materials to Ryan’s Washington, D.C. office. Mail deliveries for congressional offices in Washington are still subject to delays due to required security precautions.
10.11.2006	Today the U.S. Treasury Department released its year-end budget numbers for fiscal year 2006 (FY 2006) showing the actual budget deficit for the year at about $248 billion – just below last week’s Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimate of $250 billion and considerably lower than the Office of Management and Budget’s (OMB’s) July deficit estimate of $296 billion. The declining deficit means that the President and Congress have met the goal of cutting the deficit in half three years ahead of schedule. In February 2004, while unveiling the President’s budget, the Administration pledged to cut the deficit in half by 2009 from $521 billion, which was the projection at that time for the fiscal year 2004 deficit. Over the past three years, sustained economic growth fueled by tax relief has generated 6.5 million new jobs and increased revenues flowing into the federal Treasury. This rapid growth in tax receipts has been the driving force behind significant deficit reduction. “Treasury’s numbers demonstrate the positive impact that tax relief can have on our economy and our fiscal outlook. By lowering the tax burden and encouraging more business investment and hiring, Congress helped create the conditions for economic growth, which has led to a surge in revenue flowing into the Treasury. Due to these pro-growth policies, the deficit is dropping, but we must do even more to restrain spending so that we can balance the budget,” said Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan. The Treasury numbers for FY 2006 show: The FY2006 budget deficit was $248 billion, or 1.9% as a share of the economy (GDP) – below the average of the past 40 years of 2.3% of GDP. This year’s deficit has fallen by $71 billion from last year’s actual deficit of $318.7 billion. The FY2006 deficit is 41% lower than the OMB’s original projection of $423 billion in February of this year.
10.06.2006	MILWAUKEE – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan joined the head of the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Administrator Steven Preston at an event in Milwaukee this week to announce that the SBA has awarded a grant that will enable the Wisconsin Women’s Business Initiative Corporation (WWBIC) to open a new Women’s Business Center in Racine. WWBIC will use the grant funding to establish this center that will provide resources to emerging entrepreneurs in the Racine and Kenosha-area communities. The Women’s Business Center project is for a five-year term and the award is issued annually. The award amount for this first project year (Sept. 2006 – Sept. 2007) is $150,000. The match amount that the Women’s Business Center must raise is $75,000. < The WWBIC promotes economic development through business education, technical assistance and access to capital for entrepreneurs – focusing on assisting women, low-income individuals, and minorities. A specific site in Racine for the Women’s Business Center has not yet been determined. “We’re working to make sure that neighborhood businesses and potential small-business owners have the resources they need to bring their ideas to life and add good jobs to our area,” Ryan said. “This grant will advance this goal by allowing the WWBIC to set up a Women’s Business Center that will serve people in the Racine and Kenosha area and act as an incubator for new businesses and jobs.” Ryan sent a letter to the WWBIC in May expressing his support for their efforts to open a new Women’s Business Center serving the Racine and Kenosha areas. They included this letter with their application for SBA funding to support the establishment of the new center.
10.06.2006	As a result of continuing economic growth and an accompanying surge in federal tax revenues, the fiscal year 2006 deficit estimate has dropped to about $250 billion, according to the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO’s) Monthly Budget Review released today. This preliminary CBO estimate is considerably lower than the Office of Management and Budget’s July deficit estimate of $296 billion, and it is lower than the CBO’s August estimate of $260 billion. It also contrasts sharply with the Administration’s February forecast of a $423 billion deficit this year. “This latest estimate shows how pro-growth economic policies are working and we’re moving in the right direction, but there’s more work to be done in order to balance the budget. We need to keep up this progress by reining in unnecessary spending and preventing tax hikes that could hurt the growth of jobs and our economy,” said Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan. The latest CBO deficit projections show: A decline of $68 billion from the fiscal year 2005 actual deficit. The deficit as a share of the economy (GDP) – currently at 1.9 % – is below the average of the past 40 years. Federal revenues for fiscal year 2006 running 11.8 % ahead of last year.
09.29.2006	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted yesterday in favor of legislation to update our nation’s foreign intelligence surveillance laws to make it easier to monitor terrorist communications and protect our country from attacks. The House passed this measure – H.R. 5825, the Electronic Surveillance Modernization Act – last night by a vote of 232-191. The legislation amends the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), which was passed in 1978, to account for developments in technology and the changing nature of threats to our national security since that time. It establishes rules under which U.S. intelligence agencies may conduct targeted surveillance of terrorists’ communications and strengthens congressional oversight of such surveillance. The bill includes safeguards such as time limits, notification requirements, and reviews to protect the privacy of ordinary Americans who are not communicating with terrorists. “This bill sets the ground rules for our intelligence agencies so they can combat the threat of terrorism and work to prevent future attacks within the framework of our laws,” Ryan said. “We need the ability to listen in when someone is communicating with al Qaeda overseas and planning strikes against Americans. At the same time, Congress must exercise careful oversight to protect the privacy of innocent citizens and make sure that this surveillance is directed against terrorists and those who assist them.” Among the legislation’s highlights, H.R. 5825 would: Make FISA’s definition of electronic surveillance technology-neutral, removing the outdated distinction between treatment of “wire” and “radio” communications, to ensure appropriate surveillance that places the focus on the person rather than the type of communication used. Simplify the process of getting a FISA warrant, streamlining the FISA warrant application process to eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic paperwork requirements. Update the definition of who is covered under FISA to ensure that electronic surveillance is narrowly focused on those who would harm the U.S. Provide the President with the authority to collect electronic surveillance to acquire foreign intelligence information without a court order for up to 90 days after an armed attack or a terrorist attack, or in the face of an imminent threat to the safety of Americans. Under current FISA law, the President may authorize this surveillance for 15 days, but only in the case of an armed attack where there is an explicit congressional declaration of war. This bill lengthens the timeframe under which this authority can be used when Congress declares war, and adds terrorist attacks and imminent threats to address the threats posed by a new kind of enemy. If the President wants to use the new authority in the case of terrorist attacks or imminent threats, he must report to Congress and the courts on its usage. In the case of a terrorist attack, it must be shown that there is a reasonable belief that the surveillance target is communicating with a known terrorist organization or its affiliates, and the terrorist organization and its affiliates responsible for the attack have been identified and notified to the Congress and the courts. In the case of an imminent threat, it must be shown that there is a reasonable belief that the surveillance target is communicating with someone planning an attack, and the entities and affiliates responsible for the threat have been identified and notified to the Congress and the FISA courts. In the case of a terrorist attack or in the face of an imminent threat, after the first 90 days has elapsed this authority can be extended for 90-day periods, but only upon certification to court and a report to the congressional Intelligence Committees each time. Strengthen congressional oversight of the surveillance program through notification and reporting requirements. The bill amends current law to provide authority to the Chairman and Ranking Member of each Intelligence Committee to notify all members of the committee or individual members of the committee of reporting of intelligence activities received under the National Security Act. The legislation also requires that an annual report on the effectiveness and use of minimization procedures to protect the 4th Amendment rights of Americans be submitted to House and Senate Intelligence Committees through December 2009.
09.27.2006	WASHINGTON – The House Committee on Ways and Means today approved legislation coauthored by First District Congressman Paul Ryan that would expand opportunities for both workers and employers to contribute to health savings accounts (HSAs). Together with Congressman Eric Cantor (R.-Va.), Ryan sponsored this bill – H.R. 6134, the Health Opportunity Patient Empowerment Act – to build on the promise that HSAs have already shown and allow patients and businesses to make the most of this new tool to manage health care expenses. The next step for this legislation is consideration by the full House of Representatives. HSAs have been a health coverage option since the Medicare Prescription Drug law took effect in January 2004. Congressman Ryan coauthored the provision in that law that allowed HSAs as a vehicle for health care savings. Health savings account holders or their employers purchase a high-deductible insurance plan that covers large hospital bills and major expenses due to serious illness, while the patient’s routine medical expenses are paid for out of their health savings account – an account where they set aside tax-free savings for lifetime health care needs. Individuals, employers, or even family members can contribute money to an HSA, and these accounts are portable from job to job. Reliance on HSAs has grown dramatically since they became a viable option for health coverage. In November 2004, about 438,000 individuals were covered by HSA-type insurance plans. Today, roughly 3.2 million people are covered by HSA-type plans. Many of the new HSA holders were previously uninsured. For example, forty-one percent of eHealthInsurance’s HSA plan purchasers in 2005 reported being uninsured prior to buying their HSA plan. “For many small businesses and individuals, HSAs make it possible to afford health-care coverage, while setting aside tax-free savings for future medical expenses. This consumer-driven approach is already beginning to help rein in medical costs. It’s making a difference for Wisconsin employers and families, and we need to make sure that HSAs are accessible to those interested in this coverage option,” Ryan said. Ryan’s new legislation, the Health Opportunity Patient Empowerment Act, would make it easier for individuals and small businesses to contribute to HSAs and effectively use this savings option to pay for health care costs. Specifically, H.R. 6134 would: Repeal the annual deduction limitation on HSA contributions. Currently, taxpayers with a high-deductible health plan are permitted to make deductible contributions to an HSA equal to the lesser of the amount of the high deductible or an indexed amount (currently $2,700 for single coverage and $5,450 for family coverage.) The bill simplifies compliance with the contribution limits by setting the limits at indexed amounts (currently $2,700 for single coverage and $5,450 for family coverage.) Improve notification regarding the cost of living adjustment. Under current law, the deductible requirements and contribution limits are indexed against inflation. This bill requires the Secretary of the Treasury to announce adjustments to the amounts by June 1st of each year – simplifying planning decisions for both employees and employers. Expand the contribution limit for part-year coverage. Current law limits taxpayers creating an HSA during the year outside the enrollment window to a deduction of no more than one-twelfth of the annual limit for each month the taxpayer is eligible for an HSA (in effect, prorating the amount they can contribute tax-free to an HSA that year), but subjects taxpayers to the full non-prorated high deductible amount – effectively discouraging HSA adoption. This bill would permit taxpayers starting an HSA during the year to contribute an amount up to the full annual limit. Permit employers to contribute more to the HSAs of lower-paid employees. Current law requires employers to make comparable contributions to an HSA for all employees. Under this bill, an employer may make higher contributions for non-highly compensated employees, enabling employers to provide additional resources to employees who are neither owners of 5 percent or more of the business nor among the most highly-paid in the company. Allow the transfer of funds from Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) to HSAs. Under present law, a taxpayer cannot withdraw funds from an IRA prior to age 59 ½ without paying a penalty in addition to income tax (if any) on IRA funds. This bill allows taxpayers to make a one-time distribution (tax-free) from an IRA to an HSA, so HSA funds are immediately available to meet family health needs. The “roll-over” cannot exceed the HSA contribution limit for the year. Allow employees to fund HSAs with Flexible Spending Account (FSA) and Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) funds. Today, unused FSA benefits expire two and a half months after the end of a year. HRAs are employer arrangements which allow employees to draw against employer resources. Under current law, neither account may be used to fund an HSA, nor do FSAs and HRAs belong to the employee as HSAs do. As a result, employees may lose FSA and HRA benefits. Under this bill, employees would have the ability to start an HSA by making a one-time tax-free transfer of FSA and HRA amounts in their accounts as of September 21, 2006 to an HSA which would belong to the employee. The transfer must be made before January 1, 2012.
09.27.2006	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted in favor of H.R. 6166, the Military Commissions Act of 2006, which will allow the United States to effectively and fairly prosecute terrorists while protecting our nation’s intelligence capabilities and permitting the U.S. to continue interrogating terrorists to prevent future attacks. This legislation, which passed the House by a vote of 253-168, is the product of an agreement reached by the House, Senate, and White House. The Senate is expected to vote on companion legislation this week. After the Supreme Court ruled against the military commissions that the Administration had established to try accused terrorists detained at Guantanamo Bay, Congress needed to act to establish a constitutional judicial system to bring these individuals to justice. H.R. 6166 authorizes the President to establish military commissions to try unlawful enemy combatants who have engaged in hostilities against the U.S. and do not belong to the regular armed forces of a country. Under this system of military commissions, accused terrorists can be tried for violating the laws of war, committing a hostile act against the U.S., or purposefully and materially supporting terrorists engaged in a hostile act against the U.S. The legislation also lists 28 specific crimes for which terrorists can be tried, including murder, attacking civilians or civilian property, taking hostages, torture, cruel or inhuman treatment, and mutilation. “It’s vitally important to our national security that our military and intelligence officers can continue to interrogate terrorists in order to protect the American people and our allies,” Ryan said. “We must also make sure that 9/11 planner Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and other accused terrorists are brought to justice. This legislation makes this possible.” Among its provisions, the Military Commissions Act: Establishes the procedures, rules, and legal framework for trying accused terrorists, based on the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Creates a process to effectively and fairly prosecute terrorists, while also protecting American troops and intelligence agents fighting terrorism around the world. Requires a detainee to be informed of the charges against him as soon as it is practicable. No person would be required to testify against himself at any commission proceeding, and no statement obtained by torture would be admissible. Sets standards for statements allegedly obtained through coercion. Protects classified evidence, making it privileged from disclosure to accused terrorists, as well as the panel of jurists, if the disclosure of the information would be detrimental to national security. The legislation provides that intelligence sources, methods, or activities shall be protected, but the substantive findings will be admissible in an unclassified form, allowing the prosecution to present its best case while protecting classified information. Fully conforms with Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions, as well as all applicable U.S. laws and international treaty obligations.
09.26.2006	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives passed legislation today by a vote of 264-153 that would make it a federal crime to transport a minor across state lines to obtain an abortion in another state or foreign country in order to avoid a state law requiring parental involvement in a minor’s abortion decision. Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted for this legislation – S. 403, the Child Custody Protection Act, which awaits approval by the U.S. Senate before it can become law. The legislation closely resembles H.R. 748, which Ryan cosponsored and the House passed in April of 2005, while incorporating two clarifying provisions added by the Senate as well as several technical changes. In addition to guarding against situations where a young girl could be taken by an abusive boyfriend or other individual to have an abortion out of state without her parents’ knowledge, this legislation requires that, in cases where a minor seeking an abortion travels to another state that does not have a parental involvement law, abortionists must provide at least 24 hours’ notice of the minor’s decision to a parent of the minor, or a legal guardian if necessary, before the abortion is performed. Failure to do so would be a federal crime subject to up to a $100,000 fine, or one year of prison, or both. The same penalty would apply for those who transport a minor across state lines to circumvent their state’s parental notification law. “Parents have a responsibility to protect their children’s health and well-being, and this legislation helps them do this,” Ryan said. “It will help prevent young girls from being pressured into crossing state lines for an abortion that they conceal from their parents – something we should all agree is dangerous and harmful.” The legislation contains exceptions for life-threatening or medical emergencies, cases where the minor declares in a written statement that she is the victim of abuse by a parent and the abortion provider informs the appropriate state authorities of such abuse, and certain other narrowly defined circumstances. Twenty-nine states currently have parental involvement laws in effect; Wisconsin is not counted among them, due to the way its consent law is written.
09.21.2006	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted in favor of three pieces of legislation to improve border security and prevent dangerous illegal immigrants, including gang members, from exploiting our nation’s immigration laws. The House passed these bills – H.R. 4830, the Border Tunnel Prevention Act; H.R. 6094, the Community Protection Act; and H.R. 6095, the Immigration Law Enforcement Act – which await further action in the Senate or, potentially, in House-Senate conference negotiations on future legislation. “We need to do a better job enforcing our borders, if we are serious about national security,” said Ryan. “It’s not just a matter of people trying to cross illegally for economic reasons. Insecure borders create an opening for terrorists to enter our country. We also have to protect our communities from criminals and gang members who are here illegally. The bills the House passed are just one part of the solution to our broken immigration system, but they contain necessary improvements to help us secure our borders and communities.” The legislation approved by the House today includes provisions that: Enact criminal penalties of up to 20 years’ imprisonment for individuals who construct or finance the construction of an unauthorized tunnel across a U.S. international border. Provide for up to a 10-year prison sentence for individuals who recklessly permit the construction of a tunnel or passage crossing international borders on their property. Double the penalties for anyone caught using a tunnel or passage to unlawfully smuggle illegal immigrants, contraband, drugs, weapons of mass destruction, or terrorists. Allow the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to use the same expedited procedures available for the removal of aggravated felons to remove other criminal aliens who are not permanent residents and are otherwise ineligible for relief. Toughen laws against illegal immigrant gang members. Under the bill, an illegal immigrant who is found to be part of a criminal street gang would be subject to detention, deportation, and would be ineligible for receiving asylum or temporary protected status. Implement a process to extend the amount of time criminal aliens that cannot be deported can be detained, enabling DHS to keep these criminals from being released back into society. (Some illegal immigrants who are being detained by DHS are unable to be deported for a variety of reasons. Yet under current law, DHS cannot detain these illegal immigrants for more than six months, even if the individual has committed a violent crime or represents a threat to national security. This legislation addresses this by enhancing DHS’s ability to detain illegal immigrants in a variety of circumstances. Reaffirm the authority of state and local law enforcement to enforce immigration laws. Require an increase in the number of U.S. attorneys dedicated to prosecuting cases of illegal immigrant smuggling and expresses the sense of Congress that the Attorney General should adopt uniform guidelines for the prosecution of smuggling offenses. Close loopholes that have hurt DHS’s ability to practice “catch and return” as opposed to “catch and release.” For example, an injunction dating from the El Salvadoran civil war of the 1980s prevents DHS from placing Salvadorans in expedited removal proceedings, even though the civil war has long since ended. Last week, the House also passed legislation that requires the systematic surveillance of America’s land and sea borders and designates areas of the southern border where fences are to be constructed to secure the border. Congressman Ryan voted in favor of this legislation – H.R. 6061, the Secure Fence Act – which is being debated in the Senate.
09.20.2006	WASHINGTON – Legislation that would require individuals to present a government-issued, current and valid photo ID in order to be eligible to vote in federal elections passed the House today by 228-196. Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted in favor of this bill, the Federal Election Integrity Act (H.R. 4844), which will help prevent voter fraud and uphold the integrity of elections. Under this legislation, the photo ID requirement would take effect beginning with the November 2008 general election, and an additional criterion would apply as of November 2010, specifying that voters must provide a photo ID that could not have been obtained without proof of U.S. citizenship. “In order to make sure that legal votes are not cancelled out by illegal votes, it makes sense to ask for proof of identity and citizenship from voters,” Ryan said. “This is a simple step that we can take to guard against fraud at the polls and help restore citizens' confidence in the electoral process. Today, we are asked to show ID before we can board a plane, cash a check or, in some cases, make a credit card purchase. We should verify identity when it comes to voting too. ” To ensure that all citizens have access to the necessary ID, the bill requires states to set up a program to provide photo IDs which may be used to meet the bill’s requirements to individuals who do not possess a government-issued photo ID but who want to vote in elections for federal office. In addition, states must provide this photo ID free of charge for those who cannot afford to pay the fee, and the bill authorizes funds to reimburse states for this cost.
09.18.2006	WASHINGTON – Today, as schools around the nation observe Constitution Day by teaching about the U.S. Constitution, Congressman Paul Ryan reminded residents of Wisconsin’s First District that congressional offices have a limited number of free pocket-sized copies of the Constitution available upon request as a resource for their constituents. Constitution Day marks the signing of the U.S. Constitution on September 17, 1787. “The Constitution is the basis of our government and the cornerstone of our free society. As we commemorate the signing of this document, we should make sure it is accessible to all citizens and encourage people to read or reread this document that forms so much of the foundation of our nation,” Ryan said. First District residents who are interested in receiving a pocket edition of the Constitution (limited to one per household) can contact Ryan’s office to request a copy. To contact Ryan’s office, constituents can send an e-mail via the web site or write a letter and send it to 20 South Main St., Suite 10, Janesville, WI 53545.
09.14.2006	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today approved a House rules change co-authored by Congressman Paul Ryan that will shine sunlight on the process known as “earmarking” to bring greater accountability and transparency to Congress and deter wasteful pork-barrel spending. By passing the rules change by a vote of 245-171, the House altered the rules under which it operates to require that all reported bills and conference reports considered in the House include a list of earmarks (funds allocated outside the normal formula-driven or competitive bidding process and targeted to a specific entity, state, or congressional district) and the name of the representative requesting each earmark. This applies not only to appropriations bills but also authorization and tax legislation. In May, the House passed a broader lobbying accountability bill that contained similar reforms advocated by Ryan and other congressional activists for fiscal discipline and openness in the budget process. Unfortunately, the House and Senate haven’t yet been able to resolve their differences on the lobbying legislation, so the House moved forward on its own to enact today’s House rules change. “This unilateral action by the House shows that we are getting serious about cleaning up pork-barrel spending. We are not going to wait for the Senate to act. We are going to reform the broken spending process in the House today,” Ryan said. “We need to bring earmarks out into the open, where they will be subject to the full scrutiny of the public and members of Congress,” Ryan said. “Until now, wasteful pork projects could be slipped anonymously into large spending bills without accountability to other members of Congress or taxpayers. Today’s rule change puts an end to that in the House by making sure that everyone will know about proposed earmarks and who requested them. It’s a common sense step in our push to end waste and abuse in government and shine the light of day on federal spending practices.” Under the new House rule, in order for the House to consider a bill, the committee of jurisdiction must list all earmarks included in the bill and committee report along with the names of the representatives who requested each earmark. If the committee fails to include a list of earmarks, a member of Congress can raise a procedural objection on the House floor against consideration of the bill or conference report. Fiscal hawks in the House advanced today’s rule change as part of the ongoing drive to rein in unnecessary federal spending and improve transparency and accountability. Congressman Ryan’s legislative line-item veto bill, which the House approved in June, is part of this larger effort. Earlier this week, the House also passed S. 2590, the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act, to require the Office of Management and Budget to establish a searchable website, accessible by the public at no cost, that lists all recipients of federal grants, loans, and all contracts over the $25,000 reporting threshold. This site would enable the public, the media, and Congress to easily track who is receiving taxpayer funds and doing business with the government.
08.30.2006	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the First District Mobile Office schedule for September through October. The mobile office makes regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin’s First Congressional District. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. Please click here for a listing of scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the First District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing First District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. “I need to hear from First District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. First District residents can check their local paper or our website – www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of mobile office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by or make an appointment by contacting John Levek at (262) 637-0510.
08.07.2006	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Paul Ryan (R-Janesville) and Mark Green (R-Green Bay) today sent a letter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) urging the agency to use its existing waiver authority to help prevent or reduce the impact of gasoline price spikes on Wisconsinites, in light of BP’s announcement that it is shutting down the Prudhoe Bay oil field in Alaska for an indefinite period of time because of severe pipeline corrosion. In their letter, the congressmen cite requests they have already made this year for the EPA to waive Wisconsin ’s reformulated gas (RFG) requirements to provide Wisconsin drivers with access to the least expensive gasoline available, and they emphasize the growing need for a waiver now that a serious, unforeseen supply disruption has occurred as a result of pipeline problems. “Wisconsinites have been feeling the burden of unfair gasoline regulations for far too long. With the potential for yet another spike in oil prices in the coming days, the EPA should immediately take steps to bring relief to Wisconsin motorists. A waiver suspending these costly requirements would make it possible for drivers in Wisconsin to get the lowest cost gasoline available,” Green said. “When there’s a pipeline failure or other supply emergency it often hits Wisconsinites harder than drivers in other areas because of the unique blend of gasoline mandated in southeastern Wisconsin . We’ve seen time and time again how this leads to higher gas prices in parts of our state. An EPA waiver in response to this latest supply drop could help by removing this extra layer of cost and providing Wisconsin drivers with access to cheaper gasoline,” Ryan said. Please click here to view the Congressmen's letter to the EPA.
08.03.2006	Wisconsin ’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan and Racine County Supervisor Ken Lumpkin will host an African American Community Issues Forum and listening session in Racine at Flatiron Mall on Wednesday, August 23 from 11am to 1pm. The forum will provide a venue for discussing matters of local concern that have an impact on the area’s African American community, including minority business development, faith-based and community initiatives, and the proposed Racine clinic to help the uninsured and underinsured. This gathering will also offer an opportunity to talk about issues before Congress, such as the child support pass-through legislation that has been introduced by Congressman Paul Ryan and Congresswoman Gwen Moore. Eric Ness, District Director for the U.S. Small Business Administration’s Wisconsin district office; Sheila Ashley, Operations Specialist for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Milwaukee field office; and Richard Perry, Executive Director of the Beloit Area Community Health Center are among those who will speak at this meeting. “This will be a great chance for area residents and community leaders to gather together to share ideas and concerns and get information on a wide range of issues that affect the day-to-day lives of African Americans in southeastern Wisconsin ,” Ryan said. WHAT: African American Community Issues Forum WHEN: Wednesday, August 23 from 11am to 1pm. WHERE: Flatiron Mall, 1661 Douglas Ave. , Racine People who would like more information about this community issues forum can call Paul Ryan’s office via the toll-free constituent services hotline: 1-888-909-7926 or Ken Lumpkin at 262-632-9370.
07.28.2006	Wisconsin's First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted for H.R. 4, the Pension Protection Act of 2006, which contains an agreement he fought for to ensure that auto sector employers such as GM will remain able to fund workers' pension plans. Over the past six months, Ryan worked closely with the United Auto Workers (UAW), General Motors (GM), the House Ways and Means Committee, and House and Senate pension bill conferees to reach this agreement on pension bill details. The UAW has announced its support for this pension legislation, which the House passed 279-131. H.R. 4 incorporates the agreements reached during a House-Senate conference to resolve differences on earlier versions of legislation to strengthen the funding of pension plans, and the Senate is expected to pass it. Since the House passed its version of pension legislation last December, including provisions that Congressman Ryan helped negotiate to protect auto workers' pension benefits, Ryan has been working to make sure that the final compromise version of the pension bill continues to protect workers' and retirees' pensions and enables employers to remain competitive. "By working closely with auto companies and the UAW, we were able to reach a compromise that brings more security to the pensions of the tens of thousands of auto workers and retirees in Southeastern Wisconsin," Ryan said. "As Congress moved ahead to update these laws, we needed to protect workers' pension benefits and ensure that local employers such as GM and Chrysler can stay competitive, and this bill does that." As a result of the agreement that Ryan helped secure, this pension legislation: Preserves the agreement reached last December regarding the credit balances of employers such as GM who have been contributing more than the minimum amount necessary to meet their pension funding obligations; Protects workers' pension benefits, while seeing to it that employers work to maintain or restore the health of their employees' pension funds when a pension fund is determined to be underfunded and at risk of default. More broadly, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 reforms outdated pension rules and takes steps to ensure that pension plans are well funded and help protect taxpayers from a costly bailout of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). Among its provisions, the Pension Protection Act of 2006: Strengthens funding rules to ensure employers properly and adequately fund their worker pension plans. Allows single-employer pension plans to continue to offer plant shutdown benefits, if they are above 60% funded. Enhances retirement savings by making permanent the IRA and pension provisions enacted under the 2001 tax relief law, which increased annual contribution limits for IRAs and qualified pension plans and made other improvements in pensions and retirements savings through enhanced vesting, portability and reduced regulatory burdens. Under current law, these reforms are scheduled to expire in 2010. Requires companies to provide more information to workers about the status of their pension plans. Contains a charitable giving incentives package to encourage more charitable giving by individuals and businesses. Permanently extends the rules for Section 529 qualified tuition programs (college savings plans.)
07.27.2006	The House of Representatives today approved legislation cosponsored by First District Congressman Paul Ryan to help integrate modern information technology such as electronic medical records into our nation's health care system to prevent medical errors and help lower costs. This measure codifies the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology and works to remove barriers that have prevented interoperable health information technology from being implemented. The bill - H.R. 4157, the Better Health Information System Act of 2006, also known as the Health Information Technology Promotion Act - passed the House by a vote of 270-148. In June of this year, Ryan introduced separate legislation (H.R. 5559) that would give everyone a chance to own his or her electronic medical record and set guidelines governing the private-sector institutions needed to maintain electronic health records. The bill the House approved today addresses government's role in promoting health information technology, developing standards, and assessing and altering laws that impact the electronic exchange of health information. "By moving from largely paper-based records to a secure system of electronic health records, we can lower costs, improve patient care, and reduce medical errors. At the same time, we need to safeguard patients' privacy and the confidentiality of their information," Ryan said. "Today's legislation helps pave the way for the nationwide spread of technology to enable the secure, electronic exchange of health information including e-prescribing and other advances that can save lives." Among its provisions, H.R. 4157 would: Codify the the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology in statute and delineate its ongoing roles and responsibilities to coordinate federal health information technology efforts. Provide for a study of federal and state health privacy laws and standards and, depending on the findings, create a process for congressional or administration action to revise and strengthen such laws and standards. Create exceptions to the fraud and abuse statutes to allow certain providers to fund health information technology equipment and services for other providers. (Current anti-kickback laws prohibit hospitals from giving anything of value to a physician in order to encourage the doctor to refer his or her patients to that hospital. H.R. 4157 would make an exception to current law, allowing hospitals to provide doctors' offices with health information technology software, computers, training and the like, without being subject to penalties.) Require a modern coding and transaction system. Create a streamlined process for the adoption of transaction standards. Provide for a report on the American Health Information Community (AHIC) and the development of a strategic plan for coordination of health information technology standards. AHIC is a federally chartered commission that will provide recommendations to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services on how to make health records digital and interoperable, and assure that the privacy and security of those records are protected.
07.20.2006	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan will host a town hall meeting on Monday, July 31, at Janesville’s Craig High School to give area residents an opportunity to hear from and talk with U.S. Postal Inspection Service (USPIS) officials about protecting against identity theft. The focus of this informational session will be how to avoid becoming a victim of identity theft and what to do if your personal information has been compromised and someone tries to steal your identity. What: Town Hall Meeting on Preventing and Responding to Identity Theft Who: Congressman Paul Ryan Debra Harris, USPIS Assistant Officer in Charge of the Chicago Division Paul Krenn, USPIS National Public Information Officer When: Monday, July 31, 2006 11:30 am – 1:30 pm Where: Craig High School auditorium 401 S. Randall Ave. Janesville, WI Recently, it was reported that some local residents may be susceptible to identity theft because a health insurer’s computer server was stolen. Earlier this year, the personal information of veterans nationwide was also put at risk due to the theft of a laptop computer and external hard drive from the home of a Department of Veterans Affairs employee. These cases drive home the importance of data security as well as knowing how to protect against identity theft and how to respond if you think you might be a victim. Congressman Ryan has invited U.S. Postal Inspection Service officials to come to Janesville to share information and answer questions about this issue of critical concern to area residents. While this event begins at 11:30am, the main USPIS presentation will begin about 12:00 noon, in order to accommodate area employees who wish to attend the meeting over their lunch break. Trained Postal Inspection Service personnel will be available after the conclusion of the town hall meeting to address individual residents’ specific identity theft questions.
07.18.2006	WASHINGTON – Following today’s Senate passage of three bills related to stem cell research, the House of Representatives voted to approve one of these bills, which it had not yet considered: S. 3504, the Fetus Farming Prohibition Act, which would prohibit the buying or selling of tissue from human fetuses gestated for research purposes. The House also voted on S. 2754, the Alternative Pluripotent Stem Cell Therapies Enhancement Act, to bolster stem cell research that does not destroy human embryos; however, the bill did not achieve the necessary 2/3 vote required for House passage under suspension of the rules. Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted in favor of these two measures. Ryan voted in May 2005 against separate legislation, H.R. 810, which the Senate passed today, because it calls for the use of federal tax dollars for research that relies upon the ongoing destruction of human embryos. In light of the Senate’s approval of H.R. 810, as well as today’s House vote on legislation that would support promising stem cell research that does not destroy human life, Ryan made the following statement: “The current congressional debate about embryonic stem cell research is not about its legality. Today, universities and others are allowed to destroy embryos for research purposes using non-federal funds. The main question now before Congress and the President is whether taxpayers should have to pay for stem cell research that destroys human embryos – a practice that many Americans, including many of those I represent, believe is morally wrong. I firmly believe they must not be forced to finance such research and, if the President vetoes H.R. 810 as expected, I intend to vote to sustain this veto,” Ryan said. “We should respect life in its earliest, most vulnerable stages, at the same time that we pursue scientific advances to cure debilitating diseases. This is why it’s especially important that we find ways to ethically tap the potential of non-embryonic stem cells from adult tissues and umbilical cord blood. Our federal government does not have to choose between advancing new therapies and adhering to strict ethical standards. We can achieve both and uphold the trust of American taxpayers, including those who believe, as I do, that the destruction of human embryos for research is wrong,” Ryan said.
07.11.2006	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today made the following statement after the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) released its annual mid-year budget update, which shows that its deficit forecast for this year has declined 30 percent from $423 billion to $296 billion, largely as a result of increased tax revenues: “Lowering taxes has fueled sustained economic growth and job growth that ultimately bring more tax dollars into the Treasury, which helps us reduce the deficit. At the same time, we need to restrain spending, and we’re working hard to do this through budget reforms such as my legislative line-item veto and overall efforts to control spending,” said Ryan. “Today’s announcement of lower deficit projections shows that tax relief paired with spending controls can put our fiscal house in order and eliminate the deficit.” The OMB’s Mid-Session Review reports: This year’s budget deficit is now forecast to be $296 billion, or 2.3 percent of our economy (GDP), equal to the 40-year historical average. This deficit is 30 percent below the Administration’s February forecast. The improved deficit outlook continues over the next five years, indicating that the President is on track to meet his goal of cutting the deficit in half by 2008, a year ahead of schedule, from its projected 2004 peak of 4.5 percent of GDP, or $521 billion. Pro-growth economic policies have fueled a robust expansion which has, in turn, increased tax revenues at a rapid pace. Revenues grew by 14.5 percent last year, and tax receipts are forecast this year to grow by about 11 percent.
07.10.2006	MILWAUKEE, WI – At a press conference in Milwaukee today, Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-WI) announced that they have introduced H.R. 5706, the Child Support Pass-Through Act, to give states the option and incentive to deliver 100 percent of child support payments directly to the families they’re designed to help. Under current law, some or all of the child support owed to families that receive Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) is split between the state and federal government as reimbursement for providing public assistance services. This policy diverts some child support funds from children and can be a disincentive for non-custodial parents to pay the support they owe because they know that part or all of their payments will not directly benefit their children. H.R. 5706 addresses this problem, enabling states to pass through the full amount of child support for TANF families. “Child support should do just that – support children, not the federal government. We want to see the total amount of child support payments get to the parents and children for whom they are intended. That’s why we are pushing for this legislation. Wisconsin’s families receiving welfare assistance benefited for years from a state program that permitted 100 percent pass-through of child support. It encourages parents to promptly pay child support when all of that money goes to their children, and we need to reinstate this successful policy,” Ryan said. “This legislation builds on Wisconsin’s past leadership in this area, encouraging states to distribute all child support directly to families so they can maintain self-sufficiency,” said Moore. “If we are asking parents to move off welfare and take financial responsibility for their families, then we in Congress should make every effort to ensure that all child support goes directly to the families who are working so hard to reach economic stability.” U.S. Senator Herb Kohl joined Reps. Ryan and Moore at today’s event to voice his support for child support pass-through legislation. For nearly ten years, Sen. Kohl has been at the forefront of the fight for child support pass-through in the U.S. Senate. “Federal child support pass-through legislation is something I have advocated since 1997, when we secured the state’s waiver,” Kohl said. “Working together, it is my hope that the Wisconsin delegation can make those benefits a reality for all American families.” For many years, Wisconsin benefited from a federal waiver that enabled the state’s Wisconsin Works program to pass through the full amount of child support payments to custodial parents working their way off welfare. Wisconsin’s experience has demonstrated that this program was highly successful and that non-custodial parents were more likely to pay child support because they knew the money would be used directly for their children, instead of administrative expenses. A study by the University of Wisconsin’s Institute for Research on Poverty supports this finding. Unfortunately, the program was discontinued at the end of 2005, when the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) denied the state’s request for an extension. The recently passed Budget Reconciliation bill would allow monthly direct pass-through amounts of $100 for one child and $200 for two or more children, which will help some TANF families. Unfortunately, this does not cover the complete amount of child support for all families that receive TANF benefits. Ryan and Moore’s proposed legislation would essentially make the successful Wisconsin pass-through program federal law, allowing states to deliver all child support payments directly to custodial parents who receive TANF assistance. Pass-through programs encourage non-custodial parents to pay child support because they know their money will directly benefit their children. Without pass-through, non-custodial parents are more likely to fall into arrears, custodial parents are less likely to track down the child support payments, and single-parent families struggling without the financial support of the other parent’s earnings have a harder time reaching the level of economic security necessary to get off welfare. Among those joining Reps. Ryan and Moore and Senator Kohl today to demonstrate support for child support pass-through legislation were John Hayes, Executive Director of the Milwaukee County Department of Child Support Enforcement; Rachel Shoates of the New Hope Project; and Patti Bucko-Duenkel, a custodial parent and 1st District constituent who will benefit from H.R. 5706.
06.30.2006	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the First District Mobile Office schedule for July through August. The mobile office makes regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin’s First Congressional District. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. Please click here for a listing of scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the First District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing First District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. “I need to hear from First District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their town or area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. First District residents can check their local paper or our website – www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of mobile office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by or make an appointment by contacting John Levek at (262) 637-0510.
06.28.2006	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Mark Green (R-Green Bay) and Paul Ryan (R-Janesville) today continued their push to bring common sense and lower prices to the nation’s gasoline system by joining with House Majority Whip Roy Blunt, a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, to introduce legislation that begins to ratchet down the existing number of specialty fuels on the market. While last year’s Energy Policy Act took aim at the proliferation of specialized “boutique” fuels to prevent further fragmentation of America’s gasoline supply, today’s legislation – the Boutique Fuel Reduction Act of 2006 – takes the next step by establishing a mechanism to start reducing the number of boutique fuels used throughout different areas of the country. The legislation also broadens the existing authority of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to waive boutique fuel mandates when supply shortages and price spikes occur. Boutique fuel reforms are needed to bring competition into the marketplace so refineries that currently produce unique fuels will not have the leverage to price fuels artificially high at the expense of the consumer. Reducing the number of specialized fuels will also improve flexibility and prevent price spikes when shortages occur as the result of emergencies such as refinery fires or pipeline breaks. “Reducing the number of fuel blends is a critical step in our ongoing battle to lower and stabilize gas prices,” Green said. “For our families and our employers, we must get fuel costs under control. Making gas easier and less complicated to produce will increase supply and bring prices down. That’s what we’re aiming to do with this bill.” “Because so many different factors are behind skyrocketing gas prices, there is no silver bullet that will immediately bring prices down to where they should be. But we have to do everything we can to tackle the parts of the problem that are within our control,” Ryan said. “Congress can give the EPA broader authority to waive reformulated gas rules, and we can simplify our fuel system to lower costs, while at the same time protecting air quality. Ultimately, we’d like to see states choose from a menu of just a few different fuel types in order to meet their clean-air goals. While this legislation doesn’t get us there overnight, it moves us in the right direction.” The Boutique Fuel Reduction Act of 2006 would do the following: Locks in improvements made by ensuring that, when a boutique fuel drops off the existing list due to changing regulations, the number of fuels is reduced accordingly – rather than allowing a state to come in later and introduce a new boutique fuel to fill the hole left by the old one. Provides that within nine months of enactment, EPA and the Department of Energy (DOE) must complete the study required by last year’s Energy Policy Act on boutique fuels, making recommendations on harmonizing our nation’s fuel system requirements. Provides the EPA with additional authority to waive boutique fuel requirements in the case of unexpected problems with distribution or delivery equipment that is necessary for transportation and delivery of fuel or fuel additives. The large number of highly specialized fuels around the nation (and the supply shortages and artificially high prices that tend to accompany these boutique fuels) are an unintended consequence of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments. As a result of these amendments, areas found in noncompliance with certain ozone standards use clean-burning fuels in an effort to improve air quality, but they were not given a standardized menu of fuels from which to select. Throughout the nation, areas have chosen their own unique blends, leading to fragmentation of our nation’s fuel system and tight supply conditions that foster price spikes, particularly if there is a supply disruption affecting an area’s particular blend of fuel. In addition, as boutique fuel blends have multiplied, it has interfered with normal market workings and opened the door to greater price manipulation by those who produce these highly specialized blends of gasoline. Last year, Ryan and Green made progress toward tackling this problem by including a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to stop the number of boutique fuels from continuing to grow and give the EPA limited authority to issue temporary waivers during supply emergencies. Today’s legislation is another step forward in addressing the problem with boutique fuels and inflated gas prices.
06.22.2006	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today voted by a bipartisan 247-172 to approve the Legislative Line-Item Veto Act of 2006 (H.R. 4890), introduced by U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan to give the President and Congress an effective tool to target and remove wasteful and unnecessary spending items in completed bills. This legislation will shine the light of day on the spending process in Congress, improve accountability, and deter Members of Congress from requesting funding for wasteful earmarks. With the legislative line-item veto, the President would have the authority to single out individual pork-barrel spending items in bills that arrive on his desk for signature and send these specific line items back to Congress for an up-or-down vote within 14 legislative days on whether to rescind funding for these spending provisions. Similarly, the President would be able to request the rescission of targeted special-interest tax breaks. By separating questionable individual items from larger bills and subjecting these items to a vote on their own merits, the legislative line-item veto will make lawmakers more accountable for their spending requests and give the President and Congress an opportunity to get rid of wasteful provisions that may have been added to bills during final negotiations. “Our version of the line-item veto will help the President and Congress work together to get rid of unnecessary and unjustifiable spending and deter such spending requests in the first place. It is part of our larger drive to eliminate wasteful spending and bring greater accountability and transparency to Washington,” Ryan said. “While earmark reforms will help us identify and target abuse at the front of the process, the line-item veto will be an effective backstop to prevent wasteful spending from getting through at the end of the process.” “I would like to thank the House leadership for bringing this bill to a floor vote and advancing this key reform, as well as everyone whose hard work led to its successful passage,” Ryan said. The legislative line-item veto passes constitutional muster, preserves Congress’ power of the purse, and maintains the balance of power between Congress and the President by requiring the House and Senate to vote to approve the President’s proposed rescissions, before they can become law. This approach is fundamentally different than the earlier line-item veto that the Supreme Court struck down in 1998, which did not require explicit congressional approval of the President’s rescissions in order for them to take effect. This legislation also fixes the major flaw that has prevented the President’s current rescission authority from serving as a useful mechanism for controlling spending. Today, the President can request that Congress rescind certain spending items, but there is no guarantee that Congress will vote on these proposed rescissions. In contrast, the version of the line-item veto that passed today requires consideration of the President’s rescission requests on an expedited timeframe. Among its provisions, the Legislative Line-Item Veto Act of 2006 : Gives the President the authority to propose the elimination of wasteful spending items or targeted special-interest tax breaks in legislation that he signs into law and send these specific items back to Congress for a timely vote on his rescission requests. The President would be required to submit his rescission request to Congress within 45 calendar days of signing a bill into law. Puts the President’s rescission requests on a fast track guaranteeing an up-or-down vote, with no amendments, by the full House and Senate within 14 total legislative days after receipt of the President’s request. Respects and preserves Congress’ constitutional responsibilities, as it requires both the House and Senate to vote to approve the President’s rescission requests before they can become law. If either the House or Senate votes against a rescission by a simple majority, it is not enacted. Permits the President to decline to spend the relevant funds for up to 90 days (an initial 45-day period, with an extension period of 45 days,) to ensure adequate time for Congress to act on rescission proposals, particularly in the event that Congress enters a recess. Prohibits the President from re-proposing the same or a substantially similar rescission if Congress has already rejected it once. Limits the number of rescission requests per bill to five, (or ten in the case of an omnibus or reconciliation bill.) Note that one presidential rescission request may include a package of line-items that are recommended for removal, rather than just one single line-item provision. Ensures that the President can use this rescission authority to propose the removal of wasteful spending items, not as a tool to strike down policy provisions. Sunsets on October 1, 2012, after two presidential administrations have had the opportunity to use it as a tool to control spending. This six-year sunset provision would give Congress the ability to review this legislation and decide whether to renew it. The Legislative Line-Item Veto Act of 2006 faces a vote in the U.S. Senate and a conference to resolve differences between the House and Senate versions, before this reform becomes law.
06.14.2006	WASHINGTON – The House Budget Committee today voted by a bipartisan 24-9 to approve the Legislative Line-Item Veto Act of 2006, introduced by U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan (R.-Wis.) to enable the President and Congress to work together to target wasteful and unnecessary spending items in bills that have passed Congress and improve transparency and accountability for spending requests. This legislation is on track to come to the House floor for a vote next week. Under this legislation, the President would have the authority to single out individual pork-barrel spending items in legislation that arrives on his desk for signature and send these specific line items back to Congress for a timely up-or-down vote on whether to rescind these spending provisions. Likewise, the President would be able to request the rescission of targeted, narrow special-interest tax breaks. In contrast to the President’s current rescission authority, which Congress can choose to ignore, the legislative line-item veto will ensure that Congress votes on the President’s rescission request within 14 legislative days after receiving the request. This expedited timeframe will make the legislative line-item veto a useful tool for controlling spending, while shining light on the spending process and subjecting questionable items to a vote on their own merits – apart from larger legislation. “This proposal makes Congress more accountable for the spending it proposes, which will help us eliminate unjustifiable pork-barrel projects and exercise greater care with taxpayer dollars,” Ryan said. “We have also made certain it adheres to the Constitution and keeps the power of the purse in Congress, as our nation’s founders intended.” “This initiative is one part of our drive to bring greater transparency, accountability and common-sense restraint to the federal budget process. Together with earmark reforms, better budgeting for emergency spending, a sunset commission and other steps to control spending, our legislative line-item veto is part of our effort this year to get rid of waste and abuse in government,” Ryan said. This proposal preserves Congress’ power of the purse under the Constitution and maintains the balance of power between Congress and the President by requiring the House and Senate to vote to approve the President’s proposed rescissions, before they can become law. (The version of the line-item veto that the Supreme Court struck down in 1998 did not require congressional approval of the President’s rescissions.) Ryan initially introduced H.R. 4890, the Legislative Line-Item Veto Act of 2006, in the House on March 7, 2006. In the weeks that followed, this proposal was the subject of hearings in three House committees as well as consultations with constitutional lawyers, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and both Democratic and Republican Members of Congress. At today’s Budget Committee markup of the legislation, Ryan amended the legislation to take into account the input he has received throughout the course of hearings and discussions and ensure that the legislation adheres to its intent. Among its provisions, as amended and approved by the House Budget Committee, the Legislative Line-Item Veto Act of 2006 would: Give the President the authority to propose the elimination of wasteful spending items or targeted special-interest tax breaks in legislation that he signs into law and send these specific items back to Congress for a timely vote on his rescission requests. The President would be required to submit his rescission request to Congress within 45 calendar days. Put the President’s rescission requests on a fast track guaranteeing consideration by the full House and Senate within 14 total legislative days after receipt of the President’s request. Respect and preserve Congress’ constitutional power of the purse, as each proposed rescission would require an up-or-down vote in the full House and Senate before the rescissions can become law. Permit the President to decline to spend the relevant funds for up to 90 days, to ensure adequate time for Congress to act on his rescission proposals, particularly in the event that Congress enters a recess. Clarify that duplicative requests by the President are prohibited and limit the number of rescission requests per bill to five (or ten in the case of an omnibus bill.) It is important to note that one presidential rescission request may include a package of line-items that are recommended for removal, rather than just one single line-item provision. Ensure that the President can use this rescission authority to propose the removal of wasteful spending items, not as a tool to strike down policy provisions. Sunset in six years, after two presidential administrations have had the opportunity to use it as a tool to control spending. This six-year sunset provision would give Congress the ability to review this legislation and decide whether to renew it.
06.08.2006	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan yesterday evening voted for legislation to help reduce America’s dependence on imported gasoline by addressing bureaucratic delays in the refinery permitting process and making it easier to add fuel refining capacity. The legislation – H.R. 5254, the Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act – passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 238-179. “It has been 30 years since a new refinery has been built in the U.S., and today we have to import refined gasoline from other nations just to meet the daily demand for gas. This makes us dependent on foreign sources not only for crude oil, but also the finished product, and it adds to the high cost of gas at the pump. By making it easier to build new refineries in the U.S., we can decrease our dependence on energy imports and help bring down fuel costs,” Ryan said. While some refineries have expanded, no new refinery has been constructed in the United States since 1976. There are 148 operating refineries in the United States, down from 324 in 1981. Total capacity at operating refineries is roughly 17 million barrels per day, while total U.S. demand averages nearly 21 million barrels per day. This growing gap is met by an increasing level of imports of refined products from foreign sources. The Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act would help reduce dependence on imports through the following actions: Directs the President to appoint a federal coordinator to manage the multi-agency permitting process. Working with the governor of the state where the refinery is proposed, the coordinator will begin by identifying and then convening all agencies involved with issuing permits to coordinate the schedules. This brings all federal and state agencies together to make it easier to add fuel refining capacity and eliminates needless bureaucratic delay in the permitting process for new or expanded gasoline, biofuel or distillate-processing facilities. Gives the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) priority in the scheduling coordination, preserving the strict environmental standards that must be met for these facilities to be developed. Directs the President to suggest at least three closed military bases as suitable sites for new refineries, one of which must be designated for biofuel refining, while preserving local authority to make final siting decisions on closed bases.
06.08.2006	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today issued the following statement on the death of terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi: “Working together, America’s military, Iraqi security forces and the Iraqi people have won a major battle in the war on terrorism. Thanks to their tireless efforts, the brutal terrorist al-Zarqawi can no longer murder our troops and innocent civilians and no longer lead a campaign of death and destruction to disrupt democracy in Iraq,” Ryan said. “This gives Iraq’s representative government and our coalition a great opportunity to move forward and ensure that freedom and security take root in Iraq.”
06.08.2006	WASHINGTON – In an effort to bring down health care costs, reduce medical errors, and give every individual a chance to own his or her electronic medical record, First District Congressman Paul Ryan today introduced legislation in the House that would enable the creation of independent health record banks to maintain electronic health records for those who choose to participate. U.S. Senator Sam Brownback has introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. This legislation – the Independent Health Record Bank Act – would facilitate the creation of a nationwide health information network so that patients’ up-to-date, complete medical information can easily travel with them to whatever doctor or hospital they visit, improving treatment and reducing mistakes in the process. Moving from paper-based records to electronic medical records will also help reduce excess paperwork, lower administrative costs, and streamline the reporting of public information to further reduce the cost of health care. A RAND study released last year found that the use of electronic medical records and establishment of a nationwide health information network could save $152 billion a year. “Accessing your health records should be as simple as checking your bank records using your ATM card,” Ryan said. “There is no reason that medical information can’t be managed in a similar way, with proper safeguards to protect patient confidentiality. The current cumbersome, largely paper-based system adds to the high cost of health care and sometimes can lead to errors that cost lives. We can lower costs and improve the quality of care for patients by making the transition to a nationwide system of secure electronic health records.” Currently, the U.S. has no unified, electronic system for storing health records. The Independent Health Record Bank Act provides legal and regulatory guidelines for the establishment of independent health record banks that would store a patient’s electronic health records, in effect creating a nationwide health information network. “If doctors have better information they can do a better job of treating patients,” said Brownback. “Equipped with ready access to a patient’s medical history, doctors will not have to make as many guesses about what procedures or treatments might be appropriate. Studies have shown that the adoption of electronic medical records could save billions of dollars because fewer unnecessary procedures will be performed, and medical errors will be reduced.” Under this proposal, individuals could choose to file their medical information in an “account” with an accredited Independent Health Record Bank (IHRB) that is registered and regulated through the Federal Trade Commission and the Attorney General. Health record banks will be operated by nonprofit cooperative institutions, much like member-owned credit unions. Account holders and their doctors or other health-care providers would update their records as check-ups and medical treatments are provided. These health information banks would manage medical information in a manner similar to the way today’s financial institutions, such as banks, manage financial data. This electronic account system will allow physicians and other health care providers real-time access to patient health records. In the case of emergencies and natural disasters such as Hurricane Katrina, where people are away from their regular doctor or hospital, having this electronic health information can be especially vital. Individual account holders would own their medical record and have the right to review the content of their record during business hours of the bank and add personal health information. Health care providers, labs and other health care entities could only access an account holder’s information with his or her consent, and the consent of the IHRB. Health record banks, with the explicit consent of the account holder, would be able to sell health information concerning that account holder as long as the data does not identify the individual and is used solely for research purposes. The health record bank and the account holder would then equally share any revenue generated by this sale.
05.25.2006	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted for legislation that would permit limited, environmentally sound oil and gas exploration and production in a designated part of Alaska’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) in order to reduce our dependence on costly foreign oil. The U.S. House of Representatives passed this legislation – H.R. 5429, the American-Made Energy and Good Jobs Act – by a vote of 225-201. The bill awaits action in the U.S. Senate, which has in the past blocked approval of this plan to increase our nation’s access to domestic oil and gas supplies. H.R. 5429 authorizes the Interior Department to grant leases for oil and gas exploration, development, and production in ANWR’s coastal plain, while maintaining stringent environmental standards. While ANWR covers nearly 20 million acres (roughly the size of Indiana), under this proposal, the total surface area covered by production facilities such as drilling platforms or airstrips would not exceed 2,000 acres – about the size of Milwaukee’s Mitchell Airport. In addition, the use of 21st century technology and regulatory safeguards will help protect the region’s wildlife and habitat. The legislation also includes an export ban of all oil or gas obtained from ANWR, to ensure that these supplies are only for domestic use in the United States. Furthermore, enabling exploration and production in ANWR would bring with it hundreds of thousands of new jobs. At peak production, energy development on ANWR’s northern coastal plain could deliver to the lower 48 states an additional 1.5 million barrels of oil per day – about equal to the daily supply America lost in the Gulf of Mexico due to Hurricane Katrina. According to estimates by the Energy Information Administration, ANWR’s oil deposits could replace our current imports from Saudi Arabia for 20 years. “If we are going to solve the current energy crisis, we must reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Over time, alternative fuels hold great promise, but today our economy still relies heavily on oil and gas. We should pursue environmentally safe exploration in a limited area of ANWR as part of the solution,” Ryan said. “We also need to streamline the permit process to allow new refineries to be built in the U.S. and reduce the number of boutique fuels required throughout the country. I have repeatedly advanced legislation to tackle the boutique fuels problem and simplify our gasoline system and will continue pushing to enact legislation in the coming weeks.”
05.18.2006	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan (R.-Wis.) voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution, which passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 218-210. This broad budget blueprint sets the overall spending cap for regular appropriations bills at $873 billion (equal to the President’s budget), restrains non-security discretionary spending, and calls for further progress to slow the pace of growth in government spending on entitlements. This spending cap is $16 billion lower than the spending provided for by the Senate Budget Resolution. In negotiations leading up to passage of the House Budget Resolution, Ryan and other proponents of reforming the congressional budget process secured a commitment from House leadership that the House would act on key reform proposals to instill greater fiscal discipline. Specifically, this budget resolution establishes for the first time ever a “rainy day” fund to better budget for emergencies. If emergency spending exceeds this reserve, it requires the Budget Committee to vote on whether to increase budget limits. The bill also narrowly defines emergencies so Congress cannot add miscellaneous pork to emergency spending bills. In addition, the House is committed to voting this summer on Ryan’s legislative line-item veto bill, as well as a bill to establish a sunset commission to reduce wasteful government spending. Moreover, earmark reform measures that passed the House earlier this month as part of lobbying accountability legislation were another part of this drive to reform the budget process to ensure greater transparency and help restrain unnecessary spending. “This budget resolution puts a much-needed cap on this year’s spending bills. It’s clear the Senate wants to spend more money, and this Budget Resolution will help us keep spending down. Without this resolution, there would have been no cap on spending, making it nearly impossible to enforce fiscal restraint as Congress considers its annual spending bills. Together with the budget reforms that we are pushing, this resolution is a vital tool to help us keep spending under control,” Ryan said. “By keeping both taxes and spending down, we can reduce the deficit and balance the budget.” The budget resolution is shaped by several priorities: keeping the economy growing and creating jobs, maintaining a strong national defense and providing what is needed to support our troops, controlling government spending, and beginning to reform the budget process itself to instill greater fiscal discipline and provide more accurate budgeting. Among its provisions, the budget resolution: Nearly freezes non-security discretionary spending. Allows increases in defense and homeland security to provide what is needed to support our troops and keep our nation’s defenses strong. Also continues to set aside a $50 billion reserve for war costs. Includes $6.8 billion in savings in mandatory (entitlement) spending over five years, calling for common-sense reforms to slow the growth of government spending on entitlements. This spending operates on auto-pilot and is growing faster than our economy, faster than inflation, and faster than our means to sustain it. Establishes a new “rainy day” fund to better budget for natural disasters. If emergency spending on natural disasters exceeds this emergency reserve, the Budget Committee would be required to vote on whether to increase budget limits. This provision is part of a series of budget process reforms. In keeping with an agreement reached on the budget resolution, other key reform proposals will be voted on in the coming weeks and months, including Rep. Ryan’s line-item veto legislation to reduce wasteful spending and improve accountability and transparency in Congress.
05.10.2006	WASHINGTON – Legislation authored by First District Congressman Paul Ryan that would allow Wisconsin to continue its special mortgage loan program for veterans passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 244-185 as part of broader legislation to prevent tax hikes. Ryan voted for the legislation – the conference report to H.R. 4297 - that prevents harmful tax increases on families and small businesses through short-term Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) relief and by extending several current-law tax relief provisions that are scheduled to expire in the near future. The overall measure is the product of House-Senate negotiations to resolve differences between earlier versions of the legislation and awaits approval in the Senate before it can become law. “Wisconsin veterans of Iraq, Afghanistan, and other recent military action deserve the same access to homeownership as earlier generations of veterans. Our legislation makes it possible to extend Wisconsin’s special loan program and open it up to assist recent veterans,” said Ryan. Under current law, Wisconsin and several other states are authorized to issue tax-exempt bonds, the proceeds of which are used to finance mortgage loans to veterans. However, these mortgage loans can be made only to veterans who served on active duty before 1977 and who applied for the loan within 30 years after they left active military service. Therefore, veterans of more recent or ongoing military operations such as Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Enduring Freedom, Kosovo, Somalia, and the 1991 Persian Gulf War are not eligible, under present law, for such mortgage loans. Ryan’s provision, included in the conference report to H.R. 4297, repeals the requirement that veterans receiving loans financed by these veterans’ bonds must have served before 1977, enabling Wisconsin’s veterans’ home loan program to stay active and assist Wisconsin veterans of Iraq, Afghanistan and other more recent conflicts. Additionally, the legislation provides new state limits for these bonds. Under this measure, the new bonding authority for Wisconsin to provide these loans would be phased in over five years and would sunset in 2010. “I also support this bill because it extends expiring tax relief that has fueled job growth and prevents tax hikes that would hurt Wisconsin families and businesses. The last thing Wisconsinites need are tax increases, but that’s what will happen if we let the tax relief lapse,” Ryan said. “Since Congress lowered taxes on investment in 2003, America’s economy has grown and created more than 5 million jobs, and tax receipts going into the U.S. Treasury have risen too. Extending this tax relief will help create more jobs, strengthen our economy and help us reduce the deficit.” Overall, the conference report to H.R. 4297, the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act: Prevents 15 million taxpayers from getting hit by the AMT in 2006 and helps many more by increasing the exemption amounts and allowing nonrefundable personal credits to offset the AMT. The legislation extends the AMT exemption levels through the end of 2006 at a higher level than in 2005. The new exemption levels for 2006 are $62,550 for joint filers and $42,500 for single filers. Extends for two years (through the end of tax-year 2009) the ability of small businesses to expense (deduct in the first year) up to $100,000 of investments in depreciable assets. Without action, the expensing limit would have declined to $25,000 after 2007. Maintains the current 15-percent dividends and capital gains tax rates through 2010, rather than letting these expire (and raise taxes) at the end of 2008. The 2003 tax relief, which reduced tax rates on capital gains and dividends, has fueled significant economic expansion and helped generate 5.2 million new U.S. jobs. At the same time, because of this growth, the federal government has seen an increase in tax revenues flowing into the Treasury and a reduction in the deficit. After witnessing declines in revenues from 2000 through 2003, revenues surged in 2004 and 2005, and they are surging again in 2006. Final 2005 tax payments from individuals were $20-25 billion higher than the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) expected, and so far this year corporate receipts are about $40 billion higher than last year, according to a report released last week by the CBO. As a result, the CBO anticipates a sharp reduction in the Fiscal Year 2006 deficit from their previous estimates and cites robust revenue growth as a key factor in this improvement. Contrasting the following economic figures from before and after the 2003 tax relief offers an idea of the positive impact the tax cuts have had: Since the enactment of the 2003 tax cuts, the unemployment rate has fallen from 6.3% (June 2003) to 4.7% (April 2006). In the two and a half years preceding the tax cuts, our economy lost 2.6 million jobs. Since the tax cuts, we have gained over 5.2 million jobs. Prior to the 2003 tax cuts, business investment had decreased for 8 straight quarters. Following the tax cuts, business investment has increased for 11 straight quarters.
05.04.2006	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted for legislation to strengthen our nation’s port security system and make cargo more secure from the point of origin to its arrival in the United States. This legislation, H.R. 4954 – the Security and Accountability for Every Port Act, passed the House with overwhelming support by a vote of 421-2. “Earlier this year, the debate about who would be allowed to manage our nation’s ports drew attention to the serious need for better cargo screening and other remaining gaps in our port security system. This legislation is a solid step forward that would help improve the security of shipments headed for our nation’s shores,” Ryan said. The SAFE Port Act works to enhance security and protect cargo containers at every stage – from their point of origin, in transit, and at U.S. ports. Among its provisions, the legislation: Requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to deploy nuclear and radiological detection systems at twenty-two U.S. seaports by the end of Fiscal Year 2007, which will cover 98 percent of incoming maritime containers, and to establish standard operating procedures for examining containers. Provides $400 million in risk-based funding through a dedicated Port Security Grant Program to harden U.S. ports against terrorist attacks and enhance capabilities to respond to attacks and resume operations. Sets deadlines for DHS implementation of the Transportation Worker Information Credential program, a biometrically-enhanced identification card for access to secure U.S. seaport facilities. In the interim, requires DHS to conduct terrorist watch-list and immigration status checks of all U.S. port employees with access to secure areas within 90 days of enactment. Requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to develop standards for sealing containers en route to the United States within 180 days and implementation within two years. Improves the Automated Targeting System (ATS), which is designed to identify high-risk containers before they reach American soil, by requiring DHS to collect additional cargo data from importers bringing material through U.S. ports. Codifies the existing Container Security Initiative (CSI), which enables DHS to examine high-risk maritime cargo at foreign seaports, and requires DHS to conduct security assessments for foreign ports that seek to participate in the CSI program. The bill requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to refuse high-risk cargo that the host nation refuses to inspect. Codifies and strengthens the existing Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism program, which creates partnerships between DHS and the private sector to establish transparency in the supply chain, enhance security measures, and encourage information sharing.
05.03.2006	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan and other activists for greater transparency and fiscal discipline in the congressional budget process achieved a victory today when the House of Representatives approved legislation that included earmark reforms they had advocated. These reforms would shine the light of day on earmarks, making Members of Congress accountable for the spending projects they propose, and enable any Member to challenge last-minute earmarks inserted as legislation is finalized in House-Senate conference committee. These provisions were part of a broader lobbying accountability bill (H.R. 4975) that passed the House today by a vote of 217-213. Congressman Ryan voted in favor of this legislation. “I have been fighting to bring transparency and accountability to the way Congress spends taxpayers' money since I came to Congress. This reform does just that and I look forward to bringing my legislative line-item veto bill to the House floor in June along with other reforms to help us balance the budget,” Ryan said. “Shining sunlight on earmarks will discourage wasteful spending and help the public hold Members of Congress accountable for any spending projects they add to bills. If an earmark is tucked into legislation, the reforms we approved today would expose it and allow it to be challenged. This is just one step in a series of reforms we are advancing to transform the congressional budget process to save taxpayer dollars and clamp down on unnecessary government spending.” Today, if a new earmark is inserted into a spending bill very late in the process, during the House-Senate conference stage, Members of Congress do not have the ability to challenge that earmark. They can only vote for or against the entire conference report. With the reforms included in H.R. 4975, any Member of Congress could challenge an earmark throughout the legislative process, including cases where earmarks have been “air dropped” in by conferees without prior House or Senate consideration. H.R. 4975 also brings earmarks into the open by requiring a list of earmarks, including the sponsor’s name, to be included in a general appropriations bill or a report accompanying that bill’s report. Furthermore, it requires the statement of managers accompanying a conference report to include a listing of earmarks not included in either House or Senate bill, not included in the list of earmarks accompanying the House report, and not included in the Senate report of the companion bill. Among its other provisions, H.R. 4975, the Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 would: Enhance lobbying disclosure by requiring quarterly filing by lobbyists (up from the current twice a year), and requiring filings to be electronic and accessible through a searchable and sortable online, public database. Require registered lobbyists to disclose contributions to federal candidates, leadership PACs and other PACs, political party committees, and the amount and date of any gift that counts toward the cumulative limit. Raise the civil penalty for failure to report from $50,000 to $100,000 and adds a criminal penalty of up to three years for willingly and knowingly failing to comply with the provisions of the act. Require Members of Congress to notify the Ethics Committee within five days when a Member begins salary negotiations with an employer and requires a Member to refrain from voting if it creates a conflict of interest. Restate current rules that Members of Congress may not condition official acts based on the employment decision of an outside entity. Require the Ethics Committee to report recommendations on gift and travel rules to the Rules Committee by December 15, 2006. Require written certification from the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Standards of Official Conduct before a Member or Member’s staff may accept travel expenses related to his or her official duties. Increase oversight of lobbying and enforcement by requiring random audits of lobbying reports filed by lobbyists by the House Inspector General and permitting the House Inspector General to refer violations by lobbyists to the U.S. Department of Justice for prosecution. Take away the government’s contributions to the congressional pension of a Member of Congress, if that Member is convicted of bribery or acting as a foreign agent (including conspiracy charges) while the individual is a Member of Congress.
04.26.2006	WASHINGTON – With gas prices topping the $3 mark in several parts of the state, U.S. Reps. Mark Green (R-Green Bay) and Paul Ryan (R-Janesville) wrote a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Wednesday asking for an immediate waiver of reformulated gas requirements in Wisconsin – a move they said would allow Wisconsin motorists to use cheaper, conventional gasoline rather than the more expensive specialized seasonal blends. “Gas prices are spiraling out of control, and thousands of Wisconsin drivers are being left in the dust,” Green said. “If steps aren’t taken now to stabilize prices at the pump it’s going to be a long, long summer. The EPA has the power to provide immediate relief to Wisconsinites by waiving our reformulated gas requirements and giving folks access to the cheapest gas possible.” “Soaring gas prices are hitting drivers and businesses hard across the nation, but Wisconsinites bear an even heavier burden because of the unique blend of reformulated gas certain areas are required to use during the summer months. A waiver makes sense to help address this layer of the gas price problem. The bottom line is: boutique fuels translate to higher gas prices and this must be fixed,” Ryan said. Since arriving in Congress, Green and Ryan have taken many steps to combat high gas prices, including: Voting to require the Federal Trade Commission to investigate price gouging by oil companies – a provision that was included in comprehensive energy legislation signed into law last year; Voting to create harsh new federal penalties for parties that engage in price gouging – a provision that was included in the “GAS Act,” legislation that passed the House but is now stalled in the Senate. Both Green and Ryan called on the Senate to pass the “GAS Act” as soon as possible; Writing legislation that passed into law last year as part of the energy bill that stops boutique fuels from multiplying and provides the EPA with limited authority to issue temporary waivers during supply emergencies; Repeatedly introducing legislation to reduce the number of boutique fuel blends produced in the United States . The proliferation of boutique fuels has played a major role in limiting refining capacity, making it more difficult to increase the supply of gasoline when it’s needed most; Working to reduce our dependence on foreign oil by supporting proposals that would open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) to limited oil and gas exploration; and Repeatedly fighting efforts by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to reduce world oil supplies by limiting their production – actions which have helped lead to gas price spikes in the United States . - CLICK HERE FOR A COPY OF GREEN AND RYAN’S LETTER TO THE EPA -
04.24.2006	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced that the First District Mobile Office will resume its regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin 's First District in May.Please click here for a listing of current scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the First District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing First District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. From 1999 through 2005, the mobile office has made 1516 visits to area communities. “I need to hear from First District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their town or area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about any difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. First District residents can check their local paper or our website – www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Sites and addresses listed on the schedule of mobile office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by or make an appointment by contacting John Levek at (262) 637-0510.
04.19.2006	JANESVILLE – Wisconsin ’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan last week served as a member of a small bipartisan congressional delegation to India and Vietnam led by the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. The purpose of the trip was to meet with government leaders and learn firsthand about key bilateral issues between the United States and these countries, ranging from matters of national security to economic and energy-related issues. During the delegation’s visits to New Delhi and Jaipur, India, and Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, they received numerous briefings and met with individuals including the Prime Minister of India, Manmohan Singh; India’s Congress Party President Sonia Gandhi; Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje; the Prime Minister of Vietnam, Phan Van Khai; the Chairman of Vietnam’s National Assembly; and the U.S. command in charge of POW/MIA matters in Vietnam. The trip was especially timely, because of the recent U.S.-India agreement on civil nuclear cooperation and because Vietnam is in the late stages of talks with the U.S. on its accession agreement to the World Trade Organization (WTO). Throughout the trip, the delegation worked to: gain a better understanding of India’s commitment to a joint U.S.-India civilian nuclear cooperation agreement, gain insight into the economic challenges and opportunities an emerging India poses for the U.S., press for fair trade from India and Vietnam for U.S.-made goods and services, and review both Vietnam’s request for support in joining the WTO and the country’s cooperation in resolving POW/MIA cases. Ryan, who returned this week with the delegation, today made the following statement about the trip: “Since Congress will soon vote on the India-U.S. civil nuclear cooperation agreement and Vietnam ’s entry to the WTO, it was invaluable to see firsthand how those agreements affect our national and economic security. I am also pleased with the progress that has been made with Vietnam in resolving POW and MIA cases. And I think every member of Congress should go to India to see for themselves the kind of global challenges and opportunities that face us as India emerges. It was a real eye-opener.”
04.06.2006	WASHINGTON -- First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced the schedule for listening sessions to be held on April 20 and 21. Ryan will be visiting communities in Wisconsin's First Congressional District that were not part of the round of listening sessions held earlier this year. These meetings provide an opportunity for First District residents to share their ideas and concerns and ask questions they have about federal government issues. Among other issues, Ryan will discuss his line-item veto legislation to reduce pork-barrel spending and legislation to streamline gasoline blends to help lower and stabilize gas prices. Reforms to lower the cost of health care and put power and information in patients’ hands will be another topic of discussion. “I hear from First District residents who are very concerned about high health care costs, gas prices, and overspending in Washington,” Ryan said. “I want to discuss these problems and other issues of concern to people, and talk about potential solutions. Earlier this year, many participated in our first round of listening sessions, and these upcoming meetings offer another chance for people to share their views and ask questions.” Schedule: April 2006 Listening Sessions with Congressman Paul Ryan Thursday, April 20 BURLINGTON: 9:00-10:00am, Gateway Technical College, Room 100, 496 McCanna Parkway UNION GROVE: 10:30-11:15am, Community State Bank, 1500 Main St. STURTEVANT: 11:45am-12:45pm, Village Hall, 2801 89th St. PLEASANT PRAIRIE: 2:00-2:45pm, Village Hall, 9915 39th Ave. Friday, April 21 ELKHORN: 9:00-9:45am, People’s Bank, 837 N. Wisconsin St. EAGLE: 10:15-11:00am, Village Hall, 820 East Main St. NORTH PRAIRIE: 11:15am-12:00pm, Village Hall, 130 North Harrison BIG BEND: 1:30-2:30pm, Village Hall, W230 S9185 Nevins St.
03.31.2006	JANESVILLE – Wisconsin ’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan made the following statement regarding today’s bankruptcy filing by Delphi Corp. and its announcement of a restructuring plan that does not include keeping the Oak Creek plants open. “This is devastating news for the Oak Creek community and our entire region, which has counted the Oak Creek plants among its great manufacturing strengths. The people who work at these plants are highly skilled and hard-working, and I fail to see how Delphi can help its recovery by closing or selling these facilities. Every day, Delphi’s Oak Creek workers pour their knowledge and their hearts into making top-quality products that our auto industry relies on. They do a great job, and they deserve to keep their jobs. I will continue working with them to make sure they get the assistance they need during this difficult time, and I know the community will pull together to help one another,” Ryan said. Congressman Ryan has been in constant communication with union leaders and Delphi officials throughout the negotiations process that preceded today’s announcement, in an effort to prevent the closure of Delphi’s Oak Creek plants
03.15.2006	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin ’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan testified at a congressional hearing today before the House Rules Committee’s Subcommittee on Legislative and Budget Process regarding H.R. 4890, the Legislative Line-Item Veto Act. Last week, Ryan introduced this bill to give the President a constitutional version of the line-item veto to make it easier to combat wasteful pork-barrel spending and unjustified earmarks. Ryan’s legislation would give the President the authority to single out unnecessary or wasteful spending provisions in bills that arrive on his desk after passing Congress and send these specific line items back to Congress for a timely up-or-down vote on rescinding them. This proposal puts the President’s rescission requests on a fast track for consideration in Congress, while preserving Congress’ power of the purse. Such expedited rescissions can serve as an effective tool to pinpoint questionable earmarks and individual spending items, giving Congress the chance to judge them on their own merits, rather than as part of much broader legislation. “This tool will shed light on the earmarking process and allow Congress to vote up or down on the merits of specific projects added to legislation or to conference reports. Not only will this allow the President and Congress to eliminate wasteful pork-barrel projects, but it will also act as a strong deterrent to the addition of questionable projects in the first place. On the other hand, Members who make legitimate appropriations requests should have no problem defending them in front of their colleagues if they are targeted by the President,” Ryan said. Please click here to view Congressman Ryan’s prepared testimony regarding H.R. 4890.
03.13.2006	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that the winner of this year's First District Art Competition is Sarah Olver, a senior at Craig High School in Janesville who submitted a portrait on clay board titled: “Bethany Grace.” She used clay board for her drawing to convey a simple but elegant look and employed a stippling technique to depict a porcelain appearance for her subject’s face. Olver’s winning artwork will be displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol, along with the winning entries from other congressional districts throughout the country. Her art teacher at Craig High School is Maria Brown. Congressman Ryan invited every high school in the First Congressional District to submit entries to the annual art contest, and a panel of local artists judged the entries. The competition was part of the 25th annual Congressional Art Competition — An Artistic Discovery. This nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by Members of Congress, provides high school artists with an opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity. "I want to thank all the students who participated in this annual competition and congratulate Sarah Olver on her winning portrait. It was a real privilege to view these young artists’ work, which demonstrates their tremendous skill and creativity. This year, Sarah Olver’s striking portrait on clay board earned top honors, and I look forward to seeing her artwork displayed at the Capitol,” Ryan said.
03.07.2006	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Paul Ryan (R.-Wis.) today introduced the Legislative Line-Item Veto Act, H.R. 4890 – legislation that would give the President the authority to pinpoint unnecessary or wasteful spending provisions in bills that have passed Congress and send these specific line items back to Congress for a timely up-or-down vote. Similarly, under this legislation, the President would also be able to single out and request the rescission of special-interest tax breaks that apply to small numbers of individuals. Ryan worked with the White House to craft this measure, which tracks with the President’s recent request for line-item veto legislation. Ryan was joined by 47 original cosponsors in introducing this legislation that would make it easier to combat wasteful pork-barrel spending and unjustified earmarks, while boosting accountability for lawmakers’ spending proposals. This bill preserves Congress’ power of the purse under the Constitution by requiring the House and Senate to vote on the President’s proposed rescissions, (unlike an earlier line-item veto law that was struck down by the Supreme Court in 1998.) “This legislative line-item veto passes constitutional muster and serves as a powerful tool to target questionable earmarks and give Congress the chance to judge them on their own merits, rather than as part of a larger spending bill,” Ryan said. “The time is ripe for this reform to rein in wasteful spending, particularly now that the public has seen how earmarks and the current spending process can be abused by those who are corrupt. We must clean up the budget and spending system and make Washington more accountable for the tax dollars it spends. The line-item veto will help us do away with wasteful pork-barrel spending and reduce the deficit,” Ryan said. Among its provisions, the Legislative Line-Item Veto Act would: Give the President the authority to propose the elimination of wasteful spending items in appropriations bills that have passed Congress or in new mandatory spending or special-interest tax breaks given to small numbers of individuals (under 100 beneficiaries). The President would send proposed line-item rescissions to Congress. Put the President’s rescission requests on a fast track for consideration in Congress. House and Senate leadership would have the opportunity to introduce the President’s rescission requests within two days following receipt of the President’s message. After that time period, any Member of Congress may introduce the President’s rescission proposal. Once introduced, the rescission bill would be referred to the appropriate committee, which would have five days to report the bill without substantive revision. Failure to meet the specified deadline would result in the bill being automatically discharged and placed on the appropriate calendar for action. Respect and preserve Congress’ constitutional power of the purse, as each proposed rescission would require an up-or-down vote in the full House and Senate within 10 days (days during which Congress is in session) of the rescission bill’s introduction. No amendments to the proposed rescissions would be allowed. Enable the President to submit as many rescission proposals as are necessary to combat wasteful spending within a given year. Permit the President to decline to spend the relevant funds for up to 180 days, to ensure adequate time for Congress to act on his rescission proposals. Ryan has been working for years with colleagues in Congress to reform the budget and spending process to instill fiscal discipline and improve accountability. The Legislative Line-Item Veto Act is similar to Ryan’s enhanced rescission amendment to H.R. 4663, which garnered 174 “yes” votes when the House of Representatives voted on it in June of 2004. A similar enhanced rescission proposal is also part of H.R. 2290, the Family Budget Protection Act – comprehensive reform legislation co-authored by Ryan to fix the budget and spending process in Washington.
02.24.2006	JANESVILLE -- First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that constituent services representatives from his office will be holding office hours in Milwaukee and Waukesha County communities in the First Congressional District that do not have permanent congressional offices. The purpose of these office hours is to give First District residents who do not live near one of the constituent services centers an opportunity to speak face to face with a member of Ryan’s staff. Constituents can use these office hours to communicate their concerns and ideas or to request help with a problem they are having dealing with the federal government. “In order to do my job as a representative of First District residents, I need to hear from them,” Ryan said. “These office hours give people who don’t live near one of the permanent congressional offices the chance to meet in person with a constituent services representative to ask for help with problems they are having with a government program. They can also stop by to share their views and ideas on issues that matter to them.” Please click here for a complete schedule of office hours –dates, times and locations. For more information about the schedule, or to make an appointment during one of the scheduled office hours, constituents should call Danyell Tremmel in Ryan’s Janesville office using the toll-free constituent services hotline: 1-888-909-7926.
02.08.2006	WASHINGTON -- First District Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the schedule for listening sessions that he will be holding in February. Ryan will be visiting 19 communities throughout Wisconsin 's First Congressional District to listen to constituents’ concerns and answer questions they have about federal government issues that affect Southern Wisconsin . Among other issues, Ryan will discuss lowering health care costs and reforming the congressional budget process to make government more responsible and accountable with taxpayer dollars. “It’s very important for me to hear directly from those who live and work in the First District,” Ryan said. “These listening sessions are a great opportunity for people to share their thoughts, concerns, and questions about what is happening in Congress and the federal government.” Please click here for a complete schedule of upcoming listening sessions. If you have trouble opening the listening session schedule document, please call our toll-free constituent services hotline at 1-888-909-7926 for information about the upcoming listening sessions
01.31.2006	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin's First District Congressman Paul Ryan tonight made the following comments regarding the President’s State of the Union address: “The President needed to send a morally clear and consistent message to our allies and to the terrorists. He did that. Winning the war on terror requires that we defend democracy in Iraq and support the cause of freedom throughout the Middle East.” “To keep our economy growing and keep jobs here at home, we need to make America more competitive. This means, among other things, tackling soaring health care prices and our energy crisis – two problems that Wisconsinites know all too well. The President touched on these points, and I was encouraged that he mentioned expanding health savings accounts and taking other steps to make health care more affordable and accessible. It’s also vital for economic and security reasons that we reduce our dependence on foreign oil, another theme he stressed.” “As someone who is fighting to reform the way that Congress spends taxpayers’ money, I’m very glad the President urged fiscal discipline and cutting the deficit. We must get a grip on spending and, at the same time, prevent tax hikes on Wisconsin families.”
12.21.2005	In October, after months of pressure from both U.S. Reps. Paul Ryan (R-Janesville) and Mark Green (R-Green Bay), the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced that it would provide a waiver permitting the state of Wisconsin to concurrently operate SeniorCare – the popular state health care program – with the new Medicare prescription drug benefit scheduled to take effect in January 2006. On Wednesday, Green and Ryan said the process of providing joint SeniorCare-Medicare coverage is expected to begin with the opening of a request for bids to provide the combined coverage, known in bureaucratic jargon as a “wrap-around.” “This is more good news for Wisconsin seniors,” Green said. “First, we were able to save SeniorCare by pushing federal agencies hard for many months, telling them it was the right thing to do and refusing to take ‘no’ for an answer. Today, we are taking the first step in actually implementing the plan to allow Wisconsin seniors to keep their SeniorCare while still being able to participate in the new Medicare prescription drug program. I’m proud of what we’ve been able to get done on this issue and I’m happy that Wisconsin seniors will continue to be able to make the health care choices they believe are best for them.” Under the plan negotiated with the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Wisconsin seniors will be given the option of supplementing their current SeniorCare coverage with the best aspects of the Medicare “Part D” prescription drug plan. Wednesday’s acceptance of bids represents the commencement of this implementation. “It is great to see CMS working with our state to take concrete steps to integrate SeniorCare benefits with the Medicare prescription drug benefit. We would have preferred to reach this point in the process earlier, but it is important progress that’s essential to protecting our seniors’ flexibility and benefits,” Ryan said. Bids are due January 13. The joint coverage is expected to begin in March.
12.19.2005	WASHINGTON DC – The final version of legislation that would reform entitlement programs to save about $40 billion over five years passed the House today by a vote of 212-206. First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted in favor of this legislation – the Conference Report on S.1932, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 – because it will slow the pace of growth in government spending on entitlements, improve fiscal responsibility, and help offset some of the cost of the hurricane recovery spending. The legislation is the consensus product of House and Senate negotiations to resolve difference between their versions of this budget savings bill. Voting on a separate measure today (the conference report on H.R. 2863, the defense spending bill for Fiscal Year 2006), the House also approved a one percent across-the-board reduction in discretionary spending on federal programs except veterans’ programs. Ryan voted in favor of the bill and supported this move to restrain federal spending and ensure that savings come from all parts of government, including the Pentagon. “To reduce the deficit and balance the budget, Congress must control government spending,” Ryan said. “This is especially true after this year’s devastating hurricanes, which made tens of billions in additional emergency spending necessary. Now Congress has three options: let the deficit increase, raise taxes, or work to make government more fiscally responsible and rein in the growth of government spending. We must not shift this burden to our children or raise taxes on Wisconsin families and small businesses. A tax hike would only hurt our economy and take away jobs. That leaves the third option: finding ways to make government programs operate more efficiently and save money. Congress also must cut wasteful pork-barrel spending and lower its spending across-the-board.” The Deficit Reduction Act focuses on controlling the growth of mandatory spending, which is growing at an unsustainable rate, through savings in a range of entitlement programs. Unlike spending enacted through the annual appropriations process, “mandatory” spending on entitlements operates largely on auto-pilot and is not subject to regular annual review. The final version of the Deficit Reduction Act would slow the growth of spending on mandatory programs from an average of about 6.4 percent to approximately 6.3 percent per year over the next five years. To put it in another context, this would result in savings of $39.732 billion out of projected spending of $14.3 trillion over the next five years. Among its specifics, the final version of the Deficit Reduction Act: Enacts reforms based on the cost-saving recommendations made by the bipartisan National Governors Association to enable Medicaid to grow at just under 7.6 percent each year over the next ten years, instead of the projected 7.7 percent. The amount spent on Medicaid would continue to rise under this plan. Prevents Medicare physician payment cuts in 2006 by providing a freeze in payment rates for physician services. Includes significant new quality reporting initiatives for hospitals and home health agencies as well as increases transparency on quality measures. Increases student loan limits to allow more students access to more higher education and reduces fees. Finds savings from reducing excess lender subsidies. Frees up vital spectrum for first responders by auctioning off spectrum used by analog broadcasters, as recommended by the 9-11 Commission last year. Makes $1 billion in additional budget authority available in Fiscal Year 2007 for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP); 25% allocated through the program formula and 75% through the contingency fund. Related Note: The defense appropriations bill (conference report on H.R. 2863) that passed the House today contained $2 billion in home energy assistance funding for Fiscal Year 2006, including $1.5 billion for the LIHEAP contingency fund. (This is in addition to the regular LIHEAP appropriation.) Extends the Milk Income Loss Contract Program for another two years.
12.15.2005	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan made the following statement upon learning of the passing of former Wisconsin Senator William Proxmire: “Senator Proxmire’s independent leadership and disciplined, dedicated work ethic made Wisconsin proud. He also set a tremendous example for all who serve in Congress by connecting one-on-one with the people he represented all around Wisconsin. I admired the personal, grassroots approach he took to serving Wisconsinites and respect his tireless efforts to get rid of wasteful government spending. He will be greatly missed, but his legacy will endure.”
12.15.2005	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted in favor of legislation – H.R. 2830, the Pension Protection Act – that contained changes he helped negotiate in order to correct shortcomings in the original version of the bill that would have jeopardized auto workers’ pension benefits. Ryan worked together with the United Auto Workers (UAW), General Motors (GM), and the House Ways and Means and Education and the Workforce Committees to craft an agreement that addressed concerns about the Pension Protection Act. The UAW and GM have announced their support for H.R. 2830, which passed the House by a vote of 294-132. Ryan has been working for months to fix several problems in this legislation, which he opposed when it came up for a vote in the House Ways and Means Committee in November. “I represent tens of thousands of auto workers and retirees whose pension benefits would have been put at risk if this bill passed in its original form. Southern Wisconsin is home to thousands of good-paying auto-sector jobs that depend on the future health of GM and other auto companies. That is why I fought so hard to fix this legislation, so our employers can remain competitive and our workers can be more secure in their retirement benefits,” Ryan said. “I am pleased with the final version of this pension bill, which includes our changes to protect workers’ pensions and allow our employers to continue to provide plant shutdown benefits to workers who are close to retirement in the unfortunate case of a plant shutdown,” Ryan said. “As for the overall legislation, it is critical that we update our pension laws to make sure that the pension benefits workers have earned will be there for them when they retire and that employers have the flexibility they need to continue providing pension benefits.” Overall, the Pension Protection Act reforms outdated pension rules and takes steps to ensure that pension plans are well funded and help protect taxpayers from a costly bailout of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). Among its provisions, H.R. 2830: Enhances retirement savings by making permanent the IRA and pension provisions enacted under the 2001 tax relief law, which increased annual contribution limits for IRAs and qualified pension plans and created additional “catch-up” contributions for people age 50 and older. Strengthens funding rules to ensure employers properly and adequately fund their worker pension plans. Includes a provision to discourage employers from dumping underfunded pension plans. Creates incentives to increase pension contributions during profitable years. Creates new notice and disclosure requirements for single and multiemployer pension plans to provide better and timelier information to workers, retirees and the PBGC about the financial condition of the plan. Prohibits the funding of executive compensation if the pension plan for rank-and-file workers is severely underfunded. If companies fund executive compensation when the pension plan is underfunded, the executive will be hit with taxes, interest and a 20-percent penalty.
12.14.2005	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today approved the final version (Conference Report) of H.R. 3199, the USA PATRIOT Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005 by a vote of 251-174. First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted in favor of the measure, which reauthorizes expiring provisions of the PATRIOT Act (and two provisions of the Intelligence Reform Act) most of which were scheduled to sunset this month. The legislation ensures our law enforcement officials will retain the tools they need to protect our homeland and fight terrorism, while at the same time carefully preserving citizens’ constitutional rights and civil liberties. “By tearing down unnecessary bureaucratic barriers that prevented law enforcement and intelligence officers from sharing information, the Patriot Act has made our nation more secure. It is an absolutely critical tool in fighting – and winning – the war on terror,” Ryan said. “It also achieves the essential balance between improving our government’s ability to detect and counter terrorist plots and preserving citizens’ rights and privacy.” “This legislation includes safeguards that will enhance the law’s civil liberties protections and prompt continued oversight by Congress and the courts. Protecting citizens’ constitutional rights remains our highest priority. That’s why I believe it is critical that we keep monitoring and reviewing the application of this law to ensure that Americans’ rights and freedoms are upheld,” Ryan said. Among its provisions, the PATRIOT Act, which passed in 2001 after the September 11 terrorist attacks, did the following: Removed major legal barriers that prevented the law enforcement, intelligence, and national defense communities from coordinating their work and sharing information; Gave law enforcement the ability to use many of the same tools for terrorist investigations that it already used to fight organized crime; Modernized wiretapping and surveillance laws that apply to terrorist investigations in order to keep up with changing technologies such as cell phones and e-mail. The legislation makes permanent 14 of 16 expiring PATRIOT Act provisions, but subjects two provisions to a four-year sunset. Congressman Ryan approves of these sunsets because they necessitate continued congressional oversight that will help ensure the protection of Americans’ civil liberties. The provisions that are scheduled to sunset in four years are: Section 206, which authorizes “roving” wiretaps for terrorist investigations, which attach to a particular target rather than a particular phone. Advances in technology such as cell phones made this update to surveillance law important, which is why criminal cases have had the ability to use roving wiretaps for years. Before the PATRIOT Act, every time a suspected terrorist changed cell phones, investigators had to return to court for a new order. Section 215, which gives the government the ability to get business records and other tangible things with an order from a federal court in a terrorist investigation. For years, ordinary grand juries have issued subpoenas to businesses for records relevant to criminal inquiries. Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act contains safeguards that protect civil liberties, and it is actually more protective of privacy than the law for ordinary grand-jury subpoenas. Section 215 has a narrow scope, requires a court order, and provides for continued congressional oversight. In addition, the conference report permanently extends one of two expiring provisions in the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act, and subjects the other provision (the so-called “lone wolf” provision that amended the definition of an agent of a foreign power to include a foreign national who is preparing for or engaging in international terrorism) to a four-year sunset. Among the details included in the Conference Report on H.R. 3199 that enhance protections for citizens’ privacy and constitutional rights are the following: Multi-point or “roving”wiretaps (Section 206) Requires a description of a specific target in both the application and the court order, if the target’s true identity is unknown. Requires specific facts in the application showing that the target’s actions may thwart surveillance efforts. Requires the FBI to notify the court within ten days after beginning surveillance of any new phone. This notice must include the facts and circumstances that justify the FBI’s belief that each new phone is being used, or is about to be used, by the target. Obtaining business records with a court order (Section 215) Requires applications for orders for business records to include a statement of facts showing “reasonable grounds to believe” that the records sought are relevant to an authorized investigation to protect against terrorism or espionage. Includes additional procedural protections for Section 215 orders: the explicit right for recipients to consult legal counsel and to seek judicial review; the requirement that a senior FBI official approve requests for certain sensitive documents, such as library records; the use of minimization procedures to limit “the retention, and prohibit the dissemination” of information concerning U.S. persons; audits by the Department of Justice Inspector General; enhanced reporting to Congress; and public reporting. Delayed-notice search warrants (Section 213) This provision authorizes delayed-notice search warrants which allow the government to wait a number of days after executing a search warrant before notifying the target of the search. Requires notice of the search to be given within 30 days of execution, unless the facts justify a later date certain. Permits extensions of the delay period, but only “upon an updated showing of the need for further delay.” It also limits any extensions to 90 days or less, unless the facts of the case justify a longer delay. Adds new public reporting on the use of delayed-notice warrants. National Security Letters (NSLs) NSLs allow the FBI to obtain limited third-party materials in intelligence cases. Conference report permits (a) disclosure of National Security Letters to legal counsel, (b) an explicit right to judicial review of such requests for records, and (c) a reviewing court to “modify or set aside” the NSL “if compliance would be unreasonable, oppressive, or otherwise unlawful.” Permits judicial review of the nondisclosure requirement that attaches with NSLs. Requires the Department of Justice Inspector General to conduct two audits of the FBI’s use of NSLs. Adds annual public reporting on NSLs. The Conference Report on H.R. 3199 also contains a comprehensive measure to help law enforcement address the national methamphetamine abuse epidemic.
12.13.2005	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today hailed an agreement that he helped craft between the United Auto Workers (UAW) and General Motors (GM) and the House Ways and Means and Education and the Workforce Committees. The agreement addresses Ryan’s concerns about H.R. 2830, the Pension Protection Act. Ryan has been working for months to fix several problems in this legislation, which he opposed when it came up for a vote in the House Ways and Means Committee in November, because it contained a retroactive change in pension law that would have put auto sector workers’ pension benefits at risk by canceling the credit balances of employers who have been contributing more than the minimum amount necessary to meet their pension funding obligations. Today, the chairmen of the two House committees with jurisdiction over this issue announced an agreement that will address this matter and correct a problem related to plant shutdown benefits. The UAW and GM announced their support for H.R. 2830 today as well. To follow is Paul Ryan’s statement on the agreement that has been reached regarding the Pension Protection Act, which is expected to come up for a vote in the House of Representatives later this week: “I represent tens of thousands of auto workers and retirees whose pension benefits would have been put at risk if this bill passed in its original form. Southern Wisconsin is home to thousands of good-paying auto-sector jobs that depend on the future health of GM and other auto companies. That is why I fought so hard to fix this legislation, so our employers can remain competitive and our workers can be more secure in their retirement benefits.” “I am extremely pleased that an agreement has been reached that will protect workers’ pensions and allow employers to continue to fund their employee pension plans in today’s economy. In addition, this agreement allows pension plans to provide plant shutdown benefits to workers who are close to retirement age in the unfortunate event of a plant shutdown.” “It is critical that we update our pension laws to make sure that the pension benefits workers have earned will be there for them when they retire and that employers have the flexibility they need to continue providing pension benefits. Today’s agreement represents an accomplishment by employers and workers. I look forward to voting in favor of this legislation, when it comes before the House for a vote,” Ryan said.
12.08.2005	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted for legislation that prevents harmful tax increases on families and small businesses by extending an array of current-law tax relief provisions that are scheduled to expire in the near future. The bill also contains a provision authored by Congressman Ryan that would enable Wisconsin to continue its special mortgage loan program for veterans. The legislation – H.R. 4297, the Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act – passed in the full House of Representatives by a vote of 234-197. The Senate passed a different version of tax reconciliation legislation last month, and the next step is a House-Senate conference to resolve differences on this bill. “Wisconsin’s home loan program for veterans has helped many achieve the dream of owning their own home, and we want to keep this successful program going,” Ryan said. “Wisconsin veterans who are returning from Iraq or Afghanistan today deserve the same access to homeownership that earlier veterans enjoyed. The veterans mortgage loan measure that we included in today’s bill makes it possible to extend Wisconsin’s special loan program and open it up to assist recent veterans.” “I also support this overall package that will prevent tax hikes on Wisconsin families and businesses by extending expiring tax relief. The last thing Wisconsinites need right now are tax increases, but that’s what will happen if we let the tax relief expire over the next few years,” Ryan said. “Since Congress lowered taxes on investment in 2003, our economy has grown and created 4.4 million jobs, and revenues have risen too, helping us to reduce the deficit. Raising taxes now would put the brakes on economic growth and hurt our ability to tackle the deficit.” Under current law, Wisconsin and four other states are authorized to issue tax-exempt bonds, the proceeds of which are used to finance mortgage loans to veterans. However, these mortgage loans can be made only to veterans who served on active duty before 1977 and who applied for the loan within 30 years after they left active military service. Therefore, veterans of more recent or ongoing military operations such as Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Enduring Freedom, Kosovo, Somalia, and the 1991 Persian Gulf War are not eligible, under present law, for such mortgage loans. Ryan’s provision, included in the House-passed H.R. 4297, removes the requirement that veterans receiving loans financed by these veterans’ bonds must have served before 1977, enabling Wisconsin’s veterans’ home loan program to stay active and assist Wisconsin veterans of Iraq, Afghanistan and other more recent conflicts. Additionally, the legislation provides new state limits for these bonds. Under this measure, the new bonding authority for Wisconsin to provide these loans would be phased in over five years and would sunset in 2010. Overall, H.R. 4297, the Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act, provides one- and two-year extensions of a range of tax relief provisions that are scheduled to expire within the next few years if no action is taken by Congress. Among these current-law tax policies are enhanced small business expensing and capital gains and dividends tax rates. This legislation would extend for two years (through the end of tax-year 2009) the ability of small businesses to deduct in the first year up to $100,000 of investments in depreciable assets. It would also maintain the current capital gains and dividend income tax rates through 2010, rather than letting these expire (and raise taxes) at the end of 2008. As a result of the 2003 tax relief, which reduced tax rates on capital gains and dividends, our economy has experienced significant growth and the federal government has seen a substantial increase in revenues. After witnessing declines in revenues from 2000 through 2003, revenues surged in 2004 and 2005. For 2004, revenues were up by 1.9% from individual taxes and 43.7% from corporate taxes. For 2005, revenues were up by 14.6% on the individual side and 47.0% on the corporate side. As a result of this growth in tax revenue, the Office of Management and Budget’s (OMB’s) deficit projections for 2004 and 2005 went down. In 2004, OMB projected a deficit of $521 billion. The actual deficit was $412 billion. For 2005, OMB projected a budget deficit of $427 billion, but it recently reported the actual deficit to be $319 billion – a decrease of 25% over this year’s initial projection. Below is a chart from the House Committee on Ways and Means that illustrates the job creation sparked by the 2003 tax relief package.
12.01.2005	First District Congressman Paul Ryan said he is looking forward to the opportunity to participate in the hearing that the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health will be holding tomorrow in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. The hearing follows the release of an August 2005 report by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) regarding health care price variation within the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. It provides an opportunity to examine issues raised in that report regarding geographic differences in health care prices and how the level of competition among health care providers impacts prices. “We need to get to the bottom of why we pay so much for our health care in Wisconsin. The GAO report and this hearing give us a chance to get to the root cause of what drives our high health care prices,” Ryan said. “The GAO report illustrates how less competition tends to mean higher prices for patients. We need to examine this link and take steps to boost consumers’ bargaining power and give them the information and resources they need to get quality health care while lowering their costs at the same time.” On Friday, December 2, the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health will travel to Oak Creek, WI to hold a field hearing on competition in the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP). What: Hearing of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health When: Friday, December 2, 2005 at 11:30 a.m. Central Standard Time Where: Oak Creek Law Enforcement Center, 301 W. Ryan Road, Oak Creek, WI 53154 The hearing will be held in the Courtroom. Witnesses: Tom Barrett, Mayor, City of Milwaukee, WI A. Bruce Steinwald, Director, Health Care, U.S. Government Accountability Office George Quinn, Senior Vice President, Wisconsin Hospital Association, Madison, WI Jack Meler, President and Chief Executive Officer, HealthCare Direct, LLC, Oconomowoc, WI Susan L. Turney, M.D., Chief Executive Officer, Wisconsin Medical Society, Madison, WI Richard L. Blomquist, President, Blomquist Benefits Consulting, Milwaukee, WI Media availability: For members of the media, there will be a pre-hearing media availability with Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Nancy Johnson and Congressman Paul Ryan on December 2, from 11:00 – 11:20 a.m. in Room 130 of the Oak Creek Law Enforcement Center, 301 W. Ryan Road, Oak Creek, WI. Media should sign in at the main entry into the police department (inside the lobby.) For further details on this congressional hearing, please visit the Ways and Means Committee web site at: http://waysandmeans.house.gov/media/transcript/10182.html. The GAO’s report, which was requested by Congressman Paul Ryan and Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett (at the time when he was serving in the U.S. House of Representatives), looks at the variation in hospital and physician prices and spending in metropolitan areas throughout the United States. As part of its analysis, GAO ranks 232 areas around the nation by hospital prices and 319 areas by physician prices. This report confirms that health care prices in the Milwaukee area and other Wisconsin communities are high relative to the other metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) in the study. Specifically, GAO found that: Hospital prices varied more than physician prices nationwide. The Milwaukee-Waukesha area ranked fifth highest by adjusted hospital prices, with hospital prices about 57% above the national average. The La Crosse, Wisconsin-Minnesota area ranked tenth highest by hospital price, with prices nearly 39% above the national average. Metropolitan areas in Wisconsin had physician prices ranked among the highest in the study: of the 10 metropolitan areas with the highest physician prices, eight were located in Wisconsin. On average, PPOs paid higher hospital and physician prices in metropolitan areas in the Midwest and lower prices in the Northeast. The GAO assessed factors that could contribute to the geographic differences in hospital and physician prices, concluding that areas where there was less competition among hospitals and less HMO capitation (indicative of less price-bargaining leverage) had higher prices, on average. Overall, the GAO found that many metropolitan areas in its study had low levels of competition, and the least competitive areas also tended to have smaller populations. The GAO found no evidence of cost shifting. In other words, PPOs did not pay higher prices in areas with a higher percentage of Medicaid or Medicare beneficiaries, a larger uninsured population, or lower Medicaid payments. In fact, physician prices were lower, on average, in metropolitan areas with lower adjusted Medicaid payment rates and proportionately larger uninsured populations. Please click here to view the GAO Report: Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, Competition and Other Factors Linked to Wide Variation in Health Care Prices.
12.01.2005	First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that he will be hosting a Medicare Prescription Drug Provider Fair on Monday, December 12 at UW Parkside. The fair will provide a forum for Medicare recipients and their families to talk with a Medicare representative and Medicare prescription drug plan providers who will be on hand to answer questions and provide information about the available options under the new benefit. As of November 15, 2005, seniors have been able to enroll in Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. For those who have enrolled, Medicare prescription drug coverage begins on January 1, 2006. “I know that many people who rely on Medicare in our area have questions about the new prescription drug benefit and how to decide if a particular plan is right for them. This Medicare fair will give them access to resources and information to help them make an informed decision. I hope that many people take advantage of this opportunity to learn more about the options that are available under this new Medicare benefit,” Ryan said. WHAT: Medicare Prescription Drug Provider Fair WHEN: Monday, December 12, 2005 10:30 am – 12:30 pm WHERE: UW Parkside, 900 Wood Road, Kenosha, WI in the Student Union Due to limited parking in the vicinity of the Student Union, parking is also available in the parking lot near Tallent Hall, on the eastern side of Wood Road. A shuttle will be available to transport attendees to the Student Union building. For more information about the fair, constituents can call Ryan’s Janesville Constituent Services Center toll-free at 1-888-909-7926.
11.21.2005	In light of General Motors’ announcement this morning about plans to close various plants as part of restructuring its manufacturing operations but to maintain the Janesville General Motors plant, First District Congressman Paul Ryan made the following statement: “This is tremendous news for Janesville. The GM plant and its workers are the heart of our community and this decision by GM to keep the Janesville plant operating is a testament to their top-quality manufacturing and productivity. I have been in constant contact with GM to make sure they know what an asset this plant and its people are, and how we stand ready to play a vital role as GM moves forward this century. I will keep working in Congress and with the GM Janesville community to make sure we keep our competitive edge and protect workers’ jobs and pensions.”
11.18.2005	WASHINGTON DC – Legislation that would reform entitlement programs to save about $50 billion over five years passed the House today by a vote of 217-215. First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted in favor of this legislation – H.R. 4241, the Deficit Reduction Act – because it will slow the pace of growth in government spending on entitlements, improve fiscal responsibility, and help offset some of the cost of the hurricane recovery spending. The next step is for a conference committee to resolve differences between this House legislation and legislation already passed by the Senate. “If we are serious about reducing the deficit and balancing the budget, we need to control government spending,” Ryan said. “This is especially important because of the unforeseen spending that has been necessary for hurricane recovery. We should find savings to pay for this spending, not raise taxes on Wisconsin families and small businesses. The last thing they need right now is a tax hike. With the federal government expected to spend nearly $14 trillion in taxpayer dollars over the next five years, $50 billion in savings through sensible reform is the least we can provide. Besides this, we must do more to cut wasteful pork-barrel spending and lower congressional spending across-the-board.” The legislation focuses on controlling the growth of mandatory spending, which is growing at an unsustainable rate, through savings in a range of entitlement programs. Unlike spending enacted through the annual appropriations process, “mandatory” spending on entitlements operates largely on auto-pilot and is not subject to regular annual review. The Deficit Reduction Act would slow the growth of spending on mandatory programs from an average of about 6.4 percent to 6.3 percent per year over the next five years. Among its specifics, H.R. 4241 would: Enact reforms based on the cost-saving recommendations made by the bipartisan National Governors Association to enable Medicaid to grow at 7.5 percent each year over the next ten years, instead of the projected 7.7 percent. The amount spent on Medicaid would continue to rise under this plan. Increase student loan limits to allow more students access to more higher education, and it would lower borrower origination fees. It would also enable students to continue to enjoy low market-based rate loans, at 4.7% today, set by the current variable rate structure, by repealing the scheduled conversion to a 6.8% fixed interest rate. It also ends practices that have allowed some lenders to collect a minimum 9.5% rate of return on some student loans. Free up vital spectrum for first responders by auctioning off spectrum used by analog broadcasters, as recommended by the 9-11 Commission last year. Reform food stamp eligibility requirements to target aid to where it is most needed, by limiting automatic enrollment so that only those who receive welfare (TANF) cash benefits or use other TANF programs on a substantial and ongoing basis are automatically enrolled in food stamps. Besides regular cash benefits, the TANF program also provides other services, such as assistance in preparing a resume, job referrals, or a one-time emergency payment to repair a person’s car so they can return to work. People who use these services on a non-regular basis may have incomes above the level that would make them eligible for food stamps. Under this bill, if those who receive this government assistance meet the existing federal financial threshold requirements for food stamps, they can apply and remain enrolled in the program. Assume $1 billion (a 50% increase) in additional funding for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to help needy families heat their homes. Maintain federal participation in the child support program while gradually reducing the federal matching rate for child support administrative costs from 66 percent in 2006 to 50 percent in 2010 – bringing it in line with the current rate for food stamps, Medicaid, and foster care and adoption. Overall, child support administrative spending has continued to grow rapidly, even as child support cases have been dropping.
11.16.2005	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan yesterday won approval in the House Committee on Ways and Means for an amendment that would allow Wisconsin to continue its veterans’ home loan program – extending the opportunity for affordable home loans to veterans of current and recent military operations. The committee approved the amendment authored by Ryan and included it in a broader package of tax relief extensions, H.R. 4297. The next step will be for the full House of Representatives to consider and vote on H.R. 4297. Ryan’s amendment, which is similar to legislation he introduced earlier this year, would help open the door to homeownership for Wisconsin’s newer veterans. Under current law, Wisconsin and four other states are authorized to issue tax-exempt bonds, the proceeds of which are used to finance mortgage loans to veterans. However, these mortgage loans can be made only to veterans who served on active duty before 1977 and who applied for the loan within 30 years after they left active military service. Therefore, veterans of more recent or ongoing military operations such as Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Enduring Freedom, Kosovo, Somalia, and the 1991 Persian Gulf War are not eligible, under present law, for such mortgage loans. Ryan’s amendment removes the requirement that veterans receiving loans financed by these veterans’ bonds must have served before 1977, enabling Wisconsin’s veterans’ home loan program to stay active and assist Wisconsin veterans of Iraq, Afghanistan and other more recent conflicts. Additionally, the legislation provides new state limits for these bonds. Under the amendment, the new bonding authority for Wisconsin to provide these loans would be phased in over five years and would sunset in 2010. “This home loan program has served Wisconsin’s veterans well over the years, and we want to keep it going,” Ryan said. “This amendment gives us the chance to extend the program and open it up to help more recent veterans achieve the dream of homeownership. Those serving with honor and bravery today deserve the same access to homeownership that earlier Wisconsin veterans have enjoyed. This is a solid step in the right direction.” “The committee’s passage of Congressman Ryan’s amendment is good progress and a great step forward for Wisconsin’s veterans,” said Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary John A. Scocos. “As we welcome our newest veterans home, I believe that we should really welcome them home – to their own home, and this legislation brings us closer to that goal.”
11.03.2005	WASHINGTON – In an effort to defend private property rights in the face of a Supreme Court ruling that unduly exposes private homes, businesses and land to potential forced sale, the House today passed H.R. 4128, the Private Property Rights Protection Act, by a vote of 376-38. First District Congressman Paul Ryan, who is a cosponsor of this legislation, voted in favor of it because it would punish government abuse of the power of eminent domain and uphold Americans’ constitutional right to private property. Eminent domain refers to the power of federal, state, and local governments to take or force the sale of private property for public use, such as for construction of a bridge or road. The Takings Clause of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution provides that in such cases, the property owner should receive “just compensation.” The original intent of the Takings Clause was to protect a person’s property from unjust confiscation by the government. In June of this year, the Supreme Court significantly expanded government’s power of eminent domain in the Kelo v. City of New London case. In this case, the Supreme Court allowed New London, Connecticut to take private property from homeowners and sell it to a corporation because it would benefit the area’s economic development and provide more tax revenue for the city. Many Americans, including Congressman Ryan, see this as a violation of private property rights, a departure from the Constitution’s protection of these rights, and a dangerous precedent that puts the average citizen’s home or small business at risk of being seized and handed over to those with greater economic clout. “The Supreme Court made a terrible mistake with its Kelo decision, which severely undermines private property rights throughout our country,” Ryan said. “When someone works years to secure a home or establish a successful family store or restaurant, only to be forced by the government to give it up so a corporation can redevelop the land, that’s wrong. I took an oath to defend the Constitution, and this means protecting citizens’ right to own private property and prevent government from abusing its power. Today’s legislation supports these goals and helps put control over privately-owned land back in the hands of individuals and the marketplace, instead of government and the courts.” H.R. 4128 would deny federal economic development funds to any state or locality that abuses its power of eminent domain by using “economic development” as a rationale for taking private property, and it would prohibit federal agencies from engaging in this practice. Among its provisions, the legislation: Prohibits the federal government “or any authority of the federal government” from exercising its power of eminent domain for economic development. Prohibits states and local governments from using the power of eminent domain over property to be used for “economic development or over property that is subsequently used for economic development,” if the state receives federal economic development funds during the same fiscal year. Defines the term “economic development” to mean “taking private property, without the consent of the owner, and conveying or leasing such property from one private person or entity to another private person or entity for commercial enterprise carried on for profit, or to increase tax revenue, tax base, employment, or general economic health.” It also identifies certain exceptions, to which this does not apply, such as conveying private property to public use as a road. Stipulates that states or entities in violation of the above provision would be ineligible for federal economic development assistance funds for two fiscal years following a final judgment by a court on the merits of a case; directs federal agencies to withhold funds for that two-year period, and requires the pertinent state to return or reimburse federal funds that may have already been distributed within the fiscal year that the violation occurred. Allows a state to cure the violation, and become eligible for federal funds again, by returning all real property included in the taking, replacing any other property destroyed and repair any property damaged as a result of the violation.
10.27.2005	WASHINGTON – The House today voted to approve the recommendations of the Base Closure and Realignment (BRAC) Commission. The resolution (H.J. Res. 65), which would have prevented the BRAC Commission’s recommendations from taking effect if it had passed, was defeated by a vote of 85-324. Despite his strong disapproval of the Commission’s recommendation to close the 440th Airlift Wing at the General Mitchell Air Reserve Station in Milwaukee, First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted against H.J. Res. 65, because it would have thrown out the entire package of BRAC recommendations, the bulk of which Ryan believes are positive steps. Ryan made the following statement about today’s vote: “This was a difficult vote to take, because I believe the BRAC Commission made a major mistake by backing the proposal to move the 440th from Milwaukee. However, when I looked at the Commission’s total package of recommendations, it became clear that this plan will help our military infrastructure evolve to meet the challenges of 21st century threats. We need to make the transition from a military geared toward fighting the Cold War to a force more attuned to fighting and winning the War on Terror, and this BRAC plan is a necessary part of that transformation,” Ryan said. “Most of the BRAC recommendations are positive steps to boost efficiency and effectiveness and encourage joint training and operations. I believe the responsible course is to allow the Pentagon to move forward with the restructuring, even though I wholeheartedly disagree with its decision on the 440th. We are all very proud of this unit, which has served our country with courage and distinction in the Middle East and throughout the world, and it saddens me that they will leave Milwaukee,” Ryan said.
10.20.2005	WASHINGTON – This week the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to defend a common-sense foundation of individual responsibility in our nation’s legal system, by preventing frivolous lawsuits targeting the firearms and food service industries. Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted in favor of both measures, which would rein in civil liability actions that wrongly place blame on manufacturers or sellers for the actions of those who misuse their products. By a bipartisan vote of 306-120, the House on Wednesday approved H.R. 554, the Personal Responsibility in Food Consumption Act, (commonly referred to as the “cheeseburger bill,”) which would generally prohibit weight gain-related or obesity-related lawsuits from being brought in federal or state courts against the food industry. This legislation still awaits Senate action. In addition, the House today passed S. 397, the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, by a bipartisan tally of 283-144 to provide protections for those in the firearms industry from lawsuits arising out of the acts of people who criminally or unlawfully misuse their products. To expedite the legislation becoming law, the House chose to pass the Senate-passed version of this measure, rather than moving forward with its own version of the legislation – H.R. 800, of which Congressman Ryan was a cosponsor. The next step is for the President to sign S. 397 into law. “Wisconsinites know it isn’t right to sue a restaurant simply because of the choices made by its customers, or to sue a responsible gun shop owner if someone uses a gun bought there to commit a crime. While these kinds of lawsuits may seem like a joke, they have the potential to hurt small businesses and cost jobs, as employers have to shell out legal fees to defend themselves from ridiculous charges,” Ryan said. “We’re trying to reinforce an age-old, common-sense standard of law and discourage abuses of our legal system that can hurt upstanding businesses.” The Personal Responsibility in Food Consumption Act would generally prohibit obesity-related or weight gain-related lawsuits (including class-action lawsuits) against manufacturers, marketers, distributors, advertisers, or sellers of food or non-alcoholic beverage products that comply with statutory and regulatory requirements. Under certain circumstances, however, this legislation would permit obesity-related claims to go forward, including cases in which a state or federal law was broken and as a result a person gained weight. For example, an obesity-related claim could go forward if a company, in violation of a labeling law, labels a food as containing “zero calories” when in fact it has thousands of calories. Furthermore, H.R. 554 would not prevent lawsuits unrelated to weight-gain or obesity, such as a lawsuit where someone gets sick from a tainted hamburger. The other measure, S. 397, the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, would prohibit civil liability actions from being brought or continued in any state or federal court against interstate manufacturers, distributors, dealers, or importers of firearms or ammunition for damages resulting from the criminal or otherwise unlawful misuse of their products. This would help prevent lawful firearms industry participants from being bankrupted in court and preserve citizens’ access to firearms and ammunition for all lawful purposes, including hunting, self-defense, collecting, and competitive or recreational shooting. S. 397 would explicitly NOT prohibit (thus would still allow): an action brought by a harmed person against someone who intentionally transferred a firearm knowing that it would be used in a violent or drug-trafficking crime; an action brought against a seller for negligence or negligent entrustment (the selling of a firearm when the seller knows or should know that the buyer is likely to [and does] use the product in a manner involving unreasonable risk of physical injury to himself and others); an action in which a manufacturer or seller of a product knowingly and willfully violated a state or federal statute applicable to the sale or marketing of the product, and the violation was a proximate cause of the harm for which relief is sought; an action for breach of contract or warranty in connection with the purchase of the product; or an action for physical injuries or property damage resulting directly from a defect in design or manufacture of the product, when used as intended. Additionally, S. 397 would make it unlawful for any licensed importer, manufacturer, or dealer to sell, deliver, or transfer any handgun (not long guns) to any person, unless the transferee is provided with a secure gun storage or safety device for that handgun. The bill would exempt government, law enforcement, and relic firearms from this provision.
10.07.2005	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation that would build on the progress made in the energy bill signed into law this summer by calling for a six-fuel slate to shrink the number of boutique (highly specialized) fuels and streamline the nation’s fragmented gasoline system – legislation that First District Congressman Paul Ryan has fought for over the past several years to provide relief to Wisconsin drivers. Ryan, a member of the Gas Price Task Force, co-authored the reduction of boutique fuels as part of this legislation, in order to improve flexibility and prevent avoidable fuel shortages and the price spikes that accompany them. In addition, boutique fuel reforms are needed to bring competition into the marketplace so refineries that currently produce unique fuels will not have the leverage to price fuels artificially high at the expense of the consumer. The bill also includes other provisions to address soaring gasoline prices, such as encouraging the construction of new refineries to increase supply, promoting new pipelines, and creating federal penalties for price gouging when natural disasters occur. The measure, H.R. 3893, passed the House by a vote of 212-210 and awaits action in the Senate. “This summer’s energy bill contained our legislation to begin the project of simplifying our gasoline system to help prevent fuel shortages and price spikes. Today’s legislation finishes the job by prescribing a federal fuels list of six gasoline and diesel fuels, instead of the current cobbled-together patchwork of many specialized blends. Standardizing our gasoline system must be part of the solution to skyrocketing prices. It will give us the flexibility we need when there’s a supply emergency and reduce the ability of refineries that produce boutique fuels to manipulate the marketplace,” Ryan said. “Clean air and affordable gasoline can go together, but we need to move ahead with common-sense reforms to make it happen.” The number of highly specialized fuels around the nation (and the supply shortages and artificially high prices that tend to accompany these “boutique fuels”) are an unintended consequence of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments. As a result of these amendments, areas found in noncompliance with certain ozone standards use clean-burning fuels in an effort to improve air quality, but there is no standardized menu of fuels from which they must select. Throughout the nation, areas have chosen their own unique blends, leading to fragmentation of our nation’s fuel system and tight supply conditions that foster price spikes, particularly if there is a supply disruption affecting an area’s particular blend of fuel. For example, if there is a refinery fire or natural disaster that hinders the production of the unique type of reformulated gasoline that Southeastern Wisconsin uses, gas stations in the area cannot readily draw on other types of gasoline from neighboring regions and the price of gas rises. Nationwide, there are currently 18 different fuel types and around 45 different fuel blends, once the various octanes are factored in. Ryan’s provisions in the energy bill that became law this summer stopped this problem from worsening by capping the number of boutique fuels at the current number and codified the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) authority to issue temporary waivers during supply emergencies. It also required the EPA Administrator and Secretary of Energy to conduct a study and make recommendations on a federal fuels system. Today’s legislation includes Ryan’s original policy of requiring the EPA and the Department of Energy (DOE) to identify a limited slate of fuels, in this case, a total of six fuels – four gasoline fuels and two diesel fuels – for a Federal Fuels List that states choose from to meet their Clean Air Act fuel needs. (California or states dependent on refineries in California for gasoline and diesel fuel are excepted.) Then EPA, in consultation with the DOE, will develop a plan to harmonize the currently approved fuel blends in use around the country with those blends included on the Federal Fuels List. Under this legislation, the plan must be fully implemented by December 31, 2008. As a safeguard, if DOE determines that the list of fuels selected by EPA and DOE will result in a reduction in supply, EPA and DOE will report that finding to Congress and suspend the implementation of the list. Beyond limiting boutique fuels to improve supply, today’s legislation – H.R. 3893, the Gasoline for America’s Security Act, seeks to lower gasoline prices by taking other steps to increase supply and get to the bottom of recent price spikes. Among its provisions, H.R. 3893: Encourages construction of new refineries through regulatory relief and risk insurance. No new refineries have been constructed in the United States since 1976, and increased capacity is needed to improve our fuel supply. Directs the President to designate sites on federal lands, including no less than three closed military installations, that are appropriate for siting a refinery. Prohibits refinery designation on lands within the National Park System, National Wilderness Preservation System or designated as a National Monument. Allows a locality to apply for a date-certain extension of certain clean air requirements when it can be demonstrated that downwind pollution from another area is to blame. Establishes a new federally-directed implementation process for siting crude and petroleum product pipelines. Promotes conservation through a program to encourage the use of carpooling. Requires the Federal Trade Commission to investigate nationwide gasoline prices in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Makes it a violation of federal law to price gouge for gasoline or diesel fuel during a 30-day period in the event of a major disaster. This does not affect anti-gouging measures already in place in a number of states. Requires the Federal Trade Commission to report to Congress on the price of refined petroleum products on the New York Mercantile Exchange and the effects of such price on trading.
09.22.2005	WASHINGTON – Last week, U.S. House Majority Whip Roy Blunt (Mo.) announced the formation of the Gas Price Task Force, naming Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan as one of the members on the task force. Today, task force members sent a letter to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) requesting information on how market practices, including possible price gouging, may be affecting gasoline prices in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The task force also sent a letter to the President of the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) asking for additional information on gasoline trading practices and requesting any pricing and volume analysis conducted after Hurricane Katrina. Ryan was asked to participate in the Gas Price Task Force because of his extensive work to bring common sense to the nation’s fuel system and address the problem of seasonal and sudden gasoline price spikes linked, in part, to highly specialized, “boutique” fuel blends. The task force will push for information, answers, and action to help ease the nation’s fuel supply crisis and bring down soaring costs. “We made progress this summer when the energy bill that contained my fuels legislation became law, and the EPA has been using our waiver provision to provide greater flexibility in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. However, more needs to be done,” Ryan said. “We need the most accurate, up-to-date information on all parts of the gasoline supply chain, to ensure drivers don’t fall victim to price gouging. And we must press forward with streamlining our fragmented gasoline system to prevent avoidable fuel shortages. I will be pushing for this as part of new energy legislation expected to be considered by Congress this year,” The task force letter that was addressed to the Chairwoman of the FTC, asks the following questions: What has the FTC’s Gasoline Price Monitoring Project revealed in the weeks since Hurricane Katrina? What is the FTC’s analysis on the fluctuation of prices at the wholesale level since Hurricane Katrina? Can the FTC provide an analysis of changes in gasoline inventories the week before Hurricane Katrina and the week following Hurricane Katrina? Is there an analysis on how inventories affected price? Data indicate that while prices jumped 44 cents between August 29th and September 2nd for branded stations – or those flying the flag of a major refiner – wholesale prices for unbranded (independent) stores rose 73 cents per gallon. What is the FTC’s explanation for such a large discrepancy? In addition, the task force is drafting a letter to the refineries’ organizations, about the status of restoring the refineries’ capacity and operations. Prior to last week, the task force sent a letter to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) encouraging the EPA to extend existing motor fuel specification waivers to give gasoline and diesel fuel inventories a chance to more fully recover. In that letter, the task force also inquired about the status of additional waiver requests, including requests to waive the federal reformulated gasoline program. The EPA has extended various regulatory waivers in certain areas of the nation where it has deemed an “extreme and unusual fuel supply circumstance” continues to exist. Click here to view the group's letter to the FTC. Click here to view the group's letter to the NYMEX.
09.21.2005	WASHINGTON – At a press conference today where some House Members highlighted suggested ways that government can cover the costs of the Hurricane Katrina recovery effort, First District Congressman Paul Ryan spoke in favor of granting enhanced rescission authority that would allow the President to identify waste in any appropriations bill and propose savings to Congress. Congress would then vote on the proposed savings in an expedited manner. Ryan pointed out that finding savings in spending bills to offset the cost of emergency aid is not a new idea. He cited the example that, ten years ago, appropriators were able to find about $16 billion in offsets (savings from other programs) which more than paid for emergency response aid appropriated after the Oklahoma City bombing. “Now, more than ever, we need the ability to remove wasteful and unnecessary pork-barrel projects from spending bills. Giving the President the authority to pinpoint these specific projects and programs and send them back to Congress for a vote is a way that we can create savings to help us pay for the much-needed recovery aid following Hurricane Katrina, instead of going deeper into debt,” Ryan said. “Congress needs to cut spending to help offset the necessary Katrina disaster relief. Taxpayers deserve no less.” Ryan has pushed for enhanced rescission in the past, as part of legislation to reform the congressional budget process.
09.20.2005	First District Congressman Paul Ryan today reminded students and eligible military personnel in the First Congressional District who seek a nomination to the U.S. Air Force, Military, Naval, or Merchant Marine Academies that his Janesville office must receive their completed applications by November 1, 2005. Evaluations for nominations will begin in the near future and will be based on a variety of factors including test scores achieved on the SAT or ACT, class rank, grade point average, school records, extracurricular activities, leadership potential, motivation, recommendations, and interviews. “The academies have a reputation for academic toughness and rigorous training that prepares graduates to tackle the challenges they encounter in military and civilian life. For students who are committed to serving our nation in the military and working hard to get an excellent education and develop as a leader, the academies offer great opportunities,” Ryan said. Young men and women interested in attending one of the U.S. service academies are encouraged to submit their applications for a nomination as soon as possible, in order to meet the approaching November 1 deadline. Students applying for an appointment to a U.S. service academy must have a nomination from an authorized nominating source. Members of Congress are authorized to nominate candidates, as are the President, Vice President, and the Secretaries of the Army, Navy and Air Force. Students seeking a nomination from Ryan should contact his office by calling toll-free 1-888-909-7926. Nomination forms are available through Ryan’s office and on his congressional website at http://www.house.gov/ryan/academy. Completed nomination application forms must reach the Janesville office by the November 1, 2005 deadline, for the class entering in 2006. Students should send their applications to Ryan’s Janesville office, to the attention of Chad Herbert. The address and phone number for this office are listed below: Congressman Paul Ryan Attention: Chad Herbert Janesville Constituent Services Center 20 S. Main Street, Suite 10 Janesville, WI 53545 phone: 1-888-909-RYAN (7926) Applicants for academy nominations from Congressman Ryan must be: citizens of the United States and residents of the First Congressional District of Wisconsin, at least 17 years of age and must not have passed their 23rd birthday on July 1, 2006, unmarried and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents, at the time of admission to an academy. Competition to enter the academies is intense, and receiving a nomination does not guarantee acceptance by an academy. *** Special note: Students should not send their nomination application materials to Ryan’s Washington, D.C. office. Mail deliveries for congressional offices in Washington still are subject to delays due to required security precautions.
09.14.2005	MILWAUKEE/WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan and Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett today released a report they had requested by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) on geographic differences in health care prices and spending and what factors are behind these differences. More than three years ago, Ryan and Barrett – who was serving in the U.S. House of Representatives at the time – asked the GAO to investigate why Milwaukee pays more for health care than comparable cities and markets elsewhere in the country. In response to this request, the GAO compared hospital prices, physician prices, and health care spending per enrollee across metropolitan areas nationwide using 2001 medical claims data from enrollees under age 65 in selected national preferred provider organizations (PPOs) participating in the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP). In August 2004, the GAO issued an interim report focused on Milwaukee health care prices and spending compared to other areas and concluded that provider leverage relative to insurers may contribute to high prices. The GAO’s final report, released today, looks more broadly at the variation in hospital and physician prices and spending in metropolitan areas throughout the United States. As part of its analysis, GAO ranks 232 areas around the nation by hospital prices and 319 areas by physician prices. This report confirms that health care prices in the Milwaukee area and other Wisconsin communities are high relative to the other metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) in the study. Specifically, GAO found that: Hospital prices varied more than physician prices nationwide. The Milwaukee-Waukesha area ranked fifth highest by adjusted hospital prices, with hospital prices about 57% above the national average. The La Crosse, Wisconsin-Minnesota area ranked tenth highest by hospital price, with prices nearly 39% above the national average. Metropolitan areas in Wisconsin had physician prices ranked among the highest in the study: of the 10 metropolitan areas with the highest physician prices, eight were located in Wisconsin. The GAO found physician prices were highest in the La Crosse WI-MN area, with prices 48% above the national average. A chart listing the top ten GAO-ranked areas by physician price appears below. In addition, Sheboygan ranked 11th, Milwaukee-Waukesha ranked 16th, and Kenosha ranked 18th highest by physician price. On average, PPOs paid higher hospital and physician prices in metropolitan areas in the Midwest and lower prices in the Northeast. The GAO assessed factors that could contribute to the geographic differences in hospital and physician prices, concluding that areas where there was less competition among hospitals and less HMO capitation (indicative of less price-bargaining leverage) had higher prices, on average. Overall, the GAO found that many metropolitan areas in its study had low levels of competition, and the least competitive areas also tended to have smaller populations. The GAO found no evidence of cost shifting. In other words, PPOs did not pay higher prices in areas with a higher percentage of Medicaid or Medicare beneficiaries, a larger uninsured population, or lower Medicaid payments. In fact, physician prices were lower, on average, in metropolitan areas with lower adjusted Medicaid payment rates and proportionately larger uninsured populations. “The results of this study are startling. This GAO report illustrates a very clear point: less competition means higher prices for consumers. And Wisconsinites are paying a lot more for health care because consumers lack power and providers face little competition,” Ryan said. “This shows how great the need is for more competitive, consumer-based health care, where patients have the information and the bargaining power they need to be choosy consumers and get quality care while lowering their costs. I plan on examining this issue in greater detail through a committee field hearing in Wisconsin.” “The results of the GAO report confirm to me the reasons I asked for this report. The Milwaukee region ranked fifth highest nationally for hospital costs among 232 areas studied. That is unacceptable and we must find a way to control these skyrocketing costs and their impact on job creation. Employers in our region should study this report and consider solutions to increase competition and gain more bargaining power. I look forward to participating in Rep. Ryan’s public hearings and working on solutions,” said Mayor Tom Barrett. The GAO Report is available on Congressman Ryan’s website at www.house.gov/ryan or via the GAO’s website at www.gao.gov. Below is a chart adapted from Table 16 (Appendix III) of the GAO Report, listing the ten most expensive areas by adjusted physician prices. Rank Metropolitan Area Percent prices were above the average 1 La Crosse, WI-MN 48% 2 Wausau, WI 46% 3 Eau Claire, WI 42% 4 Madison, WI 41% 5 Jonesboro, AR 35% 6 Janesville-Beloit, WI 32% 7 Great Falls, MT 29% 8 Green Bay, WI 28% 9 Appleton-Oshkosh-Neenah, WI 27% 10 Racine, WI 24%
09.02.2005	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the First District Mobile Office schedule for September through October. The mobile office makes regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin’s First Congressional District. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. A listing of scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office follows this advisory. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the First District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing First District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. Please click here for a listing of current scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. Sites and addresses listed on the schedule of mobile office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by or make an appointment by contacting Scott Rausch at (262) 637-0510.
08.27.2005	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan released the following statement regarding the Base Closure and Realignment (BRAC) Commission’s approval to move the 440th Airlift Wing of the U.S. Air Force Reserves. “I disagree strongly with the Commission’s decision and believe it is short-sighted. The 440th Airlift Wing has proven itself time and time again as a courageous unit that has done an exemplary job supporting Operation Iraqi Freedom and other critical missions. I had hoped that the information the congressional delegation, the governor, and the 440th itself provided would convince Commission members of the value of keeping the 440th stationed in Milwaukee where it has operated so effectively. This is a grave disappointment to all of us,” Ryan said. The next step is for the Commission to send its base realignment and closure proposals to President Bush. If the President approves the plan, it will go into effect unless Congress disapproves the package within 45 days.
07.29.2005	WASHINGTON – Congressman Paul Ryan voted in favor of legislation reauthorizing funds for federal highway and transit programs nationwide. The measure contains a funding formula that ensures Wisconsin taxpayers will get a fair return on their federal tax dollar for transportation funding, and it also authorizes funding for several key programs Ryan supports and worked to have included that benefit Wisconsin’s First Congressional District. This legislation, the conference report to H.R. 3, the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, is necessary to provide funds for federal highway, transit and road safety projects through 2009. The House of Representatives today passed the conference report by a vote of 412-8. The Senate is also expected to pass this legislation, which was the product of a House-Senate conference committee. Today’s legislation authorizes $711.9 million in average annual funding for Wisconsin’s highway projects. This is more than a 30 percent increase in funding over the last major transportation authorization legislation that passed Congress. The earlier legislation gave Wisconsinites about a $1.02 return for their tax dollar, when it comes to federal transportation funding. This conference report gives Wisconsin residents an average rate of return of $1.06 per federal tax dollar. “Congressman Tom Petri, a senior member of the Transportation Committee, deserves a lot of credit for securing a fair and improved funding formula for Wisconsin. This transportation bill will serve Wisconsin taxpayers well in the coming years. It also supports key transportation projects in the First District that will upgrade our roads and transit system. There’s no gas tax increase, and it draws on the Highway Trust Fund – not general revenues – for transportation spending, and it’s fair for Wisconsin gas tax payers,” Ryan said. This legislation authorizes funding for the following specific projects that Congressman Ryan requested be included in the transportation measure: I-94 between the Illinois state line and Milwaukee ($7.2 million authorized) Highway 11 bypass around Burlington ($3.2 million authorized) I-43 in Rock County ($2.4 million authorized) Kenosha-Racine-Milwaukee commuter rail (authorized for preliminary engineering funds) Kenosha streetcar expansion project (authorized for preliminary engineering funds).
07.28.2005	Following the completion of a House-Senate conference where differences between the two chambers’ versions of a comprehensive energy bill were resolved, the U.S. House of Representatives today passed consensus energy legislation that includes the provisions of a boutique fuels bill (H.R. 1493) introduced by First District Congressman Paul Ryan earlier this year. Ryan’s proposal will stop “boutique” – in other words, highly specialized – fuels from multiplying, start the process of streamlining the nation’s fragmented gasoline system, and help prevent the price spikes that have plagued Wisconsin and other areas. Ryan, Rep. Mark Green, and other members of the Wisconsin congressional delegation have been fighting for over five years to bring common sense to the nation’s fuel system and address the problem of seasonal and sudden gasoline price spikes that are due, in part, to the unique type of reformulated gasoline that must be used in certain Wisconsin counties during the summer. With House passage of the final version of the energy bill, by a vote of 275-156, their latest legislative proposal to tackle the boutique fuels problem is on track to become law, as the Senate is expected to pass this legislation and the President is expected to sign it. The gasoline provision that Ryan succeeded in placing in the energy bill would halt the proliferation of boutique fuels and require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Department of Energy to submit a study to Congress within a year recommending legislative changes to create an improved federal fuels system that maximizes supply, enhances efficiency, decreases price volatility and promotes air quality. It would also codify the EPA’s authority to issue temporary waivers during supply emergencies. “I have been fighting for five years to bring some common sense to our gasoline supply system. Finally, with the passage of this legislation, we are about to take the first critical step toward standardizing fuel blends and preventing self-inflicted price spikes,” Ryan said. “Wisconsin drivers know all too well the consequences of the current system – a patchwork of specialized fuel blends that sets us up for unnecessary supply shortages and price increases. Streamlining the system will help us stabilize our prices, and give us greater flexibility when unforeseen breaks in supply occur. And we don’t have to sacrifice air quality to fix this problem. Clean air and affordable gas should go together.” The growing number of highly specialized fuels around the nation (and the supply shortages and artificially high prices that tend to accompany these boutique fuels) are an unintended consequence of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments. As a result of these amendments, areas found in noncompliance with certain ozone standards use clean-burning fuels in an effort to improve air quality, but there is no standardized menu of fuels from which they must select. Under the current system, each area can choose its own unique blend, leading to fragmentation of our nation’s fuel system and very tight supply conditions that foster price spikes, particularly if there is a refinery fire, pipeline break or other supply disruption affecting an area’s particular blend of fuel. For example, if there is a refinery fire that hinders the production of the unique type of reformulated gasoline that Southeastern Wisconsin uses, gas stations in the area cannot readily draw on other types of gasoline from neighboring regions and the price of gas rises. Nationwide, there are currently 18 different fuel types and around 45 different fuel blends, once the various octanes are factored in. In addition, because there are limited suppliers of a given specialized fuel type, refineries who produce boutique fuels possess significant power to manipulate the marketplace and have the ability to charge artificially high prices. This problem will worsen in the near future if nothing is done because, under new EPA ozone standards, most or all of 257 new counties (in addition to the current 217 counties or portions of counties) around the nation are in non-attainment of the ozone standards. If these new areas choose their own unique fuels to help them come into compliance with the EPA regulations, supply will grow even more balkanized. Ryan’s plan, passed as part of the energy bill conference report today, will do the following: Cap the Number of Boutique Fuels. EPA will cap the total number of boutique fuel blends that can be used in the U.S. at the current number. States will continue to have flexibility to adopt new, cleaner fuels to address local air quality concerns, but will have to replace an old fuel to adopt a new one thereby preventing any net increase in fuel blends. Furthermore, states will be directed toward the adoption of fuel blends already used in their region to encourage fungibility (the ability of one area to draw on fuel from another area). This cap will ensure no deterioration in gasoline supply fungibility while maintaining environmental protection and promoting consolidation of blends. Require a Study on the Impact of Motor Fuels Regulations on the Environment and the Market. The EPA Administrator and Secretary of Energy will conduct a joint study on boutique fuels and make recommendations on a federal fuels system that will (1) maximize the availability of supply; (2) enhance the efficiency of the distribution system; (3) mitigate the volatility in the price of gasoline and diesel fuel, and (4) promote further advances in air quality protection. The study will be submitted to Congress within 12 months with recommendations for legislative changes to create such a system. Provide the EPA With Limited Authority to Issue Temporary Waivers During Supply Emergencies. In limited circumstances, EPA has granted regulatory “waivers” to help areas respond to supply emergencies by authorizing the use of different types of gasoline. This language will codify EPA's existing authority to assure that waivers are granted based upon narrow and congressionally-authorized criteria and have a minimal impact on environmental protection. Such waivers will apply to the smallest geographic area necessary and will last for a period of 20 days or less. Ryan voted in favor of today’s energy legislation (the conference report for H.R. 6, the Energy Policy Act of 2005) because it incorporates his plan to stabilize gasoline prices in Wisconsin and throughout the country and because of other important provisions to meet the nation’s energy needs, while protecting the environment. This legislation provides a comprehensive energy policy for the nation, with emphasis on energy production, conservation and incentives for renewable energies. Among its numerous provisions, the conference report for the Energy Policy Act of 2005: Improves our nation’s electricity transmission capacity and reliability to prevent blackouts through the adoption of reliability standards, incentives for transmission grid improvements and reform of transmission authorization rules. Promotes clean and renewable fuels by providing incentives for renewable energies such as biomass, wind, solar, and hydroelectricity. Bans drilling in the Great Lakes. Encourages more domestic production of oil by streamlining the permitting process and promoting greater refining capacity through the use of tax incentives. Provides leadership in energy conservation by establishing new mandatory efficiency requirements for federal buildings and greater efficiency standards and product labeling for battery chargers, commercial refrigerators, freezers, and other household appliances. Increases the funding authorization for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) from $2 billion to $5.1 billion. Encourages the use of alternative power sources, launching a program to get hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles on the road by 2020.
07.27.2005	Ryan Announces Upcoming Listening Sessions
07.26.2005	Legislation cosponsored by Congressman Paul Ryan that would help more Americans access health insurance and make health coverage more affordable for small businesses passed the House of Representatives yesterday by a bipartisan vote of 263-165. The bill – H.R. 525, the Small Business Health Fairness Act of 2005 – would allow small businesses to join together through association health plans (AHPs) to purchase health insurance for their workers, increasing their bargaining power with benefit providers and lowering their costs in the process. It also provides self-employed people the opportunity to access AHPs and use group buying power to rein in health care costs. “The rising cost of health insurance premiums is the number one problem facing many of Wisconsin’s small businesses and their workers today,” Ryan said. “Association health plans can help by letting small businesses and self-employed people band together to negotiate better rates and tap into the kind of volume discounts that large companies and trade unions already use to provide a broader selection of health benefits at lower cost. This will enable more businesses to offer health coverage and help uninsured working families get access to quality, affordable health care. AHPs are an important part of the solution to the current health care cost crisis.” Estimates indicate that 60 percent or more of the working uninsured work for or depend on small employers who lack the ability to provide health benefits for their workers. The U.S. Secretary of Labor released a report in September 2002 showing AHP legislation would make quality health insurance more affordable and accessible for millions of small business owners and their employees. The Labor Department report cites a Congressional Budget Office analysis indicating that small businesses can expect to reap savings averaging nine to 25 percent of the cost of their health insurance premiums. Among its specifics, the legislation: Establishes that an association health plan (AHP) is a group health plan that offers fully-insured and/or self-insured medical benefits, has been certified by the Labor Department, and is operated by a board of trustees with complete fiscal control and responsibility for all operations. The association sponsoring the plan must have been in existence for at least three years for substantial purposes other than providing health insurance coverage. Makes clear that AHPs must comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, which prohibits health plans from excluding high-risk individuals with high claims experience. Increases small businesses’ bargaining power with health care providers and gives them access to federally regulated (ERISA) insurance markets that large employers and unions have used successfully for years. Under current law, large employers who offer health benefits to workers in multiple states are not required to follow state benefit mandates, and the coverage these employers offer is exemplary. Under H.R. 525, AHPs that self-insure are exempted from state mandates exactly like large employers and unions who self-insure their benefits.
07.22.2005	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives late yesterday passed H.R. 3199, the USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act of 2005 by a vote of 257-171. First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted in favor of the measure, which reauthorizes expiring provisions of the PATRIOT Act (and two provisions of the Intelligence Reform Act) that were scheduled to sunset in December. The legislation ensures our law enforcement will retain the tools it needs to protect our homeland and fight terrorism, while at the same time preserving citizens’ constitutional rights and civil liberties. “As the recent terrorist bombings in London remind us, the terrorists have not given up attacking free societies and murdering innocent people. Clearly, now is not the time to downgrade our ability to detect and counter terrorist plots here in the United States. This legislation will keep key provisions of the Patriot Act that have helped unravel terrorist cells and save lives,” Ryan said. “It also includes improvements that strengthen the law’s civil liberties protections and provide for congressional and judicial oversight. Guarding the constitutional rights of citizens must be our highest priority, and the use of this law should continue to be carefully monitored by Congress. It has been applied responsibly so far, and we must see to it that Americans’ rights and freedoms remain secure.” Among its provisions, the PATRIOT Act, which passed in 2001 after the September 11 terrorist attacks, did the folllowing: Removed major legal barriers that prevented the law enforcement, intelligence, and national defense communities from coordinating their work and sharing information; Gave law enforcement the ability to use many of the same tools for terrorist investigations that it already used to fight organized crime; Modernized wiretapping and surveillance laws that apply to terrorist investigations in order to keep up with changing technologies such as cell phones and e-mail. The House Judiciary Committee conducted a careful review of the PATRIOT Act, holding 12 hearings since April on the law, and H.R. 3199 was amended by both Democrats and Republicans in committee and on the floor of the House. During floor consideration by the full House of Representatives, H.R. 3199 was amended 17 times, covering matters ranging from heightened penalties for terrorist acts to streamlining funding for first responders. The legislation makes permanent most of the expiring PATRIOT Act provisions, but subjects two provisions to a 10-year sunset. Congressman Ryan supports these sunsets because they necessitate continued congressional oversight that will help ensure the protection of Americans’ civil liberties. The provisions that are scheduled to sunset in 10 years are: Section 206, which authorizes “roving” wiretaps for terrorist investigations, which attach to a particular target rather than a particular phone. Advances in technology such as cell phones made this update to surveillance law important, which is why criminal cases have had the ability to use roving wiretaps for years. Before the PATRIOT Act, every time a suspected terrorist changed cell phones, investigators had to return to court for a new order. Section 215, which gives the government the ability to get business records and other tangible things with an order from a federal court in a terrorist investigation. For years, ordinary grand juries have issued subpoenas to businesses for records relevant to criminal inquiries. Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act contains safeguards that protect civil liberties, and it is actually more protective of privacy than the law for ordinary grand-jury subpoenas. Section 215 has a narrow scope, requires a court order, and provides for continued congressional oversight. Among the amendments that Congressman Ryan voted in favor of were measures that ensure added protection for citizens’ constitutional rights by: Requiring the FBI director to personally approve the use of Section 215 in order for the government to obtain library or bookstore records with a federal court order. To date, this section of the Patriot Act has never be used for this purpose, but if the situation were to arise as part of a terrorism investigation, this amendment mandates the approval of the FBI director. Permitting the recipient of requests for material information under the PATRIOT Act to consult with an attorney and challenge the request before providing the information to the government. Limiting the circumstances under which the government can delay notification to an individual that their property has been searched. (Delayed-notice search warrants have been used by law enforcement officers for decades, in the event law enforcement can demonstrate probable cause that criminal activity is afoot. The PATRIOT Act standardized inconsistent rules, practices, and court decisions regarding delayed-notice search warrants, which can be used only with a court order.)
07.07.2005	JANESVILLE – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement this morning after the terrorist bombings in London: “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of the horrific terrorist attacks in London and all their loved ones. We stand with our allies in Great Britain in our determination to defeat the terrorists and defend our people and our freedom from those who use the murder of innocents to try to advance their warped agenda.”
06.28.2005	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the First District Mobile Office schedule for July through August. The mobile office makes regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin’s First Congressional District. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. Please click here for alisting of current scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the First District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing First District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. “I need to hear from First District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their town or area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. First District residents can check their local paper or our website – www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Sites and addresses listed on the attached schedule of mobile office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot). Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by or make an appointment by contacting Scott Rausch at (262) 637-0510.
06.22.2005	WASHINGTON, DC - First District Congressman Paul Ryan and several colleagues on the House Ways and Means' Subcommittee on Social Security today announced a new proposal to give workers under 55 the choice of having their portion of the Social Security surplus put in a personal account that they would own that would help pay their Social Security benefit when they retire. This would be the first step toward stopping Washington's decades-long raid on the Social Security surplus and building consensus for needed Social Security reform. The accounts would be both voluntary and inheritable. "I think we should all be able to agree that Social Security's surplus should go to Social Security. Ever since I came to Congress, I have been fighting to stop the raid on the Social Security surplus. This puts us on a path to do just that. By giving workers the choice to put their Social Security surplus dollars in a personal account for their retirement, we are making a significant step. While this isn't a comprehensive reform package, like my earlier legislation, it makes progress on fixing Social Security by protecting the surplus." The legislation - the GROW Accounts Act (Growing Real Ownership for Workers) - works to achieve three goals: 1) the Social Security surplus should only be used for Social Security, 2) the surplus should not be used to fund other government programs; and 3) the surplus should not be used to mask the true size of the national debt. According to the Social Security Trustees, Social Security will run a surplus until 2017. Currently Social Security taxes pay for retiree benefits, as well as benefits for widows, orphans and the disabled. Any funds left over, known as the Social Security surplus, are used for other government spending. This measure would change that by directing surplus funds into newly created GROW Accounts. People under the age of 55 will have GROW accounts, or can choose to opt out. The accounts will initially be invested in marketable Treasury bonds. This allows a safe and prudent transition period for the development of personal accounts to protect the Social Security surplus. Under this proposal, an independent Board, similar to the one which manages the retirement plan for Federal workers, will manage and administer GROW Accounts. In January 2009, this board will submit a plan to Congress that would allow workers to choose other prudent investment options or stay in low-risk marketable treasury bonds. When a person retires, their account balance will be used towards paying for their Social Security benefits. Ryan, a member of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee announced this legislation at a press conference today with the subcommittee's chairman, Rep. Jim McCrery, and two other senior members of the Social Security subcommittee, Reps. Clay Shaw and Sam Johnson. Similar legislation is to be introduced in the Senate.
06.16.2005	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today introduced legislation that would enable veterans of recent military operations to qualify for special mortgage loans that have helped earlier generations of Wisconsin veterans become homeowners. This legislation – the American Veterans Homeownership Act of 2005 – would help open the door to homeownership for more current and future veterans. Under current law, Wisconsin and four other states have the ability to issue tax-exempt bonds, the proceeds of which are used to finance mortgage loans to veterans. However, these mortgage loans can be made only to veterans who served on active duty before 1977 and who applied for the loan within 30 years after they left active military service. Therefore, veterans of more recent or ongoing military conflicts such as Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Enduring Freedom, Kosovo, Somalia, and the 1991 Persian Gulf War are not eligible, under present law, for such mortgage loans. The American Veterans Homeownership Act would remove the requirement that veterans receiving loans financed with veterans’ bonds must have served before 1977, and the legislation would provide new state limits for these bonds. “Our military men and women have served and continue to serve with honor and bravery in conflicts around the world. When they return from war, they deserve the same access to homeownership that previous generations of Wisconsin veterans have enjoyed. Our legislation will extend the opportunity for these special mortgage loans to veterans of operations over the past few decades,” Ryan said.
06.10.2005	The Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO’s) monthly budget review, released this week, showed a decline in the year-to-date deficit and strong growth in tax revenues. According to CBO estimates, as of May, the eighth month of the fiscal year, the cumulative deficit stood at about $273 billion – down $73 billion from the same period in 2004. Significantly, for the first eight months of fiscal year 2005, CBO estimates that revenues have increased by $183 billion, or 15%, compared with receipts in the same period of 2004. At the same time, outlays have grown by $110 billion, or 7%. Even more specifically, individual income tax receipts are up 20.5% so far this fiscal year, compared to this point during the last fiscal year, while corporate income tax payments are up 47.5% over the same period. Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today commented on the CBO report, stating: “These numbers reinforce what we’ve seen historically – that pro-growth tax relief leads to higher tax revenues. When paired with spending restraint, this can help shrink the deficit. The broad-based tax relief that Congress passed is bearing fruit, but we must do even more to strengthen our economy and keep a lid on federal spending.”
05.25.2005	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved annual legislation that authorizes funding for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy, as well as funding to support current operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the global war on terror. First District Congressman Paul Ryan voted in favor of the measure – H.R. 1815, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 – which passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 390-39. “Our troops are putting everything they have into achieving their mission, and we must give them the resources they need. Our military men and women confront danger every day to defend freedom, and this legislation will help them prevail as well as strengthen support for their families in a variety of ways,” Ryan said. Among its highlights, this comprehensive legislation: Supports continuing efforts in the war on terrorism with $49.1 billion in supplemental funding for operation costs, personnel expenses, and procurement of new equipment. Authorizes funding for force protection in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom such as up-armored Humvees, tactical wheeled vehicle recapitalization and modernization programs, night vision devices, and improvised explosive device (IED) jammers. Accelerates the phase-in of the full concurrent receipt of veterans disability compensation and military retired pay, allowing qualified retirees to receive full concurrent receipt on October 1, 2009, four years and three months earlier than scheduled. Honors the sacrifices made by military men and women: - Increases the death gratuity to $100,000. - Extends to one year (from six months) the amount of time dependents of deceased servicemembers can stay in housing or receive housing allowances. - Expands travel authorization for families of hospitalized servicemembers. (Congress had voted for these improvements earlier this year in the emergency supplemental wartime spending bill, and these provisions of the FY2006 authorization would continue them.) Provides a 3.1% pay raise for members of the armed services. Increases amounts paid for active duty enlistments, reserve enlistments and active duty re-enlistments. Increases the maximum amount of hardship pay from $300 to $750 per month. Recommends funding additional increases of 10,000 Army and 1,000 Marine active duty personnel in 2006.
05.12.2005	First District Congressman Paul Ryan will be hosting the annual First Congressional District Art Competition on Saturday, May 14. Ryan has invited each high school in the First Congressional District to submit one entry for the contest, which is part of the 24th annual Congressional Arts Competition — An Artistic Discovery. The nationwide art competition, which is voluntarily sponsored by Members of Congress, provides young student artists with an opportunity to showcase their work locally, as well as the chance to be recognized at the national level for their talent and creativity. The first-place winner in each congressional district competition will have his or her winning entry displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. The winning artist will also be invited to a national reception in Washington, DC, honoring student artists from all over the country. WHO: U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan will host the event, which will be attended by area artists; a panel of judges; competing student artists, their teachers, friends and family. The event is open to the public. WHEN: Saturday, May 14 A public viewing and the judging will take place from 12 noon – 1:00 pm Awards ceremony will follow from 1:00 – 2:00 pm WHERE: L’Atelier, Inc. Art Studio/Gallery 509 Laurel Avenue, Janesville For directions, call Ryan's Janesville Constituent Services Center at (608) 752-4050.
05.11.2005	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan reintroduced legislation today, together with several House colleagues, that would overhaul the federal government’s budget process to make it easier to rein in excess spending, help enforce budget restraints, and improve the government’s accounting practices. This legislation – the Family Budget Protection Act – is very similar to a measure they introduced last year that encountered opposition from the House Appropriations Committee, which is in charge of all annual spending bills. “We must fix our broken budget process and give Congress better tools to enforce the budget and keep spending in check,” Ryan said. “In the current system, there’s a bias toward spending which makes it an uphill climb for lawmakers who fight for fiscal discipline. Our legislation puts teeth in the budget process to help Congress rein in spending and stop pork barrel politics. This is essential if we are to meet key challenges ahead, such as the retirement of the baby boom generation.” Among other improvements, this comprehensive budget process reform legislation would do the following: Give the federal budget the force of law, by changing the current non-binding concurrent budget resolution into a joint budget resolution. When signed by the President, this would have the force of law, and both Congress and the White House would have to abide by budget resolution spending levels. Finally enable Members of Congress to achieve true savings from amendments that reduce spending, instead of seeing that savings go to increase spending elsewhere. It does this by creating budget protection accounts that allow Members to redirect savings from their amendments toward tax relief or deficit reduction. Initiate enhanced rescission authority for the President to propose the elimination of wasteful spending identified in any appropriations bill and send that specific item back to Congress for a vote. Unlike the “line item veto,” with enhanced rescission authority both the House and Senate would have to vote to remove spending on the particular wasteful project in order to eliminate that spending. This would make it easier for pork-barrel and other wasteful spending to be pinpointed and eliminated, without taking away Congress’ power of the purse. Simplify the current budget by replacing the 20 budget functions with a one-page budget, establishing spending levels for only five broad spending categories: mandatory spending, non-defense and defense discretionary spending, interest and emergencies. Abolish the practice of designating spending as “emergencies” to avoid spending safeguards. True non-military emergencies would be budgeted for with a new “rainy day” fund, and all spending from that fund must be for matters defined as sudden, urgent, unforeseen and temporary. Funding for military operations authorized by either a declaration of war or use of military force will also be budgeted for as an emergency. However, it will not be included in the rainy day fund, nor will it face a point of order if in excess of what was originally budgeted. Allow for biennial budgeting in the future if the President and Congress agree during their negotiations to extend funding over a two-year fiscal period. This would enable Congress to budget in one year and spend the next year focusing on oversight – determining whether it is spending taxpayers’ money wisely on the programs for which it has budgeted funds. Limit growth in entitlement spending to inflation and the growth in population. This would not apply to Social Security or the new Medicare prescription drug benefit until that program is fully phased in. Set caps on discretionary (non-mandatory) spending that allow it to grow for inflation, with a firewall separating defense, nondefense, and emergency spending. Raise the bar for points of order to require a two-thirds supermajority vote in both the House and the Senate to sanction over-budget spending and spending in violation of the caps. Click here for a more detailed summary of the legislation.
04.28.2005	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan, together with several House colleagues including fellow Wisconsinite Mark Green, has introduced legislation to help individuals without health insurance get affordable coverage and assist small businesses that contribute to employees’ Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). This legislation – H.R. 1872, the Health Coverage for the Uninsured Act of 2005 – builds on the foundation of a previously-passed law that established Health Savings Accounts which allow individuals with high-deductible insurance to set aside tax-free savings for lifetime health-care needs. It also eliminates the unfair tax bias in current law against individuals who purchase their own health-care coverage. “The skyrocketing cost of health insurance is the biggest domestic crisis facing most Americans today,” Ryan said. “It affects our jobs, our economy, and our families’ way of life. We have to get a handle on this problem, and the legislation we have proposed will help make quality health care more affordable and accessible for Wisconsin families.” “With this legislation, we are honing in on the problem of the uninsured by helping those who currently fall through the cracks: those who aren’t covered through their employer, the self-employed, and small businesses that can’t afford to offer coverage,” Ryan said. “Many Wisconsinites are already finding that HSAs help them afford quality coverage for themselves, their families and – in the case of small business owners – their employees. This legislation improves on HSAs and helps overcome barriers that prevent people from obtaining insurance.” Ryan’s proposal has three main parts: Premium deductibility. The legislation would allow an individual who purchases a high-deductible health plan (HDHP) combined with an HSA and does not receive health insurance through their employer (or any government program) to deduct from his or her taxable income the amount of the premium. Small business tax credit. Under this proposal, small businesses of up to 100 employees would receive a refundable tax credit for contributions they make to their employees’ health savings accounts (up to $200 for a contribution into an individual HSA or $500 for a family HSA.) In order to be eligible for the credit for contributions to HSAs, the employer must offer a group HDHP. Low-income tax credit for the purchase of health insurance. In order to help low-income people get coverage, the legislation provides a subsidy of up to 90% of the cost of their health insurance premium – up to $1,000 for an individual or up to $3,000 for a family plan. This credit would be refundable, advanceable, and assignable – meaning the money would go straight to the insurer of their choice to pay for their health care, on a monthly basis. The following examples demonstrate how the tax benefits provided by this legislation would assist individuals and small businesses and help the uninsured afford health-care coverage: Jane works for a mid-sized corporation that does not offer health benefits. She must look on the market. She finds a high-deductible health plan that she can afford and buys the policy – she is to pay $100/month for her premium. She also opens an HSA since her HDHP qualifies her for that benefit. Any money she puts into the HSA is already deductible under current law. But when this legislation becomes law, she will also be able to deduct the $1,200 she pays in premiums each year. Jim owns and operates a small shoe store that has 12 employees. He recently found a HDHP that he can offer to his employees. It costs a lot, but he is able to deduct the money that he spends on the insurance. His employees are grateful for the coverage, but they don’t have a lot of money to put away in their HSAs to cover health expenses. Jim hears about the tax credit that this legislation offers if he puts some money in his employees’ HSAs for them. Under this legislation, if Jim puts $200 each year in each employee’s HSA, he will get a $2,400 credit at the end of the taxable year. Susie and Tom have two children and need to purchase health insurance. Tom makes $25,000 a year, and Susie stays at home with the kids. They hear about the tax credit provided for by this legislation and find out they would be eligible for a $3,000 credit ($1,000 for each adult and $500 for each child, with a maximum of two children.) They shop around and find that one insurer can give them a HDHP plus an HSA for $3,300 a year. They purchase it and get an advance credit based on last year’s tax return. They would pay their portion of the monthly premium ($300 per year), and the health insurer would be reimbursed directly by the U.S. Department of Treasury for its portion ($3,000 per year).
04.27.2005	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan cosponsored and voted in favor of legislation that would prevent people, including abusive boyfriends, from transporting young girls across state lines in order to avoid their state’s parental notification laws regarding abortion. In cases where a minor travels to another state that does not have a parental involvement law to obtain an abortion, this measure would also require abortionists to provide parental notification before the abortion is performed. The U.S. House of Representatives today passed this legislation – H.R. 748, the Child Interstate Abortion Notification Act – by a vote of 270-157. It awaits action by the U.S. Senate. “This legislation protects young girls from being pressured to cross state lines for a secret abortion, and it stands up for the parents’ right to protect their daughters’ health and well-being and give them guidance,” Ryan said. “I think we should all be able to agree that parents need to know about a crucial matter like this. Parents’ permission is routinely required to administer basic medications such as aspirin to their children or for field trips or other travel. The idea that they would not be notified of an abortion defies common sense.” H.R. 748 contains two sections, each of which creates a new federal crime subject to a $100,000 fine, or one year in jail, or both. The first section of the legislation makes it a federal crime to transport a minor across state lines to obtain an abortion in another state in order to avoid a state law requiring parental involvement in a minor’s abortion decision. Twenty-three states currently have parental consent or notification laws in force; Wisconsin is not counted among them, due to the way its consent law is written. This section of H.R. 748 does not apply to minors themselves or to their parents. It also does not apply in life-threatening emergencies. The second section of the legislation applies when a minor from one state crosses state lines to have an abortion in another state that does not have a law requiring parental involvement (and also when a minor crosses into a state that does have a state law requiring parental involvement, but the physician fails to comply.) In such cases, the legislation makes it a federal crime for the abortion provider to fail to give one of the minor’s parents, or a legal guardian if necessary, 24 hours’ notice before the abortion is performed. The second section of H.R. 748 does not apply where the abortion provider is presented with court papers showing that the parental involvement law in effect in the minor’s state has been complied with, where the minor declares in a signed written statement that she has been the victim of abuse by a parent and the abortionist notifies the appropriate state authorities of such abuse, or in the case of a life-threatening emergency.
04.21.2005	WASHINGTON – The Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives has selected First District Congressman Paul Ryan to be part of the 21-member bipartisan congressional delegation from the House of Representatives to attend Sunday’s Inaugural Mass of His Holiness Pope Benedict XVI. “I am honored to be attending the Holy Father’s Inaugural Mass as part of the official congressional delegation. As a practicing Catholic, this will be a very moving visit to the Vatican, and I look forward to being present for this historic occasion. Pope John Paul II was an inspiration to so many people around the world and a champion of freedom and moral clarity. Pope Benedict XVI promises to build on this strong foundation.”
04.21.2005	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed comprehensive energy legislation that includes the substance of a boutique fuels bill (H.R. 1493) introduced by First District Congressman Paul Ryan earlier this month to begin the process of streamlining the nation’s fragmented gasoline system and help prevent the price spikes that have plagued Wisconsin and other areas. Ryan voted in favor of the energy bill – H.R. 6 – because it included his legislation to help stabilize gasoline prices in Wisconsin and throughout the country and because of other constructive provisions to meet the nation’s energy needs, while protecting the environment. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 249-183 and awaits action in the U.S. Senate. The gasoline provision that Ryan succeeded in placing in the energy bill would halt the proliferation of “boutique” – or highly specialized – fuels and require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Department of Energy to submit a study to Congress within a year recommending legislative changes to create an improved federal fuels system that maximizes supply, enhances efficiency, decreases price volatility and promotes air quality. It would also codify the EPA’s authority to issue temporary waivers during supply emergencies. Wisconsin drivers and businesses have suffered in recent years from seasonal gas price increases and sudden price spikes due, in part, to the unique type of reformulated gasoline used in certain counties during the summer months and the inability to draw on gasoline from neighboring areas when supply disruptions occur. “This is a key step toward putting common sense back into our nation’s gasoline supply system. In Wisconsin we’ve experienced unnecessary price spikes for years because of the way our gasoline system and regulations have evolved. Streamlining the system will help us stabilize our prices and avoid these self-inflicted price increases,” Ryan said. “We can have both clean air and more affordable gasoline if we work toward greater standardization of clean-burning fuel blends in this country.” The growing number of highly specialized fuels around the nation (and the supply shortages and price spikes that tend to accompany these boutique fuels) are an unintended consequence of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments. As a result of these amendments, areas found in noncompliance with certain ozone standards use clean-burning fuels in an effort to improve air quality, but there is no standardized menu of fuels from which they must select. Under the current system, each area can choose its own unique blend, leading to fragmentation of our nation’s fuel system and very tight supply conditions that foster price spikes, particularly if there is a refinery fire, pipeline break or other supply disruption affecting an area’s particular blend of fuel. There are currently 18 different fuel types and around 45 different fuel blends, once the various octanes are factored in. This problem will worsen in the near future if nothing is done because, under new EPA ozone standards, all or most of 474 counties (compared to the current 217 counties or portions of counties) around the nation are in non-attainment of the ozone standards. If these new areas choose their own unique fuels to help them come into compliance with the EPA regulations, supply will grow even more balkanized. Ryan’s plan, which was passed as part of the energy bill today, would do the following: Cap the Number of Boutique Fuels. EPA would cap the total number of boutique fuel blends that can be used in the U.S. at the current number. States would continue to have flexibility to adopt new, cleaner fuels to address local air quality concerns, but would have to replace an old fuel to adopt a new one thereby preventing any net increase in fuel blends. Furthermore, states will be directed toward the adoption of fuel blends already used in their region to encourage fungibility (the ability of one area to draw on fuel from another area). This cap will ensure no deterioration in gasoline supply fungibility while maintaining environmental protection and promoting consolidation of blends. Require a Study on the Impact of Motor Fuels Regulations on the Environment and the Market. The EPA Administrator and Secretary of Energy will conduct a joint study on boutique fuels and make recommendations on a federal fuels system that will (1) maximize the availability of supply; (2) enhance the efficiency of the distribution system; (3) mitigate the volatility in the price of gasoline and diesel fuel, and (4) promote further advances in air quality protection. The study will be submitted to Congress within 12 months with recommendations for legislative changes to create such a system. Provide the EPA With Limited Authority to Issue Temporary Waivers During Supply Emergencies. In limited circumstances, EPA has granted regulatory “waivers” to help areas respond to supply emergencies by authorizing the use of different types of gasoline. This language would codify EPA's existing authority to assure that waivers are granted based upon narrow and congressionally-authorized criteria and have a minimal impact on environmental protection. Such waivers would apply to the smallest geographic area necessary and would last for a period of 20 days or less. More broadly, H.R. 6 provides a comprehensive energy policy for the nation, with emphasis on energy production, conservation and incentives for renewable energies. Among its numerous provisions, the Energy Policy Act of 2005: Improves the nation’s electricity transmission capacity and reliability to prevent blackouts. Provides incentives for utilities to form Regional Transmission Organizations for more efficient and reliable operation of the transmission grid. Favors incentive approach to allow regional flexibility, not a one-size-fits-all mandate. Decreases America’s dependence on foreign oil by increasing domestic oil and gas exploration and development on non-park federal lands and by authorizing expansion of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve’s capacity to 1 billion barrels. Expands support for renewables and alternative energy through certain tax provisions. Encourages the use of alternative power sources, launching a program to get hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles on the road by 2020. Streamlines the regulatory and approval processes for the restart of idle refineries or the construction of new refineries in areas that meet certain criteria. Provides leadership in energy conservation by establishing new mandatory efficiency requirements for federal buildings. “It is vital for our nation to have a plan to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, develop more renewable sources of energy, promote conservation and upgrade our aging energy infrastructure. While I don’t agree with every provision, overall this is a constructive, balanced blueprint for meeting our future energy needs and protecting the environment at the same time,” Ryan said.
04.20.2005	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan is reintroducing legislation today to put Social Security on solid footing for the future and ensure that the program will help future generations achieve a more secure retirement, as it has for past and present retirees. This bill – the Social Security Personal Savings Guarantee and Prosperity Act – closely resembles Social Security reform legislation that Ryan introduced last year. Senator Sununu of New Hampshire is introducing an identical measure in the U.S. Senate today. The plan would maintain Social Security’s safety net, while giving younger workers the opportunity to put part of their payroll tax contributions into a personal account within the Social Security system that would enable them to earn a decent return on their investment in the program. This would reverse the decline in Social Security’s rate of return and help put the program back on track to achieve lasting solvency. According to the Social Security Actuary’s official analysis of this plan, permanent and growing Social Security surpluses would begin in 2038, resulting in permanent solvency in 2051. Currently, Social Security begins permanent deficits in 2017 and becomes insolvent in 2041. The legislation would also accomplish the goal of the lockbox Ryan has continuously fought for which would protect the Social Security trust fund from being spent on unrelated government programs. “There is no denying that Social Security faces a serious financial crunch as the baby boomers retire and fewer workers are supporting each retiree through their payroll taxes. And every year we delay finding a solution to this problem, roughly $600 billion is added to the debt the government owes to Social Security. By acting now, we can make Social Security solvent for good, preserve its safety net – which has been so important for people of all ages, and make sure today’s young people and their children can count on a respectable rate of return like their grandparents have,” Ryan said. “Our proposal will also give every American worker the chance to own a substantial part of their Social Security retirement benefit. That’s an investment in their retirement security that the government cannot take away, and it’s something they can pass on when they die to their loved ones,” Ryan said. In crafting a plan to strengthen Social Security, Ryan was guided by the following principles: All Social Security taxes should go to Social Security – not to overspending on unrelated programs. Social Security reform should not affect current benefits. Social Security reform should be accomplished without raising taxes or the retirement age. Social Security reforms should improve the current rate of return on younger workers’ investments to Social Security to ensure that it will be there for them when they retire, without adversely affecting the benefits of current retirees and those approaching retirement. Social Security must always maintain a retirement safety net for all workers, including disability and survivors’ benefits. Personal accounts must have safeguards so people do not sustain unnecessary risk. “In order to keep Social Security strong for all generations, we have to address the demographic shift that has occurred and will accelerate when the first of the baby boomers begin to retire in 2008. We also need to reverse the decline in the rate of return workers get on their contributions to Social Security,” Ryan said. “When the program was created, the rate of return on a 40-year-old worker’s investment in the system was about 8 percent. In contrast, today’s young children can expect to get a negative 1 percent return on their tax payments into the system, and that’s not fair. Voluntary personal accounts are the key to improving the rate of return and strengthening Social Security for the long haul.” Ryan’s legislation would allow workers under the age of 55 to choose whether they wish to stay with traditional Social Security or invest a part of their payroll taxes in a tax-free personal account within specific parameters and with continued oversight by the Social Security Administration. Personal account options would resemble the federal Thrift Saving Plan (TSP) that Members of Congress and federal employees have used for years to help them save for their retirement. (Over the past 10 years, the TSP has averaged about a 7.67% rate of return.) A worker who opts for a personal account would initially be enrolled in a “life-cycle” fund that automatically adjusts the worker’s portfolio based on his or her age, moving near-retirees into safe, government-backed bond funds. Workers could simply stay with this type of fund or select from a list of five index funds similar to those found in the TSP. Because the accounts would be within the Social Security system and managed like the TSP, they would have very low administrative costs as the TSP does – about $3 for every $1,000 in the account. Moreover, the accounts are backed up by a federal guarantee that workers would receive at least as much as Social Security promises under current law. Under this legislation, personal accounts would be phased in to help ease the transition. From 2006-2015, younger workers could devote to their tax-free personal accounts 5 percentage points of the current 12.4% Social Security payroll tax on the first $10,000 of wages each year and 2.5 percentage points on taxable wages above that. Starting in 2016, workers would be able to shift 10 percentage points of the current 12.4% on the first $10,000 in wages and 5 percentage points on taxable wages above that. Once the accounts are fully phased in, the average account contribution among workers would be 6.4 percent of their Social Security payroll tax. This progressive account structure allows lower income workers to keep more of their FICA taxes in their personal account than higher income workers. The plan is voluntary, and workers who decide to stay in traditional Social Security rather than exercising the personal account option would receive the benefits promised under current law. Furthermore, under this legislation, survivors and disability benefits are unchanged and would continue as under the current system. The federal government would back the personal accounts with a guarantee that workers receive at least as much as Social Security promises under current law, providing an added level of security for workers’ retirement savings. Ryan’s legislation takes the following steps to finance this plan to strengthen and improve Social Security: Puts an end to Washington’s practice of using Social Security surpluses on unrelated spending by separating Social Security and the reform’s transition financing from the rest of the federal budget. Instead of going to finance other projects, the short-term Social Security surpluses projected until 2017 will help finance the transition to a stronger Social Security system. Grows federal spending at a slower rate – reducing the rate of growth of federal spending by one percentage point a year for eight years. The savings would be transferred to the Social Security Trust Fund. Recaptures a set portion of the projected increase in corporate tax revenue (sparked by increased investment through personal accounts) and dedicates this to the Social Security Trust Fund. With these three steps in place, no borrowing is needed to finance this transition to a solvent Social Security system. If any of the previous steps fails to take place, the legislation provides that, to the extent needed, excess Social Security trust-fund bonds would be redeemed to continue to pay all promised Social Security benefits, with the funds to redeem them obtained by issuing new federal bonds to the public. Essentially, this would be paying Social Security back for the surpluses it has lent the federal government in the past. The official analysis of the Social Security Administration’s Chief Actuary projects the Ryan-Sununu bill will produce permanent surpluses in 2038 and achieve permanent solvency for Social Security in 2051. The Ryan-Sununu bill completely pays off the entire $12 trillion unfunded debt owed to Social Security. Click here for a summary of the legislation Click here for Ryan-Sununu retirement benefit examples
04.15.2005	U.S. Congressman Paul Ryan has announced that the First District Mobile Office will resume its regularly scheduled visits to communities throughout Wisconsin's First District later this month. Please click here for a listing of current scheduled stops for the First District Mobile Office. At each scheduled stop, a representative from Congressman Ryan’s office will be available to meet personally with area residents. When he entered Congress, Ryan established the First District Mobile Office to serve as an extension of the existing First District Constituent Services Centers. The mobile office provides resources to local residents and works to serve communities without permanent congressional offices. From 1999 through 2004, the mobile office has made 1259 visits to area communities. “I need to hear from First District residents and be accessible to them,” Ryan said. “The mobile office helps me do this. It’s a great resource for people who don’t live near a permanent congressional office. When the mobile office comes to their town or area, they can stop by and talk to a member of my staff about difficulties they are having dealing with government agencies or share their views on issues before Congress. First District residents can check their local paper or our website – www.house.gov/ryan – for the latest mobile office schedule and take full advantage of the services it provides,” Ryan said. Area residents who are having trouble with a federal agency or would like to offer their opinions on legislative matters are encouraged to drop by or make an appointment by contacting Scott Rausch at (262) 637-0510. Sites and addresses listed on schedule of mobile office hours indicate where the mobile office will be parked (normally beside the address listed or located in an adjoining parking lot).
04.07.2005	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan has announced that he will be holding listening sessions in Delavan, Kenosha and Racine on Monday, May 9 for members of the First District Hispanic community to share their concerns and ask questions about federal government issues. El Congresista Paul Ryan tendra platicas (listening sessions) para la comunidad Hispana. Date (Fecha): Monday, May 9, 2005 El Lunes 9 de Mayo Time/Place (Hora/Lugar): DELAVAN 12:00 noon – 1:00pm Hernandez El Sarape Restaurant 212 S. 7th Street KENOSHA 5:30 – 6:30pm St. Mark’s Church (gymnasium) / La Iglesia de San Marcos (gymnasio) Sheridan Road and 73rd St. / En la esquina de la Sheridan Rd. y calle 73 RACINE 7:00 – 8:00pm Cesar Chavez Community Center / Centro de Comunidad Cesar Chavez 2221 Douglas Avenue The event will be held in English and Spanish and is open to the public. For additional information, please call Teresa Mora at (262) 637-0510. El evento sera en Ingles y Espanol y sera abierto al publico. Para mas informacion, favor de comunicarse con Teresa Mora al (262) 637-0510.
04.06.2005	Washington, DC – Wisconsin Congressmen Paul Ryan, Mark Green, Jim Sensenbrenner and Tom Petri, together with a group of House colleagues, have reintroduced legislation to continue their fight for a more streamlined fuel system to help prevent the gasoline price spikes that have plagued Wisconsin and other areas in recent years. This legislation – H.R. 1493 – would prevent the creation of even more “boutique” – or highly specialized – fuels and set the stage for a needed simplification of America’s fuel supply system. The measure closely resembles legislation they proposed last autumn (H.R. 5165). Wisconsin drivers’ and businesses’ budgets have suffered in recent years from seasonal gas price increases and sudden price spikes due in part to the unique type of reformulated gasoline used in parts of the state and the inability to draw on gasoline from neighboring areas when supply disruptions occur. The proposed legislation would tackle the problem of tight gasoline supply due to certain areas’ required use of boutique fuels. “Today’s gasoline system is fragmented and the problem is going to get worse if we do not bring common sense back to the laws that affect our nation’s gas supply. We can have both clean air and affordable gas, and a more streamlined system will help us get there,” Ryan said. “Folks here in Wisconsin are being forced to pay exorbitant prices at the pump, and they need relief,” Green said. “This is designed to help them get it. By limiting the number of boutique fuel blends we can help put the brakes on runaway gas prices.” “Wisconsin has long been a leader in clean air efforts, but excessive regulations on the use of boutique fuels have created a constant cycle of unnecessary gasoline shortages that have driven our cost of gasoline to among the highest in the country. H.R. 1493 is consistent with Wisconsin's efforts on clean air while helping to bring our gasoline costs down,” Petri said. “It is evident that gas prices are elevated all across the nation,” said Sensenbrenner. “But when it costs my constituents $50.00 to fill up a tank of gas, you know things are getting out of hand. Our legislation will help provide much-needed relief to the people of Wisconsin, many of whom depend on their cars and trucks for their livelihood.” The three main components of the proposal are the following: The legislation would cap the number of boutique fuels that can be used in each of the five federally defined distribution regions to prevent further proliferation of boutique fuel “islands” (areas that rely on a specialized type of fuel used nowhere else in the region.) It would codify the Environmental Protection Agency’s existing authority to waive fuel requirements for up to 20 days in the event of a severe supply disruption. The bill also calls for a study by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy that makes recommendations to Congress on creating a federal fuels system that maintains high air quality standards, maximizes supply, improves fungibility and lowers overall prices. Contacts: Kate Matus (Ryan) 202-226-7326 Luke Punzenberger (Green) 202-226-7385 Niel Wright (Petri) 202-225-2476
03.24.2005	JANESVILLE – Congressman Paul Ryan announced that his Chief of Staff, Andrew Speth, who serves as a U.S. Air Force Reservist with the 440th Air Lift Wing in the 34th Aerial Port Squadron based out of General Mitchell Air Reserve Station in Milwaukee, is being activated in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Senior Airman Speth’s orders are for one year, and he will depart next month to fulfill this duty. Joyce Meyer of Franklin, Wisconsin who heads the Washington office, will serve as Ryan’s Chief of Staff during Speth’s year-long absence from the office. In addition, Hartland, Wisconsin native Danyell Tremmel will continue serving as Ryan’s District Director, while taking on added responsibilities. “All of us are extremely proud of Andy for his dedication to our country and his commitment to a cause greater than self,” Ryan said. “When he enlisted a few years ago, he did so because he felt the need to serve our nation and help protect our freedom through the Armed Forces. Today as he prepares for deployment, he remains committed to this goal. I’m honored to count him as a good friend as well as a coworker, and he and his family and all our troops will be in our prayers throughout the year ahead.” “I am grateful for the opportunity to pay the debt I owe to all other veterans and their families for the sacrifices they made to protect our liberty, security and prosperity. Although I will greatly miss my wife and children, I look forward to putting my Air Force training into practice in service to my country,” Speth said.
03.23.2005	WASHINGTON –Today the Social Security and Medicare Trustees issued their annual reports on these programs’ financial outlook, adjusting their estimates in the process. The 2005 Social Security Trustees Report projects that, in the year 2017, Social Security will begin paying out more in benefits than it takes in through payroll taxes. (Last year’s report projected this would occur in 2018.) At that point, in order to keep paying scheduled benefits, the government will need to find funds to cover this shortfall. Because the “trust fund” is full of government IOUs, rather than cash reserves or investments backed by cash, it will not be of practical assistance in paying the shortfall and the government will face several painful options including tax hikes, continuous borrowing, or reductions in benefits. “This annual report confirms what we already knew – that we need to fix the system if it is to be strong for our children and grandchildren. If nothing is done to put Social Security on a path to permanent solvency, future generations will bear the burden of much higher taxes, substantial benefit cuts, ever-increasing government debt, or a combination of these,” Ryan said. “The trustees’ evaluation of Medicare shows that its financial problems must be addressed as well,” Ryan said. “Congress took the first steps to update Medicare when we passed major legislation in 2003, but important parts of this law have not yet taken effect. It would be helpful if we could look at the impact this law has, when fully enacted, on Medicare’s costs, in order to guide future reform efforts to strengthen Medicare.”
03.21.2005	WASHINGTON – Congressman Paul Ryan today voted in favor of legislation (S. 686) that will allow Terri Schiavo’s parents to have a federal court review whether her constitutional rights have been violated and, in doing so, respect her fundamental right to life. The House passed this legislation by a vote of 203-58. It has already cleared the Senate. Congressman Ryan made the following statement after the vote: “A core purpose of our government is to defend the lives of its citizens, including those who are severely disabled. Terri Schiavo deserves this protection and, at the very least, her parents deserve the right to ask a federal court to review their daughter’s tragic case and consider whether her rights are being upheld.” “Terri Schiavo is not being kept alive by extraordinary means. She is brain damaged and needs help taking in food and drink. And she would not be undergoing a ‘dying process’ if her food and water were not being withheld. Her life is precious and her rights – and her parents’ rights – should be respected.”
03.17.2005	WASHINGTON – Congressman Paul Ryan voted in favor of the Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Resolution, which passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 218-214. In an effort to keep Congress’ spending in check, Ryan and like-minded colleagues were able to secure a new procedural tool that will allow representatives to object and require a vote of the full House, prior to final passage, if a House spending bill goes over budget. “This is a step in the right direction, toward making the budget something we can actually enforce,” Ryan said. “It is not airtight, and there’s more work to do to bring greater discipline to the process Congress uses to spend taxpayers’ money, but this progress is encouraging. Overall, this budget resolution does a great job of funding priorities, while slowing the growth of federal spending. Now we need to make sure Congress sticks to it. This is a good starting point and paves the way for further action to fix our broken budget process – which House leadership has committed to bring up for a vote in the coming months.” The House Budget Resolution does not determine or dictate specific funding or policy decisions. Rather, it sets limits for spending in broad areas that the House is supposed to adhere to when it crafts spending legislation. The budget plan the House passed today provides for the following: An increase in overall spending, from $2.471 trillion in Fiscal Year 2005 to $2.554 trillion in Fiscal Year 2006. Increases in defense and homeland security spending. A reduction of 0.8% in non-security discretionary (non-mandatory) spending. Deficit reduction (under this plan the deficit would be cut in half by 2010). The measure also instructs House authorizing committees to find savings under mandatory programs, in order to slow the growth of mandatory spending from 6.4% to 6.3%.
02.17.2005	WASHINGTON – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted in favor of bipartisan compromise legislation that would prevent class action abuse, cut down on lawyers’ shopping for friendly forums in magnet jurisdictions, and put in place a “consumer class action bill of rights.” This bill – S. 5, the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 – passed the House by a vote of 279-149. The Senate already passed this measure. “Class action lawsuit abuse is a drain on our legal system and must be addressed,” Ryan said. “This legislation will help stop lawyers who routinely manipulate certain courts and leave consumers with little to gain.” S. 5 includes the following provisions: Fixes a loophole in current law that has led to the proliferation of large class actions in “magnet” state courts. This legislation creates federal jurisdiction over large, multi-state class actions – class actions where the amount in controversy exceeds $5 million, where there are at least 100 class members, and where any member of the class is a citizen of a different state from any defendant. Provides for carefully crafted exceptions that keep truly local disputes in state court. Puts an end to the various tricks now used by plaintiffs’ lawyers to stay out of federal court, like naming a local pharmacy or convenience store in a nationwide product liability suit. Establishes a consumer class action bill of rights to ensure that class members – not their attorneys – are the primary beneficiaries of the class action process. For example, this legislation: - requires that judges carefully review all coupon settlements and limit the portion of attorneys’ fees attributable to the award of the coupons to the value actually received by class members, - prohibits any settlement under which any class member is obligated to pay the class lawyer more than the class member received under the settlement, unless the court makes a written finding that non-monetary benefits to the class member outweigh the financial loss to the class member. - bans settlements that award some class members a larger recovery because they live closer to the court.
02.10.2005	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today approved H.R. 418, the REAL ID Act – legislation cosponsored by First District Congressman Paul Ryan and introduced by a fellow Wisconsin representative, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner, that targets terrorists’ ability to travel in the United States and increases homeland security. Ryan voted for this legislation, which passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 261-161. “The terrorists who attacked us on 9-11 used driver’s licenses from five different states and took advantage of holes in our system that allowed them to travel easily within our borders. It makes sense to set basic standards for licenses or ID cards that could be accepted for boarding planes. It’s also common sense to update our laws so we aren’t letting potential terrorists or those who aid terrorists operate within our borders,” Ryan said. Major components of H.R. 418 include the following: Sets minimum document and issuance standards for state driver’s licenses or ID cards that could be accepted by a federal agency (such as for boarding planes). States would also have to verify that a person is in the United States legally before issuing a driver’s license or ID card that could be accepted by a federal agency. In addition, temporary driver’s licenses for temporary visitors to the U.S. would last only for the period of their stay – or one year, if their stay is indefinite. Updates the nation’s asylum laws to prevent abuse by terrorists. Current law and judicial precedent prevent the U.S. government from asking foreign governments what evidence they have about the terrorist activities of asylum applicants. H.R. 418 corrects this and would require asylum applicants accused of being members or supporters of guerilla, militant, or terrorist organizations to meet a higher burden of proof. Strengthens our current laws regarding deportation of those found guilty of participating in terrorist activity. Under current law, not all terrorism-related grounds for keeping an alien out of the U.S. are also grounds for deportation if that person has succeeded in entering the U.S. H.R. 418 provides that an alien who provides funds or other material support to a terrorist organization is inadmissible and deportable if he knew, or reasonably should have known, that he was giving to a terrorist organization.
02.04.2005	WASHINGTON -- First District Congressman Paul Ryan has announced the schedule for listening sessions that he will be holding in February. Ryan will be visiting 35 communities in Wisconsin's First Congressional District to listen to constituents’ concerns and answer questions they have about Social Security reform and other vital issues that affect Southern Wisconsin. “I know that people have many questions about Social Security reform, and I wanted to go straight to them to provide answers and hear what is on their minds,” Ryan said. “These listening sessions will give us a chance to talk about Social Security and other issues that they care about.” Please click here for a complete schedule of upcoming listening sessions.
02.02.2005	WASHINGTON – Wisconsin's First District Congressman Paul Ryan tonight made the following comments regarding the President’s State of the Union address: “The President’s tribute to our troops and all who are fighting for freedom around the world was moving. Ultimately, the spread of freedom and democracy is our best hope for peace and security, so it was a vital message for him to send. As we watched the Iraqi people voting this weekend, we were inspired and reminded of the power and potential of liberty.” “I’m also glad the President talked about why it’s crucial to reform Social Security now so the program will be able to help our children have a more secure retirement, while at the same time honoring its promise to seniors and those close to retirement. He needed to communicate that this will not affect today’s seniors, and he needed to show how this will help younger workers build savings for their retirement.” “Anyone taking an honest look at Social Security’s finances can see that the current system is heading toward bankruptcy, and this will only get worse as the baby boomers retire. Voluntary personal accounts are the key to saving the system for future retirees and giving younger workers the chance to earn a better rate on their retirement dollars. I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress and with the President to craft a reform plan that ensures all generations have access to a secure retirement.”
01.20.2005	First District Congressman Paul Ryan issued the following statement following President Bush’s Inaugural Address today: “This was a confident, idealistic speech about freedom’s power and promise for all. The President focused on the moral ideals of liberty and responsibility that ring true to Americans – regardless of party and other differences – and give hope to people around the world. It was an inspiring and unifying address, and I hope it will help our nation move forward in good faith together to tackle the challenges before us.”
01.06.2005	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today announced that he has been named a vice-chairman of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus. Two hundred ninety-six Members of the House and Senate currently belong to this bipartisan caucus, which works to protect the rights of America’s hunters, anglers, and trappers and promote wildlife habitat conservation. Ryan, a gun and bow hunter and an avid outdoorsman, made the following statement about his selection as part of the caucus’ leadership for the 109th Congress: “I’m honored to be named a vice-chair of the Sportsmen’s Caucus. I love to hunt, fish and spend time outdoors, and I know Wisconsinites share this passion. It will be a privilege to work to protect their rights and the wildlife habitat we all enjoy as a leader of this caucus.”
01.06.2005	With the finalization of several committee assignments this morning, First District Congressman Paul Ryan announced that he will keep a seat on the House Ways and Means Committee, while at the same time gaining a seat on the House Budget Committee. Ryan will continue to serve on the Ways and Means Committee’s Subcommittee on Social Security. “These committee assignments will allow me to work on many top priorities and issues that matter greatly to Wisconsinites, such as strengthening and improving Social Security for the long run, making health care more accessible and affordable, looking out for taxpayers’ money, and fighting for budget reform and a balanced budget,” Ryan said. “I want to fully engage in the fight to control spending and this assignment on the Budget Committee helps me do just that.” Since 2001, Ryan has served on the House Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over taxes, Social Security, and Medicare among other issues. Prior to 2001, he served on the House Budget Committee (among others), which deals with budget and economic matters, but initially had to give up that seat upon becoming a member of the Ways and Means Committee.
01.06.2005	The U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate today approved by unanimous consent legislation to encourage further cash donations to aid the victims of the tsunami that struck in the Indian Ocean. The measure allows Americans donating cash to tsunami relief efforts through January 2005 to deduct those contributions from their 2004 tax returns – making it easier for people to reach out and assist tsunami victims greatly in need of help in the aftermath of this tragedy.
12.17.2004	JANESVILLE – Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today announced that his Washington office has moved to a new location: Room 1113 on the first floor of the Longworth House Office Building. (Previously, Ryan’s office had been in room 1217 on the second floor of the Longworth building.) “The office has just moved down one floor in the same building as before, and I want to let Wisconsinites know where they can find us when they visit Washington. They should consider our office a sort of embassy in our nation’s capital and feel free to stop by whenever they and their families are in the city,” Ryan said. Despite the move, the telephone and fax numbers for Ryan’s Washington office will remain the same. The phone number is 202-225-3031, and the fax is 202-225-3393. The new mailing address for the Washington office is as follows: 1113 Longworth House Office Bldg. Washington, DC 20515 Due to continuing security screening procedures, mail sent via the U.S. Postal Service to congressional offices on Capitol Hill is typically delayed one to two weeks before the offices receive it. As a result, it is best if constituents contact Congressman Ryan via fax, e-mail, or by calling the toll-free constituent services hotline at 1-888-909-7926.
12.07.2004	Wisconsin’s First District Congressman Paul Ryan today voted in favor of compromise legislation agreed to by House and Senate negotiators to restructure and reform the U.S. intelligence system, take new steps to thwart terrorism, and strengthen homeland security. The House of Representatives approved this legislation (S. 2845) by a vote of 336-75. The sweeping overhaul responds to the 9/11 Commission’s recommendations regarding intelligence and national security. The Senate is expected to pass this measure soon. Then it will be sent to the President for his signature. This legislation creates a Director of National Intelligence to serve as the head of the U.S. intelligence community and manage the National Intelligence Program. The final compromise legislation keeps the nation’s intelligence spending classified and clarifies chain-of-command language to preserve the ability of the Secretary of Defense to manage defense intelligence community assets to effectively support troops on the battlefield. The measure did not include reforms advocated by fellow Wisconsin Congressman F. James Sensenbrenner to prevent states from issuing driver’s licenses to illegal aliens and to improve our nation’s asylum laws. Congressman Ryan voted for these reforms in the original House intelligence reform bill. “Although we didn’t get all the reforms we wanted with this plan, it contains many crucial improvements that will build a stronger intelligence system and help protect Americans,” Ryan said. “It also protects the chain of command so that critical intelligence gets to our troops in the field when they need it. Overall, this legislation will help us combat terrorism and better manage our intelligence assets.” “While the bill doesn’t move forward on certain immigration issues, it doesn’t slide backward either. I agree with my colleague Congressman Sensenbrenner that further reforms are necessary, and I look forward to working with him next year on these remaining issues. With this bill, we passed 90% of the reforms we wanted, and that is a good step forward. With the commitments we have from the White House and congressional leadership on passing these crucial immigration reforms, I believe we have moved the process forward,” Ryan said. S. 2845 includes numerous provisions to upgrade our nation’s intelligence system and make the U.S. safer. Among them are the following: Creates a Director of National Intelligence, separate from the Director of the CIA, to serve as head of the intelligence community and oversee and direct the implementation of the National Intelligence Program. Establishes a National Counterterrorism Center to coordinate across departmental lines and serve as the primary Executive Branch organization for counterterrorism intelligence and strategic operational planning. Creates a Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board charged with ensuring that privacy and civil liberties concerns are appropriately considered in the implementation of laws, regulations, and policies of the government related to efforts to protect against terrorism. Keeps intelligence spending classified. Preserves the ability of the Secretary of Defense to manage defense intelligence community assets to effectively support combatant commanders. Requires the Director of National Intelligence to report to Congress on the existing human intelligence (HUMINT) capacity, including a plan to implement changes to accelerate improvements to, and increase the capacity of, HUMINT across the intelligence community. Strengthens foreign language training and resources for the intelligence community. Authorizes federal officials to track lone-wolf terrorists – those who act individually and are not affiliated with a known terrorist group. Strengthens laws against weapons of mass destruction and against providing material support to terrorists. Enhances airline security in several ways such as promoting the use of biometric technologies and directing the Secretary of Homeland Security to propose minimum standards for identification documents required to board a domestic flight. Directs the Secretary of State to require an in-person interview with a consular officer for nonimmigrant- visa applicants who are at least 14 years of age and not more than 79 years of age (subject to waiver). Includes numerous provisions that encourage and facilitate better cooperation with our allies in the war on terrorism and promote cross-cultural understanding. Doubles the current number of border patrol officers to 10,000 over the next 5 years and provides 40,000 new detention beds to prevent potential terrorists from being released onto the streets.
12.03.2004	JANESVILLE – First District Congressman Paul Ryan today issued the following statement about the resignation of U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy G. Thompson: “Tommy Thompson has built a remarkable record of public service. Not only will he go down in history as Wisconsin’s greatest governor, but he has led the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services through a difficult and dynamic time of positive changes. He led the effort to improve Medicare. He has prepared our nation for chemical and biological terrorist threats. And he has worked tirelessly to improve the health and welfare of the American people. On a personal note, Tommy has been my greatest mentor. Of all things, he taught me that public service is about helping people reach their potential. He is a man of passion, big ideas, and boundless enthusiasm. Wisconsin welcomes Tommy home.”
