04.10.2019	Today, at a House Education and Labor Committee hearing, Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) questioned Department of Education (DOE) Secretary, Betsy DeVos, about Department of Education Priorities. Grothman focused on two specific topics. First, her plans to ensure individuals with disabilities have more choices in their employment opportunities. Second, her plan to promote dual enrollment opportunities so high school students can finish college quicker and with less debt. Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Grothman: “We’ve talked before about AbilityOne programs and state programs in which people with different abilities than ourselves have an opportunity to experience the satisfaction of work, the ability to earn their own paycheck, and the ability to have a setting in which they are able to socialize with so many people. Right now, there are people out there who want to get rid of these, what used to be called sheltered workshops, now we call work centers. I wonder if you could comment in the future if there is a direction the department would like to go in regard to protecting not just these work centers, but even more, the people who work in them?” DeVos: “Well congressman I know that you have a great heart for these individuals and for the opportunities that are within your district and with regard to the specific guidance that you’re asking about, we are still in the process of evaluating and reviewing it, and know that we share the same goal of ensuring that all individuals, particularly individuals with disabilities, have the opportunity to work in an environment that is challenging for them and works for them and that they will have choices in that prospect as well. So we will continue to work together to meet that end.” Grothman: “There are so many tens of thousands of people who enjoy working in their current setting. I know it is difficult you get this big job and the number of rules and laws and employees you are responsible for is overwhelming. Do you think you would ever be able to take time out of your busy schedule and tour one of these facilities and see firsthand what is going on?” DeVos: “I would love to be able to, I know our assistant secretary Johnny Collett has and said he really appreciated his visit and gained a much greater understanding of the places you have been referring to.” Grothman: “I would like to switch gears entirely to dual enrollment programs. We’ve got to do what we can to get people in the world of work without excessive student loan debt and quite frankly the earlier they get to work in their life, the quicker they will be able to afford a new house, the quicker they will be able to get married and have children. Do you think that an advanced degree can guarantee that students are receiving a high quality education that can lead to a good job in their field, or do you have a comment in general about what we can do to facilitate dual enrollment programs?” DeVos: “Well this administration does support much more robust dual enrollment opportunities as well as supporting a variety of career paths that heretofore really have not been supported in the ways they should be and that there is opportunity for so many students to pursue a really meaningful career that does not require a four-year college or university degree, so we will continue to support all of those initiatives that enhance those opportunities and support states and regions in their efforts to specifically address those opportunities in their geographies.” Grothman: “I appreciate you standing up to the special interests. There is money to be made in standing in the way of these dual enrollment programs and accreditation but I appreciate you standing up to the people who think accreditation comes first and the students come second. So thank you again for coming over here today.” Click here to view Grothman’s remarks. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.03.2019	This week, at a House Education and Labor Committee hearing, Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) questioned witnesses on accreditation practices for high school teachers that teach dual enrollment courses, in an effort to keep Wisconsin’s dual enrollment programs strong and lower the cost of college for Wisconsinites. His assertion, corroborated by Dr. Barbara Brittingham, is that too much emphasis is being placed on finding teachers with master’s degrees, while other highly capable individuals sit on the sidelines. Witnesses included: Professor Nicholas Hillman, Ph.D., Associate Professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison Ms. Melissa Emrey-Arras, Director, Education, Workforce and Income Security issues at the U.S. Government Accountability Office Mr. Noe Ortega, Deputy Secretary for the Office of Postsecondary and Higher Education at the PA Department of Education Ms. Barbara E. Brittingham, Ph.D., President of the New England Commission of Higher Education Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “Dr. Brittingham, as you know, dual enrollment is becoming a bigger and bigger thing in Wisconsin and nationwide, and one of the problems we have over time is credentialism for people that are teaching students, correct? Are you aware of that problem?” Dr. Barbara E. Brittingham: “That is something that we look at, that’s right.” Grothman: “Right, and dual enrollment is a tremendous thing. It allows people to get through college quicker. Kids who participate in dual enrollment classes have a tendency to do better. But, there is a concern among both high schools and colleges affiliated with them as you put more and more credentialism on some of these teachers, you’re going to have a hard time finding the teachers to teach these classes. I wondered if you could comment on that or if there is anything you think we can do about this? In my opinion, sometimes credentialism is meaningless. It is a shame if people are dissuaded or find it impossible to participate in these dual enrollment classes because credentialism might not show that a teacher is better. Do you have any comments on that or is there anything to do about it?” Brittingham: “I’m not sure what the long term solution is, it’s something that our commission looks at. I think there are variations in dual enrollment and I think one of the things that is greatly needed is some kind of empirical study that follows up on these students. We have sporadic studies but we really do not have a lot of information about where the students go, how many of the credits transfer, and can the dual enrollment be validated by the student’s success in subsequent courses. So I think there is much more to do. That said, I think that students do benefit from having well qualified teachers and faculty members and I think distance education offers us an opportunity to make sure that anybody who is teaching a college level class is prepared to do that.” Grothman: “Would you agree that sometimes a master’s degree does not make you a better teacher?” Brittingham: “Yes alas, I would agree with that.” Grothman: “So do you think there is some way we can find alternative means of accreditation to make sure these kids are able to get into dual enrollment classes?” Brittingham: “I think distance education offers us some great opportunities both for students in high schools to take courses offered through distance education by the colleges in their community and have teachers in their high schools work alongside them perhaps. It’s a problem.” Grothman: “Do you think it can be solved to a certain extent by finding alternative credentialism for some of these teachers?” Brittingham: “I am not sure what you mean by alternative credentials?” Grothman: “Alternative accreditation. If you could find a teacher being accredited maybe right now we are requiring a masters, but finding some other way of saying this is a good teacher even though they don’t have a master’s degree?” Brittingham: “There may be. I’m not aware of anybody doing that right now.” GG: “Do you think it would be a good thing to look into?” Brittingham: “Sure.” Click here to view Grothman’s remarks. Additional Information Dual enrollment programs are innovative education models that drive student participation in post-secondary education and lower the overall cost of college. Some dual enrollment programs even allow students to earn an associate’s degree at the same time that they graduate high school. Higher education institutions with dual enrollment programs work closely with high school teachers to ensure that students receive the same rigor and quality that they would on-campus. Unfortunately, a 2015 guideline by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC), could potentially harm the number of dual enrollment programs in Wisconsin, as a large portion of Wisconsin’s high school dual enrollment teachers do not meet the new requirements. The HLC guideline requires high school teachers that teach dual enrollment courses to have (a) a Master’s degree in the subject area they are teaching or (b) a Master’s degree in another discipline, with 18 Master’s-level credit hours in the subject area that they are teaching. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.02.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement on post office naming bills in Congress: “While Congress has not been able to address the major issues of the day such as immigration, health care and welfare reform, they have today continued the time-honored tradition of naming post offices.” Said Grothman. “I have no problem with naming post office boxes after our veterans who have given up so much to help keep us free. It’s a nice remembrance for them and their families and reminds our young people of the huge sacrifices that have been for our country. However, a tradition has grown in Congress to name post offices after members of Congress. Today, for example, a post office was named after Louise Slaughter, a Congresswoman from New York. I knew Louise. She was a nice, kind woman who was enjoyable to work with. However, members of Congress are well-compensated and do not risk their lives for our country. I therefore was one of seven Congressmen to vote against this bill. I, along with several colleagues, will continue to push for future post office naming bills to be awarded to the great men and women who have made real sacrifices for our country.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.28.2019	This week, at a House Education and Labor Committee hearing, Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) spoke with experts about the skilled labor shortage and the benefits of encouraging high school students to pursue careers in the skilled labor market. Oftentimes students are misinformed and encouraged to get a traditional four-year degree, when pursuing a trade will enable them to acquire a high-paying job without a mountain of debt. Witnesses included: Ms. Jennifer Carlson Mr. James G. Pavesic Mr. Mark Hays Ms. Bridget Gainer Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “I do have apprenticeship programs in my district, the carpenters, the operating engineers, pipefitters, that sort of thing. All very impressive and all share something in common, they can’t find enough people. And employers around my district can’t find enough people. I’ll ask you guys, is there anywhere in the country where you really have enough people in these fields or is the nationwide problem that these well-paid professions can’t find people to fill them? [panel shakes heads ‘no’]. Can you suggest what we can do to get the word out to people at age 16 or 17 about how much more money they can make and how much less in debt they will be, not to mention, I think, more job security?” Mr. Pavesic: “I believe that where the real answer is, is to the guidance counselors that are in high schools. And the biggest part of that, Congressman, is that their evaluations are based on how many children they send to college. Whether they spend one day in college or they go the entire time. That’s how their evaluations are based. They should be based on if they’ve send someone to post-secondary education systems, whether it’s an apprenticeship or college. We try to talk to guidance counselors, we attend the guidance counselor’s conferences, and when they see our model, they think it’s a great model. Especially the fact that they can receive college credits while they earn and learn but it just seems like that message isn’t getting down to the student or the parents.” Ms. Carlson “I think it is correct that we have to look at what the guidance counselors are doing, and how they’re establishing it, I think that from a national advertising campaign we need to destigmatize what an apprenticeship is.” Grothman: “I think it’s destigmatized among most people. I think the problem is that a lot of guidance counselors almost make things worse. Do you think that’s true?” Carlson: “I do know that they are incentivized to put people into college degrees and that our sector’s technology is equally as much in-demand looking for people to fill the jobs as the trades are and that wages in both industries can end up looking the same within five years without the benefit of a degree.” Grothman: “One of the things I think is very illuminating is when I hear from people in the trades or people in tech schools talking about people who got a degree that didn’t lead to a skill coming back when they’re 28, 29, 33, 34 [years old] and getting a skill they could have had when they were 20 years old and they’ve been losing out on compensation for 13 or 14 years, not to mention frequently harnessed with a big debt as well. Do you folks find that true around the country? Where people are getting involved with these programs much later than they could have?” Mr. Hays: “Absolutely. I think that we see it all the time. Students coming back to, for whatever reason can’t find work in the area they originally studied or got bored or tired of it and wanted to try something new. It’s pretty significant in our system.” Pavesic: “What I would say is that we see more and more applicants that come into our program that have four-year degrees just for the exact same reason, they cannot find a worthwhile job and they need to pay off their debt. And all of them, after they get into the apprenticeship program, say the same thing, that they wish they would have done that earlier. And that could also help somewhat, too, to fund some more vocational classes in high schools so that these individuals can see that there are other jobs in IT jobs, plumbers, pipefitters, welders, that are available to them.” Grothman: “I’m not sure it’s the federal government’s role, but I do see in my area that the more on-the-ball- school districts are beginning to do things to get people acquainted with these skills in high school. I know they’re doing it more in Wisconsin, maybe because we’re a heavy manufacturing state, got a lot of good construction outfits, but is this something that you’ve seen more nationwide? More of the high schools being on-the-ball and realizing that we can get people on the road to these apprenticeships when you are in high school?” Hays: “I think we can start younger, certainly.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks. Additional Information https://republicans-edlabor.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=403342 -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.27.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced upcoming town hall meetings for April 14 & 18, 2019. Town hall meeting times and locations are as follows: Sunday, April 14, 2019 1:30-2:30 p.m. Fox Crossing Town Hall 2000 Municipal Drive Neenah, WI 54956 3:30-4:30 p.m. Vinland Town Hall 6085 County Rd T Oshkosh, WI 54904 Thursday, April 18, 2019 10:00-11:00 a.m. Sheboygan Falls City Hall 375 Buffalo Street Sheboygan Falls, WI 53085 12:30-1:30 p.m. Kiel Community Center 510 3rd Street Kiel, WI 53042 2:30-3:30 p.m. Greenbush Town Hall N6644 Sugarbush Road Glenbeulah, WI 53023 -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.26.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement on Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report to the Department of Justice: “After two years, $25 million dollars and several charges unrelated to President Trump, Special Counsel Robert Mueller has finally released his report to the Department of Justice.” Said Grothman. “I have always felt that these collusion charges were completely unfounded, and the key takeaway of Mueller’s non-partisan report being ‘President Trump did not collude with Russia in the 2016 election’ confirms that. It is unfortunate that it took so long to reach this obvious conclusion. Now, there is only one thing left to do, which is release the report to the public. Earlier this month, Congress passed a resolution stating that the report should be made public. I voted for this resolution because I believe that if we have more transparency, it is always good for the American people. Now that we are well into President Trump’s third year in office, I hope that my Democrat colleagues and the media will trust Special Counsel Mueller’s independent investigation and lay this matter to rest. Under the leadership of President Trump and a Republican Congress, our country has seen massive economic growth, record-low unemployment, wage increases for everyday Americans, increased access to career and technical education and great improvements to the VA. When I talk to the citizens of Wisconsin, these are the issues I hear about. I hope that that national conversation will shift toward the real issues like patient-centered health care solutions, immigration reform, welfare reform and taking bold steps to improve the lives of all Americans.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.15.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced that his office is accepting entries for the 2019 Artistic Discovery Competition. The Artistic Discovery competition is open to all high school students in Wisconsin’s Sixth District. The winner will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year in an exhibit that features winners from other congressional districts across the U.S. Works of art entered in the contest may be up to 26” x 26” x 4”, including the frame, and can be made in the style of painting, drawing, collage, print, mixed media, computer generated art or photography. All entries must be original in concept, design and execution. All submissions for the 2019 Artistic Discovery Competition must be mailed or delivered to Congressman Grothman’s Fond du Lac office by April 15, 2019. For more information, please visit Congressman Grothman’s website at Grothman.house.gov/constituent-services/arts-competition.htm or call his Fond du Lac office at (920) 907-0624. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.26.2019	Today, Congressman Andy Biggs (AZ-05) and Senator David Perdue (R-Georgia), along with Congressman Matt Gaetz (FL-01) introduced resolutions in the House and Senate to recognize America’s national debt as a threat to our national security. Earlier this month, the national debt reached $22 trillion. Congressman Biggs, Senator Perdue, and other cosponsors released the following statements: “We introduced this resolution because the United States is racing towards a fiscal cliff. Congress is taking few measures to solve this problem, and it is beyond time for our colleagues in both chambers to become serious about balancing the nation’s budget and recognize this issue as a threat to our national security. “America has a spending problem, not a revenue problem. While the United States is producing record federal revenue, Congress has failed to pass balanced budgets. If we do not change our course, we will be responsible for one of the worse catastrophes this nation has ever experienced: the crash of the American economy and the demise of a superpower. I thank Senator Perdue and my colleagues for their leadership on this issue.” – Congressman Andy Biggs (AZ-05) “The single greatest threat to our national security is our national debt, and it’s time Washington comes to grips with that reality. This month, our national debt topped $22 trillion. This news should have sounded alarms throughout Washington, but bureaucrats and career politicians didn’t even blink an eye. Ultimately, the debt impacts our ability to fund priorities, like providing our men and women in uniform with the resources they need to protect Americans. This debt crisis will only get worse, and if we don’t act now, our country will lose the ability to do the right thing.” – Senator David Perdue (R-Georgia) “Even with the improving economy, in the last fiscal year the federal government borrowed about 19% of its budget. This was, in part, because of massive increases in discretionary spending, cheered on by members of Congress from both parties.” – Congressman Glenn Grothman (WI-06) “The $22 trillion national debt is crippling our country. In a few short years, interest payments on our debt will outpace all defense spending. That is a stark and sobering statistic which lays bare the real national security threat our debt crisis is creating.” – Congressman Kelly Armstrong (ND-At Large) “Throughout my time in Congress, I’ve voted for responsible budgets that prioritize necessary spending, eliminate waste and end programs inappropriate for federal government expenditures. Unfortunately, even as our national debt and its threat to future generations have ballooned, too few in Washington are willing to take tough votes necessary to curb spending and protect our solvency. It is important we recognize the threat associated with a $22 trillion – and growing – national debt. While it is doubtful Democrats allow a spending bill addressing this issue to move forward, I will continue advocating for responsible spending of taxpayer funds for as long as I am in Washington.” – Congressman Brian Babin (TX-36) “At a staggering $22 trillion, the national debt is suffocating Americans. While we can’t undo our past, we can work toward a better future, especially for the millions of young Americans who will bear the burden of this growing debt in their sunset years. It’s time we find responsible solutions that curb government waste of taxpayers’ dollars contributing to the national debt.” – Congressman Troy Balderson (OH-12) “I came to Congress to advance real solutions that address what I consider to be the biggest threat to America: our unconscionable national debt. Congress’ fiscal irresponsibility presents a serious threat to our national security and jeopardizes America’s economic stability. We cannot continue to disregard our duty to future generations. I am glad to join my colleagues in cosponsoring this important resolution.” – Congressman Ken Buck (CO-04) “Our nation’s debt is out of control. We need to rein in spending and start paying down debt, and you can’t get serious about either one of those without a balanced budget. The State of Tennessee and most of our local governments pass balanced budgets each year. Families across the country sit at the dinner table balancing their checkbooks and living within their means, so why can’t the federal government do the same?” – Congressman Tim Burchett (TN-02) “I promised the citizens of Virginia’s Sixth Congressional District last fall I would bring four words to Washington – ‘we can’t afford it.’ I am proud to stand with Rep. Biggs and my fellow co-sponsors to bring fiscal responsibility to Washington. As then-Joint Chiefs Chairman Admiral Mike Mullen said in 2010, our national debt is not only a threat to our economy, but it is also a threat to our national security. It is my hope that Members of Congress will get serious about reigning in spending, balancing our budget, and paying down our national debt.” – Congressman Ben Cline (VA-06) “The liberal media may have just noticed, but the Obama Administration doubled the national debt in eight years, despite raising taxes on small businesses and the middle class. In reality, no amount of taxation will ever pay for liberals’ Big Government agenda. It’s impossible to calculate the cost of the Green New Deal, Medicare for All, free college, and welfare benefits for illegal aliens. Though Republicans cut taxes to return their money to Americans who earned it, the economy is growing, and the rate of debt increase has slowed, establishment politicians in both parties have failed to address out-of-control spending, the true problem. Much of it is unauthorized or on auto-pilot. Fraud and waste amount to billions of dollars every year. Interest payments account for a larger and larger share of federal spending. My constituents in Tennessee can rely on me to vote the way they would in Congress to rein in reckless spending – a threat to Social Security, Medicare, even national security. We cut income taxes. Now let’s cut spending that serves only bureaucrats, their political cronies and special interests in Washington.” – Congressman Scott DesJarlais (TN-04) “The staggering national debt is one of the main reasons I came to Congress. It’s evident that Washington has a spending problem, not a revenue problem. If we don’t start making spending cuts and implementing real reforms as soon as possible, we put our economy and our national security at great risk. We can’t keep sitting back and saddling the next generation with over $22 trillion in debt and putting our nation in danger – we must act on this national security crisis. We need fiscal sanity to be restored in Washington.” – Congressman Jeff Duncan (SC-03) “For far too many years, Congress has failed to provide the American people with a fiscally responsible balanced budget, opting instead to repeatedly raise the debt ceiling. Our current national debt of over $22 trillion poses a grave threat to the security of our country and signifies a radical departure from the founders’ vision for how Congress manages taxpayer dollars. I support Congressman Biggs’ resolution recognizing the national debt as a threat to our national security and I call on my colleagues to express their commitment to being good stewards of taxpayer dollars.” – Congressman Matt Gaetz (FL-01) “Due to Congress' reckless spending habits, America is heading toward a catastrophic event that will wipe out pensions and retirement benefits. If we keep on this destructive path, Congress will be forced to slash eligibility for social security and reduce benefits that Americans have been paying for and counting on for years. We must put an end to this blind spending.” – Congressman Paul Gosar, D.D.S. (AZ-04) “Our national debt represents a looming crisis that we must address. The United States has not had a balanced budget since 1997, and as of December, our total public debt is officially larger than our GDP. We must recognize that the national debt is a threat to our national security, and take immediate steps to balance our budget.” – Congressman Andy Harris (MD-01) “Anyone who isn’t alarmed by the $22 trillion national debt is living in a fantasy world. Fiscal responsibility is at the core of a well-protected and secure nation. With unchecked federal spending and no balanced budget, we put the safety of every American at risk. The consequences of Congressional inaction will be detrimental to the next generation and the country we hand down to them.” – Congressman Kevin Hern (OK-01) “There’s no denying that we’re in trouble when it comes to our national debt. It’s simply out of control. The deficit has climbed well beyond $22 trillion, and Washington continues to kick the can on balancing our books to ensure that future generations aren’t saddled with colossal debt. As we dig ourselves more and more into this hole, our ability to fund what’s really and truly necessary to run this country becomes more and more difficult. That’s why I’m proud to support this resolution that reaffirms our priorities and ensures long-term sustainability for our Nation for years to come.” – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) “For years now, our nation's top military officials have testified before Congress that the greatest threat to our national security is our national debt. A continued pattern of reckless federal spending is not only irresponsible, it is dangerous. We have a moral obligation to restore fiscal sanity to the Congress so that our children and grandchildren have the opportunity to enjoy the same blessings of liberty that we have. That starts with recognizing the true cost of our actions.” – Republican Study Committee Chairman Mike Johnson (LA-04) “The American people sent us to Washington to change the status quo and reduce out-of-control government spending. It’s time to do what we said.” – Congressman Jim Jordan (OH-04) “The federal government must live within its means. Our future generations are going to be crippled with debt if the federal government cannot get its fiscal house in order. With our debt at over $22 trillion, we must act to preserve our national security and give our economy the stability it needs.” – Congresswoman Debbie Lesko (AZ-08) “It is unacceptable that for decades, Congress has failed to manage its budget responsibly. This negligence is not only unsustainable and irresponsible, but it’s a threat to our national security. I am proud to be a part of this legislation, led by Rep. Biggs, that immediately addresses our Nation’s fiscal crisis.” – Congressman Roger Marshall, M.D. (KS-01) “Our national debt has topped $22,000,000,000,000 and poses an existential threat to the U.S. I am proud to cosponsor this resolution recognizing that the fiscal crisis we face is a national security threat. The security of the next generation of Americans depends on addressing this crisis. Congress must work together to reduce the unsustainable national debt through regular order.” – Congressman Dan Newhouse (WA-04) “Extraordinarily difficult days lie ahead for this nation if we cannot recognize $22 trillion in debt for what it is: a threat to national security. We must get our fiscal house in order, and that process begins with a simple resolve to balance the budget.” – Congressman Ralph Norman (SC-05) “Our National debt continues to grow without any regard for the consequences. I’ll continue to fight with my colleagues to demand action because our current National debt severely limits our ability to respond to fiscal and military crises. I appreciate Congressman Biggs’ leadership on this issue and am proud to support this proposal.” – Congressman Scott Perry (PA-10) “It’s time for Congress to finally start taking our budget crisis seriously. Our budget process is broken and out of control. We’re playing with our country’s future – we need to act to fix this.” – Congressman Lloyd Smucker (PA-11) “We cannot in good conscience ask the American people to be responsible with their personal finances, while their Congress and government continues an out-of-control spending spree. With our national debt now topping over $22 trillion dollars, and growing, this weight on our national finances is a clear and present danger to our national security.” – Congressman Ross Spano (FL-15) “For far too long, Congress has failed to act on the growing national debt. This negligence is a direct threat to our national security and puts our country at risk. I am committed to putting security over politics and finally getting our federal budget back on track.” – Congressman Greg Steube (FL-17) “National security experts have long warned us that our massive debt is one of our biggest national security threats. With U.S. debtrecently surpassing $22 trillion, soon we will spend more paying down interest on our debt than on national defense. I do not accept the standard Washington presumption that nothing in the budget can be cut in order to fund important priorities without increasing the deficit. Hardworking taxpayers make tough spending decisions to stay within their budget and expect their representatives in government will do the same.” – Congressman Daniel Webster (FL-11) “The federal government has blindly spent taxpayer and borrowed dollars for decades with little thought of sustainability or responsibility. Many of these expenditures have zero return to the taxpayer, while funding for economic investments like infrastructure are ignored. Today, that puts us in a position where our national debt is a fiscal crisis and a threat to the security of our nation. We find ourselves in these crisis situations – such as raising the debt ceiling – because Congress has failed to address our spending problems, which is why I continue advocating for a return to fiscal responsibility and balanced budgets. I’m grateful for my colleagues’ work in bringing attention to this issue.” – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) “Since 1997, Congress has failed to do its job to maintain a fiscally responsible budget. Time and time again, we have relied on raising the debt ceiling, and just recently, our national debt hit a record $22 trillion. As I’ve said before, our country does not have a revenue problem, we have a spending problem. The President’s National Security Strategy highlights the need to reduce the debt in order to maintain our nation’s military power, and for this reason, and I am proud to cosponsor Rep. Andy Biggs’ resolution to recognize the national debt as a threat to national security.” – Congressman Roger Williams (TX-25) ###
02.15.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today followed up on his previous statement regarding H.J.Res.31, the government funding bill: “Due to the short amount of time we had to read the bill, it would be impossible to know all of the provisions within it. New, bad provisions seem to be uncovered every hour. I can confidently say, knowing what I already do, I cannot, in good conscience, vote for such a bill. While most public attention will focus on immigration provisions, that is actually a small section of the bill. One of my main concerns is that this bill spends too much money. America just exceeded $22 trillion in debt and we are borrowing about 22 percent of our budget. President Trump tried to bring some fiscal discipline to Congress, but they decided to spend 19 percent more than what the President proposed in this bill and overall two percent more than last year.” Examples in H.J.Res.31 where more money was spent than President Trump requested: Census Bureau, $20.9 million more NOAA Climate Research, $60.4 million more Washington, D.C., $67.2 million more National Endowment for the Arts and Humanities, $155 million more Contributions to international organizations, $255 million more USAID, $258 million more Global health programs, $1.2 billion more -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.15.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement in response to news that the recently passed H.J.Res.31, a bill to fund the government, will relax laws intended to stop child trafficking: “While a lot of the attention has been given to the wall, there is a very concerning provision in this bill regarding the illegal entry to the U.S. with children to avoid extradition. It appears as though this provision would allow criminals, including violent gang members, to avoid extradition if they have a child, any child, live with them. Given what we already know about immigrants renting other people’s children to get into this country, this provision furthers the incentive to rent other people’s children, likely putting them in harm’s way. I have always been a strong opponent of human trafficking and this has the potential to greatly increase this problem. Parts of the border, other than authorized ports of entry, are already controlled by Mexican drug cartels, which means that this provision has the potential to be a humanitarian nightmare. It is my duty as a public servant to protect the most vulnerable among us, which is why I will soon be introducing a bill that will correct this egregious error. The main goal of this bill will be to protect the unaccompanied minors and stop the cartels and MS-13 from expanding their ability to exploit them.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.14.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement on H.J.Res.31, the government funding bill: “Due to the short amount of time we had to read the bill, it would be impossible to know all of the provisions within it. New, bad provisions seem to be uncovered every hour. I can confidently say, knowing what I already do, I cannot, in good conscience, vote for such a bill. While most public attention will focus on immigration provisions, that is actually a small section of the bill. One of my main concerns is that this bill spends too much money. America just exceeded $22 trillion in debt and we are borrowing about 22 percent of our budget. President Trump tried to bring some fiscal discipline to Congress, but they decided to spend 19 percent more than what the President proposed in this bill and overall two percent more than last year. Since we must secure our border, one would hope this portion of the bill would make up for the spending described above. Actually, it makes things worse. According to President Trump’s border patrol expert, we need a minimum of $8 billion to build a wall that will make a meaningful, positive impact. The Democrats initially proposed $1.6 billion for wall funding and actually reduced that amount in the final draft of this bill to just under $1.4 billion. There are also provisions allowing local units of government along the border to drag out the process of building a wall. Worst of all, gang members and criminals can stay in the U.S. if they find a child, any child, to accompany them. How immoral. I voted no because this bill is too free spending and doesn’t do enough to protect our country and children being used by the cartel. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.13.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today introduced the Student and Teacher Safety Act. This bill would allow schools more flexibility with existing federal funds to make physical safety improvements to campus facilities, support local education programs aimed at improving school safety and security and assist in coordination between schools and local law enforcement to identify threats. “Students and teachers have the right to feel safe in school. But, we still have work to do in preparing schools to properly identify and respond to violent individuals.” Said Grothman. “The Student and Teacher Safety Act will make it possible for our local schools to better secure their campus and allow them to bolster security measures as well as coordinate with local law enforcement in ways that will fit their unique needs. I believe that the people who know what is best for schools are the students, parents and teachers in the local community. So, if federal dollars are already being given to schools, they should be able to use that money to protect our children. Our children depend on us to provide them a safe and secure environment to learn. That’s the driving force behind this bill because it is our duty to protect the most vulnerable among us.” Background The Student and Teacher Safety Act would allow states and local educational agencies to use existing federal grant money to make a number of physical safety improvements to school campus facilities, such as the installment of emergency communications systems and improved surveillance systems. In addition to physical improvements to school campuses, the bill also allows states to support local educational agencies in providing programs and activities that improve the safety and security of schools, including better coordination with law enforcement. School improvements can include: Physical improvements to the school to prevent and deter unauthorized access to the school, including locks, double entry systems, hardened entrances, and interior and exterior video surveillance systems Security doors, automatic locks, security glass, alarm systems, metal detectors, and sensor systems Emergency communications systems including geographically precise mobile alert systems Perimeter fencing Emergency exit systems Duress or panic systems Emergency tip lines Other physical improvements to existing facilities where the primary purpose is to improve school safety Additionally, states can use funds to: Identify and disseminate best practices for school safety Assist in the establishment or implementation of emergency planning, which may include emergency response teams to address emergencies at schools Establish or identify agreements with local law enforcement and health agencies, including nonprofit, public, and private mental health agencies and institutions Improve coordination of services and identify threats to the safety of students and school’s personnel School safety infrastructure improvements -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.07.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement on the radical new abortion law in New York and bill in Virginia, both allowing abortions up until the birth of the child: “While I normally don’t comment on state legislation, the radical nature of these bills requires it.” Said Grothman. “One has to wonder about the future of our nation when governors of historic states- both among the original 13 colonies- praise bills designed to approve killing children at birth. I should point out that very few countries approve of these late-term abortions. America is one of seven, along with North Korea, China, Vietnam, Canada, the Netherlands and Singapore. Defenders say that late-term abortions are for unviable children. I once talked to a woman who assisted in late-term abortions for one day in Ohio. Five of the six children killed were entirely healthy and one had Down Syndrome. America, a country founded for a moral and religious people, is disgracing itself. Where are the churches? Where are the good people?” Background Democrats Overplay Their Hand on Abortion New York- “On the 46th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo signed legislation permitting all abortions until 24 weeks of pregnancy. After that point, the bill asks only that the provider make a ‘reasonable and good-faith professional judgment’ that ‘there is an absence of fetal viability’ or that abortion is ‘necessary to protect the patient’s life or health.’ That last term, health, is left studiously undefined, a significant omission.” DeSanctis, Alexandra. “Democrats Overplay Their Hand on Abortion.” The Atlantic, Atlantic Media Company, 4 Feb. 2019, www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/02/new-york-and-virginia-push-expand-abortion-rights/581959/. Virginia- “Democratic Delegate Kathy Tran introduced a bill—with the backing of her party and of Democratic Governor Ralph Northam—that would significantly loosen existing restrictions on abortion in the final three months of pregnancy. Currently, third-trimester abortions are permitted only if three doctors certify that a woman’s health otherwise would be ‘substantially or irremediably’ impaired. Under Tran’s bill, only the physician who would perform the abortion must provide that certification, and the ‘substantially or irremediably’ language is dropped, in favor of a provision that allows for an exception if the continuation of the pregnancy is determined to ‘impair the mental or physical health of the woman’—a provision that may appear commonsensical, but is in fact intentionally vague.” DeSanctis, Alexandra. “Democrats Overplay Their Hand on Abortion.” The Atlantic, Atlantic Media Company, 4 Feb. 2019, www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/02/new-york-and-virginia-push-expand-abortion-rights/581959/. Congressman Grothman has been a cosponsor of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act as well as the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Act. Both bills passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan support in the 115th Congress. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act makes elective abortions on unborn babies 20 weeks post-fertilization or older illegal, except in cases of rape or incest, or to protect the life of the mother. In Wisconsin, Gov. Scott Walker signed a similar bill into law in 2015. Wisconsin’s Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act prohibits abortions of unborn children after 20 weeks post-fertilization. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Act amends the country’s criminal code to prohibit health care practitioners from not administering the proper degree of care in the case of a child who survives an abortion or attempted abortion. Specifically, the bill: Requires health care practitioners to do all they can to preserve the life of the child as they would other babies born prematurely and requires the practitioner to ensure that the child is immediately transferred and admitted to the hospital. Establishes strong criminal penalties for anyone who intentionally kills, or attempts to kill, a child born alive. Allows the woman upon whom the abortion was performed or attempted to obtain appropriate relief through civil action. Exempts the mother from being prosecuted under this law. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.06.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) released the following statement after President Trump’s 2019 State of the Union address: “I applaud President Trump for recapping our achievements in the past and for laying out his agenda for his next two years. President Trump reminded us that he isn’t afraid to stand up to unions by highlighting the passage of Veterans Administration (VA) Accountability Act, a bill allowing the VA to let employees go when their performance is not up to the standard our veteran’s deserve. We passed a tax cut that, not only energized the American economy, but also doubled the child tax credit to benefit American families. He reminded us of the massive reduction in government red tape, which, among other things, has led to America becoming the world’s number one oil and gas producer. He pointed out that Republican policies have led to the biggest decline in prescription drug prices in 46 years. He reminded people of his bipartisan work on a criminal justice reform bill that will allow non-violent criminals to resume productive lives after being released from prison. Looking forward, President Trump cemented his promise to increase funding for disease research by telling the heartwarming story of one of tonight’s distinguished guests, 10-year-old Grace Eline, a childhood cancer survivor. He changed the policy of the last two presidents and promised American combat troops be taken out of Afghanistan after 17 years of involvement in that region. He also called for further negotiations on freeloading by our allies regarding national defense obligations. I was particularly pleased that President Trump solidified himself as the most pro-life president in American history by endorsing a nationwide prohibition on abortion when babies can feel pain – 20 weeks and older. He condemned the New York and Virginia governors for their ghoulish endorsement of killing a child the day the child is born. President Trump has tried to get Democrat legislators to understand that compassion mandates a border wall by introducing an angel family, including Debra Bissell, whose parents were tragically killed by illegal immigrants. He also recounted the tens of thousands of American lives lost by drugs coming across our southern border. I was glad to be part of President Trump’s accomplishments over the last two years, including his tax cut agenda, VA reform agenda, and reduction of government regulations. I eagerly look forward to helping him pass the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, of which I am a cosponsor, as well as helping him secure funding to build the wall and secure the border.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.06.2019	This week, at a House Education and Labor Committee hearing, Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) reaffirmed his support for retaining coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, and questioned experts on ways we can lower health care costs by the use of company-operated association health plans. Witnesses included: Ms. Sabrina Corlette, Research Professor for the Center on Health Insurance Reforms at Georgetown University’s Health Policy Institute Dr. Rahul Gupta, Senior Vice President and Chief Medical and Health Offer of the March of Dimes Mr. Chad Riedy, an adult with Cystic Fibrosis Ms. Grace-Marie Turner, President of the Galen Institute Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “It seems to me that the Republicans and Democrats are all in favor of protecting coverage for preexisting conditions. Could you just one more time tell us, under current law are workers with preexisting conditions allowed to be charged more or be denied coverage based on their condition?” Ms. Grace-Marie Turner: “No Congressman.” Grothman: “So that’s the current law right now. Good. We’ll give you some other general questions. I am from Wisconsin. In 2018, last year, Scott Walker worked with the Trump Administration and CMS to approve a 1332 state innovation waiver which caused our premiums to drop. Are you familiar with that situation?” Turner: “Yes, I am sir.” Grothman: “Could you talk about what we did in Wisconsin?” Turner: “I mentioned, actually, in my testimony some of the impact that these plans have had. They have been able to basically repurpose existing ACA money to help increase and improve access to coverage for people with chronic, preexisting conditions, and therefore lower premiums in their general market. Wisconsin is often taking the lead in health policy innovations and waivers. I think this is important one to move forward with.” Grothman: “At least I am told that premiums dropped a little over four percent?” Turner: “Premiums dropped and enrollment increased as a direct consequence.” Grothman: “Good, and in the past, we saw incredible increases in premiums and open enrollment falling. We saw that in Wisconsin. Is that true nationwide?” Turner: “Because the premiums were so much higher, people just can’t afford it, and we talk about high deductibles, they are so high in the ACA plans that if people are not eligible for cautionary reduction subsidies they basically say that might as well not be insured because they can’t afford to pay the first $10,000 every year out of pocket before coverage kicks in.” Grothman: “I’m glad you mentioned association plans. My experience with health care in general, is when you take a group, not a statewide group because it’s hard for the state to duplicate it. But when you take a business with 1,000 employees or something, a lot of these innovative businesses were doing a very good job. One of the things they did was employer based clinics, which saved a tremendous amount of money for a variety of reasons. Is there any way you could see this sort of thing duplicated through something like Obamacare or is this the type of innovation that is why we want the vast majority of Americans still insured through their employer?” Turner: “Well the ACA did allow for some innovation incentives for people to do not association health plans, but creative coordinated plans within Medicare and because the rules that were written around the ACA were so strict, even plans like the Mayo Clinic and Cleveland Clinic and others that had been very successful in managed coordinated care couldn’t make it work, so I do think that flexibility is really important and trusting employers. Some employers have said for example that they feel it’s worth flying their employee to another state to get care at a center of excellence, cardiac care or cancer care, so they really do try to innovate to get the best value and best quality care.” Grothman: “That’s another thing. I did mention employer based clinics but these centers of innovation, flying people to other states, because an employer has the ability to hire somebody, and do a good job. Now I know there are a lot of people who will always feel that setting up another big federal bureaucracy is going to work after that seems to have failed like 120,000 times in a row, but what you’re telling me is the way the private insurance plans, even for individual companies and hopefully to be duplicated by association plans, they are able to find ways to reduce premiums and reduce costs that really as a practical matter are not being duplicated by a government bureaucracy?” Turner: “That’s correct” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks. Additional Information https://republicans-edlabor.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=403175 -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.30.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today introduced H.R. 848, which will require an individual to be a U.S. citizen in order to receive welfare benefits, such as Medicare, Medicaid and SNAP. H.R. 848 will encourage more hard-working immigrants to come to America, while discouraging those who only seek to come here to take advantage of our welfare state. A study published in 2015 shows that both legal and illegal immigrant households take advantage of the welfare system far more than native-born households. Moreover, Politifact confirms that half of immigrant families receive some form of welfare. It is estimated that H.R. 848 would save taxpayers $60 billion in its first year. “The welfare system in America, while started with good intentions, is in need of a major overhaul.” Said Grothman. “We need to clean up the welfare system so those who really do need help get it, but those who are able to work, should. America has become a beacon of prosperity throughout the world not because of our generous welfare system, but by how many jobs we provide for those looking for a better life for their family and themselves. I want to give every immigrant a hand-up instead of a hand-out so they too can share the dignity that comes with an honest day’s work, just like my ancestors had when they came to this country.” “Grothman’s bill provides a better strategy to support immigrant self-sufficiency and protect taxpayers.” The Weekly Standard “Grothman’s bill will save taxpayers a boatload of money, and it would do it without losing the benefits that hardworking immigrants provide. With more self-reliant immigrants, America could open its doors to even more who want to contribute to this country.” The Weekly Standard -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.25.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) and Congressman David Loebsack (D-IA) have introduced a bipartisan bill to avoid future government shutdowns. If Congress fails to pass an appropriations bill under the End Government Shutdowns Act, an automatic continuing resolution (CR) will be activated that will fund the government at the previous year’s levels, preventing all future shutdowns. Having an automatic backup plan will promote a more purposeful budgeting process by instilling stability within the market and smoothing economic downturns from federal action or lack-thereof. If signed into law, this bill will take effect on October 1, 2019. “The state government of Wisconsin has had a version of my bill in place since 1953. As a state legislator, I participated in budget negotiations firsthand and under these rules, the state budget always gets completed and we have never had a shutdown” Said Grothman. “For too long, politicians on both sides of the aisle have used government shutdowns and other budgetary gimmicks that put federal workers in harm’s way. My bill, the End Government Shutdowns Act, will eliminate federal shutdowns and force politicians to work together to produce a budget that works for everyone.” “It is shameful that political games and dysfunction have taken the place of Congress actually working together to pass the funding bills needed to ensure our government is open and working on behalf of the American people. Across the country, folks are feeling the very real negative economic impact of the shutdown. We can no longer allow the budget of the United States be used as a bargaining chip that hurts hardworking families. Each time there is a government shutdown, it wreaks havoc on the financial security of our nation. I am pleased to work with Congressman Grothman on the bipartisan End Government Shutdowns Act that will help bring stability to the American people and actually force politicians to do the work they were elected to do.” Said Loebsack. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.23.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) this week became an official co-sponsor of the bipartisan bill, H.R. 672. This bill will defer federal employees’ federally owned student loan payments until after a government shutdown ends. During a government shutdown, federal employees have their paychecks deferred until after the government reopens. However, their obligation to repay federally owned student loans is not deferred. H.R. 672 will allow employees with federally owned student loans to delay repayment of the debt until after the government reopens. After reopening, employees may enter into an optional reimbursement period commensurate with the length of the shutdown. H.R. 672 was introduced to the House by Congressman David Loebsack (D-IA). “To be clear, I believe that federal employees who work during a government shutdown should receive their paychecks as usual.” Said Grothman. “Since this is not happening under the current system and House leadership refuses to bring H.R. 271 to the floor to ensure it does, we need to safeguard federal employees from further harm by quickly passing H.R. 672. That is why I believe this bill is critically important to the thousands of federal employees who have federal student loans. There is no reason they should have to suffer interest payments and damage to their credit score because of a government shutdown. I look forward to working in a bipartisan manner with Congressman Loebsack, who personally asked for my help with this bill.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.23.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced that he will once again sit on the Oversight and Reform Committee in the 116th Congress. “I look forward to continuing to represent the Sixth District on the increasingly prestigious Oversight and Reform Committee.” Said Grothman. “I am committed to ensuring our government works for the people in the most efficient way possible. I have a good relationship with returning members, such as incoming Chairman, Elijah Cummings (D-MD), and Ranking Member Jim Jordan (R-OH), and look forward to working with new members such as Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY). Last Congress, President Trump created a task force in each agency to identify excessive or duplicative regulations. These findings were brought before the Oversight Committee and were essential is shaping policy that has produced a thriving economy. I hope to build upon these successes and continue to utilize my position on this committee to protect the people from excessive government.” “We welcome Congressman Glenn Grothman back to the Oversight committee. Our job is to find and defend the truth. I look forward to working with Rep. Grothman and each and every member of the committee to conduct serious fact-based oversight.” Said Ranking Member Jim Jordan. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.22.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced that he will once again sit on the Education and Labor Committee in the 116th Congress. “I am excited to retain my seat on the Education and Labor Committee. Last Congress, under Republican control, we made great progress. I am most proud of our work modernizing the career and technical education system to better fit the needs of today’s students. Wisconsin’s Sixth District has more manufacturing jobs than any other, so it is critically important that we provide the next generation of skilled workers with the tools they need for the good, high-paying skilled jobs of tomorrow.” Said Grothman. “I have a good relationship with incoming chairman Bobby Scott (D-VA), and hope that my Democratic colleagues will follow our lead, reach across the aisle and continue to build upon our foundation of success.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.16.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) has introduced the Ending Sanctuary Cities Act. This bill will put more pressure on states to follow federal laws by making them choose between receiving federal grant money and continuing to unlawfully harbor illegal immigrants. The Secretary of Homeland Security would be required to submit delinquent jurisdictions to Congress. Additionally, individual law enforcement officers in these “sanctuary cities” will be protected from discharge or discrimination from any state or local government “Our job is to keep Americans safe and our country secure, and so-called sanctuary cities impede our ability to do just that,” said Grothman. “Not enforcing our current immigration laws is a public safety issue. In fact, 121 people who were released from immigration custody were later charged with murder between 2010 and 2014. It’s not just cities passively disobeying the law, as we saw when the mayor of Oakland actively worked to hide illegal immigrants from ICE. It is time we held states accountable for disobeying federal immigration laws and harboring illegal immigrants who sometimes turn out to be criminals themselves.” Background “The term "sanctuary city" is a broad term applied to jurisdictions that have policies in place designed to limit cooperation with or involvement in federal immigration enforcement actions. Cities, counties and some states have a range of informal policies as well as actual laws that qualify as "sanctuary" positions. Most of the policies center around not cooperating with federal law enforcement on immigration policies. Many of the largest cities in the country have forms of such policies. In 2015, more than 200 state and local jurisdictions did not honor requests from Immigration and Customs Enforcement to detain individuals, ICE Director Sarah Saldaña testified before Congress, and a subset of that group refused to give access to their jails and prisons to ICE. According to tracking by the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank that advocates for restricting immigration and opposes sanctuary policies, roughly 300 sanctuary jurisdictions rejected more than 17,000 detention requests, between January 1, 2014, and September 30, 2015.”1 “Oakland, Calif., Mayor Libby Schaaf says she has no regrets about warning residents of an impending raid by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, even as the agency blasted the move as politically motivated and reckless. It comes as sanctuary jurisdictions — a loose term generally used to describe areas whose laws do not require cooperation with federal immigration officials — butt up against the Trump administration's crackdown on enforcement. The dispute began on Saturday when Schaaf posted a message on Twitter saying she had learned from ‘multiple credible sources’ that ICE ‘is preparing to conduct an operation in the Bay Area, including Oakland, starting as soon as within the next 24 hours.’”2 1Kopan, Tal. “What Are Sanctuary Cities, and Can They Be Defunded?” CNN, Cable News Network, 26 Mar. 2018, www.cnn.com/2017/01/25/politics/sanctuary-cities-explained/index.html. 2Held, Amy. “Oakland Mayor Stands By 'Fair Warning' Of Impending ICE Operation.” NPR, NPR, 1 Mar. 2018, www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2018/03/01/589948064/oakland-mayor-stands-by-fair-warning-of-impending-ice-operation. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.16.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today spoke on the House floor about the shameful history of legalizing abortion in America and stresses the importance of protecting human life. Excerpt of Grothman’s Statement Thank you, Mr. speaker. I rise today to support life. Forty-six years ago, when I was a senior in high school, the U.S. Supreme Court felt that the United States Constitution required abortion be legal in this country. Despite the fact that for much of the past century every state in the union felt that abortion should be made illegal. This decision directly led to the deaths of over 40 million children who should have been living a full life. John Adams said that our Constitution was meant for moral and religious people. How can a country, built for moral and religious people, living under our Constitution allow this to happen? Well, we know how it happened. About 10 years ago, justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg let the cat out of the bag. This decision was meant to prevent the growth in population. The progressives' dream. How do they get their dream? Some politicians sometimes talk about science and say we don't take into account science enough around here. It's interesting that in 1973, when this decision was reached, we didn't have ultrasounds. Now with ultrasounds, it's more apparent than ever that every new baby in that womb is a unique individual with its heart-beating, with it feeling pain. Nevertheless, we continue to ignore that science and continue to allow this horrible stain on our culture. Indeed, right now the United States is only one of seven countries to allow late-term abortions. There we are in the same list as North Korea and China and Vietnam. This is the type of country they like. Our forefathers wanted this country to be a country that would shed a light on the world. Nevertheless, we appear to be going backwards. The new majority recently brought a bill to the floor to allow the United States to pay for abortions abroad again. Is this what we want America to be known for? The United States telling countries all around the world that abortion should be legal and the government should be paying for abortion? What a stain on the moral record of the United States of America. This is the week of the March for Life. I'd like to thank all the people from the state of Wisconsin who are there and come here diligently every year hoping the people in this city, both the justices and the politicians, realize that this murder of almost a million people per year must end. So, I’d like to thank them, and hope this is the last year that we have to continue this debate and that finally by next year, this time, we once again think that life is precious and our government will not continue to allow the premature snuffing out of life. For the full video, click here. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.14.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today called on House leadership to bring H.R. 271, the No Work Without Pay Act, to the floor for a vote. This bill will ensure that the roughly 420,000 federal employees who are required to work during a federal government shutdown receive their full pay in a timely manner. Grothman is one of just 12 co-sponsors of H.R. 271. Currently, during a federal government shutdown, federal employees are treated in two different ways. First, roughly 380,000 federal workers are furloughed, or sent home without pay until the government reopens. Second, roughly 420,000 other federal employees (such as TSA, border patrol agents, air traffic controllers, Coast Guard and correctional officers) are ordered to work without timely pay or even the guarantee of getting paid. “Today, I call on Speaker Pelosi and the rest of House leadership to bring H.R. 271 to the House floor for a vote.” Said Grothman. “I, and every one of my colleagues, come into work and see federal employees who are required to work during the shutdown, but continue to live without certainty of a paycheck. It is against the very morals of our country to force people to work without the guarantee of pay. I can’t imagine what House leadership was thinking when they decided to make working federal employees wait the length of the shutdown, to receive their paycheck. Speaker Pelosi and the Democratic leadership made the conscious decision to pay those who aren’t working, while continuing to snub the Coast Guard and correctional officers that put their lives on the line every day. This is nothing short of a national security risk. After talking to many of my colleagues, I don’t believe they realized that the bill that passed the House last week, S. 24, did not address the problem of federal employees who work during a shutdown not receiving a paycheck. If a federal employee is working during a government shutdown, he or she should be able to count on a paycheck for that work. That is why I am calling on House leadership to think about federal workers and their families and bring H.R. 271 to the floor for a vote. I am committed to ending the partial shutdown, securing our borders and getting federal employees back to work. That is why I have asked the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives to withhold my pay until a deal is reached and the government reopens.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.11.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement regarding his vote on S. 24, which passed the House 411-7: “Today, the House of Representatives voted to give back pay to all federal employees, both those who work and those who don’t, during this government shutdown and all future shutdowns. This means that employees that do not work, no matter how long the shutdown, will still receive full pay. This week I cosponsored H.R. 271, the No Work Without Pay Act, which will provide immediate pay for federal employees who are working during the shutdown. House Democrats have refused to allow a vote on this bill. This has created a situation where employees who are working do not know when they will receive their next paycheck, yet they still they are required to pay their work-related expenses. If Congress really intends to pay people whether they work or not, they should simply have them work. H.R. 271 will pay working federal employees immediately, rather than having them wait until the shutdown is over. This bill, opposed to the S. 24, would pay working federal employees in the timely manner they deserve.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.10.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) made the below statement about the Democrat-controlled House’s decision to overturn Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance (PLGHA), which in turn would allow U.S. tax dollars to fund abortions in other countries. In 2017, President Trump reinstated a policy to stop all U.S. foreign aid from going to organizations that perform abortions. President Trump named it PLGHA, and it is based on a Reagan-era policy called the Mexico City Policy, which was upheld under the Bush 41 administration and reinstated by the Bush 43 administration. In effect, most organizations still take aid from the United States, they have just agreed to stop performing abortions. Two major international organizations that refused to stop providing abortions and are no longer receiving U.S. aid are the International Planned Parenthood Federation and Marie Stopes International. H.R. 21 is a consolidated spending bill that aggregates six of the 12 yearly spending bills that Congress must pass to fund the government. The bill would provide full-year FY 2019 appropriations for agencies and departments that are annually funded under the following appropriations measures: Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Financial Services and General Government Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Funding lapsed for such departments and agencies and the Department of Homeland Security at the end of December 21, 2018. It is expected that the House will consider funding for the Department of Homeland under a separate continuing resolution lasting through February 8, 2019. House Democrats have shown what their priorities are in the new Congress by sliding a provision to overturn PLGHA and allow U.S. tax dollars to fund abortions in other countries into H.R. 21. H.R. 21 passed the House with 100 percent Democratic support. The funding bill that passed the House on December 20, 2018, which contained border security funding and kept PLGHA in place, received no Democratic support. “Democrats opened the new Congress by, on day 1, surreptitiously inserting a provision into H.R. 21 that will overturn PLGHA and allow the billions of dollars of aid we send to other countries to be used for abortions.” Said Grothman. “I wholeheartedly believe that life begins at conception and that abortion is a barbaric practice. The fact that one of the first bills the Democrats passed in this new Congress will be used to not only increase the number of abortions worldwide, but use U.S. taxpayer dollars to do it, is a disgrace.” Further reading https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/nancy-pelosi-says-no-to-the-wall-but-yes-to-overseas-abortion-funding https://www.congress.gov/bill/116th-congress/house-bill/21 -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.09.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah), along with Congressman Mark Pocan (D-Madison), today introduced a bipartisan bill that would help keep Wisconsin’s lakes healthy by restricting the access of invasive fish populations. This bill would amend the Federal Power Act to allow the Secretary of Commerce and Secretary of Interior to consider the threats posed by invasive species before mandating a new fish passageway be built through a dam. Fish passageways serve an important purpose of preserving and enhancing the populations of desirable, native fish by allowing them a way to travel around dams. However, invasive species use these same fish passageways to invade rivers and lakes and devastate native species and their habitats. The state of Wisconsin is currently experiencing this problem. The Fish and Wildlife Service has ordered the installation of a fish passageway at the Prairie du Sac dam. Asian Carp, which is an invasive species that can grow nearly three feet in length, have been found at the base of this dam. Installing a fish passageway in this location would allow the Asian carp to migrate upstream to the Wisconsin River, Lake Wisconsin and eventually the Great Lakes. This would wreak havoc on native species and threaten the Great Lakes $7 billion fishing industry. “Invasive species can have a devastating effect on the environment, public health and the economy. The damage they can cause only gets worse over time, which is why this legislation is becoming increasingly important to pass.” said Grothman. “This bipartisan bill will ensure that federal decision-makers consider all consequences before ordering the installation of a fish passageway through a dam. I believe that we have to do a better job of making smart decisions to protect our environment.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.09.2019	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced upcoming town hall meetings for January 18-20, 2019. Town hall meeting times and locations are as follows: Friday, January 18, 2019 1:00-2:00 p.m. Kingston/Dalton Town Hall W6368 Pine Street Dalton, WI 53926 3:00-4:00 p.m. Cambria Village Hall 111 W Edgewater Street Cambria, WI 53923 Sunday, January 20, 2019 2:30-3:30 p.m. Manitowoc Public Library 707 Quay Street Manitowoc, WI 54220 -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.04.2019	U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today introduced The People’s Border Wall Fund Act, which would allow the American people to actively take part in making America safer by allowing them to personally fund the construction of a wall on the Southern border. The bill would create an account within the Department of Treasury that would allow public donations be used for the design, construction and maintenance of a border wall. “For too long, illegal drugs, guns and criminals have poured over our unsecure Southern border.” said Grothman. “Concerned Wisconsinites frequently ask me if there is a way they can personally contribute to the funding of a border wall. As it stands now, there isn’t. That’s why I am proud to answer the call of Wisconsinites in the Sixth District and introduce this bill that will fulfill their request to strengthen national security.” Background The People’s Border Wall Fund Act would create a trust fund within the Department of the Treasury that allows for public donations to be used to plan, design, construct, and maintain a barrier along the U.S. – Mexico border. The Department of the Treasury would be required to notify the public of the existence of the account, along with the current amount of funds and total amount donated over time. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.03.2019	U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today introduced legislation to award Fond du Lac native James “Maggie” Megellas the Medal of Honor. The bill authorizes and requests President Donald Trump to award Megellas with the United States’ highest military honor for the courage he showed during the Battle of the Bulge. “More than 70 years ago, Maggie displayed a heroism in the face of one of WWII’s bloodiest battles that is deserving of our nation’s highest award. He saved countless lives and stopped the advance of enemy troops without thought of his own life,” said Grothman. “I hope that my colleagues can come together in a bipartisan manner to recognize that Mr. Megellas is a true American hero who deserves to be awarded the Medal of Honor.” Background On Jan. 28, 1945, First Lieutenant Megellas led his platoon in a successful attack on an enemy battalion near Herresbach, Belgium, that outnumbered it ten-to-one. After the attack, he advanced his platoon towards the town when a German Mark V Panther tank pinned them down. Megellas weathered enemy fire to attack and destroy the tank himself with just two grenades and his submachine gun. He then led his platoon to secure Herresbach for advancing Allied forces. Under Megellas’ command, his platoon did not suffer a single casualty that day. Megellas is the most-decorated soldier from the 82nd Airborne Division, receiving the Distinguished Service Cross and the Silver Star for his actions during the Battle of the Bulge. He was born and raised in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, and graduated from Ripon College. He currently lives in Colleyville, Texas. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his third term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
12.13.2018	Today, at a House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing, Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) questioned expert medical researchers about the effectiveness of fetal stem cell research. Key Takeaway 1: According to the experts, stem cells created from adult samples, called pluripotent stem cells, have yielded far greater results than stem cells taken from fetal tissue. Key Takeaway 2: When asked why fetal tissue studies are not foregone for the more effective pluripotent stem cells, Dr. Prentice replied that some scientists are “trained in a certain way and we may be reluctant to switch to something new, even if we know that it’s better and potentially more productive”. Witnesses included: Dr. Tara Sander Lee, Associate Scholar at the Charlotte Lozier Institute Dr. David Prentice, Advisory Board Member at the Midwest Stem Cell Therapy Center Dr. Sally Temple, Board Member and Former President at the International Society for Stem Cell Research Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “First question is for Dr. Prentice. You don’t use fetal tissue at the Midwest Stem Cell Therapy Center, correct?” Dr. Prentice: “No, Congressman.” Grothman: “Has this prohibited you from doing cutting-edge research?” Prentice: “None of the research at the Midwest Stem Cell Therapy Center uses aborted fetal tissue, but they have made great strides in spite of that. And probably because of that.” Grothman: That’s interesting that you say ‘because’ of it, and there are other centers like yours around the country. Can you explain why, first of all some of the progress you’ve been making, and second why you feel you’re being able to make progress at a greater rate than some of the centers who feel they have to use fetal tissue?” Prentice: “The origin of that- not using the aborted fetal tissue, quite frankly, was from the legislature that initially set up the Midwest Stem Cell Therapy Center. And, part of the reason was to focus on the more successful adult stem cells and the potential treatment to get this into the clinic faster for the patients. So I mentioned one of the clinical trials. It’s a homegrown clinical trial, first of its kind, to treat Graft v. Host disease using an adult stem cell source. That clinical trial is still ongoing so this is very early. But, the initial results seemed very successful. In association with the Bone Marrow Transplant Center they have been treating a number of different cancers as well as anemias, including sickle cell anemia. They have also engaged in this stroke study to treat patients who have experienced stroke even years in the past.” Grothman: “Overall in our country, why? Has there been more progress with adult stem cells or fetal tissue research?” Prentice: “There’s much more from adult stem cells. Not even close” Grothman: “Why do you think when it’s not even close are there some people out there who insist, is there something psychological going on? This apparent love affair with fetal tissue, why psychologically would people prefer to use that than the more effective adult stem cells?” Prentice: “Well, I think in some cases, as a scientist, we’re trained in a certain way and we may be reluctant to switch to something new, even if we know that it’s better and potentially more productive. But, Congressman, I’d like to make a point about that, that when we do step out, great things can happen. And if I could give you just one brief example, if we look in the stem cell field, if we look at the production of these induced pluripotent stem cells, a Japanese scientist, Dr. Yamanaka came up with a few years ago. One of his reasons, frankly, was he looked through the microscope at an embryo in a colleague’s lab and said ‘you know we can’t see much difference between this and my daughter’s. We can’t keep destroying embryos. There must be a better way to get the same kind of cell.’ He came up with these IPS cells, which mimic pretty much everything an embryonic stem cell can do and won the 2012 Nobel Prize for it.” Grothman: “Okay, I sometimes wonder when it comes to politicians, we’re always pushing the fetal tissue because they’ve been so invested in abortions and they ant abortions to be good that they just want to believe that fetal tissue research is superior. I don’t want to let you alone Dr. Sandra Lee. Can you tell us a little about reprogramming adult stem cells into pluripotent cells? Dr. Sander Lee: “Yes, so you can generate what’s called induced pluripotent stem cells from sematic cells. So for example you can take a skin biopsy from an adult human and you could isolate the skin cells and you can reprogram them, you can give them specific factors that allow them to differentiate and basically revert back to an embryonic-like state. And then those cells, those pluripotent cells, can be further reprogrammed into what are called organoids, which are simply organs in a dish. They can be studied and have comparable, similar cell components to what we see in the fetus.” Grothman: “Can you give me examples of some sort of treatments that are evolving out of this?” Sander Lee: “Probably some of the best examples are when we look at brain development. So, there are multiple publications in literature, which show you can take skin fiber blasts from adults, you can actually purchase these skin fiber blasts from biorepositories such as Coriell, and you can make these IPS derived four-brain organoids that you can use to study Miller-Decker syndrome. There’s actually key publications that have shown that you can take these cells and you can actually make cerebral organoids and you can look specifically at astrocytes and they have shown these astrocytes actually have functional pathways similar to the adult human cortex. We have other examples such as [indiscernible] from 2016 in which they’ve generated many of these organoids to recapitulate many of the features of the pre-fetal human brain. There is other examples, so for example [indiscernible] from 2017 in which they’ve taken these brain organoids and actually been able to graft them into a mouse and actually look at functional neuronal networks of vascularization such as blood vessels. So, these are all critical studies. Another example, Levine was able to take these, well actually it was Jang Et. Al. were able to actually take these and actually research human developmental brain by recapitulating the medial ganglion organoids and cortical organoids. So there are multiple, multiple examples, I could keep talking, and this is just about brain development. We’re not even talking about retinal development, Kidney development, and these are key studies that can be don’t in multiple areas on development in the fetus.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks (beginning at 1:39:24). Additional Information PURPOSE: To evaluate the ethical considerations of fetal tissue research and explore alternative research methods. To discuss the recent steps taken by the Administration to expand efforts in developing and implementing the use of alternatives. BACKGROUND: Since the 1920s, scientists have used cells from fetal tissue in their research. This year, the National Institutes of Health is estimated to provide approximately $100 million in funding for research grants that involve the use of fetal tissue. In September, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) canceled its contract with a fetal tissue procurement company, citing concerns the company was not meeting applicable fetal tissue regulations. HHS subsequently initiated an audit regarding their human fetal tissue acquisitions and is continuing its review of “whether adequate alternatives exist to the use of human fetal tissue in HHS funded research.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
12.12.2018	This week at a House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing, Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) questioned experts on “backdoor spending”, which is federal agency spending that occurs outside of the federal appropriations process. This means that federal bureaucrats are deciding how tax dollars are being spent with no Congressional oversight. Due to prior Congresses ceding power to bureaucrats, “backdoor spending” has increased by 88 percent since 1994. Witnesses included: Ms. Tranchau (Kris) T. Nguyen, Director of Strategic Issues at the Government Accountability Office (GAO) Ms. Julia Matta, Managing Associate General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel at the GAO Mr. James Wallner, Senior Fellow, Governance Project at R Street Institute Mr. Robert Weissman, President of Public Citizen Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “Theoretically, all federal spending should be authorized. Did the GAO confirm that all of this backdoor spending was authorized?” Ms. Nguyen: “Yes, our process of confirming the statutory authority required us to work with agencies to identify both amount and statutory references. And when possible, we verified this information against the President’s budget.” Grothman: “How many spending authorities did Congress create say over the last 20 years? Nguyen: “As I mentioned earlier, we have a total of 902 accounts.” Grothman: “Can you give me some examples of the biggest ones?” Nguyen: “In our report, we identified the biggest drier of the growth is permanent appropriations. And specifically HHS, SSA, with their Medicare and old age and survivor and disability insurance programs are among the top spending authorities. And, in addition to that, Treasury is the third in line. Collectively, those three agencies make up 75 percent of spending authority in permanent appropriations.” Grothman: “I take it by the ‘Treasury’ you mean interest on the government debt?” Nguyen: “Yes.” Grothman: “How much has backdoor spending gone up per year the last couple years?” Nguyen: “As I mentioned earlier, backdoor spending is a general term that’s referring to appropriations that occur outside of the annual appropriations process. And our definition of ‘spending authority’ is the authority that is made available outside of the annual appropriations process.” Grothman: “How much has that gone up per year the last couple years?” Nguyen: “The increase collectively is 88 percent since 1994.” Grothman: “Right, but the last couple years?” Nguyen: For that level of information I would need to get back to you on that.” Grothman: “I’d like to find out for the last couple of years both the increase in what you’d call mandatory spending, or backdoor spending, and the increase of appropriations and see for the last two years what overall has happened. You said Congress amended some backdoor spending authorities. Can you give me some examples of authorities Congress how expanded in the last few years?” Ms. Matta: “One good example, Representative Grothman, would be the Flood Insurance fund. They’ve reported an increase in about 878 million in offsetting collections in 2012, after legislation increased the annual limitation on premium increases for certain insurance premiums.” Grothman: “You said GAO confirmed that the programs are authorized. Have any authorizations ever lapsed.” Matta: “Yes, during that period of time some authorizations did lapse. The other point that I want to let you know is that out of the approximately 1,000 Authorities, we were unable to confirm about 28 authorities with individual agencies. As our report is issuing publicly today, we are planning to refer those particular accounts to the appropriate authorizing and appropriations committees in case they wish to exercise further oversight. We attempted to confirm those with the agencies on our own and working with them. We were unable to identify whether it was an improper use of an authority, or the data in that particular account, coming from the OMB database, perhaps had an error in it. But we were unable in those particular counts to confirm the authority. So, the vast majority, we did, but there was a small part we did not. Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks (beginning at 48:16). Additional Information Purpose: To examine the extent to which federal agencies use backdoor spending to avoid the annual appropriations process. To explore how backdoor spending undermines Congress’ authority and what Congress can do to reassert its authority over the power of the purse. Background: Congress generally asserts its constitutional authority over the power of the purse through the annual appropriations process. However, prior Congresses have ceded some control to the Executive Branch by allowing backdoor spending. Backdoor spending is federal agency spending not subject to congressional review in the annual appropriations process, such as permanent appropriations and offsetting collections like fines and penalties.1 Spending outside of the appropriations process undermines congressional oversight by allowing agencies to fund agency operations and unappropriated programs without an annual approval by Congress. On December 11, 2018, the Government Accountability (GAO) will issue a report examining federal agency use of backdoor spending. According to GAO, federal agencies reported $3.2 trillion in backdoor spending in 2015, an 88 percent increase since 1994. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.28.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah), along with Congressman Mark Pocan (D-Madison), this week introduced a bipartisan bill that would help keep Wisconsin’s lakes healthy by restricting the access of invasive species of fish. H.R. 7170 would amend the Federal Power Act to require that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service would be required to consider the threats posed by invasive species before mandating a new fishway be built. Fishways serve an important purpose of preserving and enhancing the populations of desirable, native fish by allowing them a way to travel around dams. However, invasive species use these same fishways to invade rivers and lakes and devastate native species and their habitats. The state of Wisconsin is currently experiencing this problem. The Fish and Wildlife Service has ordered the installation of a fishway at the Prairie du Sac dam. Asian Carp, which is an invasive species that can grow nearly three feet in length, have been found at the base of this dam. Installing a fishway in this location would allow the Asian carp to migrate upstream to the Wisconsin River, Lake Wisconsin and eventually the Great Lakes. This would wreak havoc on native species and threaten the Great Lakes $7 billion fishing industry. “Invasive species can have a devastating effect on the environment, public health and the economy. The damage they can cause only gets worse over time, which is why this legislation is becoming increasingly important to pass.” said Grothman. “H.R. 7170 will ensure that federal decision-makers consider all consequences before ordering the installation of fishways. I believe that we have to do a better job of making smart decisions to protect our environment.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.28.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today, at a House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing, questioned The Honorable Michael E. Horowitz, Inspector General for the Department of Justice and Mr. Hugh J. Hurwitz, Acting Director for the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) on how the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) holds both inmates and guards accountable for wrongdoing. Specifically, Grothman questioned about the Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA). Since being enacted into law, PREA has led to a large number of frivolous accusations against guards, which in turn leads to a litany of paperwork. Grothman’s line of questioning was designed to gain insight to these false accusations in order to discern how we can both A) protect actual victims under PREA and B) reduce frivolous reporting that only serves to distract from other important prison matters. Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “I do have the Oxford federal prison right outside of my district and several state prisons in my district. When I talk about PREA I think there’s sometimes a forgotten person here. Everybody says ‘we’ve got all these out of control prison guards, we’ve got to crack down on the prison guards’. A lot of prisoners, and perhaps it’s not surprising given the type of people who wind up prisoners and the fact that being a prisoner is kind of a boring life, I think they sit around and try to make lives miserable for the guards. What percentage of PREA complaints do you find meritless, and what are we doing to stop that?” Mr. Hurwitz: “Sir, the PREA complaints, again, like any other sort of sexual misconduct, whether it be a staff member or an inmate, is absolutely unacceptable. Earlier, I mentioned the direction I sent out to all of our wardens, our expectation is a zero tolerance policy. I expect that if there are inmates acting in an inappropriate behavior that we take action against them as well. Sometimes that’s difficult because the inmates, there is very little to deter the inmates because there is no federal crime associated with that activity. So we can discipline them, at most they may get a misdemeanor. But that’s a very difficult area because there’s not a lot of deterrent for inmates to not act up. That being said, it’s a very small percentage of inmates who do act up, I think it’s less than 1 percent.” Grothman: “By ‘act-up’ do you mean by a sexual assault, or make a frivolous complaint?” Hurwitz: “No, no, I mean inmates who acted in sexually inappropriate behavior.” Grothman: “The point I’m trying to make is, I have very many prison guards in my district. And of course PREA doesn’t just affect the federal prisons, it affects the state prisons as well, it affects the county jails as well. Not just in PREA but anywhere across the board, given that some of these people are in prison a long period of time, given that they come from a background in which they’re not afraid to break the rules or they wouldn’t be in prison in the first place, sometimes their goal is to make things miserable for the prison guards. And I wonder what you’re doing about that? Or do the prison guards just have to put up with this forever?” Hurwitz: “I’m sorry, absolutely not, the prison guards aren’t expected to put up with that. Our expectation is that they will write up discipline against the inmate. If it’s appropriate, it will be turned over to the U.S. attorney for prosecution. Like I said, unfortunately, there’s not a lot of disincentive for the inmates to not do that because there’s no federal crimes.” Grothman: “How often, say in the last two or three years, have we disciplined any inmates, as far as you’re concerned, for making something up just to irritate a guard?” Hurwitz: “I think that happens fairly often. Probably on a regular basis.” Grothman: “We discipline the inmates?” Hurwitz: “Absolutely.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks (beginning at 1:02:51). Additional Information Purpose: To evaluate the Bureau of Prisons’ (BOP) response to findings and recommendations from the Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Inspector General (IG). To examine how BOP intends to hold its leaders accountable for wrongdoing, and uphold the ideals of professionalism, safety, and integrity within the federal prison system. Background: On September 18, 2018, the DOJ IG released a report recommending BOP improve policies and programs to better accommodate gender-specific needs. The IG offered ten recommendations for BOP to improve management of its female population, and BOP concurred with all ten recommendations. On December 13, 2017, the Committee held a hearing to examine areas of improvement at BOP, enhanced reentry policies, and cost effectiveness measures. Since the hearing, the Committee received allegations from BOP employees detailing a toxic culture where managers tolerate and engage in misconduct, mismanagement, and whistleblower intimidation. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
10.31.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement on the shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh. “This past Saturday, the Jewish community and the United States as a whole suffered a great loss at the hands of hatred fueled violence and anti-Semitism. My prayers go out to the victims, their loved ones, all of the members of the Tree of Life Synagogue and the city of Pittsburgh, as we mourn and remember the lives of the 11 individuals who were killed in this senseless act of violence. Additionally, I want to thank the first responders who courageously apprehended the attacker and put their lives on the line, your service is greatly appreciated. Yesterday, as funeral preparations began for the first of the 11 victims, President Trump traveled to Pittsburgh to grieve with members of the Jewish community and express his support. I have always been a close supporter of the Jewish community and I will stand alongside them during this difficult time. Anti-Semitic beliefs have no place in our country and such cowardly acts should be punished under the strictest interpretation of our criminal justice system.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
10.10.2018	Today, Congressman Glenn Grothman had the privilege of hosting Assistant Secretary of Education Johnny Collett for tours of three work centers in Wisconsin's 6th district. Congressman Grothman and Assistant Secretary Collett toured Lakeside Packaging Plus in Oshkosh, Brooke Industries, Inc. in Fond du Lac, and RSC Empowers in Sheboygan. "These non-profit businesses employ individuals with disabilities, who love their jobs and have access to critical services and a safe working environment, as a result of their employment. This is a message I've heard routinely from parents of sons and daughters with disabilities and the individuals themselves. Having the opportunity to get up and go to a job where your work is valued and appreciated instills a sense of pride that is unlike any other. Making sure that these places of business remain available for individuals with disabilities is among my most important objectives as a Member of Congress and I was thrilled to have Assistant Secretary Collett with me to see first-hand the great work being done in Wisconsin for individuals with disabilities." Congressman Grothman introduced H.R. 5658, the Workplace Choice and Flexibility for Individuals with Disabilities Act, which would reverse an Obama-era regulation aimed at closing down work centers across the country. The regulation changed how the Department of Education defines employment for individuals with disabilities to be "competitive" and "integrated." Since going into effect in 2016, the regulation has resulted in a significant decrease in the amount of referrals work centers receive from Vocational Rehabilitation Agencies. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
09.07.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) introduced a bipartisan resolution with Representatives Mark Pocan (WI-02), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Sean Duffy (WI-07), Mike Gallagher (WI-o8) and Juan Vargas (CA-51) recognizing the cultural and historical significance of the Hmong New Year. “I am privileged to represent one of Wisconsin’s largest Hmong communities. Each year I attend the New Year celebrations in my district,” said Congressman Grothman. “These celebrations of thanksgiving are an honor to attend – the food, music and dance make these festivals truly special events. I am glad that both sides of the aisle have come together to recognize Hmong Americans’ significant role in our communities and their pursuit of the American Dream.” Congressman Pocan added, “I am proud to support this resolution and to honor Hmong Americans in Wisconsin and across the country. Hmong New Year celebrations have become an important part of our local culture and I welcome the opportunity to recognize this valuable tradition.” The Hmong New Year is traditionally celebrated at the end of the rice harvest season in Laos and Southeast Asia in late November and early December. In the United States, the Hmong New Year traditions have carried over, occurring from October through December, and have become significant celebrations for Hmong Americans and many others. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
08.10.2018	(Washington, D.C) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today condemned Hamas for inciting violence against innocent Israeli civilians earlier this week. “For 11 years, Hamas has ruled over Gaza at the detriment of Palestinian civilians and peace in the region. Rather than focusing on access to education, improving the economy, and the overall welfare of its people, Hamas has solely concentrated its efforts on the destruction of Israel. While unsurprising with Hamas’ record, it is nevertheless troubling that in the midst of peace talks on a potential cease-fire agreement, Hamas has chosen to terrorize innocent Israeli civilians by firing over 180 rockets into Israel this week. It’s clear that Hamas cares only about inciting terror, not building peace. I’m further disturbed by the international community’s failure to condemn Hamas. The international community is quick to villainize Israel when a Palestinian civilian is unfortunately harmed as a result of defensive efforts, yet silent when multiple Israeli citizens are injured and tens of thousands are hiding in bomb shelters as a result of Hamas-led terror attacks. The hypocrisy is astounding and civilians living near Israel’s southern border deserve better. I thank the State Department for condemning the attacks. Hamas needs to be held accountable by the international community for its incitement of violence. The terror group must end their attacks on innocent civilians and adhere fully to any potential cease-fire agreement.” Background Founded in 1987, Hamas is an Iranian-backed terrorist organization focused on the destruction of Israel, ruling over the Gaza Strip since its violent overtake in 2007. Since its inception, Hamas has killed over 500 Israeli civilians. Over the years, Hamas has incited violence at Israel’s southern border, including provoking 3 wars. The terror group often targets Israeli civilians and is known for using Palestinian civilians as shields to protect themselves from Israeli defensive attacks. On late Wednesday and early Thursday, Hamas fired over 180 rockets and mortar shells into Israel. Multiple Israelis were injured and homes, businesses and infrastructure were damaged. Tens of thousands of Israelis were forced to hide in bomb shelters. Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) responded to the attacks by targeting over 150 terrorist sites. The escalation in violence comes amidst Egyptian-brokered peace talks on reaching a cease-fire agreement between Israel and Hamas. Late Thursday, reports emerged of a potential agreement on a cease-fire to end the current wave of violence. While the IDF has not confirmed a cease-fire agreement, as of Friday morning, the current wave of violence has ceased. More information can be found here. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.25.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today welcomed Lakeshore Technical College to Washington, D.C. to discuss career and technical education and the positive career outlook that follows. Grothman’s invitation to Lakeshore Tech was part of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce’s “Innovation Forum and Showcase”. The forum coincided with the passage of H.R. 2353, which is an overhaul of America’s career and technical education system that will enable more students to gain the skills necessary to obtain good-paying jobs in the skilled workforce. The witness panel included Dr. Paul Carlsen, President of Lakeshore Technical College. In addition to sharing insight about Lakeshore Tech’s success with the committee, Dr. Carlsen presented oral testimony on an incumbent worker training model called MicroMatch Upskilling, a unique combination of skills-based aptitude testing with a series of short-term training seminars focused on robotics. Lakeshore Technical College is based in Wisconsin’s Sixth District (Cleveland, WI). Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “You do a great job in Wisconsin’s tech school system. Do you ever find students who have a full four-year degree, or began at a traditional institution, and wound up going to Lakeshore Technical College? Dr. Paul Carlsen: Yes, sir. We’re seeing that more and more when skilled manufacturing jobs are paying wages that start at $65,000 a year, we are seeing more people that have previously earned a bachelor’s degree enroll into Lakeshore Technical College today than we have seen in the past.” Grothman: “And are there other people that not only have a four-year degree, but maybe spent one or two years going before they decided to go to the tech school as well?” Carlsen: “Oh, absolutely. So, we’ll see those folks that will try only one or two years at a four-year college and realize that that learning environment is not for them, they want something more hands-on. And we also find people that graduate from high school, they hit the workforce right away, and after two or three years of working a low-paying job, they’re ready to make that career change for them and their family.” Grothman: “Okay, and you mentioned it’s not unusual to get a degree which takes less than four years, at less of a cost, to wind up making $60-$65,000 a year?” Carlsen: “Yes, sir. So, electro-mech technicians in our service region are in such high demand, that and individual who would enroll at Lakeshore Technical College right after high school and graduate with an Associate’s Degree in two years, paying $135 per credit hour, would receive significant return on investment by the time they are 20 for their tuition.” Grothman: “Okay, so you could be making, with overtime, $70-$80,000 a year and still only be 20 years old? Carlsen: “Absolutely. So, that $65,000 would be a base wage, and labor markets are so tight right now that many people are getting overtime in our industries.” Grothman: “It’s amazing that anybody in this institution would be encouraging more students to go the traditional four-year route when they could wind up so much better going to a tech school and making more money without the huge debt. Why do you think people still [encourage all students to pursue a four-year degree]. Carlsen: “That’s a mindset change that I think is starting to change across the country and within our service region, that college is not a one-size-fits-all four-year degree but what’s best for the economy and best for the student is their own individual learning. I wish everybody would come to Lakeshore Technical College!” Grothman: “You do a great job and I appreciate it.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks (beginning at 2:58:25). Background The Committee on Education and the Workforce hosted a bipartisan Innovation Forum and Showcase on July 25, 2018. Members of the Committee on Education and the Workforce invited innovators from their congressional districts to come to Washington to share with Congress and the public how they are addressing the nation’s education and workforce development challenges. The Innovation Forum and Showcase highlighted 23 innovators who are running education and workforce development programs in their communities. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.24.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah), in his capacity as a member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, is excited to welcome Lakeshore Technical College (LTC) to Washington, D.C. for the committee’s “Innovation Forum and Showcase”. LTC President, Dr. Paul Carlsen, will present oral testimony to the committee on an incumbent worker training model called MicroMatch Upskilling, a unique combination of skills-based aptitude testing with a series of short-term training seminars focused on robotics. In addition to preparing students for a career in the skilled workforce, LTC prides itself in creating fresh ways to address the skilled labor shortage right now. What: House Committee on Education and the Workforce “Innovation Forum and Showcase”. When: July 25, 2018 at 10 a.m. ET. Where: Rayburn House Office Building Foyer, Washington, D.C. 20515 Who: Congressman Glenn Grothman, the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, innovators from around the country, including Lakeshore Technical College. Why: The purpose of the forum is to highlight innovators’ programs or initiatives before members of the Committee and share how those programs have produced positive results in an innovative way. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.20.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today mourns the loss of former State Senator Mike Ellis, one of Wisconsin’s greatest legislators and friends. “It is with great shock and sadness when I found out former State Senator Mike Ellis has left us. We served together for 21 years in the state legislature before both leaving in 2014. He was perhaps the most memorable character of the many legislators I served with. He was always an independent voice in an occupation sorely missing independent voices.” “He enjoyed recounting the story of a lobbyist showing up to his office with cash for campaign contributions and throwing him out. He enjoyed holding court, be it at the Avenue Bar in Madison or Payne’s Point in Neenah, with his beloved wife Sandy. He also enjoyed talking about his siblings, nieces and nephews and his high school days as a star guard on the Neenah Rockets high school team.” “He was vibrant until the end and it’s hard to imagine going to Neenah and not being able to see him.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.27.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned The Honorable Margaret Weichert, Deputy Director for Management of the U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB), on ways the government can make programs such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Women, Infants and Children (WIC) and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) more efficient. Ms. Weichert contended that too large a portion of the funds allotted to these programs go to bureaucrats and general overhead for the program. Weichert followed up on this statement by saying that the government could easily cut down on redundancies within these programs in order to provide more assistance to the individuals and families in need. Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “Thank you for your proposals, I mean I think it’s a good thing to try to look what we can do to make the government more efficient and I think that when too many different agencies have things, you now one hand not knowing what the other is doing, you result in spending too much money and having perverse effects. One of the things you want to do is you want to combine the nutrition assistance program with other welfare programs. Could you explain the benefits of that?” Hon. Weichert: “So, I think that the primary issue actually looks at the delivery and the service component. So, states administer both the temporary assistance for needy families as well as the SNAP and the WIC programs essentially to largely the same group of people and they tend to have one organization that does that administration but when they deal with the federal government they have to deal with confusing, overlapping, sometimes conflicting requirements that add to their overhead and basically reduce the amount of money of the whole pool that actually goes to the needy families.” Congressman Grothman: “That’s good. You know, one of the things I’m interested in is and one of the reasons I ran for this job is that you add up the public benefits all the different things, the tax benefit, the SNAP, the low income housing, the TANF, you wind up with really big numbers that discourage people from working and discourage people from getting married as well. Do you think that by trying to put everything under one roof we do a better job of seeing, quite frankly, how much is available out there if you don’t try to work as hard as you can?” Weichert: “So, I think the key thing from this proposal was really, and taking a great view of some of the best in serving communities that are at risk, when you look at how charities are judged and measured, they are measured by how much of the actual benefit goes directly to the cause and then the charities that have the best performance have the least amount of overhead. That’s really where I think we should be judged.” Congressman Grothman: “You feel we are spending a lot of money on poverty and a lot of that money is going to government employees who are administering the programs?” Weichert: “I absolutely think that we have excessive administrative overhead that would be better served actually bringing that money to the people that are targeted for it.” Congressman Grothman: “Do you feel we would be better off just taking a block amount of money and giving it to the states and saying ‘Here, you deal with the low income housing, you deal with nutrition, you deal with the educational requirements and we’re out of here altogether’ because when you look at the overall amount of money spent per person in poverty it’s just shockingly high, the average person would be happy to live off of that. Now of course a lot of that is not trickling down to the people in poverty, it’s going to the bureaucracy, but could you see the day come where the administration would say ‘Here is X amount of dollars per person in poverty in your state today. You deal with it.’?” Weichert: “So, I haven’t done the full analysis to be able to get to that conclusion. What I would say is that would be part of the dialogue that I think we should have, certainly there are governors and state and local authorities who would welcome that and I think as any members of this body have indicated, when we get to the implementation phase we have to look at the cost and benefits but, I think it’s certainly something we’d want to look at.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks (beginning at 1:24:51). Background In March 2017, the President issued an executive order directing OMB to propose a plan to reorganize governmental functions if redundancy is present and eliminate unnecessary agencies, components of agencies and agency programs. In April 2017, the OMB director instructed all agencies to submit plans to reorganize the executive branch consistent with the executive order. After analyzing the plans, OMB compiled and released its government-wide reorganization plan on June 21, 2018. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.19.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement on immigration into the United States. “One of my priorities in Congress is to make sure we have an immigration system that promotes safety and fairness. We need to be encouraging productive members of society to come to our country, while making sure criminals and those who wish to do harm to others are not allowed to cross our border freely.” “For years, South and Central American countries, as well as Mexico, have fallen short of basic human trafficking prevention standards. So, when an adult and child come into the U.S. illegally, it is our duty to make sure the child is not being harmed in any way. Separation happens if officials have reason to believe the adult is falsely claiming to be the child’s parent or they do not enter the United States at a port of entry.” “When an adult illegally crosses into the U.S., that individual is, by law, detained and tried in court. At this point, the child is then placed into custody of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Typically, the adults are detained, tried and released in the same day, meaning that if they choose to return home, they will be reunited with their children in less than 24 hours.” “When somebody who crossed the border illegally seeks asylum in the U.S., the process is extended. Children will be kept in HHS custody for 20 days before being paired with a responsible party in the U.S., ideally a relative.” “If a family walks into a border station seeking asylum in the U.S., they are doing so legally and will be kept together throughout the process of entering our country. To any family seeking asylum here, I recommend this strategy.” “These rules have been in place for many years and I believe it is the failure of previous administrations, both Republican and Democrat, for not addressing all of these issues. I think a good start would be to address the shortage of family spaces in Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) shelters along the border and make sure they are properly funded.” “Tonight, I am meeting with President Trump, along with other members of Congress, to discuss solutions to these problems at our Southern border. With a new kind of leadership in the White House and a sense of urgency in Congress, I am confident that we will be able to work together to solve these problems.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.13.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today thanked his colleagues for passing H.R. 5891, the Improving the Federal Response to Families Impacted by Substance Use Disorder Act. This bill intended to help stem the opioid abuse crisis passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support by a vote of 409-8. The bill would establish a federal taskforce with the mission of coordinating the federal response to the opioid crisis. The taskforce would help identify, evaluate and recommend best practices to states and local agencies in their fight against opioid abuse. The taskforce would also develop ways to better identify and prevent substance abuse in the home and around children and minors. “Opioid abuse has long been a problem. Recently, it has become a large-scale epidemic in need of immediate attention.” “Earlier this year, Senator Johnson and I held a roundtable discussion on the opioid crisis with state and federal experts, local leaders and individuals directly affected by the crisis.” “As a result of the roundtable, it was clear that better coordination is needed between federal agencies and local communities. Communities can better address the crisis if they know what works and what doesn’t.” “By passing my bill, my colleagues agreed with my conclusion that we need establish a federal task-force that brings together experts from across the spectrum to fight opioid abuse and reduce overdose deaths.” “Overdose deaths have increased 700 percent from 2013 to 2016. In Wisconsin, the amount of overdose deaths due to opioids is more than 50 percent higher than the amount of car crash deaths.” “One overdose is too many. These are preventable deaths of precious lives. I am determined to fight to put an end to the opioid crisis and believe that this bill could be a turning point in the fight.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.08.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today introduced a bill that would significantly aid in the fight against the opioid abuse epidemic that has been plaguing America. This bill will amend the Controlled Substances Act to decrease the amount of fentanyl that carries a minimum five-year sentence from ten grams to two grams. “Opioid abuse has been a problem in America for years, but now that stronger and stronger substances are being introduced, the problem is as concerning as ever.” “It’s not uncommon for drug dealers to add fentanyl to other drugs in order to differentiate themselves from their competition. Structurally, fentanyl is most closely related to Heroin, but it is cheaper and easier to make. One major difference is the lethal dose, which for heroin is 30 mg while fentanyl is just 3 mg. The average drug dealer may not know this, so when they add it into another drug, the dose could potentially be fatal. We have seen this happen far too many times” “According to the National Institute of Health, fentanyl-related deaths have been rising at an alarming rate, jumping from about 2,500 in 2013 to over 20,000 in 2016.” “The laws we have on the books right now aren’t discouraging people from dealing and taking massive quantities of fentanyl. It’s time to try something new. I believe this bill will benefit communities and families in Wisconsin by keeping both criminals and fentanyl off the streets.” Background For more information on fentanyl, please click the headline below. Why fentanyl is deadlier than heroin, in a single photo -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.06.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar about the opioid abuse epidemic in America and the best ways to combat it. In his answers, Secretary Azar proposed several solutions found in Congressman Grothman’s bills aimed at fighting the opioid abuse epidemic; The Responsible Opioid Prescription Act and The Improving the Federal Response to Families Impacted by Substance Use Disorder Act. Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “I wanted to comment a little bit on the Medicaid program. The seven states in 2015 with the highest rates of opioid related overdoses: West Virginia, New Hampshire, Kentucky, Ohio, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania and Massachusetts, all expanded Medicaid programs under Obamacare. Obviously you get cause and effect all mixed up here as to what’s coming first, but way disproportionately people on Medicaid are far more likely to die of opioid overdose than people who are not on the program. Could you comment on that and is there anything we can do? Do you feel that Medicaid expansion made the opioid situation worse, and is there anything we can do, again remembering that it’s hard to tell in these things what’s the cause and what’s the effect, but can we do anything on the Medicaid program to cut off the supply here?” Secretary Azar: “So, the ready availability of cheap, accessible, legal opioids, especially generic ones, was fundamental to this problem. The majority of people who get addicted on opioids start from a legal prescription for opioids. Making the financing and accessibility of those readier obviously contributes to it. How much, I can’t say, but it’s quite clear that would be connected. What we’ve got to do is get at the issues at the state and federal level of how often people are prescribed, why they are prescribed, and how many they are prescribed with Medicaid. That’s why we’re asking for prescription drug monitoring programs as well as interoperable across state lines so you can’t shop from West Virginia into Ohio for instance and go ‘doc. shopping’. We’re enforcing against pill mills from our Inspector General’s office and the Department of Justice so it’s a very serious issue, you raise the right questions.” Grothman: “One final question, overall, prescription drug use in this country is way higher than any other industrialized nation and obviously very expensive. I wonder if you would comment on that in general, your opinion on the amount of prescription drugs prescribed in this country.” Azar: “Too expensive. But I would say a lot of the major innovation we’ve had in health care delivery, if you ask doctors, is from the availability to new therapies, not necessarily new procedures, and so we actually need more reform on that other side but we’re paying too much absolutely for our drugs.” Background Opioid-related deaths have more than quadrupled over the past 20 years as the number of opioids prescribed has increased. In 2015 alone, more than 50,000 Americans died as a result of heroin and prescription drug overdose. In October 2017, the Trump administration declared the opioid crisis a public health emergency. To view the full video of Congressman Grothman’s questioning, please click here. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.23.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) this week questioned U.S. Department of Education (DoE) Secretary Betsy DeVos about the policies and priorities of the DoE in a Committee on Education and the Workforce Hearing. Grothman urged Secretary DeVos to invest more energy into helping individuals with disabilities by solving the Competitive Integrated Employment problem. Grothman also asked Secretary DeVos about her efforts to streamline the DoE. Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “I want to ask you about the Workforce Innovation Act and rules/guidances that were promulgated under the Obama Administration and how it affected people with different abilities after they left high school and before they reached 25 and whether you have any plans to change the Obama-era situation, which is, as I see it, very harmful to people with different abilities that they cannot be recommended or advised to go to work centers, and, as I understand it, a lot of them stay sitting at home losing skills and social opportunity. Are you familiar with that situation?” Secretary DeVos: “Are you speaking of the Competitive Integrated Employment issue?” Grothman: “Correct” DeVos: “This is a matter of great interest and concern to me, and it’s one we are looking at closely. There are groups and individuals that have come from both sides of this issue and have strong arguments on both sides. So it is a guidance piece that I am looking at closely and have not reached any kind of conclusion.” Grothman: “Have you had the opportunity to tour any work centers either in this area or in the Michigan area?” DeVos: “I have not.” Grothman: “I always worry about people with different abilities, and I think if you tour some of these work centers, and I would tour two or three, it seems to me in WI that we have one in every county, next time you’re back in Michigan, I would ask you to spend one or two hours at a couple of these work centers, or what used to be called sheltered workshops. Look at the people who work there as well as the employers who work there, and think what happens when we take some people out of the game between age 22 and 25. We should do that for me? You won’t regret it. It’ll be an enjoyable experience.” DeVos: “I would welcome that opportunity.” GG: “I would like to thank you for taking a stand and trying to reduce the department’s budget by $7.7 billion. And I’ll give you a question I asked at the prior hearing, and I don’t expect you to know the answer, but I want you to guess. Do you know how much the federal government of the current year’s budget the federal government is borrowing?” DeVos: “I heard this figure the other day, but I’m sure you know. The current year’s budget- 15%.” Grothman: “Over 20%, it’s 22%, and it’s so easy to not care about the next generation, and so many people in this building don’t care at all about the next generation or the grandchildren down the line. They just love to pose for pictures and say they want to spend more money now. So, I thank you for being one of the few people hanging around Washington who does care about their children and grandchildren and I appreciate you making a modest 10.8% cut. Do you know how that cut is going over in the Approbations Committee?” DeVos: “Well I know that many of the recommendations have not been adopted by the appropriators, but that doesn’t mean we should not attempt to do the right thing on behalf of taxpayers and stay focused on the core mission.” Grothman: “And not only taxpayers, on our children and grandchildren, right?” DeVos: “I have seven now.” Grothman: “Congratulations. That’s wonderful, and I’m glad you want to protect them. As you are finding out, now that you’re in Washington, all sorts of elected officials are not that caring, as you are. But would you say then that there’s a disagreement between the Trump Administration and the Republican congress as to how much money we should be spending in the next year?” DeVos: “Well I think I would encourage members of Congress to think in the big picture and broader term a lot more.” Grothman: “Would you say if it’s accurate to say that the Trump Administration is looking out for the children and grandchildren, It’s about time the Republican Appropriations Committee got with the program?” DeVos: “I think there are some lessons to be learned and I think we should be cognizant of the future and what the implications are for our kids and grandkids.” Grothman: “Well don’t be afraid to set up an appointment with some of those appropriators and get them in shape. Thanks much.” Background A longtime advocate for the differently abled, Congressman Grothman has introduced a bill to solve the Competitive Integrated Employment problem. To read more, please click here. For more information on the hearing, please click here. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.22.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) continued his strong support of “Right to Try” legislation by voting in favor of Senator Ron Johnson’s bill that gives terminally ill patients expanded access to treatment. S. 204, which passed the house 250 - 169 with bipartisan support, is on its way to the President’s desk to be signed into law. S. 204, the Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act, will allow terminally ill patients who have exhausted all other treatment options the opportunity to try medications that have passed basic Food and Drug Administration (FDA) safety protocols, but have not received final approval for public use. The law will not require any individual to participate in the program, but instead give those with no other options one last chance. “Right to Try” laws have been passed in 38 states with overwhelming bipartisan support. In fact, in these state’s legislative bodies, “Right to Try” has received a yes vote 97.8 percent of the time, that includes both Republicans and Democrats. “Now is the time for this critical ‘Right to Try’ legislation– something I’ve been trying to bring to the floor for quite some time. After several conversations with my friends, Congressman Greg Walden [Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee], Senator Johnson [introduced the bill] and President Trump [endorsed Right to Try in his 2018 State of the Union address], this legislation that will give hope to so many is finally on the brink of being realized” “Under current law, terminally ill patients are prohibited from utilizing potentially life-saving treatments. Sometimes this is a patient’s last chance for survival.” “To me, voting for this bill was easy. It was important to stand up to the pharmaceutical industry that opposed this bill and make sure that those with terminal illnesses have the access to these treatments.” “Treatments that could save lives are just sitting on the shelves right now. Passing ‘Right to Try’ will make sure patients exhaust every option for recovery and could potentially reveal cures to major diseases. That’s why I’m excited that 22 Democrats joined the vast majority of Republicans in a bipartisan effort to pass this bill, but disappointed that 169 Democrats chose to sit on the sidelines.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.22.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement on his vote in favor of S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act: “I applaud today’s passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act. We’re keeping Washington and Wall Street accountable while giving American families the tools needed to maintain financial independence and plan for the future. “What’s most important to me is protecting our small banks; Dodd-Frank has created an environment in which community banks are ‘too small to succeed’. Our local, community banks are drowning in government compliance and shutting their doors because they can’t afford to sort through the often-times overlapping regulations forced onto them by Dodd-Frank. “People are paying more for their loans. They can’t get refinancing after balloon loans, which is particularly damaging to Wisconsin’s farmers. One-size-fits-all regulations are causing our young people not to be able to get loans to buy houses or start businesses, as well as initiating unnecessary appraisals and driving up the costs of refinancing loans. “The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act will make great strides in freeing up community banks to focus on what’s most important: fulfilling the needs of their customers, making small-business loans and growing our local economies.” The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 258-159. Background All banks headquartered in Wisconsin, except for one, are considered community banks by the Federal Reserve. Since Dodd-Frank’s 2010 implementation to 2014, the number of community banks declined by 14 percent – twice the rate in the period leading up to the implementation of Dodd-Frank. In a survey of American banks, it was found that Dodd-Frank increased compliance costs related to mortgages by 97 percent and that 75 percent of banks had to hire additional staff. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.21.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today introduced a bipartisan bill to help stem the opioid abuse crisis. The Improving the Federal Response to Families Impacted by Substance Use Disorder Act would establish a federal taskforce with the mission of coordinating the federal response to the opioid crisis. The taskforce would help identify, evaluate and recommend best practices to states and local agencies in their fight against opioid abuse. The taskforce would also develop ways to better identify and prevent substance abuse in the home and around children and minors. “Opioid abuse has long been a problem. Recently, it has become a large-scale epidemic in need of immediate attention.” “Earlier this month, Senator Johnson and I held a roundtable discussion on the opioid crisis with state and federal experts, local leaders and individuals directly affected by the crisis.” “As a result of the roundtable, it was clear that better coordination is needed between federal agencies and local communities. Communities can better address the crisis if they know what works and what doesn’t.” “That is why I am proposing we establish a federal task-force that brings together experts from across the spectrum to fight opioid abuse and reduce overdose deaths, which have increased 700 percent from 2013 to 2016.” “One overdose is too many. These are preventable deaths of precious lives. I am determined to fight to put an end to the opioid crisis and believe that this bill could be a turning point in the fight.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.17.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today introduced a bill aimed at protecting small businesses from potential misinformation provided by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). The OSHA Employer Notification Act would require OSHA to notify a business of an alleged violation 24 hours prior to making a public statement regarding the violation. Additionally, this bill will require OSHA to update public postings on their website if the citation is subsequently reduced or dropped altogether. “Under current law, OSHA can notify the press of alleged violations made by businesses before the actual business, which can result in, among other things, delayed resolution of the problem.” “This issue was brought to my attention by a business in my district that learned from the local news that they had allegedly violated OSHA standards. When the citation was appealed, OSHA’s final determination revealed that a significant amount of the information they used to base the initial citation was deemed unreliable.” “This practice of ’Regulation by Shaming’ is dangerous because it A) delays action on the problem if there turns out to be one and B) can have a lasting negative effect on a business’s reputation, even if there turns out to be no violation.” “We need to help businesses by treating them as part of the solution, not the problem, which is what the OSHA Employer Notification Act will do.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.14.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement on the opening of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem. “I am very pleased that the United States has moved its embassy from Tel-Aviv to Jerusalem.” “This move has been a bipartisan wish of Congress for a long time.” “I can think of no other sovereign country that has had to put up with the indignant treatment of not being allowed to place an embassy in their capital city.” “Jerusalem was the capital of Israel 2,500 year ago. It is long overdue to recognize it as the capital today and I thank President Trump for keeping his campaign promise to do so.” Background In an overwhelmingly bipartisan fashion, Congress voted in 1995 to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s undivided capital and to move the U.S. embassy there from Tel-Aviv. The Jerusalem Embassy Act passed the Senate (93-5) and the House (374-37), becoming law in 1995. Past presidents have used a national-security waiver allowed for in the bill to delay moving the embassy up until this point. The U.S. Embassy officially opened on May 14, 2018. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.08.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement after receiving news that the U.S. would be withdrawing from the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), otherwise known as the Iran Nuclear Deal. “There is no question that Iran is a danger in the Middle East that is quickly evolving into a global threat.” “When the Iran Nuclear Deal was first being discussed, I thought it was a one-sided deal that left plenty of room for Iran to cheat. That is why I was shocked when the Obama administration agreed to it” “I applaud President Trump for keeping his campaign promise to put politics aside and keep the safety of American lives a priority by terminating the Iran Deal.” “It is more obvious now than when the deal was first being discussed that it was a mistake because of Iran’s dishonesty going into the deal, the weak mechanism for inspections and repeated violations of the deal’s heavy water stockpile limits.” “The sanctions now being placed on Iran will stifle its nuclear program by targeting critical parts of its economy. This is an essential step as we work with our allies to find a real, comprehensive and lasting solution to the Iranian threat.” “Looking at Iran’s track record of lying, bullying and genocide, giving them a longer leash was not going to make them into a productive country.” “Terminating the Iran Nuclear Deal, reinstating heavy, effective sanctions and resuming work with other countries to halt Iran’s nuclear program and curb its malicious behavior is the best way to deal with this menace, and that is exactly the path we are now on.” “Anyone who, especially knowing what we now know, thinks that we should not have terminated this atrocious deal is, sadly, hopelessly naïve.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.27.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today introduced a bill to significantly increase career opportunities for individuals with disabilities. The Workplace Choice and Flexibility for Individuals with Disabilities Act will roll back a misguided regulation that significantly narrowed Congress’s definition of Competitive Integrated Employment and effectively reduced career opportunities for individuals with disabilities. “Under my legislation, individuals with disabilities, after high school, can go to their local vocational rehabilitation agency to gain workplace skills, and then be referred by the agency to a job that fits their needs.” “Yael Kerzan is a young lady from my district who was helped by this referral program and is concerned that others like her won’t be able to enjoy the opportunities and experiences she’s had since she was referred through her local agency in Portage, WI, 15-years ago. “It has been invaluable for young people like Yael to have the choice and flexibility to work in a fulfilling job that provides them with the dignity they deserve as vital members of our communities. That is the reason I introduced the Workplace Choice and Flexibility for Individuals with Disabilities Act.” Background In 2014, Congress passed the very popular Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA), which made significantly positive improvements to the Workforce Investment Act of 1998. Unfortunately, despite the many improvements made in WIOA to improve coordination between workforce development programs and local businesses, the new law was used as an opportunity to regulate what Competitive Integrated Employment means for individuals with disabilities. In short, the 245-word definition for Competitive Integrated Employment was transformed it into 982 pages of preamble in the Federal Register and a 309-word definition in the Code of Federal Regulations. There was then a rule created in 2015 that, in effect, limits the menu of jobs a vocational rehabilitation agency can refer individuals with disabilities to, often removing jobs that have equipment designed to help them perform to the best of their ability. As a result, our young people are too-often retired to the couch or worse, rather than being placed in a job that provides them with financial compensation, workforce experience, and a sense of dignity and respect that can only be derived from an honest day’s work. The Workplace Choice and Flexibility for Individuals with Disabilities Act will provide clarity to the statutory definition of Competitive Integrated Employment in WIOA (originally in the Rehabilitation Act). Specifically, it will do so by stating that Competitive Integrated Employment includes contracts that are awarded under the Javits-Wagner-O’Day Act and state set-aside contracts, with the goal of improving employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities. It also clarifies that Competitive Integrated Employment includes work that involves social and interpersonal interactions with colleagues, vendors, customers, superiors, or other individuals that the employee may come into contact with during a given workday. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.27.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) this week introduced a bill that would help fight the epidemic of opioid abuse in America. The Responsible Opioid Prescription Act would reform the program with the highest rate of opioid addiction, Medicaid, by reducing initial opioid prescriptions to a seven-day supply, and each subsequent refill to a 30-day supply. Patients receiving hospice or palliative care, treatment for cancer or are living in a long-term care or skilled nursing facility would be exempt from these limits. “Doctors are often judged by how much pain a patient is in when they leave the facility. Unfortunately, this often leads to the over-prescription of opioid medications, for example giving 14 days of pills when seven is more suitable.” “When a patient receives more medication than is needed, two things can happen. First, they may take the medication until the bottle is empty because they were told to by a doctor, at which point they may develop a dependency. Second, when opioids get left in a medicine cabinet, an adolescent, relative or visitor can access them or distribute them for recreational use.” “What this bill aims to do is limit distribution of these drugs at the source by aligning Medicaid’s prescribing guidelines with the recommendations of the Center for Disease Control.” “Opioid abuse has been a problem in America for years now. While I still believe that it is an underpublicized problem, I am happy to see the press giving it more attention. I am hopeful that my legislation helps stem the drug dependency problem.” Background Opioid addiction is an incredibly painful crisis that has touched every segment of our population. Rich and poor, men and women, black and white; we have all been affected by it in one way or another. Yet, the sad reality is that those affected most by this crisis are those in the Medicaid program, as statistics show that Medicaid patients are as much as 10-times more likely to abuse or become addicted to opioids. The Responsible Opioid Prescription Act would limit initial opioid prescriptions in the Medicaid program to a maximum of a seven-day supply. In the event a patient needs a refill for their opioid prescription, providers would be limited to a 30-day supply. These limits would not apply to patients receiving treatment for cancer, receiving hospice or palliative care, or in a long-term care or skilled nursing facility. When prescribing refills to patients, providers must do the following to ensure patient safety: Determine whether the expected benefits of using opioids to treat or improve the patient’s pain outweigh the risks associated with opioid use To the extent possible, combine opioid therapy with non-pharmacologic therapy and non-opioid pharmacologic therapy Establish treatment goals for the patient to ensure that opioids will be discontinued if the provider determines that the risks of the opioid use outweigh the benefits Discuss with the patient the known risks of using opioid, including the realistic benefits of taking opioids and the responsibility of both the provider and the patient in managing opioid use For more information on the opioid epidemic, please click here. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.26.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) will be hosting a roundtable discussion on the opioid abuse epidemic in America on Thursday, May 3, 2018 in Oshkosh, WI. Opioid addiction has been a problem in America for years, but is just now beginning to gain national attention. Congressman Grothman has fought for years to shed light on this problem and is now doubling down on his attack against opioid abuse as it continues to affect more and more people each day. What: Opioid abuse roundtable discussion hosted by Congressman Glenn Grothman. When: May 3, 2018 at 9 a.m. Where: Solutions Recovery Inc., 621 Evans Street, Oshkosh, WI 54901. Who: Congressman Glenn Grothman and a panel of experts from the Office of National Drug Control Policy, Milwaukee High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA), local law enforcement, local elected officials and community leaders. Why: To raise awareness of the devastating state of the opioid epidemic in America and work together to find solutions to this crisis. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.24.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee will be holding a field briefing on May 1, 2018 on the University of Wisconsin-Sheboygan campus. The subject of the briefing will be pollutants, ozone standards and the impact on local jobs, with a focus on the national one-size-fits-all ozone standard imposed on Sheboygan County. “The EPA’s application of the Clean Air Act’s ambient air quality standards have, for years, been devastating to businesses and motorists in Sheboygan County.” “The reason Sheboygan County has been saddled with restrictive air quality standards for years is due to the placement of a sensor in its air monitor network that logs ozone pollution from other areas as pollution from Sheboygan County.” “More industrial areas on Lake Michigan, such as Chicago, create ozone pollution, which is blown over the lake and into Sheboygan County. The result is higher readings for the sensors placed along the lake. The subsequent regulations imposed on Sheboygan County because of these readings do not reduce pollutants created elsewhere.” “The readings on these particular sensors are inconsistent with those in the rest of the state and you only need to go a few miles inland to see this.” “The most devastating consequence of this is the direct limitation on economic growth. Companies are required to jump through unnecessary hoops in order to expand, discouraging many to do so.” Background Who: Congressman Glenn Grothman and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee What: Congressional briefing on pollutants, ozone standards and the impact on local jobs Where: UW-Sheboygan (Wombat Room), 1 University Drive, Sheboygan, WI 53081 When: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 10 a.m. Why: For nearly twenty years the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has allowed a poorly placed compliance monitor to hold Sheboygan County accountable for pollution that is almost entirely generated elsewhere. Federal law fails to adequately account for the impact of pollutants generated from outside the County, including from outside the state of Wisconsin. The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (DNR) observed “Wisconsin’s lakeshore air quality is heavily impacted by ozone precursors originating from out of state. Sheboygan County, in particular, has long suffered the consequences of diminished air quality and resulting nonattainment due to emissions originating beyond Wisconsin’s borders.” This is supported by air flow modeling showing pollutants are blown up from Illinois and Indiana, “cooked” over Lake Michigan, and then blown along the shoreline of Wisconsin. There are two air quality monitors in Sheboygan County. The Kohler-Andrae monitor is upwind from the key sources of ozone in the County and therefore detects ozone from major sources to the south, such as Chicago, Indiana, Michigan and other counties. The Haven monitor is downwind from the key ozone sources and therefore detects the actual ozone levels in Sheboygan County. A closer look at the data collected from both of the air monitors located within Sheboygan County supports the argument that reliance on the Haven monitor – the monitor downwind from Sheboygan actually collecting emissions data from Sheboygan businesses – would place the County within attainment. The decision by the EPA to rely on the Kohler-Andrae monitor results in the County failing to maintain acceptable attainment standards, in the process triggering devastating regulations. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives
04.23.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today returned to his alma mater, Homestead High School, to present the Congressional Award Medal to current student Zidao Wang. The Congressional Award Medal is earned by, on average, just 38 Wisconsinites each year. “The Congressional Award Medal is not given, but earned by young people around the country who have achieved personally challenging goals that build character and foster community service, personal development and citizenship.” “Zidao has showed tremendous leadership and initiative on his path to earning this award. He is truly one of Wisconsin’s best and I hope he will inspire his peers to help the local community and strive for similar goals of personal development.” Background Congressional Award recipients represent the best of America. They do not necessarily have the highest grades or the greatest athletic or scientific achievements, they need to commit to bettering themselves and giving back to the communities in which they reside. It is making and fulfilling that commitment that makes these young people so extraordinary. To achieve a Bronze, Silver or Gold Congressional Award Medal, each participant sets and achieve challenging goals in four areas: voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition/exploration. In earning his award, Zidao served his community by volunteering at the Milwaukee branch of COA Youth and Family Centers and by hosting events to educate individuals about Chinese culture and history. For personal development, he improved his public speaking skills by participating in the Homestead debate team, attending debate camp at Michigan State University and practicing at home. For physical fitness, he joined the Homestead swim team and sought to decrease his race times in the 50m, 100m and 500m freestyle. Finally, for his expedition, Zidao planned a group trip to Peninsula State Park, where he led a group of tourists hiking and camping for three days. Congress, in a bipartisan effort, established the Congressional Award in 1979 to recognize initiative, achievement and service in young people ages 14-23. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.13.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) this week introduced a bill to further deter members of Congress from “insider trading-like” activities. The Member Financial Transparency Act will require members of Congress to file reports to either the House or Senate Ethics Committee on transactions in stocks, bonds, commodities futures and other forms of securities no later than seven days after the transactions are completed. The bill also modifies the deadline period for the House Clerk and Senate Secretary to make these reports public to no later than 10 days after receipt. “Due to the nature of the job, members of Congress often receive information on actions that will be taken up by Congress before the general public does.” “It was brought to my attention that some members, both Republicans and Democrats, decide to use this information for personal financial gain. In the private sector, this is called insider trading and it is strictly illegal.” “It’s time members of Congress stop providing themselves with special rules and play by the same ones as everyone else in the stock market.” “I believe this is a serious issue that the press needs to cover but it is currently underpublicized.” Background Currently, members are required to file reports of these transactions to the House or Senate Ethics Committee no later than 45 days after they are completed. Once the committee processes and submits them to the House Clerk or Senate Secretary, they have 30 days to make the transactions public. This means that transactions made by members of Congress in stocks, bonds, commodities futures and other forms of securities are not made public for over two months after they occur. This makes it much more difficult to determine if a member is engaging in questionable financial activities that are directly tied to their job in Congress. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.11.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement after a conversation with House Speaker Paul Ryan about his plan to not run for reelection. “This morning, I sat on a conference call with Wisconsin delegation, where Speaker Ryan told us that he would not be running for reelection.” “I believe he will be forever known as the family first Speaker.” “It took over a month to convince Paul to accept the job as Speaker, since he was concerned that he would be away from his family.” “Not surprisingly, he will be leaving his position as Speaker after two and a half years, in order to spend more time with his wife and children.” “I first met Paul at GOP events in Wisconsin and could not be more impressed with his enthusiasm, sincerity and knowledge.” “As Speaker, he ushered in a historic tax bill, something that has not been done in about 30 years!” “I am happy for him and his family.” “I look forward to working with Paul as he continues to be a part of the discourse in Washington and look forward to continuing to seek his advice and counsel in the future.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.22.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) continued his strong support of “Right to Try” legislation by voting in favor of the House version of the bill, which passed the house 267 - 149 with bipartisan support and will go to the Senate for further consideration. Senator Ron Johnson introduced a Senate version of this bill in 2017 and, with President Trump’s full-throated support, has made significant progress on passing this important legislation. The Right to Try Act will allow terminally ill patients who have exhausted all other treatment options the opportunity to try medications that have passed basic Food and Drug Administration (FDA) safety protocols, but have not received final approval for public use. The law will not require any individual to participate in the program, but instead give those with no other options one last chance. “Right to Try” laws have been passed in 38 states with overwhelming bipartisan support. In fact, in these state’s legislative bodies, “Right to Try” has received a yes vote 97.8 percent of the time, that includes both Republicans and Democrats. “Now is the time for this critical ‘Right to Try’ legislation– something I’ve been trying to bring to the floor for quite some time. After several conversations with my friend, Congressman Greg Walden [Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee], ‘Right to Try’ has finally passed the House” “Under current law, terminally ill patients are prohibited from utilizing potentially life-saving treatments. Sometimes this is a patient’s last chance for survival.” “To me, voting for this bill was easy. It was important to stand up to the pharmaceutical industry that opposed this bill and make sure that those with terminal illnesses have the access to these treatments.” “Treatments that could save lives are just sitting on the shelves right now. Passing ‘Right to Try’ will make sure patients exhaust every option for recovery and could potentially reveal cures to major diseases. That’s why I’m excited that 35 Democrats joined the vast majority of Republicans in a bipartisan effort to pass this bill, but disappointed that 147 Democrats and two Republicans chose to sit on the sidelines.” -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.22.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today, along with 13 original cosponsors, introduced the Make Schools Safe Again Act. This bill would prohibit the Secretary of Education or the Attorney General from authorizing agreements between schools and law enforcement agencies to encourage the non-reporting of criminal activity of students. “If a student commits, or is suspected of committing a crime, police need to know about it. After the tragic shooting in Parkland, FL, we discovered that the shooter had a troubled past but was rarely reported to authorities for misbehavior, including when he was expelled for bringing weapons to school.” “This lack of communication between schools and police was encouraged by an Obama-era guidance from the Department of Education aimed at reducing the number of school-based arrests. This guidance ended up fudging the numbers to make the school look good, but by doing this they let potentially violent students slip through the cracks.” “Every student deserves to learn in a safe environment, which is why we need our local law enforcement to be up-to-date on all criminal activity in the area. This bill will allow police to be better able to make a meaningful impact on reducing the amount of violence in our schools.” Background Following the tragic school shooting that took the lives of 17 students in Parkland, Florida, reports quickly surfaced that Broward County Public Schools had an agreement with local law enforcement agencies to explicitly not arrest students or refer them to the proper authorities if they were involved in criminal misconduct or misdemeanors. This collaborative agreement in Broward County was one of the catalysts for President Obama’s Department of Education 2014 guidance on school discipline, which advised school districts across the country to reduce referrals to law enforcement authorities in an effort to reduce what they termed as the “school to prison pipeline”. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.20.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) released the following statement about U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke’s visit to Horicon, WI: “Wisconsin has continued to be a leader in the preservation of its beautiful environment. This is made possible by Wisconsinites’ conservation efforts and respect for our natural resources, as well as efforts of organizations like Ducks Unlimited.” “I want to thank Secretary Zinke for being a leader on sportsmen’s conservation efforts and am honored that he chose Horicon to make this announcement. This investment in our natural resources will ensure that Wisconsinites will be able to enjoy everything our beautiful state has to offer for generations to come.” “In addition to its immediate positive impact, the restoration of our environment will ensure that our children and grandchildren, who are able to enjoy the outdoors today, will maintain respect for our natural resources and continue these conservation efforts for years to come.” Background Today, U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke traveled to Horicon, WI to announce more than $1.1 billion in annual national funding for state wildlife agencies from revenues generated by the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration and Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration (PRDJ) acts. While visiting the Horicon Marsh State Wildlife Area, Secretary Zinke presented a ceremonial check to the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources for nearly $35 million. The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources manages over 11,000 acres of the Horicon Marsh and almost every habitat project they complete includes PRDJ dollars, including prescribed burning, invasive species treatments, wetland berm maintenance, prairie seeding and restoration, timber stand improvement. The funds, which are distributed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, support critical state conservation and outdoor recreation projects. They are derived from excise taxes paid by the hunting, shooting, boating and angling industries on firearms, bows and ammunition and sport fishing tackle, some boat engines, and small engine fuel. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.19.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced upcoming town hall meetings for Tues., March 27, 2018, and Wed., March 28, 2018. Town hall meeting times and locations are as follows: Tuesday, March 27, 2018 9 a.m.-10 a.m. Random Lake Village Hall 96 Russell Drive, Random Lake, WI 53075 1 p.m.-2 p.m. Waldo Village Hall 810 W 2nd Street, Waldo, WI 53093 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Lakeshore Technical College 1290 North Avenue, Cleveland, WI 53015 Wednesday, March 28, 2018 9 a.m.-10 a.m. Mosel Town Hall W982 County Road FF, Sheboygan, WI 53083 1 p.m.-2 p.m. Fredonia Village Hall 242 Fredonia Avenue, Fredonia, WI 53021 3 p.m.-4 p.m. Grafton Village Hall 860 Badger Circle, Grafton, WI 53024 -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.19.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah), along with Congresswoman Karen Handel (R-GA), today introduced the Student and Teacher Safety Act. This bill would allow schools more flexibility with existing federal funds to make physical safety improvements to campus facilities, support local education programs aimed at improving school safety and security and assist in coordination between schools and local law enforcement to identify threats. “Students and teachers have the right to feel safe in school. But, as we unfortunately saw in Florida last month, we still have work to do in preparing schools to properly identify and respond to violent individuals.” “The Student and Teacher Safety Act will make it possible for our local schools to better secure their campus and allow them to bolster security measures as well as coordinate with local law enforcement in ways that will fit their unique needs.” “I believe that the people who know what is best for schools are the students, parents and teachers in the local community. So, if federal dollars are already being given to schools, they should be able to use that money to protect our children.” “Our children depend on us to provide them a safe and secure environment to learn. That’s the driving force behind this bill because it is our duty to protect the most vulnerable among us.” Background The Student and Teacher Safety Act would allow states and local educational agencies to use existing federal grant money to make a number of physical safety improvements to school campus facilities, such as the installment of emergency communications systems and improved surveillance systems. In addition to physical improvements to school campuses, the bill also allows states to support local educational agencies in providing programs and activities that improve the safety and security of schools, including better coordination with law enforcement. School improvements can include: Physical improvements to the school to prevent and deter unauthorized access to the school, including locks, double entry systems, hardened entrances, and interior and exterior video surveillance systems Security doors, automatic locks, security glass, alarm systems, metal detectors, and sensor systems Emergency communications systems including geographically precise mobile alert systems Perimeter fencing Emergency exit systems Duress or panic systems Emergency tip lines Other physical improvements to existing facilities where the primary purpose is to improve school safety Additionally, states can use funds to: Identify and disseminate best practices for school safety Assist in the establishment or implementation of emergency planning, which may include emergency response teams to address emergencies at schools Establish or identify agreements with local law enforcement and health agencies, including nonprofit, public, and private mental health agencies and institutions Improve coordination of services and identify threats to the safety of students and schools personnel School safety infrastructure improvements -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.14.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) recently rallied a bipartisan group of Wisconsin Congressmen to send a letter to House appropriators requesting strong support for apprenticeships and career and technical education (CTE) programs in the technology field in the FY18 appropriations package. In 2016, the technology industry contributed roughly $1 trillion to the U.S. economy, employed nearly seven million Americans and added over 100,000 new jobs. However, the skilled-labor gap led to more than 600,000 unfilled jobs in the final quarter of 2016 alone. Grothman’s letter calls for thorough investment in vital apprenticeships and CTE programs to ensure the booming U.S. technology industry continues to grow. “Increased focus on career and technical education is especially important for filling high-skill, in-demand jobs in fields like technology.” said Grothman. “The technology industry relies on a workforce with a precise set of skills that does not necessarily require a four-year degree. In order to make sure this important industry continues to thrive, we must properly invest in technical education and apprenticeships to prepare individuals looking to break into the field.” “As a member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee and representative of a district with such a high need for skilled labor, I can confidently say that investment in the technology industry will benefit not only Wisconsin, but the entire country.” Read the full letter by clicking here. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.12.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced that his office is accepting entries for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. The Artistic Discovery competition is open to all high school students in Wisconsin’s Sixth District. The winner will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year in an exhibit that features winners from other congressional districts across the U.S. Artworks entered in the contest may be up to 26” x 26” x 4”, including the frame, and can be made in the style of painting, drawing, collage, print, mixed media, computer generated art or photography. All entries must be original in concept, design and execution. All submissions for the 2018 Artistic Discovery competition must be mailed or delivered to Congressman Grothman’s Fond du Lac office by April 13, 2018. For more information, please visit Congressman Grothman’s website at Grothman.house.gov/constituent-services/arts-competition.htm or call his Fond du Lac office at (920) 907-0624. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.12.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) will be hosting a job fair in Neenah, WI where dozens of employers will be looking to hire local residents. Current employees looking for a new job or those eager to start their career are all welcome and encouraged to participate. What: Job fair hosted by Congressman Glenn Grothman. When: March 23, 2018; 11 a.m. – 4 p.m. Where: Doubletree by Hilton; 123 E. Wisconsin Ave., Neenah, WI 54956 Who: Local residents looking for work. Both those currently employed looking for a new job and those eager to start their career. Why: To connect local residents to nearby companies in need of employees. Interested applicants can RSVP by visiting Congressman Grothman’s website at https://grothman.house.gov/forms/form/?ID=19 or call his Fond du Lac office at (920) 907-0624. -30- U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.27.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned business leaders about their experiences with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) during a House Education and the Workforce Subcommittee on Workforce Protections hearing. Witnesses in this hearing included Mr. Peter Gerstenberger, Senior Advisor for Safety, Standards and Compliance for the Tree Care Industry Association, Mr. J. Gary Hill of J. Gary Hill, LLC, Mr. Eric Hobbs, Shareholder at the law firm of Ogletree, Deakins and Dr. David Michaels, Professor of Environmental and Occupational Health at George Washington University. Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Grothman: “I have a question for Mr. Hobbs, we had an incident in my district where somebody found out that they were going to be subject to fines through the media. In other words, the local media was notified that a fine was going to be levied before the business, which I can only assume is grandstanding on the part of OSHA and of course the business didn’t even feel that they should be fined, so that seems a little inappropriate. But, is that something you have ever had happened and what is the process that they are supposed to be going through?” Mr. Hobbs: “Thank you Congressman. Yes, we have had that happen, I should say clients have had that happen to them. When OSHA, at least under the prior administration, issued a citation it made those citations or that citation available to the media, and the media watched closely. In part I think this is the medias fault and not all OSHA’s fault, but the press releases which accompanied those citations which I addressed in my submission and in my comments today, stated as fact what simply was alleged in the citations so that an uninformed public reading an article on the citation would immediately infer that the employer was guilty. This is like any complaint or charge filed in a civil or criminal matter, it’s an allegation only until it is proven.” Grothman: “How do you get your reputation back if OSHA alleges something which may not be true, decides to put it in the press, and then perhaps later is shown not to be right?” Hobbs: “You put your finger on it, Congressman. The press releases that OSHA issued during the prior administration were never even modified, never mind withdrawn, if at the end of the process is a result of settlement or is the result of litigation. The allegations were shown not to have been truthful in fact.” Grothman: “Do you think there should be some legislation requiring a waiting period after a business is notified that they are being fined? Before OSHA can grandstand or try to get their name in the local newspaper?” Hobbs: “To be fair I haven’t thought it through that far, Congressman.” Grothman: “Ok. Another instance here, employers should have 24 hours to notify OSHA that an employee has been hospitalized. Now there may be cases in which you do not even know an employee has been hospitalized. You know, you could have a situation where somebody was at work on Friday, goes home, decides to go to the hospital. Employer doesn’t hear about it for 72 hours or whatever. I guess I ask Mr. Hobbs because he is from Wisconsin so I automatically assume he’s got the right answer, but anyways, anyone can respond. Is this a problem, or do you have any suggestions with how to deal with it?” Hobbs: “It is a problem, the timing is a problem, but the bigger problem is that it is very difficult for employers to get information from health care providers about what in fact is going on with an employee once that employee is gone from the work place. Health care providers are very, very sensitive to the confidentiality of that information, so we may not know for a very long time whether an individual has been in-patient, overnight, and for treatment, which are the two keys to that reporting requirement and it is problematic.” Background OSHA is a federal agency that was founded to protect workers’ rights and prevent workplace injuries. As OSHA ages and additional rules are put into place, more and more business owners feel that the new rules are harming their business more than helping. The goal of today’s hearing was to listen to the concerns of business leaders on why they feel OSHA is overstepping its bounds. The goal of OSHA, and any federal agency, should be to institute policies that achieve the goals of the organization while not serving as a hindrance to the businesses affected. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.15.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted in favor of the ADA Education and Reform Act (H.R. 620), of which he is a cosponsor. For years, the Americans with Disability Act of 1990 (ADA) has played a vital role in protecting individuals with disabilities from discrimination. Unfortunately, some profit-driven lawyers have exploited a loophole in the bill by using “drive-by lawsuits,” or lawsuits that are initiated by simply driving by a business and noting potential violations and more recently spotting violations in aerial views from Google Earth, to line their own pockets. H.R. 620 amends the decades-old ADA by allowing a plaintiff, usually a small business owner, to receive a notification detailing their violation of an ADA accommodation, and then provides the plaintiff with 120 days to correct the violation before they can be sued. This commonsense solution closes the loophole and actually results in quicker access for the disabled by allowing businesses to use their resources to comply with the ADA instead of spending their resources and time defending lawsuits. One of these drive-by lawsuit occurred in Wisconsin when a Rocky Rococco’s franchise had a portion of its sidewalk cement settle. No one mentioned to the owner that this made it difficult for wheelchairs to enter the establishment. The owner notes he would have fixed the sidewalk immediately if he had known. Instead, someone filed a lawsuit against the restaurant without warning. What should have been a $750 fix to the sidewalk ended up costing the franchise $10,000 in legal fees. “The business owners in my district want to be compliant with ADA requirements and make sure that individuals with disabilities are comfortable in their stores, but when anybody can sue without warning, it’s not helpful to anyone,” said Grothman. “These ‘drive-by lawsuits’ have been increasing each year. There were three times more lawsuits of this type in 2017 compared to 2013.” “Instead of lining the pockets of lawyers, business owners can use their money to actually help disabled individuals. That’s not to say that businesses will have the ability to violate the ADA law – they won’t. They’ll just be given a short period of time to fix any violations, resulting in more compliant businesses. The ADA Education and Reform Act passed the House by a vote of 225-192. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.09.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) early this morning supported the Bipartisan Budget Act. The two-year budget agreement includes funding for items like disaster relief, infrastructure and a long-term extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program. “Quite simply, voting in favor of this budget kept the government open – something I thought important to do, but that some of my House colleagues did not; they wanted to once again shut down the government over the DACA program, but this time they were unsuccessful. One of the main reasons I voted for this bipartisan budget is because it provides $6 billion to fight the opioid epidemic that’s become a national health crisis in this country. It’s a tragedy that drug overdose is now the leading killer of Americans under 50, and this budget will fund grants and prevention programs across the U.S. to help put an end to senseless drug-related deaths,” said Grothman. “Additionally, it includes a structural change to Medicare that will drive down prescription costs for seniors. For years, I’ve fought against drug companies’ skyrocketing costs so I believe this is a positive change. It also helps reduce the facility maintenance backlog at the Veterans Administration to make sure our veterans receive the care they deserve, and it ensures our men and women in uniform have the resources they need while defending freedom at home and abroad.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.09.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) voted in favor of the bipartisan Improving Rural Call Quality and Reliability Act, which was originally introduced by Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN). The bill requires the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to establish service quality standards for providers to increase service reliability in rural areas, so calls won’t drop as easily. It also requires third-party intermediate providers, or providers that carry long distance phone calls between bigger carriers like Verizon, AT&T and Sprint, to register with the FCC. This will ensure that emergency calls and the most important phone calls to first responders, family members and schools won’t drop. “Choosing to live in a rural area shouldn’t exclude individuals from having access to potentially life-saving cell phone service,” said Grothman. “I want to make sure that all the folks in Wisconsin’s Sixth District have access to quality, reliable cell phone service – not just those who live near a city.” The Improving Rural Call Quality and Reliability Act passed the House unanimously. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.30.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted to provide the military with the funds it needs to defend our nation. The 2018 Department of Defense Appropriations Act addresses the current needs of armed forces by: · Providing $659.2B in full-year funding for the Department of Defense; · Bolstering the number of troops by providing $138.3B for more active-duty and reserve service members; · Funding a pay raise for the military; · Providing $34B for the Defense Health program so that our military members, their families and retirees have access to high-quality medical care; · Increasing funding for operations and maintenance of military equipment, as well as research and development into new defense technology and procurement of new equipment; · And supporting President Trump’s South Asia strategy by improving our missile defense system. “America has the strongest military in the world, but still I’ve been told time and time again by our men and women in uniform that we have ships that can’t sail and planes that can’t fly,” said Grothman. “This increase in defense spending is slightly more than I would have liked, but it’s so vitally important that our equipment works and that our troops and their families are taken care. “We must make sure that our military is safe and functioning at its best both at home and abroad; and part of that, which is addressed in this appropriations package, is beefing up our missile defense system to ensure Americans’ safety in our current world environment.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.30.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) tonight released the following statement after attending President Trump’s State of the Union address to Congress. The president reviewed 2017 accomplishments and focused on critical issues the U.S. will face in 2018. “I was very pleased with President Trump’s speech tonight. I was glad to see him cover the issues I hear from Wisconsinites every day – economy, national security, health care and bipartisanship. “The president recounted the successes of the economy this past year, including growth in manufacturing, which is a priority of mine, and expansive tax reform that benefits the middle class and allows working Americans to keep more of their hard-earned money. Our tax reform has also resulted in $1.5 billion in employee bonuses, increased wages and more parental benefits extended from companies around the country. "The president reiterated support for our military, which is particularly important with such a heated world environment in which North Korea is unpredictable. “I’m particularly glad that the president stood up to drug companies and called on them to bring down drug prices for the average American. For years, I’ve railed against drug companies for their outrageous prices that prevent patients from obtaining vitally-needed medication. “President Trump showed compassion in calling for the passage of right-to-try – something I’ve been trying to bring to the floor for quite some time. Right-to-try allows terminally ill patients to utilize potentially life-saving, experimental drugs. Sometimes this is a patient’s last chance for survival. “And it’s about time we finally have a President of the United States to go all out on tackling the opioid crisis, which has led to 64,000 deaths a year – more than deaths caused by homicides and car accidents combined. “Finally, it was great that President Trump made such a strong effort to speak in a bipartisan manner. After the speech, I made a point to thank the Democrats who were brave enough to defy their party leadership and stand to applaud the president.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.19.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted to protect babies who are born alive after an abortion or attempted abortion. The Born Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (H.R. 4712) amends the country’s criminal code to prohibit health care practitioners from not administering the proper degree of care in the case of a child who survives an abortion or attempted abortion. The mother of the child born alive may not be prosecuted under this law. The bill specifically: · Requires health care practitioners to do all they can to preserve the life of the child as they would other babies born prematurely and requires the practitioner to ensure that the child is immediately transferred and admitted to the hospital. · Establishes strong criminal penalties for anyone who intentionally kills, or attempts to kill, a child born alive. · Allows the woman upon whom the abortion was performed or attempted to obtain appropriate relief through civil action. “We need to do all we can to protect these most vulnerable members of our society,” said Grothman. “I stand with the millions of Americans who respect the sanctity of human life and want to live in a country that adequately protects newborn babies in receiving life-saving care.” Background Under federal law, children born alive are recognized as persons. However, there is no federal law criminalizing abortionists who deny care to babies who survive abortions. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.19.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) joined The Weather Channel meteorologist Reynolds Wolf to stress the importance of severe weather preparedness in a newly created public service announcement (PSA). The locally targeted PSA, recorded in partnership with The Weather Channel television network, will air on the network in January and February during the heart of severe winter weather season. “Even though we’re used to snow and severe winter weather in Wisconsin, we should never stop preparing for the unexpected,” said Grothman. “It’s vitally important to be prepared for all that the weather can throw at us in order to keep our families, our neighbors and ourselves safe. I was proud to work with a trusted name like The Weather Channel to help spread the message of severe weather preparedness.” As we saw so dramatically in 2017, when severe weather is approaching, being prepared is important and can save lives,” said Dave Shull, CEO of The Weather Channel. “We are proud to have Rep. Grothman’s support in helping spread the important message of severe weather preparedness to his community. The Weather Channel works extensively to educate and prepare our viewers for severe weather events, and we’re thankful to work with Rep. Grothman on this important initiative.” Over the past decade, storms causing a billion dollars or more in damage have escalated – substantially affecting many communities. At a time when weather emergencies are more frequent, The Weather Channel is the leading source for storm coverage, delivering comprehensive, accurate, science-based weather information with meteorological expertise. This is the 5th year that The Weather Channel is partnering with congressional members around severe weather preparedness PSAs. Click here to view the PSA. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. For more than 30 years, The Weather Channel television network has inspired viewers to explore, investigate and appreciate the experience of weather in all its forms. One of the most widely distributed cable networks, The Weather Channel is the leader in severe weather coverage, providing the most comprehensive coverage of any media outlet, and with trusted meteorologists who analyze, forecast and report the weather - its expertise is unrivaled. The network is owned by a consortium made up of NBC Universal and the private equity firms The Blackstone Group and Bain Capital. For more information, visit weathergroup.com
01.11.2018	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced upcoming town hall meetings for Wed., Jan. 24, 2018, and Thurs., Jan. 25, 2018. Town hall meeting times and locations are as follows: Wed., January 24, 2018 9:00 a.m.-10:00 a.m. Horicon Public Safety Building 220 Ellison Street, Horicon, WI 53032 11:00 a.m.-Noon Mayville City Hall 15 S. School Street, Mayville, WI 53050 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Theresa Town Hall N8679 County Road P, Theresa, WI 53091 3:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. Campbellsport Public Library 220 N. Helena Street, Campbellsport, WI 53010 Thurs., Jan. 25, 2018 9:00 a.m.-10:00 a.m. Omro City Hall 205 S. Webster Avenue, Omro, WI 54963 11:00 a.m.-Noon Utica Volunteer Fire Department 1730 County Road FF, Oshkosh, WI 54904 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Rosendale Village Hall 211 N Grant Street, Rosendale, WI 54974 3:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. School District Administration Building 225 McKinley Street, North Fond du Lac, WI 54937 ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
12.21.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement after the Air Force announced it will house the next generation of F-35 fighter jets at Madison’s Truax Field: “I commend the Air Force for selecting Truax Field as one of the future homes for the F-35A. This decision confirms our Wisconsin National Guard, the 115th Fighter Wing, possesses the capabilities and strategic location worthy of such an elite fleet. “Members of the Wisconsin congressional delegation signed a letter in support of Truax Field during the basing selection process, and I applaud the Air Force, Wisconsin National Guard and 115th leadership, Madison and Dane County officials and Gov. Walker for working tirelessly on this move that will benefit our entire state. We’re proud that a number of these next generation fighters will call Wisconsin home!” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
12.19.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today issued the following statement after voting in favor of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act to modernize the tax code, make America’s business climate more competitive and deliver tax relief to American families and workers. “The Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is good for the American people and encourages a strong economy. “I feel the tax cuts in this version of the bill are targeted at the working middle class – a change from original proposals – and I feel like my voice was heard in making these changes. I’m especially happy that House and Senate leaders reinstated the medical expense deduction, a deduction used by folks in the most dire of circumstances. “The bill also shifted from a bill that benefited investors to one that more targets working people. The changes in the conference bill regarding state and local taxes will be of particular benefit to Wisconsin taxpayers, and virtually all taxpayers who make less than $100,000 should receive a tax cut. “I’m glad we’re standing up to Wall Street hedge managers in this bill by working to close the carried interest loophole. This change is needed in order to ensure that that these managers do not pay a lower rate on their commission income. I look forward to making further changes in this area. “Additionally, since I got this job, I have worked to reduce fraud in the Earned Income Tax Credit and the Child Tax Credit – something this bill also addresses. “Above all, the goal of tax reform is to improve the economy by lowering business taxes to stimulate spending and job creation and modernizing our country’s international tax system. Everyone should remember that personal retirement accounts and pensions will also benefit from the passing of this bill – as we have already seen in the historic gains of the stock market over the past year in anticipation of passage. “It is frustrating that I tried to work with Democrats, especially on the estate tax, to ensure it was as bipartisan a bill as possible. But, I believe many members of the other party just decided to vote ‘no’ and not be part of the process. “It’s also especially frustrating that Democrats are critical of lowering the corporate tax rate considering President Obama asked Congress to do just that in 2012, even including a preferential rate for manufacturing. Our current corporate tax rate is the highest in the industrialized world at 35 percent. By lowering it to 21 percent, we make the U.S. more competitive for business. “It just goes to show that Democrats are focusing on partisanship over American workers and families. I do hope my Democratic colleagues have a change of heart, and I look forward to working with them on the technical corrections bill which will be taken up in the spring.” The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed the House by a vote of 227-203. Background The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act benefits individuals and families by lowering individual taxes and expanding tax brackets; expanding the Child Tax Credit; eliminating the Obamacare individual mandate penalty tax so that families can make the health insurance decisions that are best for them; retaining retirement savings options like 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts; continuing to allow people to write off the cost of state and local taxes up to $10,000; and expanding the medical expense deduction, among other measures to make the tax code simpler and fairer. Additionally, a typical family of four earning the median family income of $73,000 will receive a tax cut of $2,059 with this bill. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act benefits job creators and stimulates the economy by lowering the corporate tax rate from the highest rate in the industrialized world and making the U.S. more competitive for business; protecting the ability of small businesses to write off interest on loans to help them to expand their businesses; modernizing our international tax system; and preventing American jobs, headquarters and research from moving overseas by eliminating incentives that reward companies for moving operations overseas, among other measures to put more money back in the pockets of small business owners and make the U.S. business climate more competitive globally. For a detailed summary of what’s included in the bill, please click here. To read the text of the bill in its entirety, please click here. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
12.12.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman’s (R-Glenbeulah) bipartisan resolution condemning the persecution of Christians around the globe passed the House unanimously today. H. Res. 407 condemns governments and religious extremist groups that target Christians and other religious minorities. Additionally, the resolution calls on discriminatory countries to cease their persecution of Christians and other religious minorities and urges the president and other world leaders to uphold the universal human right to religious freedom and condemn the global persecution of Christians. Prior to the passage of the resolution, Grothman spoke in support of it on the House floor. Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks “I rise in support of my resolution, H. Res. 407, condemning the persecution of Christians around the world. “The persecution of Christians is a global human rights problem Congress needs to address. According to Open Doors’ 2017 World Watch List, around the world, one out of 12 Christians is experiencing persecution for their faith. “Acts of persecution against Christians across the globe is in violation of international law, which is why Congress must act. “Sadly, in our own country, the United States, sometimes Christians can be forced to participate in ceremonies with which they don't agree. Hard to believe this is going on in the United States of America. “H. Res. 407 will condemn the persecution of Christians around the world and calls for all discriminatory countries and extremist groups to cease their persecution of religious minorities and force leaders to uphold universal religious freedom. “I urge my colleagues to support this resolution and yield back the remainder of my time.” Background Christians are persecuted in countries across the Middle East, Africa, Asia and the Americas by religious extremists and officials at all levels of government. According to Open Doors USA, an average of 214 churches and Christian properties are destroyed, 772 violent acts are committed against Christians and 322 Christians are killed because of their faith each month. Examples of persecution mentioned in the resolution include: · The 51 Coptic Christians who were killed by ISIS in Libya in February and March of 2015; · Christian migrants from northern Africa who have been abducted, trafficked and forced to convert to Islam at the hands of ISIS while traveling through Libya; · The prohibition on practicing Christianity in North Korea. Christians who are caught practicing their religion are sent to forced labor camps; · In China, members of Christian churches that are not registered with the government risk imprisonment and torture. Additionally, in the Zhejiang Province, more than 1500 churches have been removed as part of an anti-cross campaign; · The 600 Christian churches in Pakistan that were attacked in 2016; · The 44 Coptic Christians who were killed by ISIS bomb attacks in Egypt on Palm Sunday of this year; · The decline in the Christian population of Iraq from approximately 1.4 million in 2003 to approximately 275,000 in 2016. Grothman’s resolution falls within the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and U.S. law outlined in the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998. Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights recognizes that “everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion. This right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship, and observance.” The Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted by the United Nations in 1948. The International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 found that religious persecution is not confined to a particular region or regime and reaffirmed the commitment of the united States that religious freedom, which is the freedom of thought and conscience and the right to practice theistic and non-theistic beliefs, is the right of every individual and should never be arbitrarily abridged by any government. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
12.06.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today applauded President Trump’s decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and move the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. Congress has long-supported, in a bipartisan manner, recognizing Jerusalem as Israel’s undivided capital and moving the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem from Tel-Aviv. “Today’s decision by President Trump sends a strong message of support for Israel that wavered under the anti-Israeli policies of President Obama,” said Grothman. “Israel should not be the only nation that’s denied placement of embassies in its capital. Israel is America’s strongest, most stable ally in the Middle East, and today’s announcement is an incredibly important step in recognizing its legitimacy.” Background Congress voted in 1995 to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s undivided capital and to move the U.S. embassy there from Tel-Aviv. The Jerusalem Embassy Act passed the Senate (93-5) and the House (374-37), becoming law in 1995. Past presidents have used a national-security waiver allowed for in the bill to delay moving the embassy up until this point. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
12.01.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today sent a letter asking the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee on House Administration to disclose the members of Congress who have settled sexual harassment claims using taxpayer dollars through the Office of Compliance. The bipartisan letter has 15 cosigners, and was sent to Chairman Gregg Harper (R-Miss.) and Ranking Member Robert A. Brady (D-Penn.) on Friday afternoon. Specifically, the letter asks that the Committee on House Administration work with the Office of Compliance to address the following requests: · All sexual harassment settlements over $10,000 paid through the Office of Compliance be released to the public immediately. Specifically, information regarding the name of the perpetrator, the employing office of the perpetrator and the amount paid to the victim; · The victim be permitted to remain anonymous in any sexual harassment settlement disclosures; · The total amount of any sexual harassment-related settlement paid through the Office of Compliance since 1997 be released to the public without delay; · Any future sexual harassment settlements be made public. “American taxpayers deserve to know how their money is being spent,” said Grothman. “Releasing this information will increase government transparency for taxpayers, create a safer work environment in the legislative branch, and hold these perpetrators accountable for their actions.” Read the letter in full here. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.29.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned officials on the effectiveness of three federal agencies’ Regulatory Reform Task Forces during a House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on the Interior, Energy and Environment hearing. Witnesses at the hearing included The Honorable David Bernhardt, Deputy Secretary of the Department of Interior (DOI), Ms. Brittany Bolen, Deputy Associate Administrator for the Office of Policy at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Mr. Daniel Simmons, Acting Assistant Secretary of the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy at the Department of Energy (DOE). Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Grothman: “I want to follow up a little bit again as far as the background of people you hire. A lot of my experience actually came at the state level, but I always felt it was a big mistake to hire people in regulatory agencies straight out of college or academics because they really don’t understand how burdensome those regulations are. Are any of you, in your agencies, hiring people straight out of University or people whose only experience has been in the world of academia? Or, are you restricting yourselves, hopefully, to people who have experience with the businesses that are going to be regulated? Mr. Simmons: “I’ll start by answering that. For the broad swath of hiring across DOE, we meet our human capital requirements and we look to hire the best people for the appropriate job. For these entry level positions we definitely would like to have people right out of college because that’s what those positions are, to give people experience. For more senior level positions we definitely want people with various types of experience to provide that necessary information. So, it all depends on the position for hiring.” Ms. Bolen: “Certainly the agency does have fellowship programs with recent graduates. But, just generally speaking, I’m aware that the political staff I think has a broad scope in their background and qualifications and levels of expertise that they can offer. But, I couldn’t speak to the agency as a whole’s hiring practices.” Mr. Bernhardt: “We have approximately 70,000 employees. We hire all sorts of folks. Obviously at a policy level, at a senior level, what we see in folks tend to be people who have experience in state or local government, people that have experience in regulatory paradigms that are complicated or people that have science backgrounds that are relevant to their mission.” Grothman: “I’m a little bit concerned and I would like you to comment on this. Because, having dealt with regulatory agencies, sometimes somebody who has never worked outside of government, and that’s fine, they don’t understand how burdensome a new regulation could be. If you change a regulation from three years ago and you thought you were complying, now you’re not. That sort of thing. I’m particularly a little bit concerned with, and I realize not your entire functions are regulatory, you know if you’re hiring somebody for the parks or something that’s one thing, but if it’s a regulatory agency that affects how somebody else is doing business or their property I think it’s important to hire somebody who’s been on the other side first. I wondered if you had ever considered maybe putting an administrative rule that put in requirements that people who work for the regulatory part of your agencies have to have three or four years’ experience first so they understand how it looks when a new wave of paperwork is thrown at you or you have to spend perhaps millions of dollars on something when two years ago you were in compliance. Would any of you comment on if you would ever have the ability to maybe put some administrative rule in effect so you greatly increase the chance that you’ll be hiring people who have experience other than just college-related if they are interacting with private individuals?” Bernhardt: “I’ve never thought about the rulemaking, but I will give you a similar example. And that is, at times the folks that I think we have in our headquarters, even if they’re regulatory people, don’t necessarily know what folks are actually doing on the ground and the challenges that our field offices are facing, and I’ve seen this. And one of the things that we’re looking at is ensuring that the people that are making regulatory policy decisions actually know what the on-the-ground- effects are, even within the local regulators because I think their perspective tends to be a little different because they are there experiencing these things as well. Your idea’s an interesting one. We’d have to talk to our lawyers.” Bolen: “I would have to take back your suggestion but I will offer that the office of policy, the office in which I serve, does have a program that we have re-launched that was first initiated under the Clinton Administration known as ‘Common Sense’ and now we have re-branded it to ‘Smart Sectors’, which is an opportunity for the agency to develop partnerships with the regulated community and to provide a means for career staff to get on-the-ground tours and site visits to better understand the regulated community and this is just a partnership that we re-launched several months ago that was something past administrations had done to try to bridge the gap between career staff and the regulated entities.” Grothman: “One way to make sure the staff always understands the regulated community is to make sure you hire them from the regulated community. Thank you.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks (beginning at 1:13:48). Background Earlier this year, President Trump signed two executive orders to unveil the Administration’s position on regulatory reform. The first establishes that federal agencies must repeal two old regulations before issuing any new regulation. The second requires each agency to designate a Regulatory Reform Officer as well as a Regulatory Reform Task Force to identify unnecessarily costly, burdensome, outdated or redundant regulations for review or repeal. This hearing is the third part in a series looking at Regulatory Task Forces. The first was held on Oct. 24, 2017, and the second on Nov. 14, 2017. The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has learned that Regulatory Reform Task Forces are producing unprecedented progress in their regulatory cleanup efforts. For more information, please click here. Click Part I and Part II for more information on previous hearings. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.28.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today attended a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee field hearing at Johns Hopkins Hospital to discuss what can be done to combat the opioid epidemic. Grothman questioned witnesses over the course of two panels. Witnesses at the hearing included New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, Acting Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy Richard Baum, Health Commissioner Leana Wen of the Baltimore City Health Department and Dr. Caleb Alexander of the Johns Hopkins Center for Drug Safety and Effectiveness. Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks First panel Congressman Grothman: “This is really a horrible thing. I think it’s a very publicized problem and it’s still under publicized. Did you look at other countries [that] perhaps did not have the opioid problems we have? I was in Taiwan ten years ago and they had almost no problem. I think England has a big problem. Could you comment on the criminal justice systems and how they deal with possession or sale of opioids in other countries?” Governor Christie: “Well, we took a look at it from a criminal justice perspective. What we looked at it from was an availability perspective and the biggest difference we see between our country and the others is the extraordinary overprescribing of these drugs. We believe that part of it was caused by the federal government, quite frankly. With this, you know, pain is a vital sign requirement. [Everybody] who leaves the hospital has to have the smiley face, you know, [as their pain level]. And hospitals were evaluated on this basis. And so, what was going on was hospitals saying, ‘Well heck, if we are going to be evaluated on this basis, you’re going to leave with no pain. And the best way to leave with no pain is to give you a whole bottle of Percocet and get you taking it.’ So the difference is the way, at the very base of this problem, we’re dealing with the availability of this medication.” Grothman: “Do you know anywhere where I would even be able to get access to how they treat possession or sale of opiates in other countries that don’t have this problem?” Christie: “Sure. We, and the Commission, could be very helpful in that regard. Because we’ve dealt with a lot of other countries on those issues, but not on the particular one you’re talking about. But we’d be happy to be helpful. You get your staff in touch with ours, we’d be happy to help.” Grothman: “What percentage people who are arrested for opiates, heroin or whatever, are addicted and what percent are just using it?” Christie: “I don’t know the exact numbers, Congressman. What I will tell you is that the rate of addiction in terms of the amount of time that it takes someone to get addicted to these, according to the Center for Disease Control (CDC), is as little as three days. So if you have a predisposition to this, within three days of your use you could become addicted, which is why the CDC says -- their recommendation is to limit prescriptions to no more than three days on initial prescription because they think beyond three days you can become addicted.” Grothman: “When you talk to people who were arrested for heroin, do they say they were addicted in one or two days?” Christie: “Yes. And I’ve spoken to literally hundreds of people across my state in treatment centers about this who say that the time for addiction is very brief. I will tell you that one young woman, who is part of our public advertising campaign on this issue in New Jersey, is a young woman who suffered an injury, a knee injury, and she used her first bottle of pills. This young woman who was a college graduate, cheerleader in college, went out and had her first job and she was addicted within the first week that she was on these drugs. She went from being employed, having her own place to live, supporting herself to, within 60 days, having lost her job, moved out of her apartment and was living on the streets of Atlantic City, NJ and prostituting herself to get heroin.” Grothman: “One of the things on treatment is, of course, some people feel that treatment is frequently ineffective. Could you give us your opinion of what constitutes ineffective treatment or how we can avoid ineffective treatment?” Christie: “What constitutes ineffective treatment is anything that’s not evidence-based. And so, we should not be operating theoretically here, and there’s no reason to because there’s sufficient information across this country in the medical community about what works and what doesn’t. And medication-assisted treatment works for most people who try it. The fact is, though, that the way to make sure ineffective treatment isn’t happening is through the state regulatory bodies that regulate the departments of health across this country; [they] need to be very vigilant about regulating what happens in treatment centers. And there are places in this country where you have a lot of fallacious treatment. I don’t want to be the first to shock you and say that there is fraud in all different areas of our country when there’s money to be made. That does not discount the value of treatment. What it does is, it increases the need for regulatory bodies and prosecutors to go after those people who are ripping off people by giving them false hope with fake treatment.” Second panel Congressman Grothman: “On the break I ran into a woman down here who had a relative who had been through treatment dozens of times, which kind of obviously means that treatment doesn’t always work. I’d like you folks to comment on, percentage-wise, how often, in your experience, in programs you deal with, treatment works and what distinguishes the programs that are successful to those programs that are not successful? And also what percentage of admissions do you expect to be successful with regard to treatment?” Dr. Alexander: “I could begin and say that there is no question that opioid use disorders are really, really serious and individuals that have opioid addiction remain with a lifelong vulnerability to the products and this is one on the reasons that we reduce the over-prescribing of prescription opioids in the first place.” Grothman: “They only give me so much time. Can you tell me percentage-wise, in the treatment programs you’re familiar with, how many times people go into treatment and percentage-wise how many times they are successful?” Dr. Wen: “The data that I’ve seen are about 40-60 percent rate of recovery, recognizing that addiction is a complex disease and that we need to be ready for people when they want to go into treatment. Governor Christie had mentioned that he had not met people who were ready for treatment. I meet them all the time. And the problem is that we need to be ready for people at that moment, not to have them wait weeks or months and then recognize that relapses are part of recovery because that’s the nature of the disease.” Grothman: “So you expect a treatment to be successful half the time. In other words, half the time of a heroin addict or an opioid addict goes in they will never do it again. Is that your expectation?” Wen: “They may not be successful that first time, but they may be successful that second time and recognizing that there are forms of treatment that are evidence-based and some that are not. So, we need to be promoting these evidence-based treatments, which include medication-assisted treatment.” Grothman: “Just, when you get on the internet it implies that, you know, these are wildly unsuccessful, that’s why I’m asking you.” Mr. Baum: “I just wanted to add to that. It’s true that relapse rates are a challenge. But, I think that if we move away from this sort of isolated, episodic treatment model to ongoing, continuing care, we can drive down relapse rates. Sometimes we have a detox program that’s separate from an in-patient treatment, that’s separate from ongoing recovery supports, and we have to stop doing it that way. The system has to evolve to have ongoing recovery support so that relapse rates are driven down. In summary, I would say we shouldn’t accept the level of relapse rates, I think we can drive them lower if we work harder, work smarter. Grothman: “Okay, you’re touching on something I think Governor Christie wanted to stay away from. Do you find that sometimes family background is a correlation with abuse?” Baum: “I think that the evidence that people of all walks of life and all type of background, of every level of wealth and every racial group are affected by the drug problem.” Grothman: “That goes without saying, but I mean percentage-wise.” Baum: “I think if you look at the percentage breakdown of a socioeconomic group, there’s a little bit of variation. But really, everyone is being affected by this problem. Everyone with the disease of addiction need and deserves treatment and ongoing recovery support.” Background Opioid-related deaths have more than quadrupled over the past 20 years as the number of opioids prescribed has increased. In 2015 alone, more than 50,000 Americans died as a result of heroin and prescription drug overdose. In October, the Trump administration declared the opioid crisis a public health emergency. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.27.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today called for transparency in information about sexual harassment settlements paid out by members of Congress. Grothman wants the number of sexual harassment-related settlements paid out by members of Congress to be released immediately. “While I was home for Thanksgiving last week, I hosted town halls and met with constituents. Many were concerned about the sexual harassment happening in Congress, as well as the seemingly secret payments regarding sexual harassment,” said Grothman. “The public deserves to know what’s really going on regarding sexual harassment settlements among members of Congress. It’s time to do away with this behavior once and for all.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.15.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned Department of Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta on the policies and priorities of the U.S. Department of Labor during a House Committee on Education and the Workforce hearing. Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “Thank you very much. How many employees do you have over at the Department of Labor?” Secretary Acosta: “Congressman, I believe we have about 15,000, give or take.” Congressman Grothman: “And how many do you get to hire?” Secretary Acosta: “Very few, Congressman. I don’t have an exact number.” Congressman Grothman: “Less than 20? Less than 30?” Secretary Acosta: “More than 30 but less than 100 I would say.” Congressman Grothman: “With regard to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), right now there have been some complaints in my district of people who come in and write citations for relatively minor things, sometimes sending out public press releases as far as minor things that may be easily correctable. Do you have any plans to try to do something to kind of reign in OSHA? Are you aware of that problem? Secretary Acosta: “My perspective on OSHA enforcement, and enforcement in general, is where you have individuals that are trying to do the right thing, that are trying to comply, there is a value to compliance assistance, to saying ‘this is how it needs to be done’. On the flip side, if you have an employer that is engaged in repeated and willful violations, violations that have resulted in serious harm, we need to be very aggressive in the enforcement. So, I think compliance assistance goes hand-in-hand with aggressive enforcement.” Congressman Grothman: “I think maybe the number one problem for employers in my district is they can’t find people to work. I can think of a couple things we could do about that. For one thing, of course, we still have a large government bureaucracy. Do you feel that you need all the people who are working for you right now? Are you looking into areas of efficiencies? At least in your little bailiwick you can maybe decrease the employment and open up some of your folks for work in the private sector. Secretary Acosta: “There’s always room to improve efficiencies. What we’re looking at right now and where we’re focused it particularly on the programmatic dollars because that’s by far where most of our spending is and in how we can spend those dollars wisely to focus on outcomes. As I said earlier it’s not simply, and particularly in the workforce education side, how many folks are receiving services, but what is the outcome. How many graduates and how many jobs.” Congressman Grothman: “To a degree your organization deals with something I’ll refer to as welfare or help for people. Right now we have a lot of perverse incentives in our society. Could you comment on if you feel you have any role in dealing with our income transfer payments? As President Trump has said he wants to take this up next year, could you give us any role that you might play in this? Secretary Acosta: “Obviously we will be playing a significant role. Particularly when it comes to workforce issues this is an important factor. And as the President has said, this will be an issue for next year.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks (Congressman Grothman’s remarks begin at 2:11:31). Background “The Department of Labor is on the frontline of the issues facing America’s workers and job creators, and sets policies that have a widespread impact on the economy, employment, retirement security, and more. It is a key responsibility of this committee to conduct oversight of this important department, and we look forward to hearing Secretary Acosta testify for the first time since his confirmation.”- Chairwoman Virginia Foxx (R-NC). ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.14.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned officials on the effectiveness of three federal agencies’ Regulatory Reform Task Forces during a House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Healthcare, Benefits and Administrative Rules hearing. Witnesses at the hearing included Ms. Rebeckah Adcock, Senior Advisor to the Secretary of Agriculture, Mr. Robert Eitel, Senior Counselor to the Secretary of Education and Mr. Charles Keckler, Associate Deputy Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “I’ve got some general questions for you. How many recommendations has your task force reported that your agency had to repeal or amend? Duplicative, outdated or unnecessary regulatory actions or other policies. Do you just have a general number?” Ms. Adcock: “Yes, we identified through the Regulatory Reform Task Force over 275 broad actions, and about half of those were regulatory and we’re getting ready to dig back in again and sort through public comments and dig deeper in what we consider round two. So that was our first go at it.” Mr. Eitel: “As for the Department of Education, we’ve identified as of today six regulations for deregulatory action. We have additional items pending on our fall agenda. In addition to that we have withdrawn approximately 600 out of date guidance documents of various types.” Mr. Keckler: “Our Regulatory Reform Task Force gets only some of the overall regulatory activity that goes on. But thus far the task force itself has made 34 recommendations after receiving reports from our working groups for deregulatory actions.” Congressman Grothman: “Okay. I’ll ask you to respond to something that could be criticism of what we’re doing here, a concern I have. Obviously there are mandatory regulations in the sense that Congress passes bills that demand interpretation. So, you can publish new regulations that actually are less burdensome on business, less burdensome on other areas of government and I don’t necessarily thinks that’s a bad thing. Could you give me just general statements, as far as when you withdraw regulations or begin to promulgate new regulations, as to what you’re aiming at? I guess what I’m getting at, like I said, is sometimes that only way to deal with a bad regulation is not to repeal it, because then maybe you’re left with the underlying statute, but to improve it or make it less burdensome. And I guess I’d just like a comment from each of you as how you’re approaching regulations.” Mr. Eitel: “I think the first is legal sufficiency. That is, are we acting with the intent of Congress based on legislative language and the history and intent of the law; are we going beyond the law. Second is to provide clarity and better understanding for stakeholders. Whether it be a state educational agency or local school district or an educational institution or parents, students and teachers. I think the third would be to examine what is the cost of the regulation and what is the benefit to the public.” Ms. Adcock: “We have followed closely with the principles laid out by the President relating to due process and many of the considerations the Department of Education has mentioned. We also at USDA, at the behest of the Secretary, are looking into very strongly the cost, the benefits, the barriers, the opportunities, what is the impact on jobs and the economy, how does it serve the rural constituents and customers that we have through or various agencies everywhere from the forest service to our frontline offices at NRCS and FSA and our food and nutrition programs. So we are going through and trying to be very thoughtful and relying very heavily on the expertise of the people who have been in the agency for a long time to weigh what they know about how we can do better whether it is regulatory, operational or otherwise. And as you mentioned it’s not always remove the regulation, often it is modernize it or revise it or combine it and find efficiencies in those matters.” Congressman Grothman: I’m going to jump back to Mr. Eitel. Have you looked at all at the special Ed[ucation] Regulations, which I think can kind of be unintentionally damaging to some children? Is that something you’d review over there or try to give more flexibility to the local school district? Eitel: “We are looking at that but have not made any final decisions on how to proceed.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks. Background Earlier this year, President Trump signed two executive orders to unveil the Administration’s position on regulatory reform. The first establishes that federal agencies must repeal two old regulations before issuing any new regulation. The second requires each agency to designate a Regulatory Reform Officer as well as a Regulatory Reform Task Force to identify unnecessarily costly, burdensome, outdated or redundant regulations for review or repeal. This hearing is the second part in a series looking at Regulatory Task Forces. The first was held on October 24, 2017 The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has learned that Regulatory Reform Task Forces are producing unprecedented progress in their regulatory cleanup efforts. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.13.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement after the Senate preserved key deductions for medical expenses in its version of the tax reform bill: “For many families in our communities with high healthcare costs, these medical expense deductions help them keep their heads above water financially,” said Grothman. “I applaud the Senate for preserving these deductions in its version of the tax reform bill. “As someone who used to do taxes, I know that these deductions are rarely used, but when they are, it’s by folks in dire situations – elderly people in nursing homes, low-income individuals with high deductibles and people without health insurance who’ve experienced a catastrophic event. The House continues to work on tax reform, and I encourage my colleagues to restore these deductions to the House version of the bill.” Background Currently, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows individuals to deduct medical expenses, such as surgeries, preventive care and vision care, that exceed 10 percent of their annual income. Removing these deductions especially affects Medicare beneficiaries, who pay for health care mostly out-of-pocket. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.13.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced upcoming town hall meetings for Nov. 19 and 20. Town hall meeting times and locations are as follows: Sun., Nov. 19, 2017 4:30-5:30 p.m. Two Rivers Senior Center 1520 17th St., Two Rivers, WI 54241 Mon., Nov. 20, 2017 8:15-9:15 a.m. Oostburg Municipal Building/Village Hall 1140 Minnesota Ave., Oostburg, WI 53070 10:00-11:00 a.m. Plymouth City Hall 128 Smith St., Plymouth, WI 53073 1:45-2:45 p.m. Randolph Village Hall 248 W. Stroud St., Randolph, WI 53956 3:45-4:45 p.m. Fairwater Civic Center 104 Main St., Fairwater, WI 53931 Since his time in Congress, Rep. Grothman has held 40 town hall meetings, including 15 so far in 2017. After Mon., Nov. 20, he will have held 45 town hall meetings in every county in Wisconsin’s Sixth District. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.08.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today had an amendment adopted to the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act. The straightforward, bipartisan amendment that Grothman introduced with Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-02) requires federal decision-makers at the Department of the Interior to consider the threat of invasive species when ordering installations of fishways. Fishways serve an important purpose of preserving and enhancing the populations of desirable, native fish by allowing them a way to travel around dams. However, invasive species use these same fishways to invade rivers and lakes and devastate native species and their habitats. The state of Wisconsin is currently experiencing this problem. The Fish and Wildlife Service has ordered the installation of a fishway at the Prairie du Sac dam. Asian carp, an invasive species, has been found at the base of this dam; installing a fishway in this location would allow the Asian carp to migrate upstream to the Wisconsin River and Lake Wisconsin, and possibly the Great Lakes, which would wreak havoc on native species. “Since invasive species can have a devastating effect on the environment, public health and the economy, this amendment is incredibly important,” said Grothman. “It will ensure that federal decision-makers consider all consequences before ordering the installation of fishways.” The Wisconsin delegation is united in its commitment to protect the Great Lakes, and this amendment plays a large part in helping the Great Lakes thrive. Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04) also spoke on the House floor in favor of this amendment. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.07.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted in favor of the Save Local Business Act (H.R. 3441), which rolls back the National Labor Relations Board’s employer rule. The joint-employer standard that was implemented under the Obama administration defines joint employer as those who have direct or indirect control over employees. For example, the expanded standard allows franchisors to control and heavily monitor franchisees in areas like hiring, firing and other day-to-day operations, which creates unnecessary burdens for franchisees. This bill changes the definition of joint employer to ensure that it only refers to employers who have “actual, direct and immediate” control over employees. “We should be encouraging small business owners and entrepreneurs as they work to grow their businesses, but the joint-employer standard as it is now only hurts these individuals,” said Grothman. “The Save Local Business Act does exactly what its name says, allowing small businesses and franchisee owners in Wisconsin and across the country – not government agencies and federal judges -- to control their own businesses.” Grothman previously voted for this bill when it passed the Education and the Workforce Committee in October. The Save Local Business Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 242-181. Background In August 2015, the NLRB expanded the joint-employer standard to define joint employers as those who have direct or indirect control over employees. Under the new joint-employer standard, employers who contract with a separate company can share control over that company’s workforce. In June, The Trump administration’s Department of Labor rescinded the Obama administration’s guidance on the joint-employer standard. The 2015 NLRB ruling is also being challenged in court. In a September Subcommittee on Workforce Protections and Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions hearing, Congressman Grothman questioned franchisee owners and employment lawyers who agreed that the Obama-era joint-employer standard compromises employer-employee relationships for small business owners. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.01.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) introduced the Pell Grant Modernization Act, which would increase the definition of “full-time” Pell Grant eligibility from 12-units per semester to 15-units per semester, while reducing the amount of semesters a student is eligible to use his/her Pell Grant award—from 12 semesters to 10 semesters. "In too many cases across the country, college students are taking six or more years to complete their college education,” said Grothman. “This unnecessary amount of time spent sitting in a classroom adds thousands of dollars to a student borrower’s loan balance.” “To address this growing problem, I introduced the Pell Grant Modernization Act in hopes of accelerating college completion rates. The critical changes to the Pell Grant program included in this bill will ensure students are moving towards college completion, while saving taxpayers billions of dollars per year – which is especially important when our country is so deeply in debt.” As a member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Grothman hopes to make reforms to The Higher Education Act, which is currently up for reauthorization. Grothman is optimistic about the committee’s efforts to reauthorize the law to make federal student aid programs more accountable to taxpayers and affordable for students. Background Under current law, a Pell Grant recipient is considered a full-time student, and can maximize his/her Pell Grant award of nearly $6,000/year, by taking only 12-units per semester. Additionally, Pell Grant recipients are eligible for this award for up to six years. This means that a student taking only 12 units of coursework per semester would have to be enrolled at their 4-year institution for at least 5.5 years in order to achieve 120 units of coursework, the typical graduation requirement for universities; and that time period could be extended by a student failing or dropping any courses along the way. Additional facts about the Pell Grant program and college completion rates: · According to The Education Trust, 50 percent of all Pell Grant students complete their Bachelor’s degree in six years; 65 percent of all non-Pell Grant students complete their Bachelor’s degree in six years. · Since the year 2000, the federal government has spent over $350 billion on Pell Grants. Since President Obama took office in 2009, the federal government has spent $248 billion on Pell Grants, not including the 2017/18 academic year. · According to the College Board, student borrowers who complete their college education are 56 percent more likely to repay their student loans than borrowers who do not complete their college education.
10.31.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) is today introducing a House Resolution celebrating the 500th anniversary of the Protestant Reformation. On Oct. 31, 1517, Martin Luther nailed 95 theses to the door of a German church, igniting the Protestant Reformation and transforming the culture, political structures, economics and education of Western civilization. European Protestants eventually made their way to North America to evade religious persecution in Europe. Early American Protestants like Thomas Jefferson preserved the freedom of religion and worship through the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. Today, Protestants in America make up nearly 45 percent of the population, with thousands of denominations active in every state and territory in the United States. “As a Member of Congress, it’s paramount that I always stand for religious liberty – an ideal that our Founding Fathers held as well,” said Grothman. “As we recognize the anniversary of the Protestant Reformation today, let us also recognize the significant impact it had on our nation’s founding and the advancement of religious freedom.” ###
10.24.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement about the U.S. Senate’s vote to remove $200 billion in mandatory spending cuts from the budget: "For eight years, Republicans have promised to reign in out-of-control spending and scale back expanding deficits,” said Grothman. “Now that we’re in control, we have the chance to deliver on these promises. Unfortunately, the Senate budget did not include the $200 billion in mandatory spending cuts that were included in the House budget. “That is why I today submitted an amendment to the House Rules Committee to include the House-passed $200 billion mandatory spending cuts in the Senate budget. While the amendment was not agreed to, it is something that I will continue fighting for in future budget discussions.” Background Mandatory spending is government spending on certain programs, like entitlement programs, that’s required by current law. The Senate approved a budget plan that removed spending cuts on Thurs., Oct. 19, 2017. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
10.19.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today applauded President Trump after the president’s remarks in support of welfare reform. “Thank you, President Trump, for bringing sorely-needed welfare reform to the forefront of the country’s conversation,” said Grothman. “I strongly urge the upcoming conference committee to retain the mandatory cuts put in by the House. Congress needs to follow the president’s lead and use these mandatory cuts in the budget reconciliation process to enact welfare reform. “Reconciliation through the budget process might be the last chance to do welfare reform for the following year. Failure of Congress to act unnecessarily delays Trump’s agenda, which is why we must act now.” Grothman has been a long-time advocate for welfare reform since his time in the Wisconsin state legislature. While many government programs were originally designed to fight poverty, some are now hampering upward mobility among those they are trying to help. Grothman’s proposed reforms include incentivizing work, encouraging two-parent families and discouraging damaging behaviors like drug use. Trump announced he’s looking “very strongly” at welfare reform on Monday, noting that it will be a “big topic” under his administration. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
10.12.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement in celebration of National Farmers Day: "When folks across the country think of Wisconsin, they often think of our delicious cheese and our robust agriculture sector. Today we take time to recognize and celebrate the legions of hard-working farmers across our state who make those thoughts a reality. "In the Sixth District alone, we have more than 8,000 farms growing and producing some of the world’s finest agricultural goods. I’m proud that our district and our state are known for superior dairy, corn, grain and numerous other farm products. "It’s a further testament to our farming community that whenever I tour businesses and manufacturers back home, they always mention their desire to hire individuals from farm families because of how hard they work. So, to all the farmers across Wisconsin, I salute you. Happy National Farmers Day!" Background National Farmers Day dates back to the 1800s. Wisconsin’s Sixth District has more than 8,000 farms and 14,0999 farm operators. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
10.12.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted in favor of the Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017. The Whistleblower Protection Act: · Sets minimum disciplinary standards across all government agencies regarding retaliation against whistleblowers. · Requires trainings about whistleblower protections for federal employees. · Adds protections for probationary period whistleblowers who are retaliated against. · Prohibits pulling VA employee medical files as an act of retaliation. · Requires the VA to come up with a plan to restrict unauthorized employee access to medical files so files can’t be used as retaliation. The bill is named after Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick, a psychologist at the VA Medical Center in Tomah, Wis. Kirkpatrick committed suicide after he was fired from the VA for questioning the over-medication of veterans who were being treated at the facility. The Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 passed the House unanimously. It was sponsored by Sen. Ron Johnson in the Senate, where it passed by unanimous consent. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
10.09.2017	The deadline to apply for a service academy nomination through the office of Congressman Glenn Grothman is this Fri., Oct. 13, 2017. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. “Nominating young people from Wisconsin’s Sixth District for our country’s military academies is one of the best parts of my job,” said Grothman. “I wish all applicants the best of luck as they seek to attend one of the U.S. service academies and serve our country.” The application can be found online at https://grothman.house.gov/constituent-services/service-academy-nominations.htm. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
10.06.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Oct. 6, 2017 Contact: Bernadette Green, (202) 225-2476 Grothman Celebrates National Manufacturing Day (Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement in celebration of National Manufacturing Day. “In Wisconsin, we’re really good at making stuff. That’s what we do; especially in the Sixth District where 80,000 of our citizens wake up and go to work at factories and manufacturing facilities – more than almost any other place in the country. “Wisconsin’s manufacturing industry keeps our state at the forefront of job creation and innovation. To all those who work in manufacturing, I hope you have a wonderful National Manufacturing Day as you work hard to continue to grow the economy of Wisconsin.” Background National Manufacturing Day was created in 2014 to educate the public about manufacturing careers and the value of manufacturing to the country’s economy. It’s celebrated annually on the first Friday in October. Wisconsin’s Sixth District has more manufacturing jobs than any other congressional district in the nation. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
10.06.2017	Wisconsin Congressman Sean Duffy, chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing & Insurance, and Wisconsin Congressman Glenn Grothman today called on the Department of Education to restore education funding for students in Rural Wisconsin. The Department of Education recently announced a procedural change regarding applications for the Gaining Early and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP). This change indicated that $3.5 million in GEAR UP grant money would be taken from Wisconsin’s program and given to other states. “Students in Wisconsin’s rural communities deserve the resources necessary to thrive in the 21st century economy,” said Congressman Duffy. “I have been in contact with the Department of Education regarding this policy change, and I urge Secretary DeVos to restore GEAR UP funding to our rural communities.” “Earlier this week, my office contacted the Department of Education regarding Wisconsin DPI’s application for GEAR UP funding, requesting answers for why Wisconsin’s application was declined,” said Congressman Grothman. “I am monitoring this situation very closely and am still awaiting further response and explanation from Education. As we learn more, I will continue to work with our colleagues here in Congress and my friends in Madison to ensure Wisconsin students and schools do not unfairly lose out on this important funding.” Background: · School districts in Wisconsin’s Seventh Congressional District affected by the cuts include: Ashland, Bayfield, DC Everest, Washburn, and Wausau.
10.05.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced that his Washington, D.C. and Fond du Lac offices will be open to serve constituents on Columbus Day, Mon., Oct. 9, 2017. If you would like to contact either of Congressman Grothman’s offices on Columbus Day, please call 202-225-2476 (Washington, D.C.) or 920-907-0624 (Fond du Lac). “I keep my offices open on most federal holidays because it’s simply not fair that your government isn’t working while hundreds of thousands of folks in the Sixth District are getting up and heading into work,” said Grothman. “If you need my office on Columbus Day, know we’ll be here to answer your calls.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
10.04.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted to advance the Save Local Business Act (H.R. 3441), of which he is a co-sponsor, out of the House Education and the Workforce Committee. The bill will now continue the process towards a vote on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. H.R. 3441 rolls back the expanded definition of the current joint-employer standard to define joint employers as only those who have “actual, direct and immediate” control over employees. The current National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) expanded standard that was implemented in 2015 under the Obama administration defines joint employers as those who have direct or indirect control over employees. For example, the expanded standard allows franchisors to control and heavily monitor franchisees in areas like hiring, firing and other day-to-day operations, which creates unnecessary burdens for franchisees. “Government has been waging a war on small business, the backbone of America,” said Grothman. “These businesses should feel that they – not overreaching government agencies and federal judges – are in control of their own employer-employee relations. On behalf of small businesses and franchisee owners in Wisconsin and across the country, I’m glad we’re working towards that being a reality once again.” Grothman questioned business owners and employment lawyers about the need to roll back the expanded joint-employer standard during a recent hearing. The Save Local Business Act passed out of the Education and the Workforce Committee was approved by a vote of 23-17. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
10.03.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted in favor of the bipartisan Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36), of which he is a cosponsor. Science increasingly confirms that unborn babies feel pain by at least 20 weeks post-fertilization. H.R. 36 makes elective abortions on unborn babies 20 weeks post-fertilization or older illegal, except in cases of rape or incest, or to protect the life of the mother. In Wisconsin, Gov. Scott Walker signed a similar bill into law in 2015. Wisconsin’s Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act prohibits abortions of unborn children after 20 weeks post-fertilization. “Late-term abortion is not only painful for the mother, but there’s more and more evidence that it’s painful for the child as well,” said Grothman. “With this vote, we protected some of the most vulnerable members of our society from excruciating pain.” The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 237-189. Background Currently, the U.S. is one of only seven countries in the world, including North Korea and China, where elective, late-term abortions are legal. A 2017 Marist poll found that 74 percent of Americans favor restrictions on abortions, and more than half of Americans support a ban on abortions that take place after 20 weeks of pregnancy. This bill would seek to hold abortion providers accountable by punishing them for performing illegal late-term abortions, but it would not punish the women who have the abortions. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
09.29.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today joined nine other Republicans and fifteen Democrats as a co-sponsor of Rep. James Comer’s (R-Ky.) Industrial Hemp Farming Act (H.R. 3530). H.R. 3530 amends The Controlled Substances Act to exclude industrial hemp from the definition of marihuana. Industrial hemp contains less than 1 percent Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and was legal in the U.S. until 1937. It’s used to create a variety of products, including construction materials, biofuel, rope, plastic composites and more. Currently, the U.S. is the only major industrialized country that cannot legally grow hemp. The U.S. is also the largest importer of industrial hemp material, which means that American farmers are losing out on potential profit to farmers in other countries like Canada who can legally grow hemp. “Industrial hemp plays a large role in Wisconsin’s agricultural history, and legalizing it now will only benefit Wisconsin,” said Grothman. “Non-narcotic industrial hemp makes our economy stronger by providing an additional revenue stream for farmers, and is useful in other areas like construction and manufacturing.” H.R. 3530 ensures that industrial hemp is considered a non-narcotic agricultural commodity so it can be used in thousands of legal and legitimate products. Among Grothman’s many considerations when making the decision to co-sponsor H.R. 3530 was the input of Eugene Hahn, a former member of the Wisconsin State Assembly and a long-time advocate of hemp. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
09.13.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today explored the growing threat to small businesses and franchises posed by the National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) Obama-era definition of the joint-employer standard during a combined House Education and the Workforce Subcommittee on Workforce Protections and Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions hearing. The subcommittee hearing specifically focused on Rep. Bradley Byrne’s (R-Ala.) Save Local Business Act (H.R. 3441), of which Grothman is a co-sponsor. The Save Local Business Act would roll back the expanded definition of the joint-employer rule to define joint employers as two or more employers who have “actual, direct and immediate” control over employees. Witnesses at the hearing included small business owners and employment lawyers. Grothman questioned two of the witnesses: Mr. Zachary Fasman, a partner at Proskauer Rose, LLP, and Ms. Tamra Kennedy, a Taco John’s franchise owner. Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks Grothman: “I’ll start off with Mr. Fasman. It’s kind of a difficult topic because small business is the backbone of America and government, for a long time, has been waging a war on small business – trying to drive them out of business. Just punish them, and they hate them. A lot of small businesses today are franchises. Can you give me, in general, what will happen to franchises as [the expanded joint-employer standard] goes into effect? Will more of them be driven into becoming corporate stores? Will more employees be forced to work for large corporations? Is that something that will happen in the long run?” Mr. Fasman: “That is, of course, where this ultimately goes. If you’re a large franchisor and you’re found to be a joint-employer with franchisees across the country, you may have thousands of collective bargaining agreements that you have to negotiate. And that’s untenable. So what do you do under those circumstances? There are certain things you can do, and one of them is to say we won’t have franchises.” “They all become corporate stores.” “Yeah.” “Not to mention, you don’t want to be personally on the hook for what’s going on with someone you’re not supervising yourself.” “Absolutely right. And that really goes back to what we’re talking about here. It’s hard for a business that has a contractual relationship with another business, and says, ‘Look, you run all these things we don’t want. You hire, you fire, you pay, and you’re responsible for this.’ To be told after the fact by a federal agency, ‘Oh, but by the way, you’re a joint-employer because you have the potential to control that relationship.’ That just makes no sense […] Companies do this not to evade the law, but because it’s a legitimate and an important business model in generating jobs throughout the United States. It’s not a nefarious way to get around paying employees what they’re entitled to under the law.” “Ms. Kennedy, as someone who is a franchisee, would you feel you were a small businesswoman if you lost control of the employer-employee relationship in which more of the employer-employee relationship would be directed from the corporate level?” Ms. Kennedy: “In effect, it would make me a manger for them if they are going to be responsible for employees that are technically my employees and my business. Why would they want to carry all of that risk if they couldn’t direct every action of those employees? And that’s really what’s at odds here today: that uncertainty over whether or not they could take over control of my employees. Because they might be held responsible in the end for what they do.” “We’re looking at joint-employer rule here today, Ms. Kennedy, but we sit on other committees and deal with other sort of business. And this idea of hating small business, forcing them into a position where they ultimately have to be bought out by a big corporation, is something we see in other areas – not just in the restaurant business. Do you know why the government hates small business and tries to drive them out of business. Could you speculate as to why that is? Why are their politicians in favor of this rule?” “I can tell you from my perspective that it’s easier to control.” “Easier to control the big business rather than the little guy […] It’s a shame that the government is trying to drive people like you out of business.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks (begins at 2:16:16). Background In August 2015, the NLRB expanded the joint-employer standard to define joint employers as those who have direct or indirect control over employees. Under the new joint-employer standard, employers who contract with a separate company can share control over that company’s workforce. For example, the standard allows franchisors to control and heavily monitor franchisees, including in the areas of hiring, firing and other day-to-day operations, creating unnecessary burdens for franchisees. In June, The Trump administration’s Department of Labor rescinded the Obama administration’s guidance on the joint-employer standard. The 2015 NLRB ruling is also being challenged in court. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
09.02.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced his rescheduled town halls in Mt. Calvary and Beaver Dam will take place on Sun., Sept. 17, 2017. Town hall meeting times and locations are as follows: Sunday, Sept. 17, 2017 3:00-4:00 p.m. Mt. Calvary Village Hall 999 Fond du Lac Street, Mt. Calvary, WI 53057 6:00-7:00 p.m. The Watermark Community Center 209 S. Center St., Beaver Dam, WI 53916 ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
08.23.2017	Due to the death of a member of Congressman Glenn Grothman’s immediate family, two of the congressman’s previously-scheduled town halls will now be listening sessions with members of his staff. The two town halls that will now be staff listening sessions are listed below: Sunday, Aug. 27, 2017 3:00-4:00 p.m. Mt. Calvary Village Hall 999 Fond du Lac Street, Mt. Calvary, WI 53057 6:00-7:00 p.m. The Watermark Community Center 209 S. Center St., Beaver Dam, WI 53916 Congressman Grothman will reschedule town halls in these locations for September. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
08.16.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced upcoming town hall meetings for Aug. 27-29, 2017. Town hall meeting times and locations are as follows: Sunday, Aug. 27, 2017 3:00-4:00 p.m. Mt. Calvary Village Hall 999 Fond du Lac Street, Mt. Calvary, WI 53057 6:00-7:00 p.m. The Watermark Community Center 209 S. Center St., Beaver Dam, WI 53916 Monday, Aug. 28, 2017 11:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. River Hills Village Hall 7650 N. Pheasant Lane, River Hills, WI 53217 2:00-3:00 p.m. Frank L Weyenberg Library, Tolzman Community Room 11345 N. Cedarburg Rd., Mequon, WI 53092 4:00-5:00 p.m. Cedarburg Police Department W75 N444 Wauwatosa Rd., Cedarburg, WI 53012 6:00-7:00 p.m. Port Washington City Hall, City Council Chambers 100 W. Grand Ave., Port Washington, WI 53074 Tuesday, Aug. 29, 2017 9:00-10:00 a.m. Fall River Village Hall 641 S. Main St., Fall River, WI 53932 11:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Portage City Hall, City Council Chambers 115 W. Pleasant St., Portage, WI 53901 ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
08.09.2017	The office of Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced it will host a job fair in conjunction with local businesses on Thursday, Aug. 24, 2017, from 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. at UW-Fond du Lac University Center Commons (400 University Drive, Fond du Lac, WI 54935). More than 30 businesses from across the Sixth District will be in attendance to fill open positions in areas like engineering, welding and customer service. A complete list of businesses and positions, as well as a RSVP form, can be found at www.grothman.house.gov/constituent-services/august-2017-job-fair.htm. RSVPs for jobseekers planning to attend the event are encouraged but not required. If you are a business interested in participating, please contact Rose Gonnering at (920) 907-0624. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
08.01.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced that Sheboygan County Planning has been awarded a $10,000 Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) grant by the Great Lakes Commission. Sheboygan County Planning’s project will install the first Minnesota sand/iron filter bed. Agricultural drainage traveling through the subsurface drain tile system would be intercepted prior to discharging at a tile outlet on the north side of Elkart Lake, which is the largest kettle moraine lake in Sheboygan County. “Sheboygan County Planning deserves this significant recognition of its important work to protect the health of our waterways and communities,” said Grothman. “This grant also highlights the need to continue funding the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to continue protecting the Great Lakes, which are a vital economic and environmental asset for our district,” “I’d like to congratulate Sheboygan County Planning for being awarded this grant in support of their work protecting the health and sustainability of our Great Lakes,” said Tim Eder, executive director of the Great Lakes Commission. “This project demonstrates the power of the GLRI to generate critical economic and environmental improvements for communities throughout the region. Thank you to Rep. Grothman for their continued support of this important initiative.” Background Every year, tons of polluting phosphorus and sediments enter the Great Lakes Basin, causing massive economic and environmental losses and damages and contributing to the formation of Harmful Algal Blooms and dead zones. The Great Lakes Commission manages the Great Lakes Sediment and Nutrient Reduction Program which strategically addresses this problem with a unique, targeted grass roots approach which awards grants to nonfederal agencies and nonprofit organizations in priority watersheds throughout the region. This year, 18 projects totaling over $1.6 million were funded by the Great Lakes Sediment and Nutrient Reduction Program to install on-the-land practices to reduce phosphorus runoff and sedimentation into the Great Lakes. Funding for this program is provided by the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative under a cooperative agreement between the Great Lakes Commission and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Natural Resources Conservation Service. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.28.2017	Wisconsin Congressmen Sean Duffy and Glenn Grothman today co-introduced a bipartisan resolution to honor Hmong freedom fighters who heroically supported and defended the United States Armed Forces in Southeast Asia. Click HERE to watch a short video of Duffy and Grothman discussing the resolution. Transcript: Duffy: “Hey everybody! Sean Duffy here with Glenn Grothman. The two of us have partnered up on a resolution to say thank you to the Hmong community for all the help they gave the U.S. Government and the American military in our wars in southeast Asia. They were imperative as we engaged in those conflicts. This is one small effort from two Congressmen to say thank you from the U.S. Government to the great Hmong population, many who live in my district and in Glenn’s.” Grothman: “Oh absolutely, Sean. And I cannot, one more time, emphasize the degree to which the Hmong population played in fighting the great wars against communism. It is something we should all be grateful for and it’s so wonderful to have so many Hmong here in the United States. Whether I show up at New Year’s celebrations in Sheboygan, Manitowoc, or Oshkosh, you can’t help remind me how much the Hmong culture brings to America and it does make it very enjoyable that you and I are leading this resolution.” Duffy: “Absolutely. And when you talk about the culture, I love the food. So I want to thank Glenn Grothman. I’m Sean Duffy saying thank you to our Hmong population.” Click here to read the resolution in its entirety.
07.28.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today issued the following statement as the U.S. House of Representatives turns its attention to tax reform: “I’ve said time and time again that any tax reform the House takes up should focus on helping lift the burdens on the middle class. Commonsense reform will create jobs, increase wages and leave more money in the pockets of working families. “Earlier this week, President Trump echoed this sentiment in an interview with the Wall Street Journal, noting he ‘care[s] most about […] the middle-income people in this country who have [been left behind].’ When it comes to tax reform, the government too often focuses on the wealthiest Americans and those who depend on government assistance, so I’m glad the president is sticking up for the interests of every day Americans. Quite simply, it’s better for our country when more people are paying taxes.” Background Reform should focus on lowering the tax rate on the middle class, and creating a system that brings back jobs and a more competitive environment for businesses. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.27.2017	An amendment offered by Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) was today adopted by voice by the U.S. House of Representatives. Grothman’s amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 3219) transfers $30 million in funding from the Department of Defense’s Operations and Maintenance account to the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) program. The move will bring the funding for the program in line with what the House recently authorized in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2018. The JLTV demonstrates many significant improvements over the current vehicle fleet, including strengthened protection for passengers against battlefield threats, more payload capacity and better automotive performance. The JLTV program also supports American jobs as it has more than 300 suppliers from 30 states. “This amendment helps further ensure that our men and women in uniform have the highest-grade equipment while protecting our freedom,” said Grothman. “Pure and simple, the JLTV platform will save lives and improve our troops’ effectiveness in the field. Grothman also voted in favor of H.R. 3219, which passed the House by a vote of 235-192. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.26.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today supported apprenticeship, or “earn-and-learn”, programs and encouraged easing regulatory burdens on such programs during an Education and the Workforce Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee hearing. Grothman questioned Michael Bennett, vice president of Cianbro Companies, a national construction services company. Excerpts of Grothman remarks Grothman: “There are restrictions on the number of apprentices you can hire per journeyman. Give me some examples of a job where it would be appropriate to have more apprentices per journeyman than right now.” Bennett: “A ratio may be you can have one apprentice or helper to one journey-level tradesperson. There are situations with many trades where that might be understated in terms of the conditions of the work, the hazards associated with the work. There are opportunities where a journey-level individual could oversee very safely more than one individual. In the same token, I can give you examples of where it is absolutely the correct thing to do to have a 1:1 ratio given the hazards associated with the work that needs to be performed. But there are many cases where you could have more. So, what that does to us, the restriction that puts on us is we can only develop so many based on how many journey-level craft people we employ.” “You think that sometimes you should be able to hire three apprentices for every two journeymen?” “I think there are situations where you absolutely could do that, yes.” “Are there enough people out there that if you could hire more, you would? I guess I can think in my mind that there are two reasons we don’t have enough people in trade: you could say the amount of people that are going in, but you could also say from what you’re telling me that if you could hire more apprentices, you could get people through the program quicker. Do you believe we could get more people through the program if you could sometimes hire more apprentices?” “I believe you could, and that’s one of the distinctions of what are the restrictions in a registered apprenticeship program; that would be one of them. Compared to, or contrast with, a non-registered program. We don’t have to have that ratio.” “In your testimony, you refer to unnecessary requirements of registered apprenticeship programs that sometimes waste taxpayer money. Could you give me examples of that and what you think we can do to improve things a little?” “We’re a federal contractor and we perform work under the Davis-Bacon Act, and on those projects – just a hypothetical – if it were a $30 million project, and let’s say the contract required that for every $1 million worth of work, you’d have to have an apprentice. Typically, an apprentice is making 50 percent of the journey-level wage. If you don’t have a registered apprenticeship program, that work still needs to be performed. You would end up putting journey-level professionals in those apprenticeship spots, and you will pay the journey-level wage on those projects. Where that ends up becoming expensive to the client, the state or federal government, is when you’re paying wages for journey-level folks in an apprentice-level program that’s unnecessary. And, you’re not developing a future workforce. We hear that the registration process can be fairly simple[…] There are projects where we’re reacting today and sending people to another state to go to work, and we may not be registered in that state. In fact, we may have never worked in that state before. The time that it takes to get registered – that’s where some of the hurdles come into play for us as a national contractor.” “You talked about the things you do to ensure worker safety, and they’re all excellent qualities to have in a business. It’s safe to say we need more companies like yours. That being said, you were also particularly critical of the rigidity of the DOL’s registered apprenticeship programs and the fact they don’t always meet the needs of industry. Could you elaborate on that a little bit more?” “Some of the rigidity that’s within those programs, in terms of the time, what consists of a registered program, and so in our world […] As we developed a skilled-craft professional, that individual – I’ll just use carpenter as an example – when someone goes through our program, that carpenter is also going to be provided with equipment operation skills, either to move material from point A to point B. They’re going to be taught equipment operation skills that might allow them to access a work area like aerial lifts. They could also be taught rigging skills because that material they need to move needs to be rigged in such a way that it’s done safely and can be moved safely. In our world, that is what a skilled program would look like and consist of – it’s not a one-dimensional. That carpenter needs finished work, framing, but they’re going to be a form carpenter on a bridge. So there are restrictions within in there where there are things we have to teach, which costs money and takes time and energy, that will never be applied on a project.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks (beginning at 2:07:40). Background Registered apprenticeships are programs registered with the Department of Labor’s (DOL) Office of Apprenticeship or a state office of apprenticeship. Under the Obama administration, the DOL issued regulations requiring registered apprenticeships to meet 26 specific requirements relating to program design, and required these programs adhere to apprenticeship-specific equal employment opportunity regulations. There is no concrete definition of what constitutes a non-registered apprenticeship, but these programs are estimated to comprise more than 80 percent of all apprenticeship programs. Some businesses have found the registered apprenticeship model simply does not work for them because the DOL is allowed to dictate the skills the business must provide to apprentices in specific industries. These businesses prefer to structure apprenticeship programs in the manner they find most effective to prepare apprentices for employment The DOL’s registration system is one-size-fits-all approach that doesn’t work in reality, with less than half of earn-and-learn programs choosing to register their programs with the department. Earn-and-learn programs should be flexible, and allow employers to innovate without interference from Washington. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.25.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today examined how agencies and advocacy groups use court-ordered consent decrees, or the “sue and settle” process to develop regulations and reforms for state and local governments during a House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Intergovernmental Affairs hearing. Witnesses at the hearing included Dr. David Sanders, executive vice president of systems improvement at Casey Family Programs, and The Honorable John Engler, former governor of Michigan, among others. Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning Congressman Grothman: “You cite in your testimony that child welfare consent decrees work against the people who are trying to help. Can you give us examples, or elaborate on that a little?” Dr. Sanders: “Over the last 15 years, there have been numerous developments in brain science in research around predictive analytics and other efforts that have resulted in improvement in the ability of government agencies to protect children. The consent decrees often lock states into agreements that were made in a point in time and don’t allow the kind of flexibility that can be implemented and increase the likelihood that children will be protected. Those examples would include some of the states like Tennessee that were sued more than 15 years ago, and aren’t able to implement some of the research changes that have occurred more recently to improve lives of children.” “Let’s take an example of a kid – let’s call him Joshua. Joshua – how would we deal with him without the consent decree, and, because of the consent decree, how are we hurting him?” “I may take the liberty and suggest that part of the solution would be, if there was an ability to modify the consent decrees more regularly based on changes in federal regulation, changes in state performance, etc. – that doesn’t happen as much as we think it should. In Joshua’s case, it’s quite possible that Joshua, as a result of the consent decree, would be seen more frequently by a social worker. What might not happen is that Joshua’s social worker would be better-trained in trauma-informed practice, which is emerging as a way to keep children safe. And so, the visits might occur, but the actual improvements in Joshua’s performance and by the social worker may not occur.” “Can you give me an example, say in Joshua’s case, this is what happens under the consent decree and what we would be able to do differently?” “We can assure that a state will send a social worker out to see Joshua. Under a consent decree, that would occur. What would not occur is that social worker may not be trained in new techniques that result in Joshua actually being safer.” “In New Jersey in 2004, because of a consent decree, the state invested billions of dollars in its child welfare program, but they still haven’t been able to exit their consent decree. In March of this year, the federal judge overseeing the case called New Jersey’s program a national model. If the program is really so successful according to the federal judge, why has the state been unable to exit from the consent decree?” “What I speculate, knowing something about New Jersey, is that there are measures that have not yet been achieved that were part of the initial settlement agreement. And there is a continuing need to improve on specific measures that were agreed to at the time, and that there was not 100 percent compliance.” “Governor Engler, I think the whole problem here with consent decrees is it kind of gets at our whole form of government. Like it or not, every election people show up and vote for people who they want to have vote on our laws. The idea behind consent decrees is that this system of elections doesn’t work very well, and we would be better off determining our laws when some bureaucrats and judges and lawyers get together and decide what they will be. The whole idea is opposed to our whole form of government. Can you give us some examples of consent decrees that you think were damaging to Michigan during your term as governor.” Governor Engler: “We had a judge who was in charge of the women’s prisons in Michigan and he referred to those as his women, and he was very solicitous about what needed to be done in those prisons. We had a monitor that he had appointed, and basically, he was in charge of the prisons. He was setting policy and instructing us to follow that. We had another judge who was dealing with prisoners who were dealing with mental illness, and in that case, when I became governor, they were being fined $25,000, I believe, because the previous administration was failing to comply with the consent decree. In both of those cases, what I found from our corrections experts, the people running department, is that they thought having to take the temperature of the oatmeal being served or to be monitoring the temperature of the showers, or another number of reporting requirements that were imposed had gone far beyond the pale. They were arguing that you had differences in opinion, respecting different philosophies of how we ought to run the system. We even had a requirement that we could only put one person in a cell, which we thought was pretty limiting in terms of our prison capacity. I made the decision as governor to not adhere to consent decrees. I said, look, we’ll litigate these. My legal services are free – I’ve got the attorney general to do that, so we’ll fight these. So, we did not do that. After I left, my successor entered into a consent decree, which now has run for several years, and is costing $50 million per year is what they’re saying [… ]This one was brought by a New York group called Children’s Rights, Inc., a perfect example of activists showing up and saying this is how you ought to run it. We’ve already paid $6 million in attorney’s fees for them, they’re involved with the monitoring and they’re involved with the day-to-day departmental operations. The state has been trying to modify that […] Your premise of the question is very important: who decides? And I think it ought to be the men and women who get elected. If there’s a deprivation of a constitutional right; there’s not been a finding in this. This is just a difference in opinion over how you ought to run the system […] Sometimes you’re mandated to spend a lot of money because that’s what the masters in Washington or the agencies want.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks. Background Consent decrees are legally-binding, court-ordered settlement agreements. These decrees are oftentimes used by outside groups to “sue and settle” with federal agencies or state or local governments for alleged violations of federal laws or constitutional rights. The consent decrees can last for years, and are used to skirt elected officials in the policymaking process. ###
07.20.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) led a letter to House appropriators, along with Congressmen Rick Allen (R-Ga.), Tom Garrett (R-Va.) and Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.), requesting that Title VI of the Higher Education Act be defunded in the House Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, and that taxpayer dollars formerly used for Title VI be reinvested for deficit reduction or reallocated to fund the National Security Education Program (NSEP). Excerpts from the letter: “… at too many Title VI centers across the country, academic diversity is severely lacking, with many centers using the young, malleable minds of college-aged students as a one-sided sounding board for professors’ anti-American and anti-Semitic political agendas. These professor’s significant biases seep into how their students approach their academic course of study and prevent students from being exposed to alternative viewpoints—perspectives that often reflect the positive aspects of long-practiced and accepted American foreign policies and norms. “Despite efforts to require a diversity of perspective presented to students at these centers in the 2008 Reauthorization of the HEA, the reality at many centers is a continuation of the troubling trend that has plagued centers receiving tens of millions of taxpayer dollars each year to educate and equip students for service on America’s behalf. “Rather than continuing to provide funding to these centers through Title VI, Congress should follow through with President Trump’s budget request to zero-out Title VI in FY18. In the absence of funding—which totaled $72,000,000 in FY17—for Title VI in FY18, taxpayer dollars saved from going to Title VI in FY18 should either be used to draw down the FY18 deficit or reinvested in the National Security Education Program (NSEP). “Similar to Title VI centers, NSEP ‘promotes language skills, cultural awareness, and understanding of national security issues’ that are critical to the safety of the American people and the promotion of American interests abroad. However, unlike many Title VI centers, NSEP does not have a long, documented history of anti-American and anti-Semitic bias.” Background: Title VI of the Higher Education Act dates back to the National Defense Education Act (NDEA) of 1958, when Congress recognized a significant shortage in languages spoken by American citizens who were willing and able to serve the United States’ interest at home and overseas. Discussion about eliminating Title VI of the Higher Education Act began in the 1970s and ‘80s when Cold War tensions relaxed. At that time, the focus of Title VI began shifting from international education to general education on subject matters that are frequently taught at colleges and universities across the country. Today, NESP does a far better job of educating without a political agenda in an increasingly-globalized world. NESP also has a much stronger focus on placing program participants in critical national security jobs at the Department of Defense, Department of State, Department of Homeland Security, and America’s vital intelligence agencies, such as the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Intelligence Agency. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.18.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from placing unnecessary economic burden on manufacturers and businesses. The Ozone Standards Implementation Act (H.R. 806) delays the implementation of the EPA’s 2015 ozone standards in the Clean Air Act until 2025. It also increases the timeline for EPA reviews of compliance with ozone standards from five years to ten years. “The EPA’s current regulations on ozone need to be more flexible,” said Grothman. “The Ozone Standards Implementation Act delivers a much-needed level of commonsense to the regulations.” “This bill will especially benefit Sheboygan County, where the EPA is unfairly targeting local manufacturers and businesses for ozone coming from outside Wisconsin. Right now, industry in the area has to fulfill additional permitting requirements because of elevated ozone readings and have the potential to be hit with penalties because of standards that change too quickly. “As Sheboygan County, and the entire 6th district, competes for jobs with other states and countries, we cannot and should not force local businesses to spend millions unnecessarily. This vote is a step in the right direction to prevent this from happening in the future.” The Ozone Standards Implementation Act passed the House by a vote of 229-199. Background The 2008 EPA National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone were set at 75 parts per billion (ppb), which took until 2015 to fully implement. The 2015 standards were soon after released lowering the allowed levels to 70 pbb, leaving manufacturers and businesses scrambling as they tried to keep up with the EPA to avoid penalties. The current system is unsustainable. H.R. 806 gives businesses adequate time to fully implement ozone standards. Additionally, the Wisconsin Institute for Law and Liberty (WILL) recently released a report detailing how Sheboygan County’s growth is being stifled by EPA regulations on ozone emissions coming from outside the state. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.14.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today took a step towards a stronger military by voting in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY 2018 (H.R. 2810). “Both sides of the aisle agree that supporting our men and women in uniform is vitally important,” said Grothman. “Our troops put their lives at risk every single day. They deserve to have operating and functional equipment, strong allies and financial security for their families. “Last week, I spoke with a young woman in my district who served in the Air Force. She told me that at times the Air Force had planes that didn’t take-off because the military couldn’t afford it. Military members have also told me about planes that were grounded and ships that didn’t sail because money wasn’t available for the parts needed to make repairs. “While the NDAA isn’t perfect, it will work towards fixing these types of problems to make our military more efficient and keep our troops safe.” The NDAA passed the House by a vote of 344-81. Background The NDAA authorizes $696.1 billion to support our military. The funds provide additional aircraft, ships, vehicles and other resources identified by military officials as increasing our military’s end strength. The NDAA also includes pay raises for our troops; increases funding for the European Deterrence Initiative to support our European allies in deterring Russia; provides $150 million for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative; supports Israel by providing funds for the Iron Dome and other defense measures; and streamlines bureaucracy at the Pentagon. Two Republican amendments that were introduced and supported by the House Armed Services Committee Chairman, including an amendment to better assess extremist terrorist messaging, would have made this bill stronger, but were unfortunately voted down. Click here for more information about the NDAA. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.12.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today examined the growing threat to small businesses posed by the National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) expanded definition of the joint-employer standard during a House Education and the Workforce hearing. Witnesses at the hearing included small business executives, employment lawyers and professors. Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks “I think one of the joys of owning a business is the freedom to say ‘I’m my own boss’[…] Does this joint employer standard, does it give you more or less freedom? Are you more or less your own boss?” Excerpts of witness answer from Jerry Reese, director of franchise development at Dat Dog: “With this uncertainty, you have less freedom, in my opinion. And before this committee over the last two years, you’ve had ten franchisees talk about this standard and how it is negatively affecting them and their ability to own their own business.” Roger King, senior labor and employment counsel for HR Policy Association: “Let me give you an example. You know, this is a large business, but I want to just say this for the record: from a large business perspective, we fully adopt the concerns of our small business brethren and franchisers/franchisees. But this is a problem for big business, too. That said, your question is an excellent one because one of our member companies required of its supplier to furnish to the suppliers’ employees a minimum number of sick days. This company, in fact, had been invited to the Obama White House and had been praised for its social responsibility. As a result of that good deed, the NLRB turns around and finds it to be a joint employer. Freedom? No. Why don’t we have more freedom for employers to offer benefits? This makes no sense.” “I mean, one thing that’s a problem for all businesses, in addition to doing what you want to do, you know whatever your business is – retail, restaurant, whatever, you’ve got to worry about other laws. Does this make your life more or less complicated? Or I’ll put it another way, does this standard make it more or less likely you will be paying bills to lawyers?” All: “More. More likely.” Mr. King: “Congressman, I can tell you, I was in private practice for 25 years. This type of question started to reoccur and reoccur. Here we are spending these thousands and thousands of dollars on law firms that, frankly, should be spent on job creation, on better benefits, better pay, etc. This is a waste of our national resources.” “You wonder why our standard of living isn’t higher. You’ve got this huge albatross, this sea of lawyers out there that our society has to pay for. “I know every business wants to operate efficiently, and I’m not going to talk about wages. I’m just saying as far as efficiency, is this going to maybe dig into the efficiency of franchisees, which ultimately will drive up the cost of everything?” Mary Thompson, chief operating officer at Dwyer Group: “Yes, it will dig into the efficiency just using the job descriptions. Our franchisees wanted to get those job descriptions faster and it took us months and months longer than what they were waiting for.” “I think it’s good if we have more businesses, particularly small businesses, because a lot of times franchise results in a lot of small business. Which is a good thing. I wish we had more small businesses in America, I think it is kind of a shame that, over time, you get these multi-national type things. What effect will this have on the ability for more small businesses to open up […] make it tougher to you know, start on the ground floor and you know, open up a restaurant or opening up a packaging company or whatever? Mr. Reese: “It will make it tougher because there is no permanent clarity. There is no blueprint to starting the business in the right way, franchised or not. We want to comply with the law as a small business.” “Thanks much. Less small business, more lawyers.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks (beginning at the 2:10:20 mark). Background In August 2015, the NLRB expanded the joint-employer standard to define joint employers as those who have direct or indirect control over employees. Under the new joint-employer standard, employers who contract with a separate company can share control over that company’s workforce. For example, the standard allows franchisers to control and heavily monitor franchisees, including in the areas of hiring, firing and other day-to-day operations, creating unnecessary burdens for franchisees. In June, The Trump administration’s Department of Labor rescinded the Obama administration’s guidance on the joint-employer standard. The 2015 NLRB ruling is also being challenged in court. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.29.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman today voted to protect Americans by supporting the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003) and Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004). The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act ensures that the 300 or so “sanctuary cities” that defy federal immigration law by refusing to turn over criminal illegal immigrants to authorities do not receive certain federal grants. Instead, these Justice Department and Department of Homeland Security grants would be reallocated to states and localities that comply with federal law. The bill also includes Sarah and Grant’s Law, which ensures that illegal immigrants convicted of dangerous crimes are detained during their removal proceedings. The law is named after Sarah Root, who was killed by an illegal immigrant who was driving drunk and later escaped after being released from custody, and Grant Ronnebeck, who was murdered during an armed robbery by a convicted felon who was free on bond while facing deportation. Additionally, Kate’s Law increases mandatory penalties for immigrants who re-enter the U.S. after being deported. The law is named for 32-year-old Kate Steinle, who was randomly gunned down in the sanctuary city of San Francisco by a criminal illegal immigrant with seven prior felony convictions and five deportations. “Our job is to keep Americans safe and our country secure, and so-called sanctuary cities impede our ability to do just that,” said Grothman. “Not enforcing our current immigration laws is a public safety issue. In fact, 121 people who were released from immigration custody were later charged with murder between 2010 and 2014. “This bill is a step in the right direction to make sure no more Americans die because politicians refuse to do their job of enforcing our immigration laws.” The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act passed the House by a vote of 228-195. Kate’s Law passed the House by a vote of 257-167. Unfortunately, there were dissenting votes on the passage of these bills because the other side of the aisle honestly believes that removing violent criminal aliens is a public safety concern. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.26.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today introduced a bipartisan resolution condemning the persecution of Christians around the globe. Christians are persecuted in countries across the Middle East, Africa, Asia and the Americas by religious extremists and officials at all levels of government. Each month, an average of 214 churches and Christian properties are destroyed, 772 violent acts are committed against Christians and 322 Christians are killed because of their faith. Examples of persecution mentioned in the resolution include: · The imprisonment of approximately 70,000 Christians in North Korea labor camps. · The 600 Christian churches in Pakistan that were attacked in 2016. · The 44 Coptic Christians that were killed by ISIS bomb attacks on Palm Sunday of this year. · The decline in the Christian population of Iraq from approximately 1.4 million in 2003 to approximately 275,000 in 2016. This resolution calls for Members of Congress to stand up for religious liberty by condemning governments and religious extremist groups that target Christians, and urges the president and heads of other governments to condemn the global persecution of Christians. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.22.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted in favor of the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act (H.R. 2353). “I applaud the passage of this bill to give states more flexibility when using federal funds to support these career and technical education programs,” said Grothman. “It’s an important step to grow our economy, lower our unemployment rate, fill the jobs we already have available and create new jobs.” Click here for more information about this bill. Click here to read Grothman’s recent op-ed touting Career and Technical Education. The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by voice. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.15.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement applauding President Trump’s executive action to expand apprenticeship programs: “I’ve been approached by manufacturers, small business owners and other professionals in Wisconsin’s Sixth District asking me to help fix the skills gap that currently exists in our workforce -- employers in construction, manufacturing and health care are desperately in need of skilled employees. “Today’s executive action by President Trump expanding our country’s apprenticeship program proves that the White House is willing to work with House Republicans to increase technical and vocational training, which will help fill vacant jobs and drive our economy.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.08.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement following his vote in favor of the Financial CHOICE Act of 2017 (H.R. 10): “I applaud today’s passage of the Financial CHOICE Act. We’re keeping Washington and Wall Street accountable while giving American families the tools needed to maintain financial independence and plan for the future. “What’s most important to me is protecting our small banks; Dodd-Frank has created an environment in which community banks are ‘too small to succeed’. Our local, community banks are shutting their doors because they can’t afford to sort through the often-times overlapping government regulations forced onto them by Dodd-Frank. “People are paying more for their loans. They can’t get refinancing after balloon loans, which is particularly damaging to Wisconsin’s farmers. One-size-fits-all regulations are causing our young people not to be able to get loans to buy houses or start businesses, as well as initiating unnecessary appraisals and driving up the costs of refinancing loans. “The Financial CHOICE Act will make great strides in freeing up community banks to focus on what’s most important: fulfilling the needs of their customers, making small-business loans and growing our local economies.” The Financial CHOICE Act of 2017 passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 233-186. Background All banks headquartered in Wisconsin, except for one, are considered community banks by the Federal Reserve. Since Dodd-Frank’s 2010 implementation to 2014, the number of community banks declined by 14 percent – twice the rate in the period leading up to the implementation of Dodd-Frank. In a survey of American banks, it was found that Dodd-Frank increased compliance costs related to mortgages by 97 percent and that 75 percent of banks had to hire additional staff. For more information about the Financial Choice Act, please click here. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.07.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today criticized the Obama administration’s response to Operation Fast and Furious in a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing focused on what is still not known about the scandal six years later. Witnesses at the hearing included Josephine Terry and Robert Heyer, mother and cousin of Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry who was killed as a result of the operation, U.S. Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Special Agent John Dodson. Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks “We really haven’t gotten into how this happened in the first place, or what the motive would be for the U.S. government to try to get United States automatic weapons in the hands of Mexican drug cartels. “It’s very horrible what happened to Bryan Terry. And I would suppose, given the zeal with which they were pursuing this, there were an unknown amount of Mexican individuals who wound up being killed as a result of the actions of the U.S. government. Do you think that’s accurate? “Has the Obama administration, or anyone connected with that administration, apologized to the Mexican government for trying to get automatic weapons down to the Mexican drug cartels as far as you’re aware? “Well, someone ought to apologize. “What would be the motivation to try to get American automatic weapons in the hands of drug cartels? Why did some people in the American government think it was in our interest to make sure the Mexican drug cartels were armed to the teeth? “Eric Holder was certainly not very helpful. We held him in contempt of Congress. Can you, in general, give us your opinion on the degree to which Eric Holder tried to help this investigation, and the degree to which he tried to stand in the way of finding out what’s really going on here? “It appears he really didn’t want to get to the bottom of it. He was willing to cover it up. “Did you see the Obama administration step up and do anything about this? “It looks like after [Eric Holder] left public service, he was rewarded by working at Covington and Burling, a top-of-the-line, liberal-leaning law firm here in Washington. Does that bother you when you see people like Special Agent Dodson – his career kind of stalled because he cares about the people and cares about the future of this country? But somebody who gets in the way of this investigation is rewarded by the left-leaning establishment here in town by getting a job with a big law firm. “I just hope this committee and whoever the new committee chairman is does what they can to make sure this is written in the history books. Sometimes, they say the winners write the history books, and sometimes horrific things happen and they just disappear and future generations will never know about it. “To me, the Fast and Furious scandal should be one of the greatest scandals in American history, and I hope this committee does all they can so that people in the future always know the name of Eric Holder and know how little was done by this administration after they participated, for whatever motivation, in trying to get automatic weapons into the hands of the drug cartel. “I want to thank you, Mrs. Terry, for showing up. I’d like to thank you Special Agent Dodson. I know you’re not as financially well-off as you would be if you had kept your head down, but I’m sure your reward is greater because you’re on the side of the angels.” Click here to view Grothman’s full line of questioning. Background Operation Fast and Furious was a plan implemented by the Obama administration in which guns were sold to Mexican cartels in hopes that the guns would later be tracked to high-ranking cartel members and assist in their captures. Instead, many of the guns went missing, and several were found at crime scenes on both sides of the Mexican-American border including at the murder scene of Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry. The Oversight Committee originally held a hearing on Operation Fast and Furious in 2011, which forced out the ATF chain of command and caused the Justice Department to issue new policies prohibiting gun-walking. The ATF and the Justice Department obstructed Congress throughout this investigation. Six years later, Congress is still seeking documents related to the Justice Department’s response to the Congressional investigation. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.06.2017	When President Trump announced on Friday that he is withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement, I was relieved for the manufacturers and small businesses in Wisconsin’s Sixth District. The Paris climate agreement was a bad deal for all Americans, but would have hit Wisconsin’s Sixth District particularly hard. We have the most manufacturing jobs of any congressional district in the U.S. If our country had continued to participate in the climate agreement, it would have cost the U.S. 440,000 manufacturing jobs and 2.7 million jobs in total. At best, the climate agreement was a wealth redistribution program that imposed hefty costs on American families, and focused far more on handouts to other countries than actually protecting the environment. The truth is: our environment is far cleaner today than it was 40 years ago. Air quality has mostly improved. For example, there have been substantial decreases by 84 percent in concentrations of carbon monoxide and 99 percent in concentrations of lead in our air from 1980 to 2015, while emissions of air pollutants have also decreased. Additionally, ozone levels have dropped dramatically. Nationally, they’ve decreased by 32 percent since 1980, and by 13 percent in the upper Midwest since 2000. Furthermore, if President Obama was serious about the U.S. continuing its involvement in the Paris agreement past his presidency, he should have had Congress ratify it as a treaty. A non-binding agreement, entered into swiftly and carelessly without congressional approval, is simply not the answer. Innovation in manufacturing and other industries -- not government interference -- is a far better way to ensure that our environment remains clean and safe for future generations while preserving our jobs. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
06.01.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement regarding last night’s explosion at the Didion Milling plant in Cambria: “News of last night’s explosion at the Didion Milling plant in Cambria is devastating. “I had the opportunity to tour Didion Milling and I saw firsthand that it is a valued part of the Cambria community. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this terrible incident, as well as the rescue crews that continue to work tirelessly.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.24.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today emphasized the importance of young adults choosing a higher education path that will best suit their needs while incurring the least amount of student debt during an Education and the Workforce Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development hearing. Grothman questioned higher education experts on the value of four-year degrees for all students, and the importance of technical colleges and trade schools in reducing student loan debt. Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks “I think one of the reasons people are so frustrated today in their ability to live the American dream compared to 30 years ago is because so many people have been led down the path that a four-year degree is worthwhile. It hurts them twice; first of all, they spend time not earning money when they should be earning money. Secondly, they wind up deeply in debt. “A recent New York Times editorial board article titled, Student debt’s grip on the economy, made the argument I’ve been making for the last two and a half years: our current financing of higher education disincentivizes young couples from getting married, having children and buying homes. “I recently talked to a young couple back in my district who, because of the income repayment schedule, they feel they can’t afford to get married given their huge amount of debt. They’re in their early thirties, and I don’t know how they’re ever going to be able to buy a house. It’s just horrible. “The New York Times article raises another important question: we should be talking, in general, about the value of four-year degrees and if they’re worth it. Do you agree with the premise that we’re sending too many kids to four-year colleges – in part, kids who are underprepared for college, but in part just kids who may be making more money with their brains and work ethic somewhere else? “The number of people out there with huge student loans and a degree that does not lead to a job – you run into them all the time. Like I said, a couple of weekends ago, I ran into a couple in their early thirties. The guy I don’t think ever graduated and is sitting there with tens of thousands of dollars of debt, and the girl with 50 grand in debt and a degree that is nowhere near related to the job she has. “What percentage of people currently going into a four-year university, or of all the people getting four-year degrees, what percentage do you think should be getting four-year degrees in a traditional liberal arts college sort of setting? Should we peel it back by 20 percent? Thirty percent? “Percentage-wise, compared to the number of students we currently have trying to work their way to a four-year degree, how many should be choosing that path? “It is true that, if you talk to technical colleges, people go to technical college after a four-year degree that didn’t lead to a job. Same thing with trade schools; people, rather than beginning to go to trade school at age 18 or 19 where they could be off and running and making family-supporting wages at age 22 or 23 are going to the trade schools at 28 or 29. They’ve got a big student debt, and they finally get around to earning family-supporting wages when they’re 30 or 31.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks. Background Currently in the U.S., 44.2 million Americans have a combined student loan debt of $1.44 trillion due to an increased number of students entering four-year colleges. The average bachelor’s degree in the U.S. now costs $127,000, while the average trade school degree costs $33,000. By 2018, it’s estimated the 47 million job openings will require an associate’s degree or certificate the can be attained through a career and Technical Education program. Workers with technical degrees can make upwards of $90,000 depending on specialty. Testimony from today’s hearing stated that 8 million Americans are in default on their loans today; one in four borrowers who take out a student loan this year will default in the future; and 40 percent of all borrowers whose loans have come due are in default, are delinquent or are in forbearance or deferment. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.17.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today praised Wisconsin technical colleges while speaking in support of the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act (H.R. 2353), of which he is a co-sponsor, during a House Education and the Workforce Committee markup of the bill. Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks “I’m honored to cosponsor this bill today. I think the bill moves the federal involvement in technical education the right way. “We have a great technical college system in the state of Wisconsin. It’s largely funded by local taxes and the local property tax payer. Obviously, tuition plays a role in funding it, and the state plays a role in funding it. “I was pleased to be involved in a variety of initiatives when I was in the state legislature in Wisconsin, and I’m glad that a lot of people are recognizing that we have too many people going to a traditional four-year college. “Hopefully, it will be an end to this idea that four-year college is for everybody. “Nevertheless, I felt like I should speak up because I’m getting too much of a sense of enthusiasm that the federal government should get more and more involved in local tech schools. And that’s not true. “We did a great job in Wisconsin without a lot of federal involvement. I think there’s more flexibility here, which is why I’m proud to co-sponsor the bill. I think it does give politicians, including myself, the opportunity to point out to young people out there that a lot of times the path to financial independence goes through learning a skill or trade than earning a four-year degree. “We should always remember that the states and the local units of government are perfectly capable of figuring this stuff out themselves.” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks. Background Currently in the U.S., 44.2 million Americans have a combined student loan debt of $1.44 trillion due to an increased number of students entering four-year colleges. The average bachelor’s degree in the U.S. now costs $127,000, while the average trade school degree costs $33,000. By 2018, it’s estimated the 47 million job openings will require an associate’s degree or certificate the can be attained through a Career and Technical Education program. Workers with technical degrees can make upwards of $90,000 depending on specialty. H.R. 2353 helps career and technical education services provide students with the skills they need to compete for jobs that exist in our local communities by removing Washington bureaucrats from the day-to-day operations of the schools, and by giving states more flexibility to use federal funds to support Career and Technical Education programs. The Education and the Workforce Committee voted unanimously to advance the bill. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.04.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today issued the following statement after voting to repeal and replace Obamacare with the American Health Care Act. “Obamacare is a proven disaster. Premiums have skyrocketed, quality of care has suffered and, more and more, Washington has exerted itself into what should be private, trusted doctor-patient relationships. “I voted for the new health care bill because the current system is unsustainable. Already, one-third of America’s counties only have one insurance provider, and the exchanges will continue to head towards disaster if Congress doesn’t act. Just yesterday, the last remaining insurer for the majority of the state of Iowa announced that it may drop off the exchanges – leaving 94 of the 99 counties in the state without an insurance provider. “Quite simply, Americans deserve better. “This new bill still covers pre-existing conditions, while easing the burdens of Obamacare that have been forced onto so many of our families. With our vote today, the House has ensured that individuals and families will no longer be forced into expensive, inadequate Obamacare plans they do not want and cannot afford.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.02.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of the Working Families Flexibility Act (H.R. 1180). Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks: “I’d like to speak on the Working Families Flexibility Act. “Over a period of time, the rules and regulations this body has passed [have become] one-size-fits-all and lack common sense. “I’m glad to be a co-sponsor of this bill, which gives people flexibility. If they work more than 40 hours in a week, they can take the cash if they need the cash. But for some people, either because of life circumstances or because they’re less materialistic, they don’t want that cash and they’d rather spend more time with their family. “I think particularly in this world where so many people live in two-parent families where both parents work, people would love to spend a day with their children instead of having their children in daycare. I think it’s right that people should have the freedom to do that. “[G]overnment employees […] frequently have comp time in which, if they work more than 40 hours a week, they can come back and spend more time with their family or more time in recreation. “It’s high time we give that freedom to people in the private sector. High time to put family first. “And we all have to remember that, even though some people always want more money, some people say there are other things in life that are more important.” Click here to view Congressman Grothman’s full remarks. Background: The Working Families Flexibility Act is a straightforward bill that allows private-sector employers to give hourly workers the option of either monetary compensation or additional paid time off for any overtime hours worked. Grothman is a co-sponsor of the bill. For additional information about the bill, click here. The Working Families Flexibility Act passed the House by a vote of 229 to 197. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.26.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted to advance the Working Families Flexibility Act (H.R. 1180) out of the Education and the Workforce Committee. The Working Families Flexibility Act is a straightforward bill that allows private-sector employers to give hourly workers the option of either monetary compensation or additional paid time off for any overtime hours worked. Grothman is a co-sponsor of the bill. For example, those hourly employees who work 48 hours in a week currently must take money as compensation for the eight hours of overtime they worked. This bill gives them the option to either take the money, or take eight hours of paid time off instead. “Employees should be able to choose how they would like to be compensated for the time they work. This bill simply creates that flexibility for employees, so they can spend more time with their families or take additional time off,” said Grothman. “This bill will ensure that employees -- not Washington – can determine what’s in their own best interest and in the best interests of their families.” “Some opponents argued that employees should be forced to keep wages rather than opt for time off. For many people spending extra time with family may be more important. Not allowing workers to have the choice to take time off is just another sign in the decline of the importance of family.” For additional information about the Working Families Flexibility Act, click here. The bill passed by a vote of 22 to 16. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.25.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced an upcoming town hall meeting in Neenah on Sunday, April 30, 2017, at 6:00 p.m. The town hall meeting location is as follows: Neenah City Hall 211 Walnut St. Neenah, WI 54956 ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.19.2017	The office of Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) will hold an open house on April 24, 2017, at its new location in Fond du Lac. Members of the public are invited to tour the office, and meet Congressman Grothman and his staff. When: April 24, 2017, 3:00-6:00 p.m. Location: 24 W. Pioneer Rd. Fond du Lac, WI 54935 Refreshments will be provided. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.12.2017	Over the last two days, I held seven town hall meetings across the Sixth District. After talking to folks about their issues of concern, there seems to be widespread misinformation about a vote Congress took last month on Internet privacy. Congress voted last month to prevent overreaching rules from taking effect and creating a disjointed and unclear privacy regime on the Internet. The way the rules were structured meant you had different levels of protection depending on what you were doing online—and most consumers say they prefer one simple and consistent set of rules. Nothing has changed about the way your privacy is protected- it is the same as it was a year ago and a month ago and the day before the vote. The only time your privacy changed was when the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) chose to make the Internet into a utility style common carrier two years ago, stripping the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), who traditionally has overseen privacy in technology, of the ability to protect you. While our vote prevented these specific rules from taking effect, they do not prevent the FCC from enforcing robust privacy protections under existing authority. Your Internet service provider (ISP) couldn’t, and still cannot, sell your sensitive data—this is regulated by several different laws, including the FTC’s existing privacy law—which remains in effect. You also still have the choice to opt-out of allowing your ISP to collect and share your non-sensitive information—something they do for marketing purposes, and never associated with your specific online identity. This vote did not change anything regarding your rights to protect your data, or what the ISPs can do with that data. As your member of Congress, one of my top priorities is making sure that your privacy is protected on the Internet. I will continue working with my colleagues to ensure that your family’s private information does not fall into the wrong hands. For more information about how the FTC protects your privacy, please click here. For additional information about this issue, please click here.
04.07.2017	"This week’s chemical attacks in Syria were an atrocious act against the Syrian people and many innocent children. America needed to take action to stop any future attacks. President Trump was right to take a strong stand in condemning the use of chemical weapons. I applaud our administration for holding Bashar al-Assad accountable."
04.05.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today spoke about the Working Families Flexibility Act (H.R. 1180) in an Education and the Workforce Subcommittee on Workforce Protections hearing The Working Families Flexibility Act is a straightforward bill that allows private-sector employers to give hourly workers the option of either monetary compensation or additional paid time off for any overtime hours worked. Grothman is a co-sponsor of the bill. Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks: “I recently ran into an employer who, to his surprise, […] his employees preferred getting another three to four hours off rather than a cash bonus. Don’t you feel it’s a little philosophically wrong to tell that woman or man that you don’t have a choice in the matter – if you accumulate overtime, you have to take the money? […] Don’t you feel it’s wrong to put yourself in the position of the employee and tell them they have to value money more? “What we’re doing here is creating flexibility. What it does is it forces employers to give employees an option, and I think a lot of employees value that time off. They value that family time, and you’re creating a situation here in some cases where employees are forbidden from having that time and have to take the cash […] Is it up to us to weigh in and say that you can’t value your family more than additional cash? “It seems to me that rather than having us in Washington tell them what’s best for them, wouldn’t it be better to allow the employee to determine what is in their own best interest and best interest of their family? […] For those of us who don’t think that the most important thing in life is how much money you’re making, why don’t you allow them that option if the employer won’t.” Click here to view Congressman Grothman’s full remarks (beginning at the 1:56:50 mark). ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.03.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced upcoming town hall meetings for April 10-11, 2017. Town hall meeting times and locations are as follows: Monday, April 10, 2017 10:00-11:00 a.m. Mead Public Library 710 North 8th Street Sheboygan, WI 53081 2:00-3:00 p.m. Valders Community Center 420 N Liberty Street Valders, WI 54245 Tuesday, April 11, 2017 9:30-10:30 a.m. Marquette County Senior Dining Site 140 Lake Court Montello, WI 53949 11:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Neshkoro Area Community Center 114 East Park Street Neshkoro, WI 54960 1:30-2:30 p.m. World War II Memorial Building 440 West Main Street Wautoma, WI 54982 3:30-4:30 p.m. Village Hall 161 Deerborn Street Redgranite, WI 54970 5:30-6:30 p.m. City Hall 108 North Capron Street Berlin, WI 54923 ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.31.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced that his office is accepting entries for the 2017 Artistic Discovery Competition. The Artistic Discovery Competition is open to all high school students in Wisconsin’s Sixth District. The winner will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year in an exhibit that features winners from other congressional districts across the U.S. Artworks entered in the contest may be up to 26” x 26” x 4”, including the frame, and can be made of various materials. All entries must be original in concept, design and execution. All submissions for the 2017 Artistic Discovery Competition must be mailed or delivered to Congressman Grothman’s Fond du Lac office by April 12, 2017. For more information, please visit Congressman Grothman’s website at Grothman.house.gov/constituent-services/arts-competition.htm or call his Fond du Lac office at (920) 907-0624. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.28.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today introduced a bill amending the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008. Typically, non-disabled working age adults without dependents who participate in the food stamps program have to fulfill certain work requirements to receive benefits. During the recession, the Obama administration created waivers for these work requirements. Grothman’s bill would eliminate the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture to grant these waivers from work requirements for non-disabled working age adults without dependents. “This bill is an important step in reforming welfare programs to help free capable individuals from government dependence and empower them to achieve the American Dream,” said Grothman. “I believe we should provide assistance to those who have fallen on hard times, but these work requirement waivers are part of an unfortunate trend of government laws and regulations that create disincentives for individuals to work. “The current Food and Nutrition Act has been rightfully maligned. Recipients are criticized for not working, it discourages marriage and food stamps are sold, while there is evidence of fraud by businesses that accept food stamps. Making work requirements mandatory will address all of these problems.” For example, when Maine implemented work requirements for those non-disabled working age adults without dependents receiving food stamps, the number of recipients dropped by nearly 80 percent during the first three months of the policy being in effect. Background Forty-three million Americans received Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits in 2016 – up 26 million since 2001 – costing the federal government more than $5 billion per month just last year. The U.S. Department of Agriculture currently grants three months of SNAP benefits every three years to Able-Bodied Adults Without Dependents (ABAWDs) who are 18-49 and not disabled. To receive SNAP benefits beyond the three-month time limit, ABAWDs must work at least 80 hours per month, participate in educations and training at least 80 hours per month or comply with a state-approved workfare program. The Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 allows states to request a waiver of the three-month time limit if the states can demonstrate that they have an unemployment rate greater than 10 percent or lack sufficient jobs. In the fourth quarter of Fiscal Year 2016, 11 states and territories were approved for these waivers statewide. Twenty-six states were approved for partial time limit waivers. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.16.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted to advance the American Health Care Act (AHCA) out of the House Budget Committee, which will allow the bill to continue the process towards a vote on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Grothman voted for the bill with the understanding that changes will be made to the AHCA before it comes to the House floor. House rules prevent amendments from being added to the bill in the Budget Committee. Changes Grothman would be happy to see made to the AHCA include: · Implementing work requirements for able-bodied adults on Medicaid without dependents. Medicaid coverage is currently more generous than many of the plans offered by employers to working Wisconsinites. Grothman spoke out about this during today’s committee mark-up. · Moving up the end date for Medicaid expansions. This will stop the preferential treatment of higher reimbursement rates for working age adults over the more vulnerable populations of children, the elderly and the disabled. · Lowering the age that young adults can stay on their parents’ insurance plans from 26 to 23. This is the same as the TRICARE age limit for the adult children of our military families who are currently enrolled in college. · Shifting the allocation of Medicaid block grants from fluctuating amounts that are based on per-capita rates to lump sum amounts. This will reduce spending while giving more control to the states to handle their own Medicaid programs. “Since the start of this Congress, Republicans’ first and foremost priority has been to repeal and replace Obamacare. The American Health Care Act works towards providing relief for American families who have been saddled with skyrocketing health care costs,” said Grothman. “I believe many of my concerns will be addressed by the time the AHCA reaches the House floor, and I am sure it will be a viable solution to ensure affordable and accessible health care coverage for Americans.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.09.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today introduced legislation suspending U.S. Foreign Aid to countries that deny or delay accepting their criminal aliens that have been ordered removed from the United States. The bill also requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to submit a report to Congress once a year that lists the countries refusing to allow their criminal citizens to return. In some cases, these criminal aliens have gone on to commit other crimes after their release. For instance, China refused to accept a criminal Chinese citizen after he was arrested for assault and ordered deported. The criminal alien stayed in the U.S. and later murdered the same woman he assaulted. “I find it appalling that we continue to send foreign aid dollars to countries that are actively putting Americans at risk by refusing to accept their criminal aliens, especially when our own country is so deeply in debt,” said Grothman. “My bill shifts our immigration system back in the right direction and halts America’s condoning of this bad behavior.” Background The U.S. has tens of thousands of criminal immigrants that are ordered deported, yet their home countries refuse to take them back. Instead, these criminal immigrants are released back into the U.S., posing a dangerous threat to American citizens. According to the DHS and the Department of State, more than 20 countries have refused to accept their criminal citizens back into their borders. Currently, the U.S. is planning to send $36.5 billion in Foreign Aid in Fiscal Year 2017 – a portion of which is sent to these countries that refuse to take back their criminal immigrants. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.08.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned government officials about the failure of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to provide adequate customer service during a House Oversight and Government Reform joint hearing with the Subcommittee on Healthcare, Benefits and Administrative Rules and the Subcommittee on Government Operations. IRS Deputy Commissioner for Services and Enforcement John Dalrymple, Assistant Inspector General, Returns Processing and Account Services for the Treasury General for Tax Administration Russell Martin and Acting Director for Strategic Issues at the U.S. Government Accountability Office Jessica Lucas-Judy testified at the hearing. Excerpts of Grothman’s Remarks “Years ago, I used to do taxes […and] I felt that when you talked to the guys on the phone, they weren’t always the sharpest and didn’t know their own laws […] Do you monitor the quality of your folks? Do you have an opinion to if your folks know what the law is? “Has [getting the customer the right answer] improved over time? How long have you been monitoring it? “Is the amount that can be spent traveling by employees – do you keep track of that? What is your travel policy for your people when they get around? “Sometimes I think when congressmen propose things, they don’t think about how it will look to the IRS, who has to deal with it. Like someone once came up with the Earned Income Tax Credit and apparently didn’t think of the fact that if you fill out a form and get a $5,000 check, a lot of people take a crack at it - which is why the fraud is so high. Do you have any comments on the Earned Income Tax Credit, or are there any other parts of the tax forms that you feel invites cheating? Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks. Background The IRS has provided poor customer service over the last several tax seasons. It attributes this to a lack of resources. The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration and the TaxPayer Advocate identified several areas where the IRS could better direct its existing resources to provide a higher quality customer service experience. It’s been stressed to the IRS that it needs to provide better face-to-face and telephone service to taxpayers. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.02.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today reaffirmed his desire to repeal and replace Obamacare. However, upon reviewing the initial replacement draft and the universal health care tax credit, Grothman expressed some concerns about the potential replacement’s effect on employer-sponsored coverage. “The so-called Affordable Care Act has caused $1 trillion in new taxes on everything from life-saving medical devices to health insurance plans and $53 billion worth of new regulations while premiums have soared – an average of 25 percent nationally and 16 percent in Wisconsin,” said Grothman. “Obamacare has also created a disincentive to work. It penalizes those workers whose incomes rise by hitting them with rising healthcare costs. “We know that Obamacare is a disaster and Americans, faced with skyrocketing premiums and limited choice, need relief. We must be sure that we are not continuing the pattern of creating disincentives to work in our replacement plan. “Currently, employer-sponsored coverage is about 46 percent of the insurance marketplace. As drafted, the current replacement plan could result in even less people on employer plans than under Obamacare – with the credits possibly creating an incentive for employers to drop coverage. We must be sure to cover individuals with pre-existing conditions, but the movement of people into high-risk pools puts an additional strain on employers, since they will be required to cover both high-risk and low-risk employees. We must focus on enhancing the ability of employers to innovate and make their own decisions on the best health care options for their employees. “I applaud President Trump and Republican leadership for working towards repealing Obamacare, and I look forward to assisting employers as we work towards the final draft.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.01.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman today released the following statement on President Trump’s joint address to Congress. “I was honored to be at President Trump’s first address to a Joint Session of Congress. “He hit the right combination of outreach, optimism and hard-hitting realism as we look toward our country’s semiquincentennial. “President Trump encouraged the Senate to confirm a judge, Neil Gorsuch, whose principles reflect our Constitution. He laid out a future of taking our country’s best immigrants while remembering the victims of the failed immigration policies of our past. He promised to revitalize American industry, and has turned over a new leaf of the executive branch unabashedly praising law enforcement in our war against crime. “Additionally, he continued to rally Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare – making it clear that Americans should be on the healthcare plans of their choosing, not ones forced on them by the federal government. “And as an added bonus for Wisconsin residents, President Trump mentioned our own Harley Davidson as a successful American business. “Overall, the agenda President Trump laid out tonight is one that will benefit all Americans. I hope that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will work with congressional Republicans and this administration to help our country succeed.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.23.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement about last night’s announcement by President Trump reversing an Obama administration policy on transgender bathrooms in schools: “I applaud President Trump for upholding states’ rights and reversing a federal policy put in place by the Obama administration forcing all schools to allow transgender students to use the bathrooms and locker rooms of their choosing. “This was one of the more ridiculous actions taken by President Obama. It showed that in a time of stagnating economic growth President Obama was more obsessed with fringe issues. “This action by President Trump will put the decision-making process back where it belongs – in the hands of our states and schools. Most importantly, we’re keeping our students safe and ensuring their privacy.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.16.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned human resource professionals, labor policy experts and business owners about federal wages and the overtime rule during an Education and the Workforce Subcommittee on Workforce Protections hearing. Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks: “Why don’t we talk more about the overtime rule - the cause of workers who were previously exempt from overtime to be included in overtime. I always like to repeat a story of a buddy of mine back home whose daughter got a job, probably earning under this amount. He told her always be the first one to go to work in the morning and the last one to go home at night, be a hard worker and you’re going to move up. And she was a hard worker and moved up. What impact would this have on your business, or the businesses that you advise, I guess - if some employee wanted to work extra hard and go all out? “It’s a practical matter you get in trouble with your boss for working hard, don’t you? If you define working as putting in another half hour at the end of the day, or hour at the end of the day you get in trouble with your boss because they have to pay you, right? “What would you do if you’re an employee and it’s 5:00 p.m. and you’d like to spiff this up a little more, do a little bit of work? [Would] you turn in the report which you don’t think is adequate at 5:00, or hang around until 5:30 p.m. and deal with your boss because they don’t want to pay for a half hour of overtime? What would you do in that situation? “Any suggestions or changes to the wage and hour policy? “This is a more sensitive question. Are any of you familiar with the E01 (affirmative action) form? “To make things turn out right on that form, do you advise people about who should be hired or promoted? “Does it ever change who is hired or promoted because you want numbers to work out right on that form? “Is it a fact that you know you have two people applying for a job or three people applying for a job, you may pick someone different than what you would have otherwise?” Click here to watch Congressman Grothman’s full remarks. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.14.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced that his offices will be open on President’s Day, Feb. 20, 2017. Staff in both the Washington, D.C. and Fond du Lac offices will be here to serve constituents of the Sixth District next Monday. If you would like to contact Congressman Grothman’s office, please call 202-225-2476 (Washington, D.C.) or 920-907-0624 (Fond du Lac), or visit grothman.house.gov. “When I was a lawyer in the private sector, it was always frustrating that the government would be off for federal holidays while I was working,” said Grothman. “Now that I work in government, I want my office and staff to be available to the hundreds of thousands of residents in the Sixth District. You’ll be working and your businesses will be open – your government should be, too.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
02.14.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today spoke in an Oversight and Government Reform Committee business meeting about Rep. David Valadao’s (R-Calif.) Social Security Fraud Prevention Act that prohibits agencies from including Social Security numbers on documents sent by mail. Transcript of Grothman’s remarks: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for granting me this time to speak today on the Social Security Fraud Prevention Act. “The Social Security Fraud Prevention Act prohibits agencies from including Social Security numbers on documents sent by mail. “This bill, sponsored by Representative Valadao of California, is a commonsense solution to the large-spread problem of identity theft. “Social Security numbers are more important now than ever before. “We use them to apply to college, get a credit card and open bank accounts. “But as Social Security numbers are used more and more in our society, identity theft becomes more common. “For awhile now, the IRS has been sending Social Security information on postcards and in see-through envelopes unchecked. “Recently, it was discovered that more than 1 million Americans had their Social Security numbers stolen by illegal immigrants – an issue that the IRS has known about for more than five years and has not worked to fix. “In fact, many taxpayers were not even notified that their Social Security numbers had been stolen. “Both of these situations are unacceptable and downright alarming. “Given the lasting and devastating impact identity theft can have on American families and seniors, it’s incredibly important that we don’t allow such sensitive information to fall into the hands of the wrong people. “Mr. Valadao’s bill is an important first step in reaching the bipartisan goal of making sure our government does a better job of protecting Americans’ sensitive information.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
02.01.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today announced his committee assignments for the 115th Congress. Grothman will sit on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform (OGR), the Education and Workforce Committee and the Budget Committee. Grothman will serve on two OGR subcommittees: Subcommittee on Intergovernmental Affairs and the Healthcare, Benefits and Administrative Rules Subcommittee. He will also serve on two Education and Workforce subcommittees: Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee and the Workforce Protections Subcommittee. “As education reform takes the spotlight in the upcoming Congress, I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Education and Workforce committee to overhaul our current system by empowering parents to choose the best form of education for their children,” said Congressman Grothman. “Additionally, my position on the Education and Workforce Committee will allow me to have a direct role in shaping laws that will help our manufacturers and small businesses. “I also look forward to continuing to represent the 6th District on the Budget and Oversight and Government Reform Committees to ensure our government works for the people in the most efficient way possible.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
02.01.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) yesterday questioned government officials about the impact of the so-called Affordable Care Act on the health insurance market during a Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Healthcare, Benefits and Administrative Rules Subcommittee hearing. Senior Counselor for Policy for Office of the Inspector General at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Vicki Robinson, Director of Health Care for the U.S. Government Accountability Office John Dicken and Jonathan Siegel, a citizen of Rochester, N.Y., testified at the hearing. Excerpts of Grothman’s Remarks “Mr. Dicken, you told us a little about the number of options Americans have as the number of insurance companies involved has dropped. Can you recite the numbers again for the last couple of years and the number of options? “At this rate, how many plans do you think will be out there for 2018? “Is there any concern that some areas will soon have no insurers? “If we’ve gone down from three or four or five options to one option, it stands to reason that it’s entirely possible that sooner or later we’re going to have no options, right? “Premiums have shot up in this past year, correct? “Can you tell us why the number of insurance companies keeps disappearing? Can you let us know why they’ve left the exchanges? A few years ago, they were gung ho and thought they could make a go of it, now they can’t. What happened? “Ms. Robinson, you looked at the grant funds and reviews by the Inspector General and identified money that needed to be returned to the federal government because it’s not spent in accordance with your requirements. What’s the status of your recommendations for the money that was misspent being refunded to the federal government? “Are they refunding the money?” Click here to watch Grothman’s full line of questioning. Background Enrollment in Obamacare is far below what was initially projected and healthcare costs are rising. Numerous reports have been issued outlining the fraud, waste and abuse that occurred in carrying out the health care law. This fiscal year, the Office of Inspector General will issue reports relating to the health insurance marketplaces and the Medicaid expansion program. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
01.31.2017	U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement after President Trump announced the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the U.S. Supreme Court: “I was elated to hear that President Trump picked Judge Neil Gorsuch as his Supreme Court nominee. “Gorsuch’s education and track record as a conservative voice on the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals in Colorado makes him a worthy choice to inherit the seat left by Justice Scalia. During his career, Gorsuch has staunchly defended the Constitution, working to cut back regulations and supporting religious freedom rights. “The Supreme Court has made decisions upholding Obamacare and Affirmative Action programs, as well as questionable decisions on government housing. It has become a court that James Madison and our Founding Fathers did not intend when they wrote the Constitution. “Those who voted for President Trump because of their confidence in his ability to nominate a capable and thoughtful Supreme Court justice will not be disappointed. Gorsuch’s brand of conservatism will help create a limited government, and a government fit for a moral and religious people.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.30.2017	U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) and U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) today introduced legislation to award Fond du Lac native James “Maggie” Megellas the Medal of Honor. The bill authorizes and requests President Donald Trump to award Megellas with the United States’ highest military honor for the courage he showed during the Battle of the Bulge. “More than 70 years ago, Maggie displayed a heroism in the face of one of WWII’s bloodiest battles that is deserving of our nation’s highest award. He saved countless lives and stopped the advance of enemy troops without thought of his own life,” said Grothman. “It is high time that Mr. Megellas be awarded the Medal of Honor.” “Lt. Col. Megellas served our country with distinction in the 82nd Airborne Division and our nation will always be grateful for his service to help liberate Europe,” said Johnson. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this bill so Lt. Col. Megellas will be eligible to finally receive the Medal of Honor for his heroic actions above and beyond the call of duty during the Battle of the Bulge.” Background On Jan. 28, 1945, First Lieutenant Megellas led his platoon in a successful attack on an enemy battalion near Herresbach, Belgium, that outnumbered it ten to one. After the attack, he advanced his platoon towards the town when a German Mark V Panther tank pinned them down. Megellas weathered enemy fire to attack and destroy the tank himself with just two grenades and his submachine gun. He then led his platoon to secure Herresbach for advancing Allied forces. Under Megellas’ command, his platoon did not suffer a single casualty that day. Megellas is the most-decorated soldier from the 82nd Airborne Division, receiving the Distinguished Service Cross and the Silver Star for his actions during the Battle of the Bulge. He was born and raised in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, and graduated from Ripon College. He currently lives in Colleyville, Texas. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. U.S. Senator Ron Johnson is chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee.
01.30.2017	“Friday’s executive order is just another example of President Trump fulfilling his campaign promises. Our focus, first and foremost, should be on defending America’s borders and keeping Americans safe. “It is important to specify that this is not a Muslim ban, as it has been widely misreported in the media. This executive order focuses only on improving our nation’s vetting process for those coming from areas of intensified conflict and with known terror groups attempting to infiltrate the U.S. through our refugee program. “This temporary ban allows the government time to review and update screening requirements to keep our citizens safe – something that has become increasingly important as acts of terror happen more and more across the world. “In fact, President Trump admitting up to 50,000 refugees per year is similar to the average numbers of refugees that Presidents Bush and Obama admitted during their presidencies. Additionally, this executive order is not intended to affect those with green cards or those in our country legally. “Some critics are referring to the Trump plan as isolationism. The U.S. swears in hundreds of thousands of new citizens each year. We have millions of immigrants here illegally and are removing few. We are one of the few countries in the world to have birthright citizenship. “Given terrorist concerns and the temptation of too many people to come here and never leave, I think President Trump is right to exercise some long-overdue caution.”
01.24.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement praising President Trump for his executive order on the Keystone XL pipeline project: “I wholeheartedly thank President Trump for his executive order today that allows for the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. I’ve been an advocate for the Keystone XL project since coming to Congress, and this just shows what can be done when we have a president who listens. This project provides an excellent opportunity to expand our local economies, improve our national infrastructure and invest in American workers. “It’s about time we had a president who looks out for American workers. This single act will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, lower gas prices and provide thousands of construction jobs. This executive order is part of an active first week for President Trump.” ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.24.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted in favor of the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act (H.R. 7). Currently, the Hyde Amendment is in place to prevent tax-payer dollars from being used for abortions in certain government programs like Medicaid. However, the Hyde Amendment only protects against certain funds from being used to cover abortions and must be renewed every year. H.R. 7 makes the Hyde Amendment permanent and places a government-wide ban on taxpayer funding for abortion. It also works to ensure that the Affordable Care Act adheres to the Hyde Amendment – something it currently does not have to do -- as Congress works to repeal and replace the healthcare law. “President Trump’s first week in office has been a victory for the pro-life movement,” said Grothman. “Earlier this week, the president reinstated the Mexico City Policy to prevent U.S. taxpayer dollars from funding abortions in other countries. I’m glad President Trump was ready to go with this executive action the same week as the March for Life, and it just reaffirms his fitness for office to those who voted for him in November. “With our vote today in Congress, we’re one step closer to preventing taxpayers from having to foot the bill for Obamacare plans that cover abortions. We’re working to shift the focus of women’s healthcare away from abortion and towards medical care that protects both women and unborn children – work that will continue as Congress plans to defund Planned Parenthood later this session.” Grothman is a co-sponsor of H.R. 7. The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 238-183. ### U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.11.2017	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today issued the following statement after President-elect Trump’s press conference, during which the president-elect questioned pharmaceutical companies’ drug prices: “President-elect Trump was right to call out Big Pharma today for high drug prices and manufacturing practices that take place primarily outside of the U.S. My concerns include not only outrageous prices, but also overprescribing of opiates which leads to heroin addiction and overprescribing of medications to children for issues like ADHD and other related diagnoses. “Since my time in the Wisconsin State Legislature, I’ve refused to take political donations from the pharmaceutical industry because of my belief that Big Pharma no longer prioritizes the creation of life-saving drugs over making money. I am pleased that the Trump administration will make driving down drug prices and bringing the pharmaceutical sector back to America a priority.” Congressman Grothman previously questioned Mylan CEO Heather Bresch over the skyrocketing price of the EpiPen. He wrote an op-ed about the Bresch questioning. ###
01.04.2017	(Washington, D.C.) -- Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted in favor of the Midnight Rules Relief Act of 2017. This bill will allow Congress to swiftly respond to so-called midnight rules – when an outgoing administration hurries to implement politically-driven regulations – and overturn them if needed. “While it’s not a new practice, midnight rules are now almost solely used to score last-minute political points,” said Grothman. “Since the impacts of these regulations often outlast the administration that created them, the Midnight Relief Act of 2017 provides Congress with much-needed oversight.” Additionally, rushing to pass these regulations can lead to a lack of transparency and unintended side-effects, which is why it’s important for Congress to have a say. The Midnight Rules Relief Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 238-184. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his second term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
12.30.2016	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement condemning American inaction regarding the U.N.'s Israel resolution. “Once again the U.N. has passed an anti-Israel resolution. This is not an isolated incident as the General Assembly passed six anti-Israel resolutions earlier this year. “These resolutions show a disproportionate obsession against Israel - particularly in a world filled with brutal dictators providing ample opportunities for endless resolutions. “To make matters worse, the U.S., who usually vetoes, decided to sit on the sidelines. The Obama administration's failure to veto the resolution, and Secretary Kerry's speech on the matter Wednesday, shows its real opinion regarding Israel. “The only bright spot is that we only have one month left until the Trump administration is installed, and America can once again become a reliable ally of Israel. “However, this vote should be a wake-up call to Israel's friends in the U.S. The fact that the U.S. would so boldly allow such a resolution to pass shows how close we are to taking a European view of Israel. Work must be done to educate our citizens on facts involving Israel, or America's foreign policy will permanently move in a European direction.” ###
12.02.2016	(Washington, D.C.) -- Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) yesterday questioned officials about the use of fines, fees, penalties and settlements to skirt Congress and fund agencies outside the appropriations process in a House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations hearing. Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks: “It kind of surprises me the amount of funds that are going around that we probably don’t even know the amount that’s being spent. Can you make suggestions how […]Congress can start to see more clearly how funds are collected and spent, and what requirements we should put on that budget request?” “Mr. Kosar, […] you mentioned the government collected $16 billion from the public last year, right? To what degree are these outside of the normal collection [dollars] included in that amount? “In other words when [agencies] have money coming in, even though that money is dedicated to a specific purpose, that’s not necessarily apparent from their budget? “You know it never ceases to amaze me how screwed up the federal government is. I was a state legislator for 20 years. Washington is so much more screwed up than Madison, Wis. I can’t believe it. “Are there agencies with funding streams outside the appropriations process? Which agencies in particular do you think could give us more transparent budgets?” Click here for Grothman’s full remarks. Background: Even though Congress is granted the power of the purse in the Constitution, federal agencies often engage in “backdoor spending” – or the use of fines, fees, penalties and settlements to fund their operations and unappropriated programs. This backdoor spending is an attempt to cut out Congress and allows agencies to act unilaterally with limited oversight. ###
12.01.2016	(Washington, D.C.) -- Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned officials from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) about sexual harassment and gender discrimination at the U.S. Forest Service during a House Oversight and Government Reform hearing. USDA Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights Joe Leonard, Jr., U.S. Forest Service Deputy Chief of Business Operations Lenise Lago and Vice President of the USDA Coalition of Minority Employees/Federal Employee Advocate Lesa Donnelly testified at the hearing. Denise Rice, a fire prevention technician for the USDA, was also a witness. Ms. Rice shared her experience of being sexually harassed while working for the agency. Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks: “Ms. Donnelly, can you let us know whether you feel there’s been improvement over the last eight years, as you compare the current environment at the Forest Service today compared to eight years ago?” “Under the current Ag secretary, under the current administration, as bad as things were in 2008, things have gotten even worse, even more callous, even more ‘who cares?’? “Just when you think the government can’t get any worse, they get worse. But could you give me some other examples of cases that you’d like to tell this committee about?” Click here to view Grothman’s full remarks. Background: Under the Obama Administration, incidences of sexual harassment and gender discrimination at the USDA have increased. The Forest Service has been found to be severely mismanaged and incompetent, with perpetrators of sexual harassment and gender discrimination going unpunished and victims often fearing retaliation for filing complaints. The Forest Service has asked Congress to make it easier for the agency to fire federal employees who commit acts of sexual harassment or gender discrimination. ###
11.30.2016	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned officials from the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) about the agency’s Confidential Source (CS) program at a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing. Inspector General Michael E. Horowitz and DEA Chief of Inspections Rob Patterson provided testimony about the mismanagement of the DEA’s network of 18,000 confidential sources from 2010 to 2015. Excerpts of Grothman’s remarks: “Mr. Horowitz, you reported that the relationships created by the DEA with limited use confidential sources went beyond that of a person who provides tips. But rather that people were acting almost on behalf of, or in partnership with, the DEA – giving them real-time information. In some cases, the DEA compensation was greater than what they were getting in their regular job. What privacy concerns [are there] with the DEA essentially treating these sources as independent contractors, and asking them to perform specific tasks? “I will give you a more specific example: it appears the DEA had one confidential source working in the parcel industry. They were opening up packages and if they found cash, they were alerting the DEA. Now, I assume if you were a DEA employee, you couldn’t sit there without a warrant or something and just open up packages. Furthermore, in this specific instance, they’d call if they found cash, but they never happened to find drugs – which seems suspicious. So, I wanted your comment on that. “It seems a practical matter there – [the DEA is] giving payment, sometimes payments that are more than a person’s salary, to do something that would be unconstitutional if their own employees did it. “Your September 2016 audit highlighted widespread issues with the DEA’s tracking and oversight of payments. A lot of these issues have been going back and are similar to those that are happening in a report that was issued in 2005. So, we’ve had an 11-year period here and we’re still finding the same issues. Could you comment on that?” Click here to watch Grothman’s full line of questioning. Background: The DEA CS program pays employees from various government entities like the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), private bus companies and parcel delivery services to provide information about possible drug violations. A recent Department of Justice Office of Inspector General audit of the DEA CS program found that there is limited oversight into this vast network of informants, and that more than 9,000 confidential sources received exorbitant payments of approximately $237 million from the DEA from 2010 to 2015. The 2016 audit also found that many of the issues in CS program were discovered during a 2005 audit of the same program, and that nothing or very little has been done to fix these problems. ###
10.12.2016	Today, Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) released the following statement regarding the passing of Wisconsin 18th District State Senator Rick Gudex: “Today Wisconsin lost a great leader and I lost a dear friend. “Rick Gudex was a man of integrity who cared about our state. I have never met a legislator who was so knowledgeable and passionate about manufacturing. He worked hard every day to represent his constituents, and his contributions to Wisconsin will be long remembered. “I’m honored to have known Rick and counted him as a friend. He will be greatly missed. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends during this difficult time.” ###
09.29.2016	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) last night spoke on floor of the U.S. House of Representatives about the Department of Labor’s (DOL) overtime rule. Grothman spoke in support of the Regulatory Relief for Small Businesses, Schools and Nonprofits Act (H.R. 6094), which will provide a six-month delay in the effective date of the DOL rule. Excerpt of Grothman’s remarks: “As we look at this [rule], what is it about? It’s saying you have to pay overtime to someone who’s making over $47,000 a year. And what will that mean? It will mean employers will say, ‘You’ve got to get out of here.’ We can’t have you working more than 40 hours a week. That’s what’s going to happen. “I’m reminded of a buddy of mine back home in the district. His daughter got a new job working for salary. He told her always make sure you’re the first person to show up in the morning and the last person to go home at night, and you will advance in that company. And she was the first person to show up in the morning and the last person to go home at night, and she’s having a very successful career doing so. “So, what this [rule] does is kind of an odd thing: it makes it against the law to work hard. “Think about that girl now. Now, she won’t be able to be the first person that shows up in the morning and the last person to go home at night because her boss is going to say, ‘Get out of here’. “It is part of a pattern we are sadly seeing from this Administration to discourage hard work. Just like Obamacare, you work more hours and end up losing your Obamacare subsidy. Better not work hard. And just like a plethora of welfare programs around here. “We do all we can in this country to penalize the hard-working. Furthermore, think just on a day-to-day basis, what it means to you as an employee. “If you’re working for salary, say you’re working on a project, it gets near 5:00 p.m., and you’re not satisfied with your work project – what do you do? Turn in a bad work project to your boss or hang around another hour and do a good job? “This in essence removes the choice for you. I’ve got to turn in a bad work product because my boss is going to kick me out of here at the end of eight hours. “So my final plea is this: come Republicans, come Democrats. Race to the chamber and vote for this bill. Stand up for the hard-working members of our society.” Click here to watch Grothman’s remarks. Background: The DOL rule is a Presidential Memorandum that alters overtime regulations to increase the salary level from $23,660 to $47,476 annually. The rule is scheduled to take effect on Dec. 1, 2016. Many employers, especially small business owners, will be forced to demote employees to hourly pay, costing employees workplace flexibility like working remotely, or potentially let go of employees to minimize the impact of the rule on their businesses. Additionally, manufacturers, local governments and universities have voiced concerns about the DOL rule. These concerns include staff demotions and reductions, service cuts and having to close their doors permanently. Manufacturers could potentially be the most affected industry in the Sixth District with the Center for Manufacturing Research predicting that the DOL rule will cost manufacturers $24 billion in compliance and 25 million hours of paperwork over the course of the next ten years. H.R. 6094 delays the rule’s start date to give organizations and businesses additional time to plan for payroll changes and to discover how the rule will specifically affect them and make the necessary adjustments. The Regulatory Relief for Small Businesses, Schools and Nonprofits Act passed the House by a vote of 246-177. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
09.26.2016	Late last week, Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) voted on two bills concerning Iran’s finances. Sept. 22, 2016 Vote: Grothman Thursday voted in favor of the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act (H.R. 5931). The bill stops cash payments to the Iranian government and sets in place a process to ensure that any future settlements with Iran are transparent. The bill also acknowledges that President Obama paid ransom for the return of American hostages held in Iran. “It’s common knowledge that Iran is the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism yet President Obama submitted to the tyrannical regime first by entering into the Iran nuclear deal and then, as it’s come to light more recently, by agreeing to break U.S. policy and pay its government ransom,” said Grothman. “I’m glad Congress is stepping up and making sure American money is not abused in such a way ever again.” Background: After President Obama entered into the troubling Iran nuclear deal late last year, he announced that American hostages in Iran would be released through a prisoner exchange. The president also announced that the U.S. would pay Iran $1.7 billion to settle an old dispute over an arms sale. The White House maintained that the $1.7 billion was not a ransom and refused to answer any questions from Congress. Earlier this year, it was revealed that the U.S. made its first payment on the $1.7 billion the same day that American hostages were released from Iran, the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism. U.S. policy dictates not paying ransom for the return of American hostages abroad. The State Department admits that the money was used as leverage for releasing the hostages. The Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 254-163. Sept. 21, 2016 Vote: Grothman Wednesday voted in favor of the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act (H.R. 5461). The bill publicly discloses financial information about the Iranian regime by requiring the Department of the Treasury to report, among other information: · Total funds and assets held in U.S. and certain foreign financial institutions by Iranian leaders, · Methods used to skirt anti-money laundering laws by Iranian leaders and · Recommendations on how to combat illegal uses of U.S. financial institutions by Iranian leaders. By publicly disclosing the assets of Iran’s tyrannical leadership, American citizens will now be able to see how Iran is funding its terror activities. The Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 282-143. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
09.26.2016	The House Oversight and Government Reform (OGR) Subcommittee on Transportation and Public Assets, of which Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) is a member, Friday held a hearing on vacant federal properties. Grothman questioned government officials about the excessive number of properties owned by the United States government, specifically the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and how best to get rid of said properties so they don’t continue to drain taxpayer money. Excerpts of Grothman’s Questioning: “If what we’re told here is right, we have about 7,000 federal properties that are unutilized or underutilized. “And how many of those buildings are just, in essence, abandoned? Every year, the properties drop because they’re not keeping up the electrical or even repairing the windows. Does anyone have an opinion on that? “Is it unusual that we have building that we just let the windows break and the rain come in? “How long does a building have to be vacant before it’s determined we better sell this thing? “Once it’s determined we better get rid of a building, how long does it take to get rid of it?” Background: The federal government owns the largest amount of real property, or property that has been legally defined and can be improved by human effort, in the U.S. The USDA owns a large amount of this real property, and the property’s operating costs exceed $18.7 billion. Currently, federal agencies are required to dispose of excess property, but there are roadblocks to disposal including costs or preparing properties and environmental considerations among others. The OGR Committee passed the Federal Assets Sale and Transfer Act (H.R. 4665) earlier this year to identify cost-cutting opportunities for the federal government to dispose of portions of its real property. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
09.22.2016	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) last night questioned officials about the price of EpiPens at a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee (OGR) hearing. Heather Bresch, CEO of Mylan, the pharmaceuticals company that manufacturers EpiPen, and FDA Deputy Director, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research Dr. Doug Throckmorton addressed the skyrocketing price of the life-saving EpiPen. Dr. Throckmorton also touched on ways to speed up the FDA approval process of EpiPen generics. Excerpts of Grothman’s questioning: “Have we figured out why the market is not working and why other companies are not marketing these things and undercutting Mylan? “Is there any reason why people aren’t producing this stuff for substantially less? “So they so-called competition for EpiPen we can really argue is not as good or not the same thing? “You’re making $19 or $20 million a year and that’s fine, maybe that’s a half cent off of every product you make […] But there was a time chief executives got along making a lot less and they make a lot less in sizable countries around the globe […] Do you ever feel guilty making such a large sum of money, not as someone who founded the company, but as an employee who really doesn’t have a lot of risk yourself? “There are a lot of people out there who think the system is broke, and it’s part broke because they’re working their butt off and doing very valuable things and maybe they’re even told to take cuts in pay and they see a chief executive making a huge amount of money and I think it grates at some people. It causes distrust in our system. “I’m not saying we take away your freedom to make that amount of money. I’m just saying in all walks of life there are people who have the capability of making more and voluntarily say I don’t need that amount of money. And I just wondered if you had any comment?” Click here to watch Grothman’s full line of questioning. Background: EpiPens are used to administer epinephrine to individuals experiencing life-threatening allergic reactions. Mylan has exponentially increased EpiPen prices over the past few years. In 2009, a two-pack of EpiPens cost $100. Recently, a two-pack cost jumped to $600, sparking outrage among those who use EpiPens to treat allergic reactions. As EpiPen prices have spiked, Bresch’s salary has increased to $19 million. Recently, OGR Chairman Chaffetz (R-UT) and Ranking Member Cummings (D-MD) sent a letter to Bresch requesting information about Mylan’s revenue from sales of EpiPens and the manufacturing costs of EpiPens. Bresch is the daughter of U.S. Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Gayle Manchin, the head of the National Associations of State Boards of Education, who recently led a controversial effort to place EpiPens in schools across the country. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
09.14.2016	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) last night voted in favor of the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act (H.R. 5587), which updates a 2006 piece of legislation by better addressing the training and skills needed to take part in today’s workplace. By increasing focus on work-based learning opportunities and giving states more flexibility in how they use federal resources in career and technical education opportunities, the legislation helps strengthen the skills of America’s workforce. “This increased focus on career and technical education is especially important for filling high-skill, in-demand jobs in fields like manufacturing,” said Grothman. “By passing this bill, we’re helping to grow the economy in Wisconsin’s Sixth District and across the state.” Grothman previously voted in favor of the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act when it passed unanimously out of the House Education and Workforce Committee. The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 405-5.
09.14.2016	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today received the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) Guardian of Small Business Award. Grothman received the award because of his strong small business voting record in Congress. The Guardian of Small Business Award is the most prestigious award given out by the NFIB and is only awarded to legislators who vote in favor of small businesses on key issues – including taxes, healthcare and regulations - at least 70 percent of the time. Grothman received a 100 percent rating from the NFIB. “Protecting small businesses from government overreach has been one of my main priorities since my time in the state legislature and certainly since I’ve been in Congress,” said Grothman. “The NFIB does great work in Wisconsin with more than 11,000 members in our state, so it’s an honor to be recognized by this organization.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
09.13.2016	Grothman Committee Holds Back-to-Back Hearings on Clinton Emails (Washington, D. C.) – The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform (OGR), of which Congressman Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) is a member, yesterday and today held hearings on former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s emails. Sept. 13, 2016 Hearing: Today’s OGR hearing focused on the failure to preserve federal records from Clinton’s time as Secretary of State. The hearing included testimony from Justin Cooper, a personal employee of the Clintons and the Clinton Foundation. Two other witnesses invoked their Fifth Amendment right. Former Clinton staffer who set up the private email server, Bryan Pagliano, failed to appear at the hearing despite a subpoena. Excerpts of Grothmans’s Remarks: “You first became involved with President Clinton in 1999? From the time President Clinton left office, from then until today, you say you work for the Clintons. Was it personal for two years, the Foundation, executive services corporation? Who was cutting the checks? “Did you have any coordination with the Foundation? “Did you receive emails from Secretary Clinton or Huma [Abedin] about the Foundation? “Did you receive emails from Secretary Clinton or Huma [Abedin] about the State Department?” Click here to view Grothman’s full line of questioning. Background: From 2009-2013, the State Department lost countless federal records due to inadequate record-keeping practices by Secretary Clinton and her staff. Due to this inadequate recordkeeping, hundreds of received FOIA requests go unfulfilled and it remains unclear whether those requesters will ever receive a full and complete response. Additionally, Clinton signed an affidavit promising that all her records were turned over to the State Department. Recently, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) discovered disks which contain at least 14,900 of Clinton’s emails with the possibility for more to be discovered. Sept. 12, 2016 Hearing: Yesterday’s OGR hearing included testimony from federal officials from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), the U.S. Department of State, the FBI, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency and the National Security Agency/Central Security Service about redactions, omissions and classifications in the investigative file of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. During the hearing, OGR Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) issued a subpoena on behalf of the committee for the FBI to hand over Clinton’s complete investigative file. “The OGR Committee is committed to making sure that Secretary Clinton’s improper use of email did not jeopardize the security of Americans in any way,” said Grothman. “The fact that the FBI is redacting and omitting information from Clinton’s investigative file is making our job – the job we were elected to do by the American people – harder. Secretary Clinton and the FBI’s unwillingness to be transparent should not be prioritized over our nation’s security.” Background: On July 7, 2016, FBI Director James Comey testified before the OGR Committee that the FBI would provide to Congress whatever it could of Secretary Clinton’s investigative file without breaking the law or breaching FBI policy. The FBI provided the OGR Committee with a production of Clinton’s investigative file on Aug. 16 and two additional, supposedly identical productions the following day. The three productions were not consistent and the FBI offered no explanation for the differences. Additionally, the productions provided by the FBI were greatly redacted or contained complete omissions. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
09.12.2016	The office of Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) is accepting applications for nominations to the U.S. Service Academies – the United States Military Academy (West Point), the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy – through Oct. 12, 2016. Once all applications have been submitted, a commission of distinguished Sixth District residents will select candidates for an interview. From there, the final nominees will be selected and announced in December 2016. Members of Congress are asked to nominate candidates to the service academies each year. To be considered, candidates must be: a U.S. citizen, single, have no dependents and not be pregnant, at least 17 (but no older than 23) as of the date classes begin and a resident of the Sixth District. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy offers appointments solely on merit-based competition and does not accept congressional nominations. For more information and to apply for a service academy nomination, please visit grothman.house.gov and click on “Military Academy Nominations” under the “Services” tab. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
09.08.2016	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned U.S. Department of State officials about the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) processes at the State Department during a House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform (OGR) hearing. The Honorable Patrick F. Kennedy, undersecretary for management, The Honorable Janice Jacobs, transparency coordinator, Karin Lang, director, Executive Secretariat, and Clarence N. Finney, Jr., deputy director for correspondence, records and staffing division, Executive Secretariat, testified at the hearing about weaknesses in the FOIA operations at the State Department’s Office of the Secretary, especially in regards to Secretary Hillary Clinton’s emails. Excerpts of Grothmans’s remarks: “Did you talk to Secretary Clinton about Freedom of Information requests? Did this ever come up at all during your tenure? “Is it true that you’re kind of just at the mercy of [Secretary Clinton’s] own statements that everything was turned over? “There was nothing at the time, though, nothing in place to make sure that these records were maintained at the time Secretary Clinton was secretary? “I think given our concerns, especially our concerns in regards to Secretary Clinton, the most important records are the records that show correspondence with her and people outside the building or outside the department.” Click here to view Grothman’s full line of questioning. Background: From 2009-2013, the State Department lost countless federal records due to inadequate record-keeping practices by Secretary Clinton and her staff. Due to this inadequate recordkeeping, hundreds of recieved FOIA requests go unfulfilled and it remains unclear whether those requesters will ever receive a full and complete response. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
08.02.2016	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) hosted a Bring Small Businesses Back (BSBB) town hall event with Job Creators Network (JCN) and Oshkosh Chamber of Commerce at the UW-Oshkosh Alumni Center on Monday. The event brought together 17 local small business owners, government officials and economic development experts, along with JCN CEO Alfredo Ortiz to discuss the most pressing issues facing these businesses, including over taxation, overregulation and lack of access to credit. Popular topics of discussion during the event were tax reform, Dodd-Frank, a piece of legislation under the Obama administration that made changes to financial regulations in the U.S., workforce development and immigration. Business leaders named the Department of Labor’s new overtime rule, which requires business owners to pay salaried employees making less than $47,476 per year time and a half for any hours worked over 40 hours per week, as one of the biggest challenges to remaining successful and profitable, while still keeping current employees on the payroll with adequate benefits. “Yesterday’s town hall was a productive meeting of the minds that provided an invaluable look into the challenges faced by the small business owners and job creators in our community,” said Grothman. “Wisconsin’s small businesses and manufacturers are vital to the survival of our economy. Now that I know more about the specific struggles they face daily, I will work even harder to find solutions for these issues.” Background: According to a Job Creators Network (JCN) poll of more than 400 business owners, the state of small business is in far worse shape than topline economic data suggest. It finds that only one in five (19%) small business owners plan to hire additional employees over the next year. Fewer than one in three (27%) responded that doing business over the next year would be easier than the previous one. View the poll results here. Read the white paper JCN released earlier this year assessing the state of American small businesses here. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
07.28.2016	(Washington, D.C.) — Today, Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) announced that he will host a town hall event at the UW-Oshkosh Alumni Center on Aug. 1, 2016. The event will focus on finding solutions to the biggest problems faced by small businesses – including overtaxation, overregulation and lack of access to credit. The town hall is open to small business owners and residents of the 6th District. President and CEO of the Job Creators Network (JCN) Alfredo Ortiz will also give a presentation at the event explaining his organization’s Bring Small Businesses Back (BSBB) campaign. The Oshkosh Chamber of Commerce, through its work as an advocate of small business, industry and a thriving community, will also be a host of the event. “It’s a fact that small businesses drive the American economy. But as crushing regulations and excessive taxes continue to be handed down, the majority of our Main Street businesses are finding it hard to grow and prosper – even several years out of the Great Recession,” said Congressman Grothman. “In Wisconsin, our small businesses and manufacturing sector are vital to helping the state’s economy survive and thrive. “As your voice in Congress, I’m working hard to make sure that costly, unnecessarily-complicated government regulations are eliminated and the tax code is reformed. As the backbone of our economy, small business owners and their employees deserve a voice in this process. I encourage these employers, employees and concerned residents to attend this forum to learn more about helping our economy continue to recover.” “Congressman Grothman’s town hall is an important step in identifying the hurdles faced by small business owners and determining solutions to address them,” said Ortiz. What: A Bring Small Businesses Back town hall event, hosted by Congressman Grothman, Alfredo Ortiz, President and CEO of Job Creators Network and the Oshkosh Chamber of Commerce When: Monday, Aug. 1, 2016 8:30-10:00 a.m. Where: UW-Oshkosh Alumni Center 625 Pearl Avenue Oshkosh, WI 54901 Background: According to a Job Creators Network (JCN) poll of more than 400 business owners, the state of small business is in far worse shape than topline economic data suggest. It finds that only one in five (19%) small business owners plan to hire additional employees over the next year. Fewer than one in three (27%) responded that doing business over the next year would be easier than the previous one. View the poll results here. Read the white paper JCN released earlier this year assessing the state of American small businesses here. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
07.14.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted in favor of the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY 2017 (H.R. 5538). The bill determines the budgets for the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and related agencies for FY 2017. The proposed budget is a decrease of $64 million from the FY 2016 level and is $1 billion below President Obama’s requested amount. “Far too often, government entities like the Department of the Interior and the EPA have shifted their focus from performing the duties for which they were founded to expanding crushing regulations on our businesses, manufacturers, farmers and communities,” said Grothman. “By reducing funding for these agencies, we are preventing this type of gross overreach in the future.” Highlights of the bill: EPA: The bill reduces funding to the EPA. Regulatory programs and staffing levels at the agency will be held at low levels to assure that the EPA focuses on its core duties, instead of increasing regulations. Most notably, the bill includes provisions to halt the implementation of some of the most overreaching EPA programs and administrative rules that affect manufacturers, small businesses and farmers. These provisions include prohibiting the EPA from forcing new greenhouse gas regulations onto power plants and new methane requirements onto the oil and gas industry. These provisions allows for the production of more affordable energy that is so vital for Wisconsin’s families and small businesses. Additionally, the EPA will no longer be allowed to control water on private land. This is a win for Wisconsin farmers who will no longer have to worry about the EPA dictating how they use their ponds, irrigation ditches and other non-navigable water sources on their farms. Land and Water Conservation Funding (LWCF): This bill prioritizes state and local recreational areas and battlefield preservation programs within the LWCF – keeping Wisconsin’s recreational areas, parks and historical sites beautiful. Additionally, it prohibits the president from declaring national monuments in certain areas. U.S. Forest Service: The bill provides funding to help with wildland fire preparedness and suppression. It prevents federal agencies from closing public lands to hunting and recreational shooting – providing Wisconsinites with safe places to hunt and enjoy the outdoors. The Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY 2017 passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 231-196. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
07.14.2016	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Consular Affairs at the U.S. Department of State Michele Thoren Bond and Deputy Director, Immigration and Customs Enforcement for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Daniel Ragsdale at a House Oversight and Government Reform hearing about denying visas to countries that refuse to take back their deported nationals. Click here to watch Congressman Grothman’s full line of questioning. Excerpts of Congressman Grothman’s questions below: “We’ll focus on you, Ambassador Bond. I mean, there’s something going on in the background here that we’re not talking about. But I’d like to talk about it. You’ve been appointed in this position by President Obama, and there’s been a theme, I think, through a variety of hearings we’ve had, in which there doesn’t seem a lot of sincerity in enforcing our immigration laws at all around here. Whether it’s people just coming across the border and being allowed to go back, whether it’s not deporting people who commit crimes, whatever. To what degree do you believe President Obama is aware you folks are not using the means at your disposal to remove the dangerous criminals back to the countries from which they came? “Does President Obama know about this at all? Do you guys report to him? Have you heard anything from the White House? “And those ways haven’t included denying visas, or trying to prevent foreign aid from going to those countries? I guess what you’re saying is President Obama is aware of this situation, right? “So about a year ago, somebody said we ought to raise the issue. But has has President Obama ever come down on you guys, and said, hey, we have a bunch of criminals in this country. We have the ability to deny visas, we have the ability to withhold foreign aid, let’s do something about it. Or is President Obama just came across a year ago and said maybe we ought to look at this sometime and see what we can do? What was the message? “Has president Obama threatened with removing any of his appointees who haven’t followed through on this? “Does the process include withholding foreign aid or withholding visas? “Has it ever happened, under your tenure? “Ok, well we’ve only got about, what, 5 months to go in this administration. If he’s going to impose it, he better do it quickly. And otherwise, I think, the American people have to make sure the next president has an entirely different view of things.” Background: In 2013, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) released from detention more than 36,000 convicted criminal immigrants into communities all across America. Their charges ranged from sexual assault to homicide. More than 5,000 of these non-citizens who entered the country illegally have gone on to commit additional crimes. Additionally, ICE has released some criminal aliens at least twice. One such offender was released in Wisconsin. Since 2013, tens of thousands more of these deportable aliens have been released from jail or prison into our communities because their home countries refuse to take them back. In compliance with the Supreme Court’s decision in Zadvydas v. Davis, if a home country refuses to take back a criminal immigrant after 180 days, the alien must be released. This is true even if he or she is violent and/or does not have any legal right to remain in the U.S. The Immigrant and Nationality Act (INA) forces countries to accept their nationals who have been ordered removed from the U.S. by discontinuing granting visas to a resistant country until it has accepted its national.
07.07.2016	Grothman Questions FBI Director on Clinton Emails (Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today questioned Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director James Comey at an Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing about the FBI’s recommendation not to prosecute former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for maintaining a private server. Click here to watch Congressman Grothman’s full line of questioning of Director Comey. Excerpts of Congressman Grothman’s questions below: On punishments for intelligence agency employees if they were to use a private server for emails: As I understand it, your testimony today is that you have not brought criminal charges against Hillary Clinton in part because you feel you can’t prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, and in part because she didn’t understand the law in regards to emails and servers and that sort of thing. When she erased these emails – I digress for a second, you, however, did say that if someone did this under you, there would be consequences. If somebody did exactly what Mrs. Clinton did, but was one of your lieutenants, or you think one of the lieutenants under the CIA, DIA or some other agency that deals with top-secret documents, what would you do to those underlings? On the process of erasing emails: The erasures here, however, were not just Mrs. Clinton pressing delete were they? There was a much greater effort made to make sure that these emails would never be recovered. Do you want to comment on what was done to erase the emails? So in other words, the effort was not just Mrs. Clinton or someone going delete, delete, delete. They went above and beyond that so you’re top technical experts could not get back these emails, correct? On if Clinton’s erased emails could have contained information about the Clinton Foundation and Benghazi: The information that I have is that these erasures were done in December of 2014, after the Benghazi scandal broke, after there were questions about the Clinton Foundation. Did you ever come across why she allowed these out there even for years after she stopped being Secretary of State, but all of a sudden all of these scandals started to bubble up and she felt – or her lawyers felt – that she had to erase them? Do you think Mrs. Clinton knew that the technical people were erasing these emails so that even your top technical experts couldn’t recover them? You don’t think the lawyers told her that’s what they were doing – erasing all these emails that everyone on this committee wanted to look at? Now, as I understand it, the goal was just to erase personal emails, but you’ve recovered emails that wouldn’t be considered personal emails at all. But based upon the emails that you recovered, presumably her lawyer or someone was going well beyond personal emails, is it possible that we’ll never be able to recover emails that dealt with the Clinton Foundation, or dealt with the Benghazi scandal? Is it possible because of what her lawyers did that they were erasing things that were incriminating – maybe items that you yourself were not personally investigating but have now been destroyed forever? I’m sorry, but when you go to these lengths to make sure that you can never recover the emails that were erased, wouldn’t you think the intent is to make sure that no one ever looks at them again? Otherwise, why would you go to that length? Background: On Tuesday, July 5, 2016, Director Comey announced that the FBI would not recommend criminal charges for Secretary Clinton despite the fact she used her private server to send classified emails relating to her work as Secretary of State. Director Comey’s statement on Tuesday exposed lies told by Secretary Clinton to the American public about her emails, including the fact that she deleted work-related emails alongside personal ones, and that she sent classified emails from her private server. Additionally, it was revealed that she did not turn over all work-related emails to the State Department in 2014. The statement by the FBI also noted that Secretary Clinton’s handling of her emails was careless because she used her unprotected, personal email domain regularly outside of the United States, including sending work-related emails in areas with sophisticated hacking technologies. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
06.27.2016	Staff from the office of Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) will host mobile office hours for those needing help with federal agencies. In an effort to better represent the needs and interests of residents of Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District, Congressman Grothman’s office will be hosting mobile office hours as an extension of his district office. A representative of his experienced staff will be available to meet with you, listen to your concerns and address any problems you may have with a federal agency. During mobile office hours, a specialized caseworker can assist you with Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Affairs (VA), U.S Citizenship and Immigration Services, Internal Revenue Service and several other constituent services. The next mobile office hours will be held on Thursday, June 30, from noon to 1:00 p.m. at: Beaver Dam Public Library 311 N. Spring Street Beaver Dam, WI 53916 U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
06.14.2016	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R- Glenbeulah) released the following statement regarding today’s designation of the U.S. post office located in Fond du Lac, Wis. as the Lieutenant Colonel James “Maggie” Megellas Post Office: “I was proud to author this legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives, and to work with my colleague, Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), to see that Lieutenant Colonel Megellas is honored for his heroic acts during World War II,” said Congressman Grothman. “This Fond du Lac native and member of the Greatest Generation is a true American hero who faced unimaginable danger with bravery and distinction. I am honored to have a U.S. post office in my district named after him.” “Maggie” Megellas was born in Fond du Lac. Following his graduation from college in Ripon, Wis., Megellas accepted a commission in the U.S. Army, and participated in notable battle experiences including singlehandedly destroying a German Mark Five Panther Tank during the Battle of the Bulge, without a single American casualty. For his valor and leadership, Megellas was acknowledged as one of the most decorated officers in the 82nd Airborne Division and was discharged with the rank of captain. Megellas now lives in Colleyville, Texas with his wife. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
06.14.2016	Grothman Votes to Protect Free Speech, Prevent Targeting by IRS (Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted in favor of a bill that prevents tax-exempt, nonprofit organizations from having to disclose sensitive donor information to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act (H.R. 5053), of which Congressman Grothman is a co-sponsor, follows in the wake of a 2013 incident in which sensitive and identifying information about conservative donors was leaked by the IRS and published by national media organizations. The bill does away with the Form 990 Schedule B, which lists the types and values of contributions to organizations, as well as the names and addresses of donors. “By passing this bill, the U.S. House of Representatives has taken an important first step in assuring the American people that they cannot be singled out by those in power because of their political beliefs,” said Congressman Grothman. “Disclosing identifying donor information is unacceptable and violates the right to freedom of speech for organizations and their donors. “I am proud to support the Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act, which helps preempt future targeting of organizations because of political affiliation by the IRS and eliminates the exposure of unnecessary and invasive personal information once and for all.” The U.S. House of Representatives passed the Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act by a vote of 240-182. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
03.03.2016	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-WI) released the following statement in regarding the passage of legislation to designate the U.S. Post Office located in Fond du Lac as the “Lieutenant Colonel James ‘Maggie’ Megellas Post Office.” “I was honored to author this legislation on behalf of “Maggie” Megellas. Mr. Megellas was born in Fond du Lac and lived there until he attended Ripon College. He had many notable battle experiences, including one at the Battle of the Bulge in January of 1945. There he singlehandedly destroyed a German Mark V Panther tank and led his platoon, all without a single American casualty. For this reason, Mr. Megellas is acknowledged as one of the most decorated officers in the 82nd Airborne Division. “I am pleased to see Congress honor this true American hero for his dauntless courage and self-sacrifice in the face of overwhelming odds. This son of Fond Du Lac served his country with distinction and should be held up as a representation of the greatness of average Americans when called upon to defend their country.” Megellas’ awards include the Distinguished Service Cross, two Silver Stars, two Purple Hearts, and Presidential Citation with Cluster, the Belgium Fouragere, six campaign stars, and Master Parachutist Badge. He was selected by General James Gavin, the commanding general of the 82nd Airborne Division, to receive the Military Order of Wilhelm Orange Lanyard from the Dutch Minister of War in Berlin in 1945. Megellas is the first American to be honored with the award by the government of Holland. Megellas now lives in Colleyville, TX, with his wife. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. # # #
02.12.2016	(Fond du Lac, WI) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) will host three town hall meetings between February 16th and 17th. Congressman Grothman encourages all members of the community to attend to discuss important issues to the 6th Congressional District. Tuesday, February 16, 2016 Elisha D. Smith Public Library - 9:30-10:30 AM 440 First St, Menasha, WI Wednesday, February 17, 2016 Belgium Village Hall - 1:00-2:00 PM 104 Peter Thein Ave, Belgium, WI Saukville Village Hall – 3:00-4:00 PM 639 E Green Bay Ave, Saukville, WI U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
02.09.2016	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s proposed budget. “It is unfathomable that President Obama has proposed yet another budget that never balances. No Wisconsin family can afford to continue to spend money that they don’t have and live beyond their means, like President Obama proposes in his final budget. He has created a wish list of bloated government programs and spending increases that are detached from reality. President Obama seems to be disconnected from the fact that we cannot spend away our nation’s wealth in endless government boondoggles without eventually running out of money. “Our national debt will double by the time Obama leaves office because of his reckless and irresponsible spending. Thankfully, our system of checks and balances allows Congress to rein in this spending spree by rejecting Obama’s budget and providing positive solutions to our growing debt crisis. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the days ahead to pass a reasonable and balanced budget that will protect American jobs and unleash the great potential of our innovative American economy.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. # # #
01.12.2016	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-WI) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address on Tuesday night. “I was disappointed to hear several dangerous plans laid out in the President’s speech. His proposal to close Guantanamo Bay and transfer dangerous, militant Islamic terrorists into facilities located on the U.S. mainland displays a disturbing set of priorities. Instead of looking out for our national security, I fear that this latest move fits into President Obama’s pattern of putting the welfare of terrorists ahead of the safety and vital interests of the American people. One obvious and necessary first step to prevent another terrorist attack on American soil is to secure our borders. “It is tragic that as we enter the final year of Obama’s tenure in office, the country is worse off than when he took office. His leadership has led to instability around the world, mounting threats from Islamic terrorism at home, and the growth of bureaucracy on a massive scale. Dependency on government has risen and many Americans have simply given up looking for employment in the face of the President’s policies and their stagnating effects on the economy. “I fear that the actions the President will take over the next year will do nothing to alleviate these problems and may only increase them. Now is the time for Congress to take bold action to halt the dangerous agenda of this President. I am committed to promoting conservative legislation, like the Reconciliation bill Congress passed and sent to the President’s desk last week to repeal Obamacare and defund Planned Parenthood. I will continue to advocate for the rights enshrined in our Constitution every day that I represent the hardworking people of Wisconsin’s 6th District.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. # # #
01.06.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted for a reconciliation bill that repeals Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood. For the first time, Congress has voted to put a bill on President Barack Obama’s desk that defunds Obamacare. House and Senate Republicans successfully utilized a legislative process, known as reconciliation, to get a full Obamacare repeal bill to the President’s desk. Reconciliation can only be used once in a legislative session and requires a majority in the Senate, unlike all other legislation that requires 60 votes. “This bill repeals President Obama’s failed health care law and replaces it with real, patient-centered reforms,” said Congressman Grothman. “Harry Reid and Senate Democrats have repeatedly blocked legislation repealing Obamacare for the past five years. Finally, the President will be forced to take action on a full Obamacare repeal bill. Predictably, President Obama has pledged to veto this important legislation.” “I am proud to support this legislation that completely defunds Planned Parenthood and ensures that horrific abortions are not paid for by American taxpayers,” Grothman said. “The gruesome practices exposed at Planned Parenthood demonstrate the organization is unworthy of taxpayer funds. This legislation instead invests in community health centers, which greatly outnumber Planned Parenthood facilities. These centers provide expanded access to health care for women, men, children and the unborn.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
12.02.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, the House of Representatives passed S. 1177, Every Student Succeeds Act, formally replacing No Child Left Behind. Included in this legislation is an amendment Congressman Glenn Grothman offered that will increase oversight by requiring reauthorization in four years instead of the six years that was originally included in the bill. The legislation now provides a four-year trial period to states and local school districts and allows the next Administration to make needed education reforms. “By reauthorizing this legislation in four years instead of six, the next president will be able to work with state and local school districts to make any necessary changes to our education laws,” said Congressman Grothman. “Reducing the federal footprint in education empowers parents and provides local control to help every student succeed. Giving states and local school districts the needed flexibility to establish real education reform is an important step towards fixing our K-12 education system.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
12.01.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Grothman voted today for S.J. Res 23 and 24 in order to prevent electricity prices from skyrocketing on Wisconsin businesses and consumers. S.J. Res 23 and 24 explicitly express Congressional disapproval over the Environmental Protection Agency’s rule relating to carbon pollution emission guidelines for coal, oil and natural gas, including the regulations for greenhouse gas emissions. These rules proposed by the EPA would devastate Wisconsin’s power producing plants and would cause escalating electricity prices for the citizens of Wisconsin. “Wisconsin residents shouldn’t have to worry about paying their electric bill, but the Obama Administration’s new rules ensure that Wisconsin’s electricity costs will surge,” said Congressman Grothman. “The EPA is not only hurting Wisconsin businesses, but also consumers. Make no mistake - this is cap and trade all over again. The EPA is looking to fundamentally change the way electricity is generated, consumed, and distributed. The Obama Administration needs to be stopped and this is a good first step to do so.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
11.19.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted to protect American citizens by strengthening background checks on Syrian refugees attempting to enter the United States. The American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015 (SAFE Act) was introduced in response to the heinous terrorist attack perpetrated last week by the Islamic State in Paris, France. At least one terrorist involved in the Paris attack used a Syrian passport to gain entry into Europe. Numerous media reports have highlighted the threat of the Islamic State exploiting America’s refugee resettlement program to infiltrate the United States and the dire need for increased scrutiny on the backgrounds of Syrian refugees. “Keeping Americans safe is my number one priority,” said Congressman Grothman. “It’s clear the Islamic State wants to exploit and infiltrate the Syrian refugee program to plant terrorists inside the United States. This bipartisan legislation will protect Americans by ensuring that any Syrian refugee admitted to the United States passes a rigorous background check.” “President Obama downplayed the role radical Islam played in the Paris attacks, declaring the Islamic State was ‘contained’ hours before the attacks occurred. The President has shown he is naïve and weak when it comes to protecting America and our national interests overseas. While ultimately I believe we should halt our Syrian refugee program for the foreseeable future, this legislation is a serious first step towards preventing another terrorist attack on U.S. soil.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
11.19.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, the House-Senate education conference committee voted to advance the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. This legislation will replace No Child Left Behind and restore local control in K-12 education. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) urged fellow conference committee members to support his amendment keeping funding at current levels until 2020. The amendment passed the House conference committee 9-8, but failed in the Senate conference committee 6-16. “At a time when government spending is completely out-of-control, we need to make fiscal responsibility a top priority. For too long our nation’s leaders have failed to act like adults and balance our nation’s budget. This amendment is the first step in restoring sanity in the budgeting process.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
11.17.2015	(Fond du Lac, WI) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) will host two town hall meetings on Wednesday, November 25. Congressman Grothman encourages all members of the community to attend to discuss important issues to the 6th Congressional District. Wednesday, November 25, 2015 Town of Algoma Town Hall - 9:00-10:00 AM 15 N Oakwood Rd, Oshkosh, WI Fox Lake Community Center - 2:30-3:30 PM 248 E State St, Fox Lake, WI U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
11.17.2015	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) was named as a conferee to the conference committee to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. Grothman was named along with nine other Republican House members. “The House Education and Workforce Committee has worked hard to strengthen and reform education this year – putting power back in the hands of parents, administrators and local officials,” said Congressman Grothman. “America’s next generation deserves a quality education. I look forward to working with my fellow conferees and coming to a final agreement that puts students and parents first.” Speaker Ryan appointed the following members to serve on the House conference committee: • Rep. John Kline (R-MN), Chairman, Committee on Education and the Workforce • Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN) • Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC) • Rep. David P. Roe (R-TN) • Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-WI) • Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY) • Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN) • Rep. Steve Russell (R-OK) • Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) • Rep. Glenn Thompson (R-PA) U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
11.16.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today called on President Barack Obama to halt the Syrian refugee resettlement program in the United States in the aftermath of the heinous terrorist attack in Paris, France. At least one terrorist involved in the Paris attack used a Syrian passport to gain entry into Europe. “President Obama should immediately halt his Syrian refugee program until the United States Intelligence Community can guarantee the program does not pose any threats to our national security,” Congressman Grothman said. “The safety of American citizens should be priority number one. It is clear that Obama’s refugee program does not have the proper tools or the necessary background information to distinguish legitimate Syrian refugees from Islamic State terrorists.” President Obama stood by his plans to allow as many as 100,000 Syrian refugees to relocate to the United States in the coming years. He also downplayed the role radical Islam played in the Friday terrorist attack in Paris. “The tragic terrorist attack committed by Muslim extremists in Paris should be a wakeup call to the United States,” Grothman said. “If we can’t guarantee the safety of our citizens, we should halt our Syrian refugee resettlement program immediately.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
11.11.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) released the following statement in recognition of Veterans Day. “As we mark Veterans Day this year, may we remember the sacrifice of those who have defended our country and faithfully worn the uniform of the United States. These Americans who answered the call to serve are the bravest among us, and we owe every veteran a debt of gratitude. May we renew our commitment to taking care of our servicemen and women both serving abroad and those who have returned home,” said Congressman Glenn Grothman. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
10.29.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) released the following statement today after voting for Congressman Paul Ryan for Speaker of the House. “I am proud to support my friend and mentor, Congressman Paul Ryan, for Speaker of the House. Paul has a history of conservative leadership as the House Budget Committee Chairman, 2012 Vice Presidential candidate and as the Ways and Means Committee Chairman. Paul is a proven conservative and I look forward to working with him to get our nation’s fiscal house back in order,” said Congressman Grothman. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
10.27.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) released the following statement after voting to reauthorize and reform the Export-Import Bank. “While I have worked for years to shrink state and federal government, the fixation on eliminating the Ex-Im Bank by some conservatives, instead of focusing on must-fix items like massive welfare spending and an out-of-control immigration system, has been perplexing. The Ex-Im Bank has returned money to the Treasury every year for the past 20 years – totaling over $7 billion. “While some opponents may claim the Bank only helps larger corporations, the truth is for every job created at a larger company, many more are created at local suppliers, manufacturers and small businesses. This bank is necessary for companies like Caterpillar, Pierce, Rockwell Automation and Manitowoc Crane to create jobs, spur innovation and lead America forward. The fact is, without Ex-Im financing our manufacturing sector will lose sales to countries like China, Germany and India. The United State currently has a trade deficit of $500 billion and that number will only increase without the Ex-Im Bank. “Manufacturing is the backbone of Wisconsin’s economy and the 6th Congressional District has more manufacturing jobs than any other district in America. We’d like to keep it that way. While I disagreed with the process some of my colleagues decided to pursue to bring this legislation to the House floor, passing this legislation is important to my district and the state of Wisconsin.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. Below is a list of companies from the state of Wisconsin that support the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank: 1) AirBorn, Inc. 2) Modine Manufacturing Co. 3) Appleton Marine Co. 4) Aztalan Engineering, Inc. 5) Ball Corportation 6) Neenah Enterprises, Inc. (Neenah Foundry) 7) NOSHOK, Inc 8) NOW Health Group, Inc. 9) Catepillar Inc. 10) CMD Corporation 11) CNH International (Case, New Holland) 12) Power Technology, Inc. 13) DuPont 14) ExportAble LLC 15) Rust-Oleum Corp 16) Halliburton 17) TCI, LLC 18) Hillenbrand, Inc. 19) Honeywell International Inc. 20) HUSCO International 21) Prolitec 22) Dan’s Fish 23) CECOR, Inc. 24) Oshkosh Corp. 25) Pierce 26) Kuhn Krause 27) Zeeland Farm Services, Inc. 28) Zippo Manufacturing Company 29) Telesmith 30) John Deere 31) The Manitowoc Company 32) Urban Manufacturing 33) MarquipWard United/ Barry-Wehmiller 34) Maxon Industries 35) Toolcraft Co., Inc. 36) D&D Products Inc. 37) Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation – Derco Aerospace 38) Siemens Financial Services, Inc. 39) UTC Aerospace Systems 40) Rockwell 41) Patriot Taxiway 42) FABCO 43) Kondex 44) Vintage Parts Inc. ###
10.06.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) released the following statement after the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA) identified parts of Lake Michigan in Wisconsin as a potential National Marine Sanctuary. According to the NOAA website, an area consisting of 875-square miles from Port Washington to Two Rivers was identified for possible designation as a National Marine Sanctuary. “The Great Lakes play an important role in Wisconsin and throughout the Midwest. Designating this part of Lake Michigan in the 6th District as a National Marine Sanctuary only confirms our commitment to protecting the Great Lakes,” said Congressman Grothman. “Wisconsin has a great heritage of stewarding marine life, and our environment throughout history. This is a great opportunity for our communities to preserve these environmental treasures for future generations.” Public comment periods will take place until January 15, 2016. NOAA will draft environmental impact statements, potential regulations and review comments. A final decision will be made following the public comment period. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
10.05.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) slammed the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) over a new rule regulating ozone. Today, the EPA issued a ruling that ozone emissions must be 70 ppb (parts per billion). The EPA proposed the new rule late last year moving from 75 ppb to 70 ppb. This kind of bureaucratic rule from the EPA will halt the expansion of businesses and job creation in Wisconsin. “The Environmental Protection Agency couldn’t be more ignorant of America’s business owners and farmers,” said Congressman Grothman. “The EPA is demonstrating everything that Americans hate about big government. These burdensome regulations will only further stifle business growth and innovation in a sector that is already highly regulated. I will take every step possible to put Wisconsin businesses first, and ensure we push back on these new intrusions from the federal bureaucracy.” The EPA set National Ambient Air Quality Standards, in particular ozone, at 120 parts per billion (ppb) in 1971, and now the EPA has proposed a new rule of 70 ppb set to take effect in October 2015, which cuts the standard nearly in half since 1971. By 2015, the EPA will have changed ozone standards more than five times. Changing it again will damage Wisconsin, specifically counties in the 6th Congressional District, disproportionately more than other states around the country. These regulations also put United States businesses at a comparative disadvantage globally, in particular with countries like China and Russia. Congressman Grothman recently introduced the Manufacturer’s First Act to push back on the EPA’s attack on American businesses. Click here to view a copy of H.R. 2792. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
09.28.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) recently introduced legislation to designate the U.S. Post Office located on West 2nd Street in Fond du Lac as the "Lieutenant Colonel James 'Maggie' Megellas Post Office.” “I am proud to pay tribute to Lieutenant Colonel Megellas’s sacrificial service to our country,” said Congressman Grothman. “This post office will serve as a reminder and inspiration to our community of his brave heroism and dedication to serving our country.” Congressman Grothman also introduced, H.R. 808, which authorizes and requests President Barack Obama to award Megellas with the United States’ highest military honor for his courageous actions during the Battle of the Bulge. On January 28, 1945, First Lieutenant Megellas led his platoon in a successful attack on an enemy battalion near Herresbach, Belgium, that outnumbered them ten-to-one. After the attack, he advanced his platoon towards the town when a German Mark V Panther tank pinned them down. Megellas weathered enemy fire to attack and destroy the tank himself with just two grenades and his submachine gun. He then led his platoon to secure Herresbach for advancing Allied forces. Under Megellas’ command, his platoon did not suffer a single casualty that day. Megellas is the most decorated soldier from the 82nd Airborne Division, receiving the Distinguished Service Cross and the Silver Star for his actions during the Battle of the Bulge. He was born and raised in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, and graduated from Ripon College. He currently lives in Colleyville, Texas. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
09.25.2015	“It was with great surprise that this morning I found out John Boehner was resigning his post of Speaker and retiring in the next month. While there were times I disagreed with John Boehner, I think when judging him you have remember that in 2009 Republicans had 178 representatives and we now have 247 representatives,” said Congressman Grothman. “You also ought to remember that prior to Republicans taking the majority under Speaker Boehner we were borrowing nearly 40% of the federal budget and we are now borrowing almost 12%. From where we stood in 2009, I would think very few people felt that either of these numbers was attainable. I wish John Boehner and his family all the best in the future and hope our new leadership team can continue moving the above numbers in the right direction.”
09.21.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) calls on Speaker Boehner and House Republican leadership to tie Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) reform to any increase in the nation’s borrowing limit. For far too long, the debt ceiling has been increased without significant spending reforms. Social Security Disability Insurance began in the 1950’s and has been growing ever since. According to the Social Security Administration (SSA), more than 4 million beneficiaries have been added to the rolls since 2001, and the SSDI Trust Fund is projected to exhaust its funds by 2016. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has identified cases of abuse, where healthy people are scamming the system and robbing taxpayers. “Tying real spending reforms to increasing the debt ceiling should be Congress’ top priority this fall,” said Congressman Grothman. “It’s clear this program is unsustainable on its current path and is rife with fraud and abuse.” “A lack of sustained oversight of the program has led to too many fraudulent claims,” Grothman said. “In 2013 alone, the SSDI program wasted over $1 billion sending the wrong payments to 36,000 people. Making crucial reforms is necessary if we want to see this program survive beyond 2016 and care for disabled Americans who are truly in need. This is an issue that I hope House leadership will take seriously and bring practical reforms to the table when increasing the debt ceiling later this fall.” Background Social Security Beneficiary Statistics (Social Security Administration, Social Security Beneficiary Statistics, Accessed: 9/17/15) The Number of DI Beneficiaries Has Increased Nearly Sixfold Since 1970: In 2011, the DI program provided benefits to 8.3 million disabled workers, nearly six times the 1.4 million disabled workers who received benefits in 1970. Including the dependent spouses and children of those workers further increases the number of people receiving support from the program in 2011 to 10.3 million. (Congressional Budget Office, “Policy Options for the Social Security Disability Insurance Program”, July 16, 2012) GAO estimates that SSA made $1.29 billion in potential cash benefit overpayments to about 36,000 individuals as of January 2013. (GAO, Disability Insurance: Work Activity Indicates Certain Social Security Disability Insurance Payments Were Potentially Improper, August 2013) U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
09.18.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today voted in favor of legislation to defund Planned Parenthood and to protect babies born alive after an abortion. Congressman Grothman is a cosponsor of both The Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 and the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. When videos first surfaced, in which representatives of medical services at Planned Parenthood Federation of America discuss selling baby body parts for profit, Congressman Grothman signed onto a letter urging House Committees to launch an investigation into Planned Parenthood. The Defund Planned Parenthood Act places a one-year moratorium on federal funding while Congress does a full investigation into these unconscionable practices at Planned Parenthood clinics. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act protects a child born alive after an abortion is performed and states the child should receive the same care other children would receive if born at the same gestational age. “Life is precious at every stage, and it is repulsive to think that an organization funded with taxpayer dollars is harvesting organs of babies to sell for profit,” said Congressman Grothman. “It is absolutely horrific to think that Planned Parenthood and its affiliates are putting profit over the health of mothers and babies. These videos have forced Congress to confront the abuses of Planned Parenthood. Protecting the unborn is our duty as a nation, and we cannot afford to turn a blind eye any longer.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
09.11.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) today released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to oppose President Obama's Iranian Nuclear Agreement. “Today, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly voted to oppose President Obama’s dangerous Iran deal. Senator Corker’s bill ensured this deal would be reviewed by Congress and I had hoped enough Democrats in both chambers would join us in opposing a deal that clearly favors Iran’s nuclear program over America’s national security. This deal paves the way for an Iranian nuclear weapon and rewards the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism with sanctions relief. The American people have made it clear, by a two to one margin, they don’t want this deal. I hope the international community will view this vote as a sign the American people oppose this deal and will likely support someone next year who thinks this is an unfair agreement for the United States.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
09.02.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Sgt. Ryan Croft, a Legislative Assistant in Congressman Glenn Grothman’s office (R-Glenbeulah), will deploy to the Middle East this month. Croft is taking a leave of absence to serve his country as a Sgt. in the Virginia Army National Guard 3rd Battalion, 116th Infantry Regiment, 116th Infantry Brigade Combat Team. “Ryan is an essential part of our team, and we are sad to see him leave our office for a time, but I couldn’t be more proud of his service to our country,” said Congressman Grothman. “His deployment is a vivid reminder that so many great servicemen and women put their lives on the line so that we can enjoy the freedom of living in the greatest country in the world. Our office will be thinking of Ryan every day while he serves our country and look forward to welcoming him back when he returns home.” Sgt. Croft added, “I am very thankful for Congressman Grothman’s unwavering support during this transition and look forward to working for the great people of the Sixth District again in the future.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
08.26.2015	(Fond du Lac, WI) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) released the following statement after Oshkosh Defense was awarded the contract to build the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) by the Pentagon. Grothman also gave brief remarks during a press conference at Oshkosh Defense Wednesday morning. “Congratulations to Oshkosh on winning the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) award. The real winners from this announcement are our great servicemen and women, who protect us every day,” said Congressman Grothman. “Oshkosh is a part of the manufacturing heartbeat of this country, and is one of the greatest military manufacturers in the world.” “The JLTVs built by Oshkosh Defense will play an important role protecting our soldiers on the front lines and assure the military remains mission ready in the future. The JLTV program award allows Oshkosh Corporation to continue to provide great jobs and support for not only itself, but for hundreds of suppliers in Wisconsin and across the country. It’s a win-win,” said Congressman Grothman. Oshkosh Corporation Chief Executive Officer, Charles L. Szews added, “Throughout the 8-year $6.7 billion JLTV production contract, and potentially many years to follow, the Oshkosh JLTV program will support thousands of jobs in Wisconsin, as well as suppliers in more than 30 other states across the country. JLTV provides Oshkosh and hundreds of Wisconsin-based suppliers the opportunity to maintain and advance the critical skills that keep America’s military industrial base the best in the world.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
08.21.2015	(Fond du Lac, WI) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) is accepting applications for fall internships in his Washington, D.C. and Fond du Lac offices. Intern applicants should submit a resume and references to Matt Furlow at matt.furlow@mail.house.gov. “I encourage college students in Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District to apply for an internship in my office,” said Congressman Grothman. “Internships provide opportunities to learn more about the way our laws are made and how the federal government works.” In Washington, D.C. and Fond du Lac, intern responsibilities will vary. They will be asked to answer phones, research legislation for the Congressman and legislative staff, as well as attend hearings and briefings, and communicate with constituents on various issues before the House of Representatives. As a result, interns learn about the legislative process and the many other functions of a congressional office. Internship positions are unpaid and run from August 31 – Mid-December, dates are flexible. For more information contact our Washington, D.C. office at 202-225-2476 or email Matt Furlow at matt.furlow@mail.house.gov. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
08.12.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) is calling on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy to resign amid a third outrage this year. Last week, the EPA caused the Gold King Mine dam to breach and spill toxic waste into the Animas River in Colorado. The EPA is now reporting 3 million gallons of contaminated wastewater flowed into the river, more than 3 times the originally reported amount. These toxic chemicals continue to pour into the Animas river in Colorado and are now streaming into Utah and New Mexico. This is not only devastating to the environment, but the lack of contrition is appalling. If the EPA was a private business they would face financial ruin and maybe criminal penalties. Nevertheless, when the EPA causes far more pollution than many private sector errors it seems like no big deal. The EPA was in the news earlier this year after employees were caught watching hours of porn, as well as proposing burdensome new ozone and coal regulations that will be incredibly damaging to Americans and Wisconsin businesses in particular. Mismanagement at the EPA runs rampant. This toxic spill is the last strike for McCarthy, and Grothman is calling for her immediate resignation. “Gina McCarthy’s leadership has been nothing but toxic, not only for businesses, but also for our nations natural resources,” said Congressman Grothman. “The mismanagement at the EPA, including a porn scandal where an employee was caught watching two to six hours of porn a day and no one was fired and calls for reckless ozone and coal regulations by Gina McCarthy has gone on for too long. That is why I’m calling for her resignation. It’s time for Gina McCarthy to step down and the EPA to clean up their act.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
07.28.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) signed a letter, along with colleagues from the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, yesterday calling on President Obama to remove IRS Commissioner John Koskinen. Commissioner Koskinen is accused of obstructing Congressional investigations on the IRS’s intentional targeting of conservative groups based on their political beliefs and the missing Lois Lerner emails. “The IRS has repeatedly failed to produce all of Lois Lerner’s emails while Commissioner Koskinen has been in charge,” said Congressman Grothman. “This is the problem with big government – going after the American people for political reasons. President Obama’s campaign pledge that his administration would be transparent with the American people has again been proven wrong. Instead, the American people have been lied to and deceived by top administration officials. I join my colleagues in asking President Obama to live up to his campaign pledge and fire Commissioner Koskinen. I hope this sends a message not only to the IRS, but to all agencies that even think about using their agency for political reasons.” See Congressman Grothman’s remarks at the press conference here. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
07.23.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) cosponsored and voted to pass the Enforce The Law For Sanctuary Cities Act on Thursday. The bipartisan bill passed 241-179. A sanctuary city is a city in which local law enforcement maintain policies that provide protection for illegal immigrants from being deported or reported to federal authorities. H.R. 3009 would deny a state or local government from receiving criminal alien assistance funding from the federal government if they fail to report immigration status to federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). This bill will also open communication between local law enforcement and federal authorities to prevent tragedies like the one in San Francisco earlier this month. “The horrible tragedy in California, where a young woman was killed by an illegal immigrant with numerous felonies on his record, could have and should have been prevented,” said Congressman Grothman. “It’s particularly frustrating that these sanctuary cities are educating illegal immigrants on how to escape deportation even after committing heinous crimes. President Obama’s refusal to enforce our immigration laws is allowing thousands of criminal aliens to be released into our communities. These sanctuary cities are endangering American lives and that’s why I was proud to cosponsor Congressman Hunter’s bill. It is my hope that America never suffers another tragedy like the one in California again.” Congressman Grothman introduced similar legislation as a Wisconsin State Senator that addressed the problem of sanctuary cities. His legislation blocked local governments from enacting laws that prevented a government employee from inquiring about an individual’s immigration status and reporting the presence of illegal immigrants to the federal government. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
07.14.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) released the following statement upon the announcement of a nuclear deal with Iran: “It’s disappointing, but not surprising, that the Obama Administration signed a bad deal with Iran given President Obama’s ignorance when it comes to foreign policy. Today, his administration has paved the way for Iran to build a nuclear weapon, while leaving the United States and the international community very few options to prevent a nuclear Iran in the future. “The fact that Secretary Kerry and President Obama repeatedly made concessions and crossed their own redlines is beyond reprehensible. This deal lacks the oversight needed by the United States and the International Atomic Energy Agency to stop the enrichment of uranium and to close down Iran’s nuclear sites and centrifuges. Israel and our allies were counting on the United States to not back down, and now we’re left with a bad deal and broken promises. “Lifting sanctions on Iran, a country on the State Department’s state sponsors of terrorism list, is dangerous and proves that President Obama and his administration negotiated from a position of weakness. Allowing over $100 billion dollars to flow into Iran’s economy, by lifting economic sanctions, will only fuel Iran’s violence and terror throughout the region. Russia’s recent decision to lift a ban on selling a sophisticated missile defense system to Iran is further cause for concern. “I will carefully review the Administration’s nuclear deal with Iran, but cannot support any deal that puts our national security at risk.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
07.10.2015	(Washington, D.C.) —Today, as part of my work as a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, former Chemical Safety Board (CSB) Chairman Rafael Moure-Eraso was referred to the U.S. Attorney General for criminal prosecution. This criminal referral follows hearings in June 2014 and March 2015 where in his sworn testimony, Mr. Moure-Eraso may have implicated federal statutes that prohibit lying under oath and making false statements to Congress. Read the full report here. Highlights: • First, Mr. Moure-Eraso testified, under oath, that he consulted with the General Counsel of the CSB before approving a request to access the emails of two CSB employees. However, the agency’s General Counsel told the Committee that the Chairman did not do so. • Second, Mr. Moure-Eraso testified, under oath, that the CSB’s former Chief Information Officer (CIO) was responsible for overseeing a production of emails to the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Inspector General. According to the Inspector General, Mr. Moure-Eraso’s testimony is contradicted by the former CIO’s sworn statement. • Third, Mr. Moure-Eraso testified, under oath, that he stopped using his personal email account for official business “about a year and a half” before the Committee’s June 2014 hearing. Documents and information provided to the Committee by the Inspector General’s office indicate that Mr. Moure-Eraso in fact continued using his personal email account for official business until a much later date. Click here to see my questioning of Mr. Moure-Eraso. “This kind of behavior is exactly what is wrong with Washington. Lying under oath is against the law, and Mr. Moure-Eraso should be criminally prosecuted,” said Congressman Grothman. “I agree with Chairman Chaffetz and Ranking Member Cummings that what we heard in Committee was not accurate and that we must have honest testimony in order to provide effective oversight. It is my hope that the Department of Justice will consider this important matter.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
07.10.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) released the following statement after Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Director, Katherine Archuleta, resigned her position. Calls for Ms. Archuleta’s resignation began after a data breach affecting millions of federal employee records were reported in the media and mounted yesterday after new reports revealed over 21 million federal employees’ personal information had been hacked. “This is exactly what happens when a partisan president puts an unqualified political operative in charge of a major agency,” said Congressman Grothman. “Ms. Archuleta knew about the massive data breach at OPM but refused to take responsibility and institute the necessary reforms to protect sensitive and confidential information. The Office of Personnel Management needs a new leader who is competent when it comes to cybersecurity threats and protecting the personal information of federal employees. Ms. Archuleta’s decision to step down is the right thing to do.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
07.10.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) is accepting applications for fall internships in his Washington, D.C. and Fond du Lac offices. Intern applicants should submit a resume and references to Matt Furlow at matt.furlow@mail.house.gov. In Washington, DC and Fond du Lac, intern responsibilities will vary. They will be asked to answer phones, run errands, research legislation for the Congressman and legislative staff, attend hearings and briefings, and answer constituent letters on various issues before the House of Representatives. As a result, interns learn about the legislative process and the many other functions of a congressional office. Internship positions are unpaid and run from August 31 – Mid-December, dates are flexible. “I encourage college students in Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District to apply for an internship in my office,” said Congressman Grothman. “Internships provide opportunities to learn more about the way our laws are made and how the federal government works.” For more information contact our Washington, D.C. office at 202-225-2476 or email Matt Furlow at matt.furlow@mail.house.gov. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
07.09.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) introduced H.R. 2956 which addresses fraudulent claims on the earned income and child tax credits. These claims cost taxpayers billions of dollars every year. To solve this problem and save taxpayers money, Grothman’s bill prevents illegal immigrants from claiming the earned income tax credit (EITC) by limiting it only to U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents with valid social security numbers. It also requires parents who claim dependents to list a valid Social Security number for both the taxpayer and the child for whom the credit is claimed. “I promised on the campaign trail that I when I came to Washington, I would work to eliminate waste, fraud and abuse in our federal government,” said Congressman Grothman. “My bill reduces fraudulent claims that will not only save taxpayers billions of dollars it, but also protects families who actually need this tax credit. These commonsense measures should already be in place and that is why I have introduced this legislation, to make sure these credits are readily available for families that actually qualify. The federal government owes it to American families who rely on these credits to ensure there is transparency and responsibility when it comes to the earned income and child tax credits.” Click here to view H.R. 2956 U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
07.08.2015	(Fond du Lac, WI) – The office of Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Glenbeulah) will host a series of mobile office hours in July. Staff from Congressman Grothman’s office will be available to assist 6th district residents with issues they may be having with a federal agency. Wednesday, July 15, 2015 Neenah Library – 10:00 – 11:00 AM 240 E WI Ave., Neenah, WI Carpenter Room 202 Oshkosh Library – 12:30 – 1:30 PM 106 Washington Ave., Oshkosh, WI Lower Level Conference Room Thursday, July 16, 2015 Frank Weyenberg Library – 2:00 – 3:00 PM 11345 N Cedarburg Rd., Mequon, WI Tolzman Community Room Oscar Grady Library – 10:30 – 11:30 AM 151 S Main St., Saukville, WI Friday, July 17, 2015 Columbus Library – 11:00 AM - Noon 223 W James St., Columbus, WI Community Room Monday, July 20, 2015 Wautoma Library – 10:00 – 11:00 AM 410 W Main St., Wautoma, WI Conference Room Two Rivers Library – 10:30 – 11:30 AM 1001 Adams St., Two Rivers, WI Webster Room Manitowoc Library - 1:00 – 2:00 PM 707 Quay St., Manitowoc, WI Study Room 2 Wednesday, July 22, 2015 Green Lake Library – 10:00 – 11:00 AM 518 Hill St., Green Lake, WI Small Meeting Room Thursday, July 23, 2015 Berlin Library - 10:00 – 11:00 AM 121 W Park Ave., Berlin, WI K Swan Room Friday, July 24, 2015 Beaver Dam Library - 10:00 – 11:00 AM 311 N Spring, Beaver Dam, WI Welsh Meeting Room Wednesday, July 29, 2015 Montello Library – 11:00 AM - Noon 128 Lake Ave., Montello, WI Meeting Room Thursday, July 30, 2015 Portage Library – 10:00 – 11:00 AM 253 W Edgewater, Portage, WI Friday, July 31, 2015 Plymouth Library – 10:00 – 11:00 AM 130 Division St., Plymouth, WI Conference Room U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
07.08.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – The Student Success Act passed Wednesday thanks to amendments offered by Congressman Grothman and other conservative House members. The bill passed the House floor 218 to 213. Grothman’s amendment increases oversight of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act by requiring Congress to reauthorize the Student Success Act in four years, instead of six. This gives a four year trial period to states and local school districts, in order to ensure the law is improving America’s education standards. Congressman Grothman released the following statement upon passage: “No Child Left Behind failed to improve America’s education system because it gave Washington bureaucrats greater authority, at the expense of local school districts and the needs of their students. We knew there were big problems with No Child Left Behind back in 2002 and 2003. Thirteen years later, after the problems were very apparent, we still have not amended the law. Education policy should be implemented at the most local level by parents and school administrators. Superintendents in Wisconsin can change policy daily and change rules every few months. The regulations surrounding No Child Left Behind are frustrating local school districts and preventing our future generations from reaching their full potential. “People are increasingly skeptical of big government and this amendment allows Congress to revisit this issue in a timely manner. By shortening the authorization time from six years to four, my amendment holds the Student Success Act, and the federal Department of Education accountable. This trial period will give the states the flexibility they need to establish real education reform, while simultaneously reducing federal intrusion in education programs. Chairman Kline worked tirelessly on this legislation and I’m proud to support it.” Watch Congressman Grothman’s floor speech here. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
06.26.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled to allow same-sex marriage in all 50 states. “I am deeply disappointed by the Supreme Court’s decision today to overturn same-sex marriage laws around the country,” said Congressman Grothman. “This would have been unthinkable 20 years ago, and as recently as three years ago President Obama said he was opposed to same-sex marriage. The American people are more than capable of making these decisions, just like we did in Wisconsin in 2006. Unfortunately, five Supreme Court justices clearly do not believe in the original intent of the 14th amendment as it was ratified in 1868. The contempt these Supreme Court justices have for the intent of our Constitution is shocking. This decision was partially influenced by recent public opinion, but the Constitution, as well as religious beliefs, should not change at the whim of public opinion.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
06.25.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) released the following statement on the King v. Burwell decision by the Supreme Court to uphold Obamacare subsidies. “The uncertainty working families and employers throughout my district have suffered because of Obamacare is disappointing, to say the least,” said Congressman Grothman. “It is frustrating that once again the Supreme Court has disregarded Congressional intent. This ruling shows us that the rule of law is under attack by not only the Obama administration, but also the Supreme Court. The decision today doesn’t change the fact that I will keep fighting for patient-centered reforms that lower premium costs and create more flexibility for all Americans. I firmly believe Wisconsinites should be in charge of their health care, not Washington bureaucrats.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
06.22.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) introduced the Manufacturers First Act, H.R. 2792, last week to prevent burdensome regulations the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is handing down under the Clean Air Act. The Manufacturers First Act freezes the six air quality standards at current levels and does not allow the EPA to make changes, giving control back to Congress. Late last year the EPA proposed a new rule on the ozone standard. This new rule will hurt businesses across Wisconsin and would essentially stop the expansion of manufacturing around the state. “The EPA is hell-bent on destroying American businesses. The new regulations the Obama Administration is pushing onto American manufacturers are putting manufacturing jobs at risk,” said Congressman Grothman. “The overregulation of America’s manufacturing industry is driving away business and innovation, the backbone of our economy. My bill pushes back on the EPA and ensures the agency does not hand down further burdensome regulations on American businesses. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House to pass this vital piece of legislation.” The EPA set National Ambient Air Quality Standards, in particular ozone, at 120 parts per billion (ppb) in 1971, and now the EPA has proposed a new rule of 65 ppb set to take effect in October 2015, which cuts the standard nearly in half since 1971. By 2015 the EPA will have changed ozone standards over five times. Changing it again will damage Wisconsin, specifically counties in the 6th Congressional District, disproportionately more than other states around the country. These regulations also put United States businesses at a comparative disadvantage globally, in particular with countries like China and Russia. Click here to view a copy of H.R. 2792. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
06.08.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) Monday called on President Obama to help protect one of America’s key allies, Israel, who came under rocket fire Saturday by Palestinians. “The U.S.-Israeli relationship has never been as turbulent as it has been under President Obama,” said Congressman Grothman. “The President continues to ignore Israel, one of our most important allies, as they come under fire from jihadists with ties to the Islamic State. The international community continues to sit on the sidelines while our most important Middle Eastern ally comes under attack. The United States has a duty to protect its allies and President Obama is failing to do his job as the leader of the free world. The State Department should immediately issue a statement in support of Israel as it continues to face more attacks from radical Islamists. It is high time for the international community to end the double standard when it comes to attacks on Israel.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
05.27.2015	(Fond du Lac, WI) – Congressman Grothman renewed his call for government agencies to abide by stricter standards, after learning of the IRS's most recent data breach on Wednesday. Victims of identity theft need to be notified by the IRS as soon as it happens to ensure that tax filers' private information is better protected. Just last week Congressman Grothman introduced H.R. 2398, the Social Security Identity Defense Act, to protect those Americans whose identity may have been compromised and require the IRS and the Social Security Administration to notify those individuals immediately. Currently, the IRS does not need to notify individuals of identity theft. “This kind of breach at the IRS demands stricter standards from government agencies,” said Congressman Grothman. “Americans deserve to know that their identity is being compromised and if an issue like this arises in the future they are notified immediately. It is my hope this data breach is fully investigated and I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass my bill to protect Americans from identity theft." A copy of H.R. 2398 can be found here. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
05.21.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) introduced the Social Security Identity Defense Act this week. The bill, H.R. 2398, is the House version of Wisconsin Senator Ron Johnson’s legislation. Currently, government agencies are not required to inform someone if their identity has been stolen. The Social Security Identity Defense Act would require the Internal Revenue Service to inform Americans if their identity has been compromised and require the Social Security Administration to notify employers who have employees with mismatched Social Security numbers in their employment records. This legislation would also create stiffer penalties on criminals who steal consumer’s identities. “Identity theft is a major problem in Wisconsin and all across our country,” said Congressman Grothman. “Instead of illegally investigating conservative groups, the IRS should notify victims of identity theft as soon as possible in order to prevent further financial damage.” “Over ten million Americans are victims of identity theft every year, which means there is a new victim of identity theft every two seconds. The IRS and the Social Security Administration should do everything in their power to immediately inform victims of identity theft. It is my hope that this legislation will crack down on criminals and help victims of identity theft get their financial lives back in order,” Grothman added. Senator Johnson and Congressman Petri introduced similar legislation in the 113th Congress. A copy of H.R. 2398 can be found here. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
05.20.2015	(Fond du Lac, WI) – Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) released the following statement in regards to military academy nominations for academic year 2016. Applications must be submitted no later than October 14, 2015. “I encourage students of the Sixth Congressional District to apply for a military academy nomination,” said Congressman Grothman. “An appointee to these prestigious academies receives the benefit of a full scholarship along with incredible opportunities to learn and serve in the United States Military. I wish the best of luck to students, as they apply to serve alongside our nation’s servicemen and women.” Applications must be submitted online at /forms/serviceacademynomination/ or via paper application which can be requested through the Fond du Lac office. If you have any questions please contact Jackie Trudell in the Fond du Lac office at 920-907-0624.
05.15.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) introduced the Obamacare Marriage Penalty Elimination Act (H.R. 2306) this week, which eliminates the marriage penalty in President Obama’s failed health care law. Obamacare’s current subsidy structure creates a substantial marriage penalty for low-income married couples. This structure, along with other welfare programs discourages marriage and encourages low-income Americans to remain single in order to receive larger health care premium subsidies. “Obamacare has been a disaster from the beginning,” said Congressman Grothman. “Obamacare’s marriage penalty punishes low-income married couples and sends the wrong message to American families. Creating incentives for people to divorce or remain single is fundamentally wrong and continues to encourage the breakdown of the American family. Families are at the core of American society and it is my hope that this bill will fix one disastrous part of Obamacare.” Currently, President Obama’s health care law provides premium subsidies, through tax credits, to low and middle income families to pay for health care coverage. This law calculates those subsidies based on a household’s income compared to the federal poverty level. Any individual or family signed up for Obamacare coverage can claim the credit if their combined income is less than 400 percent of the federal poverty level (or roughly $62,000). If a couple is married and both spouses work, both of their incomes count against the federal poverty level calculation, usually reducing a couple’s premium subsidy. If that same couple would get divorced however, their subsidies would be calculated individually, thus increasing their subsidy level. H.R. 2306 would require that the premium subsidies be calculated using each individual’s income rather than collectively. The bill also requires the Treasury and Health and Human Services Departments to adjust the subsidy eligibility levels to ensure that the couples with the most need still will receive subsidies, but still guarantees that this change will not increase the deficit. This legislation also accounts for the children or dependents when calculating the tax credit by distributing them between spouses. A copy of the bill text can be found here. Congressman Grothman has been working on this issue in the House Budget Committee and included language in the budget conference report. See his work here. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
05.12.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) signed onto a bipartisan letter, along with several other freshman House members, urging Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald to prioritize the needs of rural veterans and to ensure they are receiving the proper care they deserve. Many veterans have to travel long distances for treatments and care at a participating VA facility. This can be a great challenge for veterans and their families. “America’s veterans deserve the best health care available and shouldn’t be forced to drive long distances for health care services,” said Congressman Grothman. “The VA system is still broken and more needs to be done. It is my hope that Secretary McDonald will consider this important issue and ensure that our rural veterans are not forgotten.” The full text of the letter is below: May 11, 2015 The Honorable Robert A. McDonald Secretary United States Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Ave. NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: As the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs continues to implement reforms that will guarantee timely access to care for our nation’s veterans, we implore you to maintain a focus on the care of our rural veterans. We ask that you not only focus on care at VA medical facilities, but also on long-term care facilities, including VA-contracted facilities. It is critical that veterans have access to VA medical facilities, necessary treatment, and long-term care facilities within a reasonable distance from their homes and their families. Although the VA contracts with nursing homes, some veterans still lack access to a locally-contracted facility and must either forego needed care or travel many miles away from their homes and loved ones. In one instance, a veteran spent his 50th wedding anniversary 90 miles away from his wife, whom he only sees twice a year because of this long distance between their home and his nursing home. Ninety miles is a significant distance to expect a veteran and his disabled wife to travel in order to spend such a momentous occasion together. In another case, a rural veteran travels more than 130 miles roundtrip five times a month to receive his chemotherapy treatments. This veteran does not qualify for the choice program under current criteria because there is a VA clinic within 40 miles of his home. Unfortunately, this VA clinic does not offer the treatment he needs, forcing him to travel hours to receive chemotherapy. In yet another case, a veteran suffered from a heart attack while on vacation and survived. He went to a VA clinic near his home for follow up, only to be told that the wait to see a cardiologist at the VA hospital – more than 150 miles from home – would be more than a month due to lack of staffing. The veteran was getting weaker, so he submitted a request to the VA to go to another non-veteran facility – which was denied because he was still within 40 miles of a VA clinic (one which does not have a cardiologist or cardiology services). After a second VA denial, the veteran ended up paying out of pocket to see a cardiologist at a nearby hospital, who found another blockage that was 70 percent blocked. The cardiologist told him that had he not come when he did, he would likely have suffered another massive heart attack. We applaud your efforts to reform the system of care for our nation’s veterans, who deserve nothing less than first-class care. We request information on what actions the VA is taking to alleviate the obstacles that rural veterans face in finding necessary and long-term care close to their families and homes. As you continue to increase access to care for our veterans, we urge you to prioritize the care of our nation’s veterans living in rural areas. We appreciate your response to our concerns. Sincerely, Evan Jenkins Elise Stefanik Bruce Poliquin Mike Bishop Glenn Grothman Brenda Lawrence Brad Ashford Carlos Curbelo Jody Hice Mia Love Alex Mooney David Rouzer Ryan Zinke French Hill Frank Guinta Dan Newhouse U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
05.05.2015	(Fond du Lac, WI) - Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) announced the 2015 Congressional Art Competition winner during an open house Monday evening at the American Legion in Fond du Lac, WI. Over 150 Wisconsinites attended the open house to speak with the Congressman and get a glimpse of the 35 artwork submissions from students around the district. “I was proud to announce Katelyn as the winner of the art competition, I commend her talent and hard work,” said Congressman Grothman. “I look forward to seeing Katelyn’s art displayed in the Capitol every day over the next year. Every one of the pieces of artwork submitted was outstanding and I wish each student who participated, the best in their future endeavors.” 1st Place: Katelyn Lavrenz, Fond du Lac High School 2nd Place: Emily Vall, Kohler High School 3rd Place: Emma Kost, Kiel High School Honorable Mention: Molly Schneider, Fond du Lac High School Each year, members of Congress invite students throughout their district to participate in the nationwide Congressional Art Competition to recognize and encourage artistic creativity among high school students. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
04.30.2015	(Washington, D.C.) Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) took the Environmental Protection Agency to task for overregulating American small businesses and failing to hold the agency accountable for its employee’s gross misconduct. Congressman Grothman questioned Mr. Stanley Meiburg, the Acting Deputy Administrator of the EPA, during the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform’s hearing titled, “EPA Mismanagement.” “There is no federal agency that is perceived to lack common sense more – and doing more to endanger the American economy – than the EPA,” Grothman said in his questioning. “Now this isn’t exactly the type of hearing that I thought I was signing up for when I ran for this job. I thought I was going to talk to the EPA about what your people are doing when they come up with these ridiculous ozone rules. Now we know what at least some of them are doing. Is it really true that some of these people were spending two to six hours a day watching porn?” The EPA Office of Inspector General has found cases of its own employees being paid by taxpayers to watch porn at work. EPA overregulation and gross mismanagement has been a consistent problem throughout President Obama’s tenure in the White House. “I tell you what I’m going to do for you,” Grothman said to the EPA’s Acting Deputy Administrator. “Next time I go back to my district and I tour my local manufacturers that are being threatened with their existence, and throwing all of their employees out, because of what the EPA is doing. I will ask them how many hours a week of porn they allow their employees to watch before they terminate them. I’ll get back to you on that.” Watch the full video HERE. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
04.15.2015	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) voted this week on a series of bills that will make the IRS more transparent and accountable. “I was proud to cast multiple votes today to rein in the IRS and make them more accountable to the American people,” said Congressman Grothman. “The unfair targeting of conservative groups and the Lois Lerner email cover up has put the IRS in the hot seat over the last few years. The bills passed today provide many reforms, including prohibiting IRS employees from using their personal email for official business, requiring the IRS to only collect the correct amount of taxes owed by taxpayers, and providing quality service to all Americans. I cosponsored a number of these bills to begin to reform a broken agency. Americans shouldn’t have to worry about their private information being mishandled by irresponsible IRS employees. They deserve transparency and accountability.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
03.31.2015	(Fond du Lac, WI) – U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) announced today that his office will be accepting submissions for the annual Congressional Art Competition from high school students in Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District. “I encourage all high school students in my district to participate in the Congressional Art Competition,” said Congressman Grothman. “This is a chance for students to show off their skills, and have the opportunity for their art to be displayed in the Capitol. I look forward to seeing the submissions.” All entries must be submitted to Congressman Grothman’s office by Friday, April 10th. The 1st place winner’s artwork will be displayed for one year. For more information please visit our webpage www.grothman.house.gov. For more please call the Fond du Lac office at (920) 907-0624. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
03.26.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) released the following statement after voting against the permanent Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) bill known as the “doc-fix” on the House Floor Thursday. “The SGR has been in place since 1997, and from the time this policy was enacted, Congress has passed temporary patches to stop health care professional payment cuts from taking effect. Congress has continually kicked the can down the road by refusing to address the real problem. Congress not only needs to create a more stable Medicare system that works to rein in health care costs and create better value-based systems, but also ensure that a “doc fix” is paid for with true offsets. I came to Congress to help balance the federal budget and make sure we don’t burden the American people with more debt,” said Congressman Grothman. “Washington needs to be more creative in finding ways to fix problems without having to pull out the credit card every time.” Please see this article from National Review Online, “The SGR Fix Will Bust the Budget” that explains more about why SGR should have been paid for with true offsets, rather than increased federal spending. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
03.25.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) released the following statement after hearing the tragic death of Wisconsin State Trooper, Trevor Casper. “Our thoughts and prayers go out to the family of Wisconsin State Trooper Trevor Casper, as they mourn the loss of his life, which was tragically lost in the line of duty Tuesday night. Trooper Casper put his life on the line every day, and he worked tirelessly to protect the people of Wisconsin. Wisconsin grieves this loss and thanks Trooper Casper for his sacrifice,” said Congressman Glenn Grothman. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
03.25.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) released the following statement after the passage of the FY 2016 Budget. “Our budget is a good first step in reining in spending. The House Republican Budget balances in less than 10 years, and reduces spending by $5.5 trillion, unlike any budget President Obama has proposed,” said Congressman Grothman. “It also calls for a simpler and fairer tax code and fully repeals Obamacare, saving more than $2 trillion.” “Obamacare is one of the costliest programs in our budget. On top of being costly, it creates a marriage penalty that punishes Wisconsin families by forcing them to pay more for health care. In the budget, I highlight the Obamacare marriage penalty to make sure Congress doesn’t allow it in future health care premium subsidies. Congress should not discourage marriage in order to collect federal perks.” House Budget Committee Chairman Tom Price (R-Georgia) said, “Obamacare is full of rules and regulations that create perverse incentives and drive up the cost of health care. As Republicans are fighting to repeal this disastrous law, I appreciate the leadership of Congressman Grothman in raising this issue and pushing to make health care more affordable for American families.” Congressman Grothman’s language included in the report: “Because the law does not account for two-income households, subsidies are reduced for families where both parents work and earn income. As a result, the subsidy calculations create a disincentive for couples to marry or remain married under the ACA because they cannot afford to pay their premiums at current rates.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
03.19.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) released the following statement after passing the FY2016 budget out of the House Budget Committee Thursday morning. The budget will be up for a vote on the House floor next week. “I was pleased to vote for this budget and look forward to bringing it to a vote on the House floor. Washington politicians from both parties are responsible for trillions of dollars in new irresponsible spending. In just the last six years we have doubled our debt to the tune of $18 trillion and doubled spending on many government programs. Spending among welfare programs doubled from $225 billion to a staggering $449 billion from 2001 to 2014,” said Congressman Grothman. “This year House Republicans reduce non-defense discretionary spending to below Fiscal Year 2010 levels. The budget will also streamline numerous government programs and will make government more accountable to the American people. Our plan balances the budget in less than 10 years, even assuming the current low growth rates. It also repeals Obamacare, while promoting new economic growth by reining in federal regulations and reforming our broken tax code. Every American deserves equal opportunity and shouldn’t be held back because of Washington’s reckless spending habits.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
03.19.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) released the following statement after his vote on the floor to block the NLRB Ambush Election rule through a Resolution of Congressional Disapproval. This overreach by the NLRB would have effectively reduced an employee’s ability to make decisions, maintain their privacy, and would particularly burden small businesses by saddling them with increased legal costs and an inability to speak with their employees. View Congressman Grothman’s Speech Here “The National Labor Relations Board’s overreach would undo policy that has been in place for over 70 years. Today I supported the Resolution of Congressional Disapproval, that reins in the NLRB and protects the privacy of employees,” added Congressman Grothman. “The NLRB and employers need to know that employee’s information is private and should be kept that way. This ensures that Americans who participate in the union process do not have to unwillingly hand over their private information.” “One thing that business wants, and America wants is consistency. This rule specifically targets small businesses with this new regulation. Not all businesses have lawyers on staff, contributing to a fundamental misunderstanding of how business works and why it’s so difficult to go into business today. A small business is less likely to have a lawyer on staff, and they end up paying the price for new rules like this,” said Congressman Grothman on the floor of the U.S. House. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov.
03.03.2015	U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) released the following statement upon welcoming Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to a joint session of Congress today. “It was a pleasure to hear Prime Minister Netanyahu today. He reemphasized the need for unity between Israel and the United States to combat terrorism and protect our allies,” said Congressman Grothman. “It was particularly important to highlight the degree to which Iran is aggressively pursuing its nuclear program and extending its reach into Syria, Yemen, Iraq and Lebanon. The dangers of a nuclear Iran are not to be underestimated; we must work together to promote stability in the Middle East and prevent a nuclear Iran. The United States must stand with Israel, and honor our long-standing commitment to one of our closest allies.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
02.26.2015	U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wisconsin) expressed concern with the decision made by the FCC today to regulate the internet like a public utility. “The FCC’s decision to allow Washington bureaucrats to take over the internet is disturbing. President Obama has again unilaterally politicized an important issue instead of working with Congress,” said Congressman Glenn Grothman. “The fact that FCC Chairman Wheeler is ignoring cautionary steps from Congress should worry every American consumer. I believe in a free and open internet, one that benefits all internet users, and protects Americans ability to remain innovative while limiting government intervention.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov.
02.20.2015	U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Campbellsport) put Congress’ Presidents’ Day recess to good use this week by hosting a series of fifteen town halls in seven different counties. Grothman will wrap up the week with town halls scheduled in Fond du Lac, Neenah, and Oshkosh today. Grothman says hearing from constituents directly on the issues that are most important to them was his goal for the week. “I want to thank everyone who came out to the town halls this week. Our country is facing a lot of challenges, and it was great to hear from constituents directly on what they think Congress should do and the issues that concern them the most,” said Grothman. “As Congress goes back into session next week, I’m looking forward to working to address these concerns and much more.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his Fond du Lac office at (920) 907-0624, his Washington, D.C., office at (202) 225-2476, or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
02.11.2015	U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Campbellsport) joined a bipartisan majority in supporting the building the Keystone XL Pipeline today. The bill has now passed both houses of Congress and goes to President Barack Obama’s desk. Grothman released the following statement on the passage of the bill: “It’s time for the Keystone Pipeline to move forward. After years of endless government red tape and political games, bipartisan majorities in the House and the Senate have finally approved this project. The only person standing in the way is President Obama. “President Obama’s own administration has concluded that the project will have a multi-billion dollar impact on the economy while supporting more than 40,000 jobs, protecting the environment, and moving America closer to energy independence. “I sincerely hope that the President reconsiders his veto and listens to members of both parties in supporting this commonsense legislation.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his office at (202) 225-2476 or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
02.11.2015	U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Campbellsport), a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, released the following statement on the committee’s action on H.R. 5 today: “The No Child Left Behind program has been failing our children for more than a decade. It vastly increased federal involvement in education with disastrous results. As an outspoken critic of the program since President Bush and Senator Kennedy first wrote it in 2001, I’m glad that the legislation before the committee begins to reduce the federal footprint in education and rightfully restore power to the states and local communities. Parents and teachers across Wisconsin are far better at making the right decisions for their schools than bureaucrats at the Department of Education in Washington, D.C. “The bill provides more flexibility to state and local officials by eliminating and consolidating nearly 70 unnecessary and ineffective federal programs and cutting the number of federal education bureaucrats. I’m confident and hopeful that this bill will lead to real education reform and save taxpayer dollars in the future. “I’m also dismayed by the Democrats’ amendments to the bill. Instead of offering reforms and constructive ideas, all that they provided was more spending programs and divisive social issues.” U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his office at (202) 225-2476 or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
02.10.2015	U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Campbellsport) introduced legislation today to award Fond du Lac native James “Maggie” Megellas the Medal of Honor. The bill, H.R. 808, authorizes and requests President Barack Obama to award Megellas with the United States’ highest military honor for his courageous actions during the Battle of the Bulge. It is Grothman’s first piece of legislation in Congress. “The heroism displayed by Maggie more than 70 years ago deserves our nation’s highest award, the Medal of Honor. His selfless actions saved countless lives, stopped the advance of enemy troops, and involved repeated disregard for his own life,” said Grothman. “The time has come for Maggie to be rightfully awarded the Medal of Honor.” On January 28, 1945, First Lieutenant Megellas led his platoon in a successful attack on an enemy battalion near Herresbach, Belgium, that outnumbered them ten-to-one. After the attack, he advanced his platoon towards the town when a German Mark V Panther tank pinned them down. Megellas weathered enemy fire to attack and destroy the tank himself with just two grenades and his submachine gun. He then led his platoon to secure Herresbach for advancing Allied forces. Under Megellas’ command, his platoon did not suffer a single casualty that day. Megellas is the most decorated soldier from the 82nd Airborne Division, receiving the Distinguished Service Cross and the Silver Star for his actions during the Battle of the Bulge. He was born and raised in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, and graduated from Ripon College. He currently lives in Colleyville, Texas. The bill carries on the work of Grothman’s predecessor in Congress, former U.S. Rep. Tom Petri, who had introduced the legislation in previous Congresses. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his office at (202) 225-2476 or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
02.09.2015	U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Campbellsport) announced today a series of town hall meetings throughout the 6th Congressional District in February. All residents of the area are encouraged to come to the meetings to bring their concerns directly to Rep. Grothman and to hear from him about the issues he is working on in Congress. Members of the media are also encouraged to attend. Please see the list below for events near you. Town Hall Schedule Monday, February 16: Waupun Public Library 123 S Forest St, Waupun, WI 53963 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Beaver Dam Senior Center 114 E Third St, Beaver Dam, WI 53916 10:45 a.m. – 11:45 a.m. Columbus Senior Center 125 N Dickason Blvd, Columbus WI 53925 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Portage Public Library 253 W Edgewater St, Portage, WI 53901 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. Tuesday, February 17: Mead Public Library 710 N 8th St, Sheboygan, WI 53081 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Port Washington Police Department 365 N Wisconsin St, Port Washington, WI 53074 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Cedarburg Public Library W63 N589 Hanover Ave, Cedarburg, WI 53012 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Plymouth Public Library 130 Division St, Plymouth, WI 53073 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. Thursday, February 19: Reedsville Village Hall 217 Menasha St, Reedsville, WI 54230 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Mishicot Village Hall 511 E Main St, Mishicot, WI 54228 10:45 a.m. – 11:45 a.m. Two Rivers City Hall 1717 E Park St, Two Rivers, WI 54241 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Manitowoc City Hall 900 Quay St, Manitowoc, WI 54220 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. Friday, February 20: Fond du Lac Public Library 32 Sheboygan St, Fond du Lac, WI 54935 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Neenah City Hall 211 Walnut St, Neenah, WI 54956 11:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Oshkosh City Hall 215 Church Ave, Oshkosh, WI 54901 3:45 p.m. – 4:45 p.m. U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman is serving his first term representing Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Contact his office at (202) 225-2476 or online at grothman.house.gov. ###
02.02.2015	Congressman Glenn Grothman released the following statement today on President Barack Obama’s FY 2016 Budget: “I’m disappointed President Obama’s $4 trillion budget fails to address our nation’s fiscal crisis. The answer to our nation’s problems cannot be solved with new government programs and new government spending. I look forward to using my position on the House Budget Committee to work towards a bipartisan budget that solves our problems in a responsible way by eliminating wasteful programs and operating useful programs more efficiently.”
01.29.2015	The House Education & the Workforce and House Oversight and Government Reform Committees named Wisconsin Representative Glenn Grothman to several subcommittees this week. On Education & the Workforce, Grothman has been assigned to the Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education and the Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions. On Oversight & Government Reform, Grothman was appointed Vice-Chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation and Public Assets and has been assigned to the Subcommittee on Government Operations. Grothman said he is already hard at work on important issues for the 6th District. “It is an honor and privilege to be named to these important subcommittees during my first term,” said Grothman. “I have spent my first few weeks in office focusing on the issues most important to my constituents back home in Wisconsin. These assignments will give me the influence I need to get Americans back to work and rein in Washington’s out of control spending. I look forward to working with my colleagues to find common sense solutions to our most difficult challenges.” Grothman was also named to the bicameral and bipartisan Joint Economic Committee this week, which reviews economic conditions and recommends improvements in economic policy.
01.20.2015	Congressman Glenn Grothman (R-WI) attended his first State of the Union address on Tuesday night as the new representative for Wisconsin’s 6th District. Grothman issued this statement following the President’s speech: “I enjoyed being present at tonight’s State of the Union address, I was somewhat disappointed that the President didn’t address feasible solutions for many of the big problems the country is facing. I was hoping that six years in office would prepare President Obama to provide suggestions for reining in out-of-control spending, which is placing record debt onto our children and grandchildren and causing an uncertainty which is preventing the economy from reaching its full potential. I was also hoping for suggestions in reducing government regulation after years of adding new rules which choke America’s businesses. Furthermore, we have a broken welfare state which is causing more and more Americans to not participate in our country’s economy and penalizes parents who get married. Finally, it was nice to hear President Obama recognize the special fiscal challenges facing parents in today’s economy. I only wish he would have provided more consideration to the hardworking parents who are already making financial sacrifices to stay home and raise their children. This speech did not provide all the details of President Obama’s actual budget, but I’ve recently been invited to the White House and hope to have the chance to address some of these issues with the President at that time.”
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Glenn Grothman was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Glenn Grothman was elected to serve as representative of Wisconsin’s 6th Congressional District. Representative Glenn Grothman was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
