09.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, California Congressmen Jerry McNerney (CA-09), John Garamendi (CA-03), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Jared Huffman (CA-02) sent a letter to members of the California State Legislature, urging the cancellation of the Joint Legislative Budget Committee’s informational hearing on the Department of Water Resources’ proposed contract extension and amendments – which includes provisions to push forward with the controversial California WaterFix project. In their letter, the Congressmen argue that the Committee lacks sufficient information to make such a costly decision, citing the pending legal decision in the Department of Water Resources (DWR) validation action. They write: “As Californians and Members of Congress, we are writing to request that the Joint Legislative Budget Committee (“Committee”) hearing, which was originally scheduled for August 30th and postponed until September 11th, be canceled pending a ruling by the Sacramento County Superior Court on the Department of Water Resources’ (DWR) validation action for the California WaterFix project. In its validation action, DWR is asking the court to affirm that it has the legal authority to issue bonds to pay for the $17 billion twin tunnel project.” By holding this hearing – which is scheduled for September 11th at 10 AM – the Committee would take the first step towards extending the State Water Project (SWP) contracts through 2085, folding in the WaterFix proposal as part of the long-ago approved SWP. “This is a backroom tactic to force through Governor Brown’s controversial and wildly unpopular twin tunnels proposal,” said Congressman McNerney. “Californians have already made it known that they do not want this project to move forward, but the state legislature is determined to push this through, despite lacking essential information regarding the validity of DWR’s claim. This short-sighted water grab would saddle Californians with billions of dollars of debt for generations, and holding this hearing would prevent further input from the state legislature or the public.” “The Budget Committee doesn’t have any reason to renew the State Water Project contract right now, except to try to allow cheaper financing for an exorbitant project that doesn’t even have the authority to receive any yet. That’s putting the cart before the horse,” said Congressman Garamendi. “The disastrous Twin Tunnels project is the death knell for the Delta, and the Budget Committee shouldn’t be helping it at all. But if they’re going to, the least it can do is wait until the courts can validate its authority to issue bonds in the first place.” “Tomorrow’s hearing is not in the best interest of California taxpayers. Any action by the Committee without resolution on the validation action is premature and presumptuous. Anything else is both financially and environmentally irresponsible, just like the WaterFix project itself,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Holding a hearing on the controversial Waterfix proposal is part of a deliberate attempt to approve financing for the project before its full cost and impact can be evaluated by the public,” said Congressman Huffman. “From the get go, the tunnels plan was a grossly oversized, overreaching proposal that would cost too much, violate state and federal law, and threaten to do great harm to Northern California’s fishing and farming industries, as well as to tribal communities. Now, the Joint Legislative Budget Committee is trying to jam this project through without even obtaining legal authority to issue bonds to pay for the tunnels. This project needs a reality check and the Committee should cancel this hearing until the courts have affirmed its legality.” The letter was sent to the Joint Legislative Budget Committee Chair, Senator Holly Mitchell, and Vice Chair, Assemblymember Phil Ting, as well as California Senate President pro Tempore Toni Atkins, California Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon, and all members of the Joint Legislative Budget Committee. The full letter can be read here. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
08.01.2018	Stockton, CA – Next week, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host two town halls to update constituents on the latest in Washington and to discuss their questions and concerns about important issues in the community and throughout the country. On Wednesday, August 8th, the Congressman will host a town hall from 6:00 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. PST at Temple Israel in Stockton.Stockton Town Hall When: Wednesday, August 8th 6:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. PST Where: Temple Israel 5105 N. El Dorado Street Stockton, CA 95207 Congressman McNerney will also host a town hall on in Antioch on Thursday, August 9th from 6:30 p.m. – 7:30 pm. PST at the Antioch Community Center. Antioch Town Hall When: Thursday, August 9th 6:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. PST Where: Antioch Community Center 4703 Lone Tree Way Antioch, CA 94531 For more information or to RSVP to the Stockton town hall, please call Congressman McNerney’s Stockton office at (209) 476-8552. For more information or to RSVP to the Antioch town hall, please call Congressman McNerney’s Antioch office at (925) 754-0716. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.23.2018	Washington, DC – As a longtime advocate for veterans, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host two upcoming events focused on ensuring veterans have access to essential information about critical services offered to them. On Tuesday, July 31st from 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. PST, the Congressman will host the next in his series of veterans town halls at Health Plan of San Joaquin in French Camp. He will again be joined by representatives from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps), who will give an update on the progress of the French Camp health care facility. Veterans Town Hall When: Tuesday, July 31st 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. PST Where: Health Plan of San Joaquin 7751 S. Manthey Road French Camp, CA 95231 Previous town halls in this series were held this past January and last August in response to community queries about changes to the French Camp clinic construction timeline. Congressman McNerney is continuing with this series to ensure transparency and accountability, and to give the community the opportunity to have their questions and concerns directly addressed. Additionally, Congressman McNerney will host a Veterans Resource Fair on Saturday, August 4th from 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. PST at San Joaquin County WorkNet. Veterans Resource Fair When: Saturday, August 4th 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. PST Where: San Joaquin County WorkNet 56 S. Lincoln Street Stockton, CA 95203 Representatives from federal and state agencies, non-profits and educational institutions will be available to discuss services and opportunities for veterans, and to hand out resources to those interested. Confirmed service providers attending the event include: VA Palo Healthcare System VA Oakland Regional Office VA Cemetery Administration San Joaquin County Veteran’s Services Office Disabled American Veterans (DAV) Dignity’s Alcove CA Employment Development Department (EDD) American Legion Karl Ross Post 16 Swords to Plowshares CA47-Delta Patriots Blue Star Moms Sacramento Vet Center San Joaquin Building Trades VA Northern California Healthcare System For more information or to RSVP to either event, please call the Congressman’s Stockton office at (209) 476-8552. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.17.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Congressmen Jerry McNerney (CA-09), and John Garamendi (CA-03) offered amendments to H.R. 6147, the Interior and Environment appropriations bills, to remove language that would prohibit state and federal lawsuits against the twin tunnels and to strip language that would prohibit lawsuits against the five CALFED projects, the Central Valley Project (CVP) and the State Water Project (SWP). Unfortunately, the House Committee on Rules ruled that these amendments were not “in order,” making a purely political decision regardless of facts and denying Members an opportunity to vote on these amendments on the House floor. “Preventing these amendments from coming to a full vote on the House floor confirms the purely political motivations behind this troubling language, which was inappropriately included in a crucial spending bill,” said Congressman McNerney. “As the tunnels continue to face legal scrutiny from multiple stakeholders, these riders are an obvious attempt to silence the legitimate concerns from Californians throughout the state, and a blatant effort to undermine longstanding state and federal environmental law. “The science underlying the tunnels proposal and the resulting harmful impacts to our environment and community have long been a concern to Californians. Revoking judicial review of the environmental analyses solely for these projects eliminates a critical check in our system and helps clear a path for the tunnels to proceed without further oversight. “I’ve long been a vocal opponent of the ill-conceived tunnels proposal, and I’ll continue to fight back against this disastrous plan and work alongside my colleague to push to eliminate these egregious riders.” “The twin tunnels are an environmental and financial boondoggle that would devastate the ecology of the Delta to funnel more water south. As of today, over 90 parties, including environmental groups and northern California water users have taken legal action against the tunnels. If the project is good for the whole state, as its proponents say it is, why would they try to insulate it from any legal review?” said Congressman Garamendi. “The language in the H.R. 6147 would not only insulate the tunnels from needed legal review but would also override water rights across the state." “Everyone should be concerned by these riders, regardless of one’s position on the tunnels. If they were to become law, the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) could destroy the Delta by sending as much water as it wanted through the tunnels, with no legal recourse to stop it. Alternatively, DWR could decide that all the water in the Delta must flow out the San Francisco Bay rather than to southern California and the twin tunnels supporters would be helpless to stop it. “I will not stop fighting against the tunnels and to protect northern California water rights. I will do everything I can to make sure the Senate rejects these terrible riders.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
06.22.2018	Washington, DC – In anticipation of the upcoming Bay Area Climate Action Forum, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Bay Area Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), John Garamendi (CA-03), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Eric Swalwell (CA-15) and Mike Thompson (CA-05) submitted an official statement for the Congressional Record hailing their support of the forum being held in the San Francisco Bay Area. “Many American cities and states, especially the San Francisco Bay Area and throughout California, are committed to meeting the objectives laid out in the Paris Climate Accord,” said the members in the joint statement. “As their representatives in Congress, we are dedicated to maintaining the United States’ role as a global leader and will continue to advocate for the U.S. to be an active participant in fulfilling the principles and objectives of the Paris Climate Accord.” The joint statement continues by stating, “The United States was one of the original United Nations member countries to vote to adopt the historic Paris Climate Accord, which commits to a global initiative to combat climate change and its effects. Unfortunately, this administration has withdrawn the U.S. from this vital global agreement.” The Bay Area Climate Action Forum will take place in Oakland, CA on June 25th and is hosted by the United Nations Association, Northern California Division, Bay Area Air Quality Management District, 350 Bay Area, and Sierra Club SF Bay Chapter. The full statement can be found here. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
06.20.2018	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed Congressman Jerry McNerney’s (CA-09) bipartisan bill, H.R. 5811, the Long-Term Opioid Efficacy Act of 2018. Congressman Morgan Griffith (VA-09) was the lead Republican co-sponsor. H.R. 5811 grants the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the authority to require that opioid manufacturers conduct post-market studies to examine the long-term efficacy of these drugs. “Our country is in the midst of a national crisis,” said Congressman McNerney. “Thousands in California have lost their lives as the result of an opioid overdose, yet we have little knowledge about the long-term effects of these medications, which are often prescribed for long-term usage. To combat this epidemic, we must give the FDA the critical tools it needs to understand an opioid drug’s efficacy over time.” In March, the House Energy and Commerce Committee held a hearing with FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb where he explained why this authority would be a useful tool. During the hearing, Commissioner Gottlieb noted that many opioid drugs have not been studied for chronic administration, but are chronically administered. He went on to state that certain important questions could be answered by properly studying the chronic administration of these drugs and examining their long-term efficacy. “I’m pleased this bill passed the House. This legislation will help ensure that the public is informed about the long-term effects of these powerful drugs,” said Congressman McNerney. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
05.17.2018	Washington, DC – In response to the inclusion of an outlier provision in the FY 2019 Interior and Environment funding bill – which would exempt the Environmental Impact Report and the Environmental Impact Statement for the California WaterFix plan from state or federal judicial review – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement: “This is another attempt to force the ill-conceived tunnels proposal on Californians, and undermine state and federal law – specifically those concerning the protection of our environment. California has led the nation in shaping forward-thinking policy that prioritizes environmental preservation, setting high standards in an effort to safeguard our natural resources. Mandatory environmental impact analyses are essential in determining whether a project can move forward. Prohibiting the option for judicial review of the WaterFix environmental impact studies would eliminate a critical check in our system and help clear a path for the tunnels to proceed without further oversight. This provision has no place in a crucial funding bill, and was dropped in as a last-ditch effort to circumvent the voices of Californians throughout the state who have said ‘no’ to the disastrous tunnels plan.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
05.10.2018	Washington, DC – Each year, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) honors the participants of the annual Congressional Art Competition by holding an exhibition to highlight all submitted artwork and announce the winners for the competition. “I’m proud to have the opportunity to recognize these talented young artists and showcase their hard work and creativity,” said Congressman McNerney. “Each year, I am inspired by the passion and expression these young people put into their work, and I look forward to displaying the winning submissions in my offices and the halls of the Capitol.” The annual Congressional Art Competition invites high school students each year to submit their artwork to be evaluated by a panel of independent judges. The first place winner is flown to Washington, D.C. to attend a reception held for first place winners from each district and to view their artwork on display in the Capitol building. The second place winner’s artwork is displayed in Congressman McNerney’s Washington, D.C. office, and the third and fourth place winners’ submissions are displayed in his district offices. Photos of the winners’ submissions are available for publication. 1st Place: Nida Haneef 12th Grade Ronald E. McNair High School - Stockton, CA “Breathe” – Drawing, Ink 2nd Place: Malissa Orton 12th Grade Ronald E. McNair High School - Stockton, CA “Protest” (Voices Silent) – Photography 3rd Place: Nicole Chen 10th Grade Ronald E. McNair High School - Stockton, CA “Harvest” – Pen 4th Place: Ly Tran 11th Grade Ronald E. McNair High School - Stockton, CA “Lighthouse” – Oil and Pastel # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
04.12.2018	Washington, DC – As political spending continues to break records – with the anticipation that the 2018 mid-term election will be the most expensive mid-term in American history – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Congressman Walter B. Jones (NC-03) relaunched the bipartisan Congressional Campaign Finance Reform Caucus to promote and facilitate a meaningful dialogue to address the undue influence of money and special interests on our political process. “Within the last decade, two Supreme Court decisions have unleashed a flood of money into our elections,” said Congressman McNerney. “The end result of the Citizens United and McCutcheon cases has been a great increase in campaign spending, much of which has come from undisclosed and unregulated sources. When dark money determines the outcomes of our elections, the American people become disillusioned and discouraged, and when the dollars in your pocket define the value of your voice, our democracy deteriorates. Now is the time to commit to reforms that will bring transparency to our campaign finance system and restore voter confidence. By bringing together members from both sides of the aisle, this Caucus can address these inequities and advocate for changes to repair our broken system.” According to a report by the public policy organization, Demos, the Citizens United decision opened the door for $1.3 billion in campaign spending in the 2016 election, while the McCutcheon decision – which struck down the contribution limits a single donor could contribute to all federal candidates, parties and political action committees (PACs) – resulted in just 1,724 individuals donating a total of $274 million in the 2016 election cycle. Across the board, political spending in the 2016 federal election cycle totaled almost $6.5 billion. “Deep pocketed special interests have more power and influence than ever before,” said Congressman Jones, “and I continue to see that influence, instead of the voices of American citizens, shape misguided policy in Washington. It is time to reform the system and return the government to the people.” At the Caucus’s first meeting of 2018, Congressmen McNerney and Jones were joined by other Caucus members and were briefed on the impact of the Citizens United decision by featured guest speaker Tiffany Muller, the President and Executive Director of End Citizens United. The Caucus will hold regular meetings to educate members of Congress and staff about the influence of money in politics and to advocate for relevant policy proposals. The Caucus is open to all members of Congress and will provide a forum to discuss and advance solutions to reform the way campaigns are financed in this country. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.29.2018	Stockton, CA – Following the introduction of the GIRLS-STEM Act of 2018, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) is continuing to promote opportunities for young women and girls to explore careers in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) by hosting an interactive forum with a panel of prominent women currently working within those fields. What: Women in STEM Forum When: Saturday, April 7th from 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.PST Where: FAB LAB 2911 TRANSWORLD DR. STOCKTON, CA 95206 Who: Congressman Jerry McNerney, Host Panelists include: Dr. Bukky Oyebade, Principal at Merlo Institute of Environmental Technology Helene Flohic, Assistant Professor of Physics at University of the Pacific Dr. Windy McNerney, Clinical Assistant Professor (affil) at Stanford University and Research Health Scientist at the Palo Alto VA Hospital Alejandra Aguilar, Materials Engineer Post-College Appointee at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Resources for pursuing STEM-related fields will be available at the event, and attendees will be able to engage with the panel to ask questions and learn about different types of STEM jobs, as well as some of the unique challenges and opportunities for women in these careers. “Women make up half of the population in the United States,” said Congressman McNerney. “If our country is going to continue to lead in innovation, we can’t afford to leave half of our citizens out of the jobs that will drive our future economy. That’s why I’m hosting this event – to encourage women of all ages to get excited about STEM education, and to empower them with the tools they need to purse these successful, rewarding careers.” For more information or to RSVP, please call the Congressman’s Stockton office at (209) 476-8552. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) will host a joint town on Tuesday, March 27th, from 6:30 PM to 8:00 PM at the Dallas Ranch Middle School in Antioch, CA. The Congressmen will deliver updates on the latest news from Washington, and invite constituents to share their questions and concerns on issues that are important to their communities.What: Town Hall hosted by Reps. McNerney & DeSaulnier When: Tuesday, March 27th from 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.PST Where: Dallas Ranch Middle School 1401 Mt Hamilton Dr. Antioch CA, 94531 For more information or to RSVP, please call Congressman McNerney’s Antioch office at (925) 754-0716. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.14.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced that his office is taking submissions for the 2018 National Congressional Art Competition. Sponsored annually by the United States Congress, this competition began in 1982 and serves as a way to showcase the artistic talents and accomplishments of high school students throughout the country. Since its inception, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with this nationwide competition. “I am always inspired by the creativity and talent I see every year,” said Congressman McNerney. “Art is an outlet for personal expression, and I am excited to see the finished artwork these students work so hard to submit.” A panel of judges will select the winning entries, and their decision will be announced at a special ceremony and exhibit. The grand prize winner from the district will be flown to Washington, D.C. along with a guest to attend the overall winners’ awards ceremony in June. The winner’s artwork will also go on display in a busy corridor that leads to the U.S. Capitol, used daily by members of Congress, staffers, and visitors to Washington, D.C. The second, third and fourth place winners will have their work displayed in one of Congressman McNerney’s three offices, located in Washington, D.C., Stockton, and Antioch. Rules for Submissions: The contest is open to all high school students in California’s 9th District. The deadline to submit artwork is Friday, April 20, 2018. Entries may be up to 26” x 26” x 4” (including the frame), must be two-dimensional, and may not weigh more than 15 pounds. The artwork may be: Paintings – including oil, acrylics, and watercolor Drawings – including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers Collage Prints – including lithographs, silkscreen, and block prints Mixed Media Computer Generated Art Photography All entries must be an original in concept, design and execution, and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. Submissions and a release form can be dropped off at either of Congressman McNerney’s district offices. Please see the corresponding addresses below: Antioch Office Stockton Office 4703 Lone Tree Way 2222 Grand Canal Blvd, Suite 7 Antioch, CA 94531 Stockton, CA 95207 Students and teachers interested in the Congressional Art Competition should visit Congressman McNerney’s website to download the full rules and guidelines in addition to the required release form for submissions. For additional questions, please contact Congressman McNerney’s Stockton office at (209) 476-8552 or his Antioch office at (925) 754-0716. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.14.2018	Washington, DC – As the nation continues to grapple with the increasing threat of cyberattacks and how to address this critical issue, Congressmen Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Bob Latta (OH-05) introduced two bipartisan pieces of legislation to improve our nation’s grid security and resilience. The two bills, along with two others, were the focus of an Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy hearing held earlier today. H.R. 5239, the Cyber Sense Act, and H.R. 5240, the Enhancing Grid Security through Public-Private Partnerships Act, aim to bolster America’s electric infrastructure by encouraging coordination between the Department of Energy (DOE) and electric utilities. The hearing, entitled “DOE Modernization: Legislation Addressing Cybersecurity and Emergency Response,” focused on these bills along with two others. H.R. 5239 would create a voluntary Department of Energy ‘Cyber Sense’ program that would identify and promote cyber-secure products for use in the bulk-power system. The bill also establishes a testing process for the products along with a reporting process of cybersecurity vulnerabilities. It would require the Secretary of Energy to keep a related database on the products. This would aid electric utilities that are evaluating products and their potential to cause harm to the electric grid. H.R. 5240 directs DOE to facilitate and encourage public-private partnerships in order to improve cybersecurity of electric utilities. The legislation would improve sharing of best practices and data collection, along with providing training and technical assistance to electric utilities in order to address and mitigate cybersecurity risks. “Any vulnerability or vulnerable component within our electric grid system is a threat to our physical and national security,” said Congressman McNerney. “The grid is the backbone of our economy and touches every aspect of our lives. That’s why Congressman Latta and I launched the Grid Innovation Caucus – to start a dialogue about the need to invest in grid modernization and security. These bills are the result of the work we have done to date and will strengthen the electric utility system while building partnerships between DOE and industry. I thank Congressman Latta for his partnership and look forward to continuing to work to ensure a more secure and resilient grid.” “Building a robust defense of our nation’s electric infrastructure can’t be a burden solely supported by the Federal government,” said Congressman Latta. “Cooperation is key to ensuring that the best information, products, and practices are being deployed to ensure the resiliency of our electric grid. These bills will foster a collaborative relationship between DOE and the utilities to ensure that our grid becomes increasingly resilient in the face of cyberattacks. Working in a bipartisan way with my fellow co-chair of the Grid Innovation Caucus, Rep. McNerney, I’ll continue to push to bring our aging grid into the 21st century.” McNerney and Latta co-chair the Grid Innovation Caucus, which was founded to provide a forum for discussing solutions to the many challenges facing the grid, and to educate Members of Congress and staff about the importance of the electric grid with relation to the economy, energy security, and advanced technologies being utilized to enhance grid capabilities. Congressman McNerney’s opening statement from the hearing can be found here. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.08.2018	(Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) introduced bipartisan legislation to help struggling homeowners who may be facing foreclosure by requiring lenders to fast-track the short sale process. The Fast Help for Homeowners Act, which is cosponsored by Congressman Walter Jones (NC-09), would compel a second mortgage lender of a federal mortgage loan to review and make a decision on a short sale agreement within 30 days. If the lender does not make a decision within that timeframe, the short sale will be deemed approved on the 31st day. “Too many homeowners in need are left in limbo for far too long,” said Congressman McNerney. “By reducing the approval time for a short sale decision, we would give these individuals and their families peace of mind that a timely conclusion will be made.” Short sales can help both lenders and homeowners. This transaction occurs when a seller’s lender agrees to accept a payment for less than the remaining balance on the seller’s loan. However, when a homeowner initiates a short sale request, some second mortgage lenders use stonewalling tactics to delay a payment to the first mortgage lender, which can be damaging to a homeowner’s credit score and to the housing market. The Fast Help for Homeowners Act has received support from a number of stakeholders, including: The National Association of Realtors (NAR) “The National Association of REALTORS® commends Congressman McNerney for working to improve the short sale process for distressed homeowners and help them to avoid foreclosure. We look forward to working with Congressman McNerney and other members of Congress to advance and enact this important legislation for the benefit of families, communities, the housing market and economy.” - Elizabeth Mendenhall, NAR President The California Association of Realtors (CAR) “C.A.R. applauds Congressman McNerney for introducing this common-sense piece of legislation and supports the FHFH Act. By requiring lenders to respond to short sale offers in a fair and reasonable amount of time, the FHFA Act will help ensure distressed properties are brought to market.” – Steve White, CAR President. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – To celebrate Women’s History Month and to honor the contributions women have historically made in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) introduced a bill to expand opportunities for young women to pursue careers in STEM, and ensure the nation can continue to compete in the global economy. “What better way to commemorate the lives of influential American women, such as Barbara McClintock and Diane Fossey, than putting forth legislation to give other young women and girls the chance to explore the endless opportunities within STEM fields,” said Congressman McNerney. “Women make up almost half of the American workforce, but only 24 percent of jobs in STEM fields. It’s simple math. When women succeed, we all succeed.” H.R. 5136, the Getting into Researching, Learning & Studying of STEM (GIRLS-STEM) Act of 2018, would establish a program at the Department of Education to increase female students’ participation through access to STEM education and vocational counseling. The GIRLS-STEM program would provide grants to local educational agencies to develop plans that would encourage young women to study STEM, educate students’ parents about STEM opportunities for their children, provide training and mentoring opportunities for students, and prepare secondary students for college STEM programs. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce Economics and Statistics Administration Office of the Chief Economist (OCE), overall recipients of undergraduate degrees are roughly the same when it comes to women and men. However, women only account for about 30 percent of all STEM degree holders. Additionally, OCE notes that women with STEM degrees are less likely than their male counterparts to work in a STEM occupation. “In addition to encouraging girls to directly study STEM, the legislation addresses issues in the educational ecosystem which impact the choices they make, such as providing professional development for teachers and counselors that includes eliminating gender bias in the classroom,” said Janet Koster, Executive Director and CEO of the Association for Women in Science (AWIS). “Studies repeatedly show that biases in teachers and educational personnel make them less likely to encourage young girls to pursue STEM subjects. In addition to AWIS, the GIRLS-STEM Act of 2018 is also supported by: Association for Career and Technical Education (ACTE) National Alliance for Partnerships for Equity (NAPE) Advance CTE The National Center for Technological Literacy ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.26.2018	Antioch, CA – In response to the thousands of constituents who have contacted his office regarding the elimination of net neutrality protections, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced that he will host a town hall featuring Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Commissioner Mignon Clyburn to discuss constituents’ concerns and how to move forward in the fight for a free and open internet. What: Net Neutrality Town Hall with FCC Commissioner Clyburn When: Sunday, March 4th from 3:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. PST Where: Antioch Community Center 4703 Lone Tree Way Antioch, CA 94531 Last week, the FCC published in the Federal Registrar the final rule to repeal net neutrality protections. These protections have been vital for safeguarding free speech and driving economic growth and innovation. The elimination of these protections means that internet service providers will soon be able to block, slow down, or simply price out consumers from accessing certain websites and information. Prior to the Commission’s December Open Meeting vote to eliminate net neutrality, Congressman McNerney submitted a formal request to address the full Commission at this meeting. His request was denied by FCC Chairman Ajit Pai. Commissioner Clyburn, who voted against the repeal, submitted a written statement from the Congressman for the official record at the meeting. To RSVP, please call the Congressman’s Antioch office at (925) 754-0716. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.30.2018	Washington, DC – In response to President Trump’s first State of the Union address, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement: “The State of the Union is meant to be an opportunity for the President to lay out a plan to move our country forward. Unfortunately, what we heard tonight was nothing more than vague requests to Congress and a reiteration of a discriminatory immigration proposal that was released last week. “Time and again, the President has called for investments in infrastructure, but he failed to take this opportunity to clearly outline a concrete proposal to fix our crumbling roads and bridges. He chose once again to focus on a racially charged anti-immigration policy that fails to outline protections for the young people enrolled in the DACA program. “Tonight the President touted the success of the new GOP tax plan, but he did not acknowledge the estimated 38 million middle-class Americans who are expected to see their taxes increase under this law. He also made sure to highlight the elimination of the individual mandate, which will cause millions of Americans to lose access to vital health care. “While the President spoke of the need for unity, his speech was riddled with offensive and divisive rhetoric. The American people deserve better. We can all agree that Washington must come together to move our country forward, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to do just that.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
01.22.2018	Washington, DC – In response to the reopening of the federal government, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement: “The government shutdown has ended, and while this stalemate was brief, it underscores the need for serious changes to be made in Washington. This is no way to govern. Waiting until the last minute to pass back-to-back short-term continuing resolutions is costly and detrimental to the long-term stability of our military and federal agencies. “Looking ahead, there is still more work to be done. We must secure crucial spending provisions, including adequate funding for disaster relief and community health clinics. And we must find a solution for the more than 800,000 DREAMers who are racing against the clock as we approach the March deadline set by the President. Republican leaders have made a commitment to moving forward with legislation to address these issues, and we will hold them to that.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
01.21.2018	Washington, DC – As Congress has failed to reach a compromise to continue funding the federal government, sending the government into a shutdown, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement: “I’m here in Washington, working with my colleagues to find a compromise to end this government shutdown. While we continue to work towards a solution, my offices will remain open during regular business hours. Many federal services will also continue to operate as usual. Mail will still be delivered and VA hospitals and clinics will remain fully operational. Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security benefits will be received by current recipients, though new applications will stall. “I’m committed to ensuring that our federal employees can get back on the job, and that they and our military service members receive their pay. At the same time, we also need to make sure that the agreement we reach does not shortchange our Community Health Centers or come at the expense of the more than 800,000 people who face deportation and being torn away from their homes and families. “We currently find ourselves at an impasse, but this inability to compromise hurts the American people, inhibits our ability to govern, and undermines American credibility in the eyes of the rest of the world. “There have been several bipartisan compromises advanced by congressional leaders that have the potential to move us forward. Now is the time to come together to get our country back on track and to show that we can govern the way the American people deserve.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
01.16.2018	Stockton, CA – To kick-off the new year, Congressman Jerry McNerney will host two open house events at each of his district offices, inviting constituents to join him to share their thoughts and concerns. The first open house will be located at the Congressman’s Stockton District Office: WHEN: Tuesday, January 23rd 4:00 PM to 5:30 PM PST WHERE: 2222 Grand Canal Boulevard, Suite #7 Stockton, CA 95207 For more information or to RSVP to the Stockton Open House, please call the Congressman’s Stockton office: (209) 476-8552. A second open house will take place the following day at the Congressman’s Antioch District Office: WHEN: Wednesday, January 24th 4:00 PM to 5:30 PM PST WHERE: Antioch Community Center 4703 Lone Tree Way Antioch, CA 94531 For more information or to RSVP to the Antioch Open House, please call the Congressman’s Antioch office: (925) 754-0716. These events give community members the opportunity to meet with their Congressman and discuss the important issues that affect their daily lives. The Congressman will also update attendees on the latest from our nation’s capital and talk about what he is doing to serve the people and communities of California’s 9th Congressional District. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
01.16.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) sent a letter to the CEOs of Intel, Arm, and AMD requesting a briefing about the Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities. The letter follows recent reports that computer chips made and designed by these companies are susceptible to the Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities, which can be used by nefarious actors to steal users’ personal information. “I am looking to better understand the nature of these critical vulnerabilities, the danger they pose to consumers, and what steps your companies plan to take to protect consumers,” Congressman McNerney wrote in the letter. “The Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities are glaring warning signs that we must take cybersecurity more seriously. In recent years, we witnessed the largest global ransomware attack in history and the largest distributed-denial-of-service attack of its kind in history. The warning signs keep piling on, yet cybersecurity practices continue to lag far behind,” Congressman McNerney continued. As a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Congressman McNerney has been a vocal proponent regarding the need to address growing cyber threats. Earlier this Congress, he introduced the Securing IoT Act, which would require cybersecurity standards to be established for wireless devices and that the devices be certified to meet those standards. Full text of the letter available below: Dear Mr. Krzanich, Mr. Segars, and Dr. Su: I am writing to request a briefing from your companies about the Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities. As a Member of Congress who has a strong interest in cybersecurity and who serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I am concerned about the growing cyber threats our nation faces. You may be aware that earlier this Congress I introduced the Securing IoT Act, which would require cybersecurity standards to be established for wireless devices and that the devices be certified to meet those standards. It was recently reported that computer chips made and designed by your companies are susceptible to the Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities. I am looking to better understand the nature of these critical vulnerabilities, the danger they pose to consumers, and what steps your companies plan to take to protect consumers. Analysis by security researchers suggests that nefarious actors could use Spectre and Meltdown to access and steal users’ personal information, including passwords, online bank accounts, emails, and photos. They could also take advantage of these security flaws to access and steal critical documents held by businesses and government agencies. Should the vulnerabilities be exploited, the effects on consumers’ privacy and our nation’s economy and security would be absolutely devastating. The Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities are glaring warning signs that we must take cybersecurity more seriously. In recent years, we witnessed the largest global ransomware attack in history and the largest distributed-denial-of-service attack of its kind in history. The warning signs keep piling on, yet cybersecurity practices continue to lag far behind. Please be prepared to address the following issues during the briefing: The scope of the Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities: which chips are susceptible to these vulnerabilities and what are the products (both hardware and software) that utilize these chips. How consumers could be impacted by the Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities. The timeframe for when your companies first learned about the Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities, notified vendors, and notified the public. Whether there is any evidence that these vulnerabilities have been exploited or that such attempts have been made. The steps your companies have taken and will be taking to mitigate potential risk for consumers, and the timeframe for taking the respective actions. What, if any, chips and products (both hardware and software) could still be susceptible to the Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities after the above actions are taken. In cases where patches are issued, what, if any, adverse consequences should consumers expect to encounter – e.g., potential slowing of operating systems. What steps your companies are taking to ensure that other chips they manufacture and design are secure (whether this be protecting chips from Spectre, Meltdown, or other vulnerabilities), and the timeframe for taking the respective actions. Thank you for your attention and cooperation in this matter. Sincerely, Jerry McNerney Member of Congress # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
01.15.2018	Antioch, CA – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) joined community members in commemorating the life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. at the annual Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration at Deer Valley High School in Antioch, CA. “Dr. King dedicated his life to creating transformative and lasting change through his service in our communities,” said Congressman McNerney. “He spoke powerfully, calling others to action, and left a legacy that has encouraged our nation to build upon his progress. Throughout the month of January, we remember and pay tribute to his life through our own acts of service. Whether it’s cleaning up a local park, volunteering at a shelter, or assisting the seniors in our community, I encourage everyone to answer this call to service.” The Congressman has made it a tradition to volunteer, and call on others to volunteer, as a way to highlight the importance of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s legacy of service. On Wednesday, January 24th, Congressman McNerney will deliver meals to seniors in the community with the Antioch Meals on Wheels program. The Congressman will also spend some time in Stockton on Friday, January 26th, where he will help serve nutritious meals to members of the community. “I have the privilege of serving California’s 9th Congressional District in the halls of Congress,” said Congressman McNerney. “It is truly an honor to be able to join those who give back to our community every day. I look forward to serving with the staff and volunteers next week, and I encourage everyone to volunteer in honor of Dr. King’s commitment to improving the lives of others.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.12.2018	Stockton, CA – Following through on his commitment to ensure transparency and timeliness as the French Camp VA clinic moves toward construction, Congressman Jerry McNerney’s (CA-09) first town hall of 2018 will focus on updating the community on the progress of the facility and discussing the pressing issues facing our veterans today. The town hall will be held on Thursday, January 25th and representatives from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) will be present to answer questions. Veteran’s Town Hall When: Thursday, January 25th 10:00 - 11:00 a.m. PST Where: Health Plan of San Joaquin 7751 S. Manthey Road French Camp, CA 95231 Since coming to Congress, Congressman McNerney has led the efforts for the development of the French Camp facility – from working with federal and local officials on selection of the building site to securing the funding for construction. He has pushed to expedite the project, sending several letters to authorities, meeting frequently with VA and Corps officials, and urging that regular correspondence and updates be made available to his office and the public. In August, the Congressman held a veterans town hall in response to community queries on the recent changes in the construction timeline. Representatives from the VA and the Corps were present at this event to directly address these concerns. To RSVP for the veterans town hall, please call the Congressman’s Stockton office at (209) 476-8552. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.21.2017	Washington, DC – Congressmen Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), and Eric Swalwell (CA-15) have put out a call to all Korean War veterans living in Contra Costa County. The Congressmen are working with the office of the Consulate General of the Republic of Korea in San Francisco to facilitate the presentation of medals from the Republic of Korea to Contra Costa County veterans in recognition of their service in the Korean War. “Our nation owes a big thanks to our Korean War Veterans,” Rep. Thompson said. “Thanks to those brave Americans who answered our country’s call to service, South Korea is free and prosperous today. Though the Korean War is often remembered as the ‘Forgotten War’, our veterans will not be forgotten. We‘re asking every veteran of the Korean War in Contra Costa County to contact my office so that they can be recognized for their service and sacrifice.” “We should take every opportunity we have to express our gratitude to our nation’s veterans,” said Rep. McNerney. “I am pleased to join my colleagues in honoring those who served in the Korean War, and to thank them for their sacrifice.” “Tens of thousands of Americans risked their lives to make South Korea a safe and prosperous country,” Congressman Mark DeSaulnier said. “Their sacrifice is worthy of recognition and is an example of the American ideal of service before self. We ask all Contra Costa veterans of this conflict to come forward and accept the recognition they rightfully deserve.” “These veterans served our nation selflessly and should be honored for their bravery and sacrifices,” Rep. Swalwell said. “It’s never too late to give them the recognition and thanks they so richly deserve.” The Congressmen are compiling a list of names of eligible veterans living in Contra Costa County who served in the Korean War so that they can receive an “Ambassador for Peace” medal from the Republic of Korea. The Ambassador for Peace medal is granted by the Republic of Korea to our veterans out of appreciation for restoring and preserving South Korea’s freedom and democracy through their service in the Korean War. The medals will be presented during a ceremony in Contra Costa County to be announced at a later date. Eligible veterans include those involved in either the hostilities or the following United Nations peacekeeping mission between June 25, 1950 and July 27, 1953. Enlisted support personnel who aided in these missions are also eligible (e.g. nurses who served in Japan, sailors who served on support missions). Veterans should send an email to ContraCosta.KoreanWarVeterans@mail.house.gov or call Congressman McNerney’s Antioch office (925) 754-0716 by Thursday, March 1, 2018 to be included among the veterans eligible for a medal. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
12.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) submitted the following written statement for the record for the “Restoring Internet Freedom” item, WC Docket No. 17-108) that was considered at today’s Federal Communications Commission open meeting. Statement of Congressman Jerry McNerney Federal Communications Commission Open Meeting December 14, 2017 My name is Congressman Jerry McNerney and I represent California’s Ninth Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Thousands of my constituents have reached out to me to express their serious concerns about the proposal to eliminate net neutrality protections, which is being voted on today by the Federal Communications Commission. I want to make sure that their voices are heard. Net neutrality protections are vital for ensuring that the internet serves as a forum for the free flow of information and a gateway for economic opportunity. My constituents rely on the internet in nearly every aspect of their daily lives––whether it is to apply for a job, obtain educational tools, communicate with friends and family, participate in social movements, or keep up with current news. The elimination of net neutrality protections means that my constituents may not be able to access certain information, that their access to certain information could be slowed down, or that they will simply be priced out of accessing certain information. Strong net neutrality protections are also vital for the more than 31,000 small businesses in my district. For startups and small businesses, net neutrality lowers barriers to entry, creates a level playing field, and enables them to compete with larger companies. Abandoning these protections will make it much harder for a small business owner to get his or her small business off the ground and successfully compete in the marketplace. Greater challenges for small businesses mean less innovation, less job creation, and less economic growth––this is certainly not the future I want to see for my district or our country. I am extremely disappointed that despite my constituents’ and the American public’s strong support for net neutrality, the Chairman has decided to proceed with this flawed and misguided order. Today’s order completely ignores the Commission’s core mission of protecting the public interest and sets us on a dangerous path backwards. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.13.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) submitted a formal request to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai, asking to address the full Commission at tomorrow’s open meeting. While outside entities have previously been given the opportunity to speak at these meetings – which are open to the public – Chairman Pai has disregarded this precedent and denied the Congressman’s request. In response, Congressman McNerney issued the following statement: “I’m very disappointed that the FCC Chairman has not only denied my request to address the full Commission, but has also denied my previous request to speak with him one-on-one prior to the vote on the elimination of net neutrality protections. Even more distressing is the fact that I am not alone. The Chairman has refused to speak with members from both sides of the aisle regarding the drastic action the Commission is about to take tomorrow. “Tomorrow’s vote is crucial to the free flow of ideas and the future of our economy. Net neutrality protections are the core of a free and open internet, simultaneously serving as a safeguard for free speech and a catalyst for innovation. “As members of Congress, we were sent to Washington to represent the American people – including the consumers, small business owners, and many more who will be directly affected by tomorrow’s vote. Thousands of constituents have reached out to me to express their concerns about the Chairman’s proposal to roll back net neutrality protections. The Chairman’s refusal to honor either of my requests – and the requests of other members – is also a refusal to hear the concerns of those Americans that we represent.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.11.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai expressing their strong disappointment that the Chairman has failed to provide repeatedly requested documentation related to the alleged May 7 distributed-denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks on the FCC’s Electronic Comment Filing System. During the time of these alleged attacks, the FCC’s Electronic Comment Filing System experienced an outage, and the public was unable to file comments on the Chairman’s proposal to roll back net neutrality protections. In the letter, Reps. McNerney and Dingell urge Pai to follow through on his commitments before holding a vote on his proposal to eliminate net neutrality protections. At the two FCC oversight hearings that were held this year before the House Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, Chairman Pai assured Reps. McNerney and Dingell that he would produce documentation related to the alleged attacks. After not receiving the requested documentation, the members asked the Chairman about this information in a question for the record. To date, no response has been received. “Given your high regard for transparency, we would expect that you would have disclosed to us by now the requested documents or an explanation of technical or legal prohibitions for your refusal to do so,” Reps. McNerney and Dingell wrote in the letter. “…Transparency is important, even when it’s not convenient. We expect you to live up to your commitment to transparency.” “Many unanswered questions remain about the motive behind the alleged attacks, the response of the FCC, and whether the outage had a major impact on the ability of the American people to comment on the proceeding to eliminate net neutrality protections.” Reps. McNerney and Dingell continued. “The Commission should be transparent about any potential issues with the factual record on a proceeding of this magnitude, and should not move forward with a vote until the American people know what happened,” Reps. McNerney and Dingell concluded. The full text of the letter is available here. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.07.2017	Washington, DC – As the nation continues to grapple with historic flooding and wildfires, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) has introduced legislation to explore innovative options to combat the root cause of these intensifying natural disasters: climate change. Last month, Congressman McNerney called for a hearing in the House Committee on Science, Space & Technology (SST) to collect information from experts in the field of geoengineering – which implements techniques to counteract the effects of climate change. Today, the Congressman has introduced H.R. 4586, the Geoengineering Research Evaluation Act. This legislation would provide for a federal commitment to the creation of a geoengineering research agenda and an assessment of the potential risks of geoengineering practices. “We’ve reached a moment of clarity in the fight against climate change where we are experiencing the repercussions of the atmospheric buildup of greenhouse gasses,” said Congressman McNerney. “Even if human beings were to cease all greenhouse gas emissions tomorrow, significant atmospheric change has already been set in motion and will continue to occur for generations to come.” The legislation, cosponsored by SST Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson, would commission the National Academies of Science (NAS) to produce two reports recommending a geoengineering research strategy and oversight principles for such research. These reports would build on two previously published NAS reports, which concluded that there is currently insufficient information to effectively deploy large-scale climate interventions. “As with any scientific deployment, preliminary research that evaluates the potential opportunities and risks of implementation is necessary to ensure we are effectively combatting the targeted problem without risking the threat of another,” said Congressman McNerney. “This bill would authorize a rigorous review process to determine where we should make federal investments in this emerging research field, and how we should set up oversight of this research.” The bill also provides for the creation of an implementation plan to ensure a path forward for additional geoengineering research and development. “I want to commend Congressman McNerney for his efforts and leadership in developing this legislation,” said Ranking Member Johnson. “This bill is a thoughtful and logical approach to a complicated research field. The legislation will provide a pathway for the federal government to further pursue the research necessary to advance geoengineering as one potential method in our toolbox to address the impacts of climate change. However, geoengineering research must not be viewed as an excuse to relax our efforts to control greenhouse gas emissions. As we explore solutions to address this issue in our skies, we must not forget that reducing and eliminating carbon emissions starts on the ground.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.06.2017	Washington, DC – This weekend, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) invites constituents to join him in Brentwood at a Congress at Your Corner event. Congress at Your Corner is part of an effort to reach out to the residents of California’s 9th Congressional District at places they already visit, such as coffee shops, grocery stores and other local businesses. It provides an opportunity for constituents to meet with their Congressman one-on-one, and discuss the important issues that affect their daily lives. WHEN: Saturday, December 9th, from 2:30 PM to 3:30 PM PST WHERE: Willy’s Bagels & Blends 390 W. Country Club Dr. Brentwood, CA 94513 For more information or to RSVP, please call the Congressman’s Antioch office: (925) 754-0716. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
11.08.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) led a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai, expressing serious concerns regarding the lack of opportunity for public comment on the Chairman’s proposal to eliminate existing TV broadcast ownership rules. Congressman McNerney, who sits on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, was joined by 12 Democratic members on the Committee. “The FCC’s proposal to eliminate current television broadcast ownership rules bypasses a more common and transparent process for a decision of this magnitude,” said Congressman McNerney. “A repeal of these rules will have a dramatic impact on the diversity of viewpoints American audiences will have access to, and they are entitled to a public comment period to make their voices heard.” The letter underscores that the elimination of these ownership rules would make it easier for Sinclair Broadcast to merge with Tribune Media without having to make any divestitures. Additionally, since the proposal also includes the elimination of the media cross-ownership rules, Sinclair would be able to acquire newspapers and radio stations in the same local markets in which it owns TV broadcasting stations. The letter urges Chairman Pai to seek additional public comment on the proposed rule changes before taking further action. Currently, the Commission is expected to vote on this proposal on November 16, 2017. The following members joined Congressman McNerney in sending the letter: Reps. Mike Doyle (PA-14), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Tony Cardenas (CA-29), Yvette Clarke (NY-09), Ben Ray Lujan (NM-03), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Peter Welch (VT), Bobby Rush (IL-01), Joe Kennedy III (MA-04), Eliot Engel (NY-16), and Diana DeGette (CO-01). November 8, 2017 The Honorable Ajit V. Pai Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20554 Dear Chairman Pai: We write to raise serious concerns regarding your proposal to essentially eliminate the existing broadcast TV ownership rules with virtually no public input. This action, taken by way of a Reconsideration Order, is an obvious attempt to evade the notice and comment requirements that should accompany a decision of this magnitude. The draft you released on October 27 takes steps akin to a statutorily-required Quadrennial Review of these same rules. Yet the sweeping deregulation, done at the behest of Sinclair Broadcast Group, among others, will provide the public with almost no opportunity to offer input and relies on data from three years ago. Using such tactics is contrary to prior reviews by the Commission, shirks the Commission’s duties under the Administrative Procedures Act, and is a disservice to the public interest. Americans care strongly about these issues, as evidenced by the high level of public participation in the Sinclair-Tribune merger. Aside from the parties to the applications, practically all of the public comments in that merger docket are strictly opposed due to concerns about consolidation and the impact on local news. The local TV ownership rule changes you propose to make in this Reconsideration Order effectively pave the way for Sinclair to merge with Tribune without any divestitures at the local level, but at a serious cost to diversity of viewpoint from local news outlets. This path of least resistance to approval appears only to benefit the few at the cost to the many. Americans rely on their local TV broadcasters for local and diverse content. It is frightening to imagine what the future holds if the Commission votes in favor of your proposal. There will be few boundaries for Sinclair—or other broadcasters—from consolidating the use of these important public airwaves into fewer and fewer hands. We request that you seek additional public comment on these proposed rule changes. A transparent and open process will allow for a more thorough debate and better inform the Commission with current data before it takes such dramatic action. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.25.2017	(Washington, DC) – In response to the Trump administration’s announcement that it would not support the California WaterFix Project, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement: “Long before this administration weighed in, the controversial tunnels proposal has been based on flawed science and funding assumptions without even achieving water sustainability for the state. Most recently, support has shifted away from the project due to its excessive cost that comes with no assurance of prolonged results. For these reasons, opposition to the tunnels continues to grow. “There are many viable alternatives and forward-thinking approaches that will modernize our water system. My new legislation, the WEST Act, focuses on these tangible, commonsense solutions, including conservation, efficiency, recycling, and water capture. “It’s time to change the narrative. The WEST Act is the product of extensive engagement and consultation with a diverse group of stakeholders – including farmers, technology innovators, industry and community leaders – and provides proactive, long-term solutions to California’s water challenges. This legislation offers a path forward for Californians, and I will continue to work with state leaders to find sustainable and achievable water solutions for California.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
10.24.2017	(Stockton, CA) – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced the start of his annual “Holiday Cards for Our Troops” program. Each year, the Congressman’s district offices collect thousands of cards from the community, with personal messages of gratitude and hope for our men and women in uniform. Congressman McNerney is again inviting constituents to submit cards to his district offices that will be delivered to troops at home and overseas during the upcoming holiday season. “Our service men and women make tremendous sacrifices for our country throughout the year, and oftentimes the holiday season can be difficult for those stationed away from home,” said Congressman McNerney. “This holiday card program provides an opportunity for the community to express their gratitude and thank our troops for their service and all they do to keep us safe. Many service members have told me that these cards, with their messages of encouragement and support, help boost morale for our service members when they cannot be home with their families and friends during the holiday season.” The holiday cards will be sent to troops stationed overseas in packages organized by the Contra Costa Blue Star Moms, East Bay Blue Star Moms, Mid-Cal Blue Star Moms, A Million Thanks and Operation Creekside. To participate in the program, please make or purchase a holiday card and write a message of thanks to a service member. Cards must be delivered to the Congressman’s Stockton or Antioch office by Friday, Nov. 17th, 2017, and should remain unaddressed and inside unsealed envelopes. Holiday Card Guidelines: * Make sure to sign your card * Use salutations such as “Dear Service Member.” Cards addressed to specific individuals cannot be delivered through this program * Do not include inserts such as photographs or candy * Please no confetti, or glitter on the cards or envelopes * Cards should not have an address or a return address * Cards should remain inside an unsealed envelope Below are the addresses of Congressman McNerney’s offices where cards can be dropped off: The Stockton Office of Congressman Jerry McNerney 2222 Grand Canal Blvd., Suite 7 Stockton, CA 95207 (209) 476-8552 The Antioch Office of Congressman Jerry McNerney 4703 Lone Tree Way Antioch, CA 94531 (925) 754-0716 ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.16.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Last week, the House passed H.R. 2763, the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer Improvements (STTR) Act of 2017, which included an amendment by Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) to require federal agencies to conduct outreach to Minority-Serving Institutions in order to generate higher participation rates in federal research and development opportunities. "In creating the SBIR program, one of Congress’ main objectives was to facilitate and increase the participation of minority and disadvantaged persons in technological innovation,” said Rep. McNerney. “Our country’s economic growth will be determined in large part by the innovation and expansion of technology and STEM-focused businesses. That means it is critical to the growth of our economy that Minority-Serving Institutions and minority-owned businesses are connected to this technological ecosystem.” Passing with bipartisan support, H.R. 2763 enhances the SBIR and STTR programs, and would provide more opportunities for America’s small businesses to participate in federal research and development innovation. Congressman McNerney’s amendment would enhance these goals by requiring participating federal agencies in the SBIR and STTR programs to reach out to Minority-Serving Institutions (MSI) and Hispanic-Serving Institutions. “Our country depends on the innovation of MSIs and the intellectual capital of its graduates,” said Congressman McNerney. “There are many great Minority-Serving Institutions and researchers who work at these institutions across the country, including those located in my district. CSU Stanislaus is a Hispanic-Serving Institution and an MSI that has been ranked one of the best colleges in the nation. The SBIR and STTR programs annually award $3 billion to small businesses, and it is critical to our nation that MSIs and minority-owned small businesses are provided greater access to compete for more of these resources.” "Support for minority-serving and Hispanic-serving institutions and the research and development work we do are longstanding California State University system priorities," said Stanislaus State President Ellen Junn. "We applaud Congressman McNerney’s efforts in recognizing and addressing these needs as we work together to increase Central Valley business opportunities." This amendment is another example of Congressman McNerney’s continued commitment to support and protect minority-owned businesses. Earlier this year, he led two bipartisan letters to the House Appropriations Committee calling on Congress to continue funding the Department of Commerce Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) in the FY2018 appropriations and the agency secured its funding for FY2018. A press release on the letters can be read here ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.14.2017	Stockton, CA – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced today that he will hold an information session for high school students interested in attending a military service academy. The information session will take place at Stockton’s Ronald McNair High School Theater on Thursday, October 19th. Every year, Congressman McNerney nominates exceptional students from the 9th Congressional District for appointment to the U.S Military, Naval, Merchant Marine, and Air Force Academies. Appointed students receive a free 4-year university education, room and board, medical and dental coverage, and a stipend in exchange for a 5-year military service commitment upon graduation. Representatives from the Congressman’s office and various service academies will be on hand to offer information and answer questions about the application process. For further information, contact Congressman McNerney’s Stockton office at 209-476-8552. Stockton Military Service Academy Info Session When: Thursday, October 19th 7:00 – 9:00 PM Where: Ronald McNair High School Theater 9550 Ronald E. McNair Way Stockton, CA 95210 # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.10.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09), a longtime champion for veterans, continued his fight for our nation’s heroes by introducing H.R. 3995, the Improving Broadband Access for Veterans Act of 2017. This bipartisan legislation, which is co-sponsored by Congressman Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), directs the Federal Communications Commission to produce a report examining the current state of veterans’ access to broadband and what can be done to increase access, with a focus on low-income veterans and those living in rural areas. The report must be completed within one year of the bill’s enactment and include findings and recommendations for Congress. “California is home to more veterans than any other state and is the center for technological innovation,” said Rep. McNerney. “Broadband access will make a big difference for the more than 20 million veterans throughout our nation. Connectivity means increased job and educational opportunities and better access to VA resources, and the findings and recommendations required by this bill will set us on that path. I want to thank Congressman Kinzinger for his work on this bill and I look forward to other members joining this important effort.” “Our veterans face many challenges when they return home, and closing the digital divide and getting connected is one way we can help alleviate part of their transition back to civilian life,” said Rep. Kinzinger. I’m proud to co-lead the Improving Broadband Access for Veterans Act, especially for those in rural areas or those unable to afford it. Broadband access will help our veterans connect with family and friends, apply for jobs, access information on benefits and health services, and so much more. I am proud to have worked with Congressman McNerney on this important legislation.” Low-income veterans and veterans residing in rural areas are at a higher likelihood of not having broadband internet service. The U.S. Census Bureau and the Pew Research Center both report that broadband adoption rates are significantly lower among Americans who live at or below the federal poverty level. Analysis by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration at the U.S. Department of Commerce further finds that broadband adoption rates in rural areas of the country are lower than in urban areas. A similar bill (S. 1950) has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Cory Booker (D-NJ). “Access to broadband is essential for improving veterans’ transition to civilian life,” said Senator Blumenthal. “This bill will break down broadband accessibility hurdles facing veterans, and open the door for meaningful action to ensure veterans have the technological tools necessary to navigate civilian activities, services, and employment.” “High-speed internet service is an essential tool, not a luxury, and we must make sure it’s easily accessible to veterans transitioning to civilian life,” said Senator Booker. “Our bill is an important step to helping improve broadband access for veterans, especially those in rural areas, who too often face steep challenges to getting online.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
09.19.2017	(Stockton, CA) – In response to today's vote by the Westlands Water District against participation in the WaterFix tunnels proposal, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement: “The tunnels proposal is the wrong approach for California's farmers, families and small businesses, as well as the delta itself. Today is an opportunity to open a dialogue about solutions to California’s ongoing water challenges. Californians deserve a long-term plan to ensure water sustainability throughout the state, and I look forward to working with Governor Brown and other local officials on a strategy to secure our most vital resource. “Right now, we have a chance to utilize and expand successful practices already in place, and capitalize on innovative and forward-thinking approaches that will modernize our water system. “There are many viable alternatives to the WaterFix proposal, including conservation, recycling, and water capture. These are tangible, commonsense approaches that we can accomplish in the short-term that will benefit us in the long-term. And all are a part of a comprehensive water bill I recently introduced after extensive engagement and consultation with a diverse group of stakeholders – including farmers, technology innovators, industry and community leaders. “I’m confident that by working together, across federal, state and local governments, we can ensure a sustainable water future for California.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
08.18.2017	Antioch, CA – Next week, Congressman Jerry McNerney will host an Open House at his Antioch office to meet with constituents and hear their concerns. The Congressman and his staff will also be available to assist constituents with any federal agency and department questions they may have. WHEN: Wednesday, August 23rd from 5:00 PM to 6:30 PM PST WHERE: Antioch Community Center 4703 Lone Tree Way Antioch, CA 94531 The Open House is an opportunity for constituents to meet with their Congressman and discuss the important issues that affect their daily lives. Congressman McNerney will also give an update on the latest news from Washington and what he is doing to serve the people and communities of California’s 9th Congressional District. For more information or to RSVP, please call the Congressman’s Antioch office: (925) 754-0716. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
08.14.2017	Stockton, CA – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host a town hall this Tuesday, August 15th to hear directly from constituents on important issues affecting our nation’s veterans. Congressman McNerney will be joined by representatives from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and an update on the progress of the French Camp VA medical facility will be given. Veteran’s Town Hall When: Tuesday, August 15th from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. PST Where: Health Plan of San Joaquin 7751 S. Manthey Road French Camp, CA 95231 To RSVP please call the Congressman’s Stockton office at (209) 476-8552. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
08.14.2017	Stockton, CA –This Tuesday, August 15th, Congressman Jerry McNerney and Assemblymember Susan Talamantes Eggman will host a joint town hall in Mountain House, CA. Congressman McNerney and Assemblymember Talamantes Eggman will deliver updates on the latest news from Washington and Sacramento, and invite constituents to share their questions and concerns on issues that are important to their communities.Mountain House Town Hall When: Tuesday, August 15th from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.PST Where: Community Services District Board Chambers 230 S. Sterling Drive, Suite 101 Mountain House CA, 95391 To RSVP, please call the Congressman’s Stockton office at (209) 476-8552. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
08.11.2017	Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) sent a letter to the Department of Justice (DOJ), responding to the agency’s threat to withhold federal dollars from the City of Stockton, and several other cities, if local law enforcement does not notify the Department of Homeland Security regarding the detainment of undocumented persons. In response to DOJ’s initial letter, Congressman McNerney issued the following statement: “The City of Stockton has made significant progress combating crime, in large part due to its highly capable police department. The Stockton PD is nationally recognized for its innovative and effective approaches to reducing crime, and in order to ensure they can best serve their communities, Stockton police and other local law enforcement must be able to decide on the best strategy to combat crime without federal interference. “The funds DOJ is threatening to withhold come from the Public Safety Partnership (PSP), which was created to help keep cities and communities safe and to improve relationships between community members and law enforcement. These grants are essential to our local law enforcement and withholding them would be counterproductive to the progress these regions have made. “I sent a letter to the Department of Justice, underscoring the benefits of this program and its role in the agency’s mission. If the DOJ is truly committed to public safety through federal leadership, they will seek other opportunities to support their local law enforcement counterparts, rather than handicap them.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
07.18.2017	(Washington, DC) – As the debate continues over how best to address California’s water needs, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) has introduced new comprehensive legislation that would provide a long-term plan to improve water sustainability in California and across the country. The Water and Energy Sustainability through Technology Act (WEST Act) includes provisions that support innovative technologies and infrastructure for urban and agricultural areas, as well as efforts to improve efficiency. “Our water infrastructure is declining and in need of repair,” said Congressman McNerney. “Water supply in California, and across the nation, is a serious challenge, but we’ve only been presented with short-sighted and ill-conceived plans that rely on the shipment of water from one area to another. Instead, we should be focusing on creating water sustainability through conservation, recycling, and capture.” Currently, the United States uses approximately 80 billion gallons of fresh groundwater per day. Under the WEST Act, reimbursements would be authorized for recycling and reuse projects that create new water, and regional self-sufficiency would be improved through the encouragement of stormwater capture and increased water storage. It would also require a study on ways to improve leak detection location, mapping, and communications for pipeline systems and provide grants to implement these solutions. “It’s time to change the narrative and focus on practical, forward-thinking solutions instead of high-cost, short-term fixes,” said Congressman McNerney. “California has long been a leading innovator in energy and technology and we now have the opportunity to apply that type of ingenuity to modernizing our water systems.” The WEST Act would also establish a U.S. Bureau of Reclamation groundwater information system and groundwater management technical assistance, in addition to a smart energy and water efficiency program to support innovative technology solutions for agricultural use and to improve efficiency at federal buildings. “This bill is the result of extensive engagement with a diverse group of stakeholders – including farmers, technology innovators, industry and community leaders,” Congressman McNerney stated. “These are tangible, commonsense approaches that we can accomplish in the short-term that will benefit all of us in the long-term.” To launch the legislation, Congressman McNerney hosted a press conference yesterday, featuring local leaders and advocates who voiced their support for this legislation. To view the full press conference, click here. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
07.18.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Jerry McNerney (D-CA) and Congressman Bob Latta (R-OH), co-chairs of the Grid Innovation Caucus, have introduced legislation to modernize the nation’s aging electric grid and improve reliability, security, and resiliency. The legislation directs the Secretary of Energy to develop and implement voluntary model pathways that would seek to update the grid. These blueprints would result from a collaborative approach of bringing industry and regulators to the table in order to increase innovation, empower consumers, and develop real-time situational awareness for the electric grid. “Technology is constantly evolving, yet we have not addressed the issue that is paramount to efficiently keeping up with new trends and demands,” said Congressman McNerney. “In light of the recent string of cyberattacks around the globe, which have targeted companies’ and countries’ energy systems, it’s time to have a serious discussion about how we can improve resiliency and stability and bring our grid system into the 21st century. By bringing industry leaders to the table with government regulators, we can carve a path to a modern grid system that will protect Americans from the growing number of cyber threats while maintaining accessibility and affordability.” “There are countless reasons why now is the time to upgrade our aging electric grid,” said Congressman Latta. “Whether it’s improving resilience and reliability, ensuring better protection from cyberattacks, or increasing efficiency, we need to empower states to make the necessary changes to modernize the nation’s grid. Instead of government mandates and taxpayer money to fix the problem, let’s have industry and regulators work together in a collaborative way to find solutions that can be applied across the country. That’s exactly what this bill would do, establish voluntarily model pathways that would provide a blueprint for bringing our aging grid into the 21st century.” McNerney and Latta also have introduced a resolution that states the sense and commitment of the United States House of Representatives is to advance the modernization of the United States’ energy delivery infrastructure. More information on that resolution is available here. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
07.13.2017	(Washington, DC) – To combat the 4.5 million manufacturing jobs that have been lost due to company outsourcing, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today introduced a job-saving legislative package to hold companies accountable and encourage the preservation and creation of domestic jobs. “We should not be rewarding companies that choose to invest in other countries’ economies at the expense of American workers,” said Congressman McNerney. “There are too many people who are still trying to get back on their feet and our focus should be on finding ways to help them.” Under H.R. 3217, the Stop Outsourcing and Create American Jobs Act, businesses that take advantage of overseas tax havens would be penalized following the creation and identification by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury of a list of “corporate tax haven countries.” H.R. 3217 would also crack down on federally contracted companies that exploit corporate tax loopholes that encourage shipping jobs abroad. “When you do business with the federal government, you are directly employed by the American taxpayer. It’s outrageous that we continue to contract with companies that abuse these tax loopholes, yet continue to put our economy at a competitive disadvantage by outsourcing jobs that would contribute to re-build a strong middle class.” This legislation would also give federal agencies the authority to request the history of a corporation’s outsourcing practices when applying for government contracts and would allow the government to impose penalties on businesses who falsify that information, prohibiting them from applying for government contracts for at least two years if they are found guilty. Additionally, as part of the legislative package, Congressman McNerney introduced H.R. 3216, the Outsourcing Accountability Act which would: Require corporations with revenues of $1 billion or more to disclose the number of employees working domestic and abroad Require corporations to shareholders and the SEC reports that display how many employees are working domestically compared to the number abroad “The American people deserve to know which corporations outsource jobs in search of higher profits, even as they slap ‘Made in America’ labels on their products,” said Richard Trumka, President of the AFL-CIO. “The Outsourcing Accountability Act will require real transparency and impose sanctions against corporations that hide the truth from American consumers, workers and taxpayers. We commend Rep. McNerney for introducing the Outsourcing Accountability Act of 2017 and the Stop Outsourcing and Create American Jobs Act of 2017,” Under the Outsourcing Accountability Act, companies would also be required to report any differences between the numbers of employees working domestically versus abroad from year-to-year. “The Stop Outsourcing and Create American Jobs Act of 2017 and the Outsourcing Accountability Act of 2017 would help reduce job losses by cracking down on tax loopholes for corporations, and would require large corporations to disclose the number of its employees working outside of the US,” said Daniel Chivello, Business Manager/Financial Secretary at the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 595. “Too often corporations are seeking short term gains by outsourcing operations offshore, but these are eclipsed by the long-term damage to our economy through loss of innovation while we build the brain trust of other countries.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
07.12.2017	In response to the House passage of H.R. 23, which would undermine existing environmental protections for the Sacramento – San Joaquin Delta, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement: “Every two years we debate this legislation and every two years it is the same argument. This year, though, an additional conflict has arisen. “Yes, this is the same bill that would weaken environmental laws that protect our vital resources – specifically the Endangered Species Act, which has long been a target of the Republican Party. It pits Northern and Southern California against each other, harming those in my district and the northern part of the state to benefit a few wealthy farmers in the south. And it does nothing to create any new water. “However, this time, the person who would be charged with overseeing the implementation of this legislation has a clear conflict of interest. David Bernhardt, who has been nominated as Deputy Secretary of the Interior, previously lobbied for the Westlands Water District and negotiated the controversial deal that ended with the Department of Interior paying out $350 million to the water district. This is the nation’s largest water district and, if Mr. Bernhardt is confirmed and this legislation enacted, he would have the power to pump even more water into the area at the expense of everyone that depends on fresh water from the Delta. “But, this doesn’t have to continue to be a battle between north and south or Democrat and Republican. There are solutions to solve California’s water sustainability problems, and they don’t have to come at the expense of one region over another. I’ve introduced legislation that would authorize funding for 23 water recycling projects, which would bring more stability to the region’s water supply. Additionally, there are a number of other solutions I hope my California colleagues will join me in exploring, including environmentally sound water storage, early leak detection, conservation and data collection. “There are forward-thinking solutions to this problem that would benefit California as whole, and I invite my colleagues to work with me on this issue so that we can proactively invest in California’s long-term water stability.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
06.27.2017	Washington, DC – Reps. Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), and Anna Eshoo (CA-18) released the following statement in response to findings that California WaterFix “will not jeopardize or threaten endangered species, or adversely modify their critical habitat” in the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta: “This announcement could cripple the long-term stability of Delta fish and wildlife and the thousands of jobs they support. It is a bleak example of prioritizing South-of-the-Delta water users over the health of the Delta. The Administration’s determination that the proposed California WaterFix project is compliant with the federal Endangered Species Act, despite various findings of adverse effects to endangered salmon and steelhead during construction of the tunnels, undermines the critical importance of the environmental review process established under the Act. “Simply put, the mitigation proposed under WaterFix isn’t sufficient to address these impacts. Even under adaptive management – upon which the findings of no adverse impacts rely heavily – we are not confident that the needs of species and habitat will be met. “The WaterFix project still fails to satisfy the co-equal goals of providing a more reliable water supply for California and protecting, restoring, and enhancing the Delta ecosystem. We continue to oppose the project as proposed, and will fight for better federal recognition of the devastating effect these tunnels will have on the Delta, and the communities who rely on it for their livelihood. It’s long past time to abandon this effort to extract even more water from this fragile, over-tapped estuary, and channel our energy towards working together on projects that enhance the long-term reliability of our water system without destroying the Delta.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
06.07.2017	Washington, DC – As the current administration prepares to announce elements of its infrastructure proposal, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) has introduced legislation calling for the authorization of 23 water recycling projects to bolster California’s water infrastructure and bring more stability to the region’s water supply. Rep. McNerney’s bill, the Western Water Recycling and Drought Relief Act, calls on Congress to authorize 23 regional water recycling projects that span from California’s Central Valley, Central Coast, and San Francisco Bay Area to Hawaii. When funded and constructed, these projects would provide nearly 75,000 acre-feet of new water – enough to meet the needs of over half a million residents. “Investing in forward-thinking solutions such as water recycling is a critical part of a larger, comprehensive approach to addressing California’s long-term needs when it comes to our water supply and our nation's long-term water policy,” said Congressman McNerney. “We’ve seen the benefits of these investments in my district where Delta Diablo in Antioch, CA has not only improved water supply reliability, but has also helped to reduce wastewater discharge into the fragile Bay-Delta ecosystem.” The Western Water Recycling and Drought Relief Act is co-sponsored by Reps. John Garamendi (CA-03), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Jackie Speier (CA-14) and Eric Swalwell (CA-15), and has been endorsed by a number of stakeholders, including: Jayne Strommer, Executive Director, Western Recycled Water Coalition “Our Western Recycled Water Coalition members have invested in projects that will provide critical water supplies across their communities for agriculture, industry, municipal facilities, and augmenting potable water supplies. This timely legislation will allow a federal funding partnership for coalition members to leverage local and state funds for project construction.” Pete Longmire, Board Chair, Delta Diablo “This investment in critical infrastructure will boost economic development, support more than 10,000 jobs and provide reliable water supplies across industries and communities. We greatly appreciate how Congressman McNerney continues to be a steadfast champion for sustainable water solutions.” List of 23 Water Recycling Projects Benicia Water Reuse Project Brentwood Recycled Water Project Central Dublin Recycled Water Distribution and Retrofit Project Central Redwood City Recycled Water Project City of Pleasanton Recycled Water Project Concord Recycled Water Project Contra Costa County Refinery Recycled Water Project, Phase 1 Delta Diablo Recycled Water Expansion Project Delta Diablo High Purity Water Treatment Facility Dublin and San Ramon Recycled Water Expansion Project Hayward Recycled Water Project Ironhouse Sanitary District Cypress Recycled Water Project Ironhouse Sanitary District Industrial Recycled Water Project Ironhouse Sanitary District Direct Potable Reuse Project Mountain View Recycled Water System Expansion North Valley Regional Recycled Water Project Palo Alto Recycled Water Pipeline Project Pure Water Monterey a Groundwater Replenishment Project San Jose Water Company Recycled Water Project Sunnyvale Continuous Recycled Water Production Project Waikoloa Beach Resort Wastewater Reclamation Facility Expansion Project West Bay Sanitary District Recycled Water Project Wolfe Road Recycled Water Project # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
06.01.2017	Washington, DC – In response to President Trump’s decision to withdrawal the United States from the Paris Climate Accord, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement: “I’m greatly disappointed, though unfortunately not surprised that President Trump has decided to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Accord. This decision is wrongheaded and a dangerous mistake that will have a devastating impact on future generations. “The Paris Accord brings together the collective resources of governments around the world in order to reduce emissions, and has motivated the biggest emitters – such as China and India – to take strong steps toward reducing emissions in their countries. “Climate change is one of the biggest issues facing our nation and our planet. We’ve seen a rise in extreme weather events, rising sea levels, and other health-related consequences of harmful emissions. This affects our lives in every way, including public health, economic growth, and our environment. The United States needs to remain a leader in combating and mitigating the effects of climate change. The President’s decision is a step backward. “President Trump and his advisors are pushing policies that are threatening the safety and wellbeing of every American, and of future generations around the world. This decision is willfully ignorant, dangerous, and without reason or justification, and I will continue to fight back against any measures that threaten the future of our country and our planet.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – Following the celebration of National Police Week, which honors the men and women who serve and protect our communities, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced that he is leading efforts to urge the Postmaster General to establish a semi-postal stamp that would honor fallen law enforcement officers and direct the stamp’s proceeds toward a program benefiting their families. "Every day, law enforcement officers across the country put their lives on the line in service to the American people,” said Congressman McNerney. “While they don’t ask for recognition or praise, we owe them a great deal for the safety and security they provide. Any officer that gives his or her life in the line of duty is a tragedy for their families and for the community. This stamp would not only pay tribute to these brave men and women, but the proceeds from this purchase would go toward helping their families in these tragic situations.” In a letter to the Postmaster General – which was endorsed by the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA), the Peace Officers Research Association of California and the National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO) – Congressman McNerney points to the success and benefits of similar stamps that were specifically designed to contribute to causes such as breast cancer research and saving vanishing species, which have collectively raised more than $87 million. “In addition to establishing this much-deserved acknowledgment for our fallen law enforcement officers, issuing this stamp would help the families they leave behind while also encouraging the use of the United States Postal Service,” said Congressman McNerney. Additional signatories on the letter include Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (D-N. Marianas), Richard Nolan (MN-08), John B. Larson (CT-01), Salud Carbajal (CA-24), and Betty McCollum (MN-04). The full letter can be found here. # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
05.17.2017	Washington, DC – In an effort to encourage forwarding-thinking initiatives that will ensure America’s future includes an affordable and secure electric system, Congressmen Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Bob Latta (OH-05) have introduced a resolution stating that the sense and commitment of the United States House of Representatives is to advance the modernization of the United States’ energy delivery infrastructure. “As technology progresses, and technical demands on the grid increase, Congress needs to address the requirements for an evolving electric grid,” said Rep. McNerney. “By pursuing innovative modernization strategies, we can be ahead of the curve on improving grid resilience and efficiency while also cutting costs for Americans. With cyber threats on the rise, it’s imperative that we take meaningful steps toward addressing our grid vulnerabilities. I’m proud to co-sponsor this resolution with Rep. Latta to show that America’s leadership in innovation is a goal we all share, no matter what side of the aisle you sit on.” “It’s time that we prioritize bringing our electric grid into the 21st century by embracing new technology that will deliver energy in a safer, more efficient way,” said Rep. Latta. “This resolution lays out an approach to modernize our aging grid, and ensure that it is secure against dangers posed by severe weather, cyberattacks, and other disruptions. This shouldn't be a partisan issue, and that’s why I’ve partnered with Rep. McNerney to propose a strategy that embraces innovative technology that will improve our grid infrastructure.” Congressmen McNerney and Latta co-chair the bipartisan Grid Innovation Caucus, which advocates for technological innovation, educates members of Congress, and promotes policies that enhance grid operations. Several policies championed by the caucus have already been signed into law, including the creation of a Strategic Transformer Reserve to aid in utilities’ response to large scale grid disruptions, such as natural disasters, cyber or terrorist attack on the grid. This resolution also recieved support from the GridWise Alliance. "The GridWise Alliance commends Representatives McNerney and Latta, the Co-chairs of the House Grid Innovation Caucus, for having introduced this Resolution expressing the `sense of the House of Representatives regarding grid modernization.' This legislation establishes a national policy that sets a clear and ambitious `vision' that will facilitate the modernization of the electric grid and thereby help achieve greater reliability, resilience, and security, as well as consumer engagement," stated Steve Hauser, CEO of the GridWise Alliance. "Across the country electric utilities of all types and sizes are facing tremendous pressures to modernize their systems. This legislation lays the foundation for energy and grid modernization infrastructure legislation that we hope will be forthcoming. It is critical that Congress continue to provide leadership on these critical issues. We are pleased to support the bill that is being introduced today." # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
05.10.2017	Washington, DC – This past week, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) introduced H.R. 2356, the Managing Your Data Against Telecom Abuses Act of 2017 (the “MY DATA Act of 2017”). The MY DATA Act seeks to restore consumer control over the information they share online. Last month, President Trump signed into law S.J. Res. 34, a resolution that rolls back the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) broadband privacy rules designed to protect consumers’ personal information and data. “I am appalled by Republicans’ continued efforts that weaken consumer protections. Consumers have been left without any control over how their internet providers use the personal information they share online. Now, nothing prevents these companies from selling consumers’ browsing history to the highest bidder, without any notification or permission, even when this involves their financial or health information. The harmful effects for consumers do not stop there. Consumers are also faced with the danger of identity theft and other crimes because their internet providers aren’t required to take reasonable steps to secure their personal information,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. Currently, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has enforcement authority over unfair or deceptive practices of edge providers, but not of broadband Internet Service Providers (ISPs). Furthermore, due to the FTC’s limited rulemaking authority, it is currently unable to issue the rules needed to protect consumers’ online privacy and data security. The MY DATA Act provides the FTC with enforcement and rulemaking authority over unfair or deceptive practices (relating to privacy and data security) of both edge providers and broadband ISPs, ensuring the agency has the ability to help protect consumers’ information across the Internet. The MY DATA Act also calls for the FTC to consult with the FCC when developing rules. The authority granted under this bill to the FTC does not remove authority from the FCC or any other agency. “At a time when there is a loud cry from Americans that they want more control over how the information they share online is used, we must be doing more, not less, to empower and protect consumers,” said Rep. McNerney. “My legislation gives the FTC the authority it needs to provide consumers with strong privacy and data security protections, and also encourages better consultation between the FTC and FCC on these issues.” Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Bobby Rush (IL-01), Ro Khanna (CA-17), and Mark Takano (CA-41) are original cosponsors of the bill. H.R. 2356 is the House companion to S. 964, which was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Mark Udall (D-NM). ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – In response to the House passage of the dangerous and economically unstable Republican health care plan, which would repeal the Affordable Care Act and cost millions of Americans the affordable health insurance coverage they need, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement: “Today, is a sad day for the future of the American health care system. Republicans voted to pass a bill that would take health care from millions of people across the country, including 263,000 constituents of mine who have health insurance because of the Affordable Care Act. “This Republican-led bill will not only jeopardize Americans’ health care benefits, it will also have a serious impact on our local economies, which have greatly benefited from expanded coverage. In my district alone, it would eliminate 4,000 jobs. “Health care should not be a partisan issue and I’m deeply disappointed that my colleagues across the aisle have turned this basic right into a battle between the two parties.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – During National Small Business Week, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) introduced H.R. 2313, the Small Business Relief and Job Creation Act, which incentivizes small businesses to combat unemployment by hiring workers who have been previously unemployed or out of the workforce. Under Rep. McNerney’s bill, eligible businesses would receive tax credits for hiring unemployed workers, and, in an effort to alleviate the financial hardships that many communities across America are facing, additional credits would be available to small businesses located in areas with high unemployment. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, and investing in these companies means investing in the future of American enterprise,” said Congressman McNerney. “There are far too many people in our community in need of and searching for work, and we must do more to address the problem of unemployment both in our region and across the country. That is what the Small Business Relief and Job Creation Act will do through tax credits that spur hiring and economic growth.” Nationwide, the United States stands at a 4.5 percent unemployment rate as of March 2017. However, according to the United States Census Bureau, the unemployment rate for California’s 9th Congressional District is more than double that rate, currently at 10 percent. The specific provisions of Small Business Relief and Job Creation Act include: A tax credit of 7.5 percent of wages earned by an employee in 2018, and five percent in 2019, applicable to the first $75,000 of an employee’s salary A tax credit of 15 percent in 2018, and 10 percent in 2019, as above, in counties with an unemployment rate higher than the national rate Additionally, to be eligible, small businesses must accrue a revenue of $20 million or less or have no more than 100 full-time employees. New hires must also be full-time employees who work at least 30 hours per week, and have been certified as eligible for unemployment compensation during the previous year. “With 31,000 small businesses in my district, and more than 28 million throughout the United States, we must commit to giving these businesses the tools they need to succeed,” stated Congressman McNerney. “Small businesses lead the nation in job creation, boosting our local and national economy, and serve as a vibrant part of the fabric of our communities.” H.R. 2313 is cosponsored by Representatives Dwight Evans, Grace F. Napolitano, Yvette D. Clarke and Tim Ryan. The Small Business Relief and Job Creation Act received support from a number of stakeholders, including: Douglass Wilhoit, CEO, Greater Stockton Chamber of Commerce “It appears that this legislation is a real attempt to attack from two directions. It will help small businesses prosper and at the same time to assist qualified workers in getting back into the workforce.” Bob Gutierrez, President of the San Joaquin County Hispanic Chamber of Commerce “Ensuring small business owners have the ability to thrive while driving workforce development and decreasing unemployment is part of the mission of the San Joaquin County Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. The Small Business Relief and Job Creation Act accomplishes just that and we are proud to support Congressman McNerney's efforts to help small businesses throughout America.” John Arensmeyer, Founder & CEO of Small Business Majority "Congressman McNerney's re-introduction of the Small Business Relief and Job Creation Act is good news for small businesses. Legislation that incentivizes small employers to grow their businesses and create jobs will help strengthen our economy and move us further down the path to recovery. What’s more, this bill encourages small employers to hire workers who were previously unemployed, which will lower our unemployment rate, put more money in the pockets of consumers and bolster small employers’ bottom lines.” Dennis Lee, Founder & Former CEO of Central Valley Asian American Chamber of Commerce “The Small Business Relief Act is a critical bill for our region and small business owners. Northern California has some of the highest unemployment regions in the country and I appreciate Congressman McNerney for seeking to provide tax incentives to small business owners to help them to hire more people in our area.” Dr. Derron Lee, owner of Midtown Optometry in Stockton “The Small Business Relief and Job Creation Act is important for small business owners. We need all the tax savings possible and this bill will help small business owners create more jobs.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
04.27.2017	(Washington, DC) – Today, the House Natural Resources Committee approved legislation that would authorize a settlement agreement between the United States Department of the Interior and the Westlands Water District, which would, among other things, forgive debt accrued by the Westlands Water District and shift the oversight responsibility of the Westlands drainage plan from federal to state government. In response, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement: “Today I once again took a stand against the authorization of a settlement between the Westlands Water District and the Department of the Interior. “This agreement fails to include key safeguards for the environment and lacks any substantial oversight mechanisms or enforceable milestones. Without specific requirements to monitor performance measurements, this settlement essentially forgives a significant debt without including the proper mitigation requirements to prevent further damage to California farmland and wildlife. “The lack of transparency and public input has resulted in a bailout of the Westlands Water District that comes with a massive $350 million price tag, all at the expense of American taxpayers. Absolving California’s largest and extremely profitable water district of its obligations to the community sets a dangerous precedent for the future.” # # # Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
04.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – In response to President Donald Trump’s proposal to defund the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA), Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) led two bipartisan letters to the House Appropriations Committee imploring Congress to fund the MBDA in the FY2018 appropriations, and recommending that MBDA provide an annual policy report to Congress to address gaps in equity between minority and non-minority owned firms. The MBDA was established by President Richard Nixon in 1969 for “the establishment, preservation, and strengthening of minority business enterprise.” President Trump’s FY18 budget blueprint would defund the MBDA, which is the sole federal agency with the mission to promote the growth of minority-owned businesses. “This is a historic and exciting time for minority-owned businesses, which are expanding in ever increasing numbers, beyond neighborhood retail and service industries and into modern high-tech and manufacturing,” said Rep. McNerney. “We must make every effort to empower and support the growth of minority-owned businesses; their contributions to local economies and communities cannot be overstated.” The MBDA, which is a part of the Department of Commerce, is different from other federal agencies in that it focuses on the unique needs of minority-owned businesses and facilitates middle market and private equity financing among other customized and technical services. In addition, MBDA recruits export-ready Minority Business Enterprises (MBEs) for Secretarial trade missions, multilateral partnerships, and global supply chains. Furthermore, MBDA assists select MBEs with diversifying revenues from federal to private sector contracting and consumer markets, and assists MBEs with partnering, joint ventures, and mergers and acquisitions. “Companies are looking at minority communities as powerful consumers, and we as Americans should look to the same communities as innovators and job creators. MBDA has a significant role in the ecosystem of entrepreneurship and community development. Funding MBDA is and will remain a priority,” said Rep. McNerney. “The National Urban League has always supported efforts such as the MBDA to help create and grow businesses in communities of color. African American businesses are one of the fastest growing segments in the economy, however unemployment in the African American community is still unacceptably high. MBDA Business Centers in addition to the National Urban League’s Entrepreneurship Centers help grow African American businesses to scale to help them hire other people of color, which African Americans are more likely to do than other races. Any budget cuts to MBDA or other programs that help create jobs are counterproductive and should be voted down. We strongly support Representative McNerney’s efforts to increase funding for MBDA and similar efforts that help to ensure jobs in communities of color,” said Donald Cravins, Jr., Senior Vice President for Policy and Executive Director of the National Urban League Washington Bureau. “As a non-profit that has worked for decades to ensure that minorities can achieve the American dream through sustainable entrepreneurship, ASIAN, Inc. thanks Congressman McNerney for his steadfast leadership in supporting the growth of minority-owned businesses in California and across the country. Because of his efforts, Congress has become better equipped to support millions of minority entrepreneurs, who play a critical role in our economy as job creators,” said Lamar Heystek, Director of the San Francisco Minority Business Center. “As a person with over 30 years of experience and knowledge with the Minority Business Development Agency, MBDA has been one of the best programs in the history of this nation for job creation and business development, continued funding of MBDA is imperative because billions of dollars have been generated by the technical assistance and services provided to minority-owned business enterprises across America. I urge Congress to continue and expand funding of its budget for the benefit of the American business enterprise. Minority-owned businesses drive our economy and MBDA has proven to be the fuel. Thank you Representative Jerry McNerney for leading the fight in Congress to keep funding in place for MBDA and for being an ally to minority-owned business enterprises in the California 9th Congressional District,” said Bobby Bivens, Stockton Branch NAACP President. According to a MBDA Fact Sheet, minority-owned businesses contribute $1 trillion in annual U.S. economic output, making up 29% of all U.S. businesses and generating 5.8 million jobs across our country. Congressman McNerney was joined by more than 70 Members of Congress on the letters to the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, (CJS) and Related Agencies. The letters can be read here and here. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
04.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Congressman John Garamendi (CA-03), who represent large portions of the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, introduced H.R. 1738, which would establish the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta National Heritage Area. The legislation mirrors S. 731, introduced by California Senators Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris. S. 731 passed out of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee last week. “The Delta is one of our nation’s greatest national resources. As the largest inland delta in the world, it provides fresh water to communities throughout California and has some of the most productive farming land in the state,” said Congressman Jerry McNerney (D-CA). “It’s essential that we protect and preserve this fragile ecosystem. The Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta National Heritage Act is an important step to ensure that the Delta receives proper recognition for its lasting impact on California.” “The Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta is the largest estuary on the West Coast of the Western hemisphere, and its culture, history and environment must be protected for future generations to enjoy,” said Garamendi. “A Natural Heritage Area Designation will unlock federal dollars to protect the Delta’s sensitive ecology and cultural heritage.” A National Heritage Site designation would authorize $10 million in federal assistance over 15 years for implementing a locally developed management plan. The money would come in the form of matching grants to local governments and nonprofits for environmental, conservation, and economic development projects throughout the Delta. The establishment of a Natural Heritage Area would have no effect on water rights, property rights, or hunting and fishing rights within the designated area. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
04.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced that his office is now accepting submissions for the 2017 National Congressional Art Competition. Sponsored by the United States Congress, this annual competition serves as a way to highlight the artistic talents of high school students across the nation. “Art allows students to expand their creativity while helping them to develop crucial skills,” said Rep. McNerney. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great opportunity to showcase the talents of young artists from my district, and I’m looking forward to seeing the artwork from this year’s participants.” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with this nationwide competition. A panel of judges will select the winning entries, which will be announced at a special ceremony and exhibit. The grand prize winner from the district will be flown to Washington, D.C. along with a guest to attend the overall winners’ awards ceremony in June. The winner’s artwork will also go on display in a busy corridor that leads to the U.S. Capitol, used daily by Members of Congress, staffers, and visitors to Washington, D.C. The second, third and fourth place winners will have their work displayed in one of Congressman McNerney’s three offices, located in Washington, D.C., Stockton, and Antioch. Students and teachers interested in the Congressional Art Competition should visit Rep. McNerney’s website at mcnerney.house.gov for additional information and to download the required release form. Rules for Submissions: The contest is open to all high school students in California’s 9th Congressional District. The deadline to submit artwork is Friday, April 28, 2017. Entries may be up to 26” x 26” x 4” (including the frame), must be two-dimensional, and may not weigh more than 15 pounds. The artwork may be: Paintings – including oil, acrylics, and watercolor Drawings – including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers Collage Prints – including lithographs, silkscreen, and block prints Mixed Media Computer Generated Art Photography All entries must be original in concept, design and execution, and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. Submit your artwork along with your release form at either of Congressman McNerney’s district offices: Antioch Office Stockton Office Office of Congressman Jerry McNerney Office of Congressman Jerry McNerney 4703 Lone Tree Way 2222 Grand Canal Blvd, Suite 7 Antioch, CA 94531 Stockton, CA 95207 Students and teachers may also contact Rep. McNerney’s Stockton office at (209) 476-8552 or his Antioch office at (925) 754-0716 with additional questions. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.02.2017	Washington, DC – As Californians prepare for historic rain and snowpack levels and deal with the consequences of events at the Oroville Dam and devastating flooding throughout the state, Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) introduced H.R. 1233, the Emergency Flood Response Act, to empower local authorities in responding to flood disasters and preventing levee failures. Current Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) regulations put constraints on a local agency’s ability to commit already scarce resources by limiting emergency assistance and work eligible for disaster assistance and reimbursement. “Recent storms have brought severe and unpredictable weather across California, causing tremendous stress to the state’s levee system, and have contributed to the spillway issue at Oroville Dam. In an emergency situation, local authorities need to be able to react quickly. They must be prepared to respond to a disaster scenario, should a levee break or become overwhelmed. Preparation is critical in flood-prone regions, regardless of wet or dry years,” said Rep. McNerney. “With the Emergency Flood Response Act, I want to make sure the local agencies on the ground, specifically those that best know their flood region, have the tools necessary to prepare, plan, and respond effectively and quickly to limit potential damage and harm that can be caused by flooding and damaged levees.” There are over 13,000 miles of levees across California. The Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta region includes more than 1,000 square miles of levee infrastructure, some of which is considered aging and susceptible to structural integrity problems and failure. Rep. McNerney’s legislation directs the Federal Emergency Response Agency (FEMA) to establish an emergency flood activity pilot program to assist flood response efforts in response to a levee failure or potential levee failure, and for other purposes. Last week, Congressman McNerney visited orchards and vineyards in Thornton, CA that were heavily impacted by flooding due to breaks in nearby levees. Rep. McNerney saw firsthand the damage to crops and is please to introduce H.R. 1233, which provides resources for levee failure protection and prevention. The Emergency Flood Response Act intends to help local entities establish and maintain a flood emergency fund through a FEMA competitive grants pilot program. The funds would be used for emergency flood activities and would also ensure a unified command system for response in flood disaster scenarios. These funds would be applied to emergency flood activities that include: pre-planning and emergency action on levee failure prevention; closing levee breaks; making relief cuts and dewatering flooded areas; and limiting the extent, depth, and duration of flood waters in the event of a levee failure. A 2012 report from the American Society of Civil Engineers gave California’s levee system a “D” grade. According to the Army Corps of Engineers’ National Levees Database, nearly half of the 47 levee systems in Sacramento and San Joaquin Counties were classified as “unacceptable” based on their prior periodic inspection. The Emergency Flood Response Act is supported by San Joaquin County. Rep. Garamendi, who represents the Oroville Dam, is an original sponsor of the legislation. H.R. 1233 was referred to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) introduced H.R. 1324, the Securing IoT Act, which requires that Internet of Things (IoT) devices be certified to be in compliance with cybersecurity standards. The bill directs the Federal Communications Commission, in consultation with the National Institute of Standards and Technology, to develop standards that address cybersecurity throughout the lifecycle of the IoT device. “The proliferation of IoT devices creates immense opportunities for our society, including new jobs and efficiencies in all aspects of our everyday lives. However, the security of these devices has not kept up with the rapid pace of innovation and deployment,” said Rep. McNerney. “Security vulnerabilities in IoT devices are likely to pose threats to our national security and endanger our nation’s economy. This is especially concerning given that at least 20 billion devices are anticipated to be in use by 2020. My legislation, the Securing IoT Act, helps to address this issue by requiring that security standards be established for IoT devices and that these devices be certified to meet those standards. The legislation will help strengthen this market and protect consumers, business, and all the benefits that IoT devices offer.” Last fall, Rep. McNerney raised concerns about the distributed denial-of-service attack on Dyn’s servers, which resulted from security weaknesses in IoT devices, and he joined his Democratic colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee in calling for a hearing to examine the matter. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.24.2017	Stockton, CA – Today, Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) celebrated the ribbon cutting ceremony for the opening of the Discovery Challenge Academy, a California National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program to help at-risk teens in San Joaquin County. The Congressman was joined by the California National Guard, San Joaquin County Office of Education, and local elected officials at the ribbon cutting ceremony. “The National Guard Youth ChalleNGe program has helped many at-risk young people learn valuable life skills, establish a strong work ethic, and develop a commitment to community service,” said Rep. McNerney. “I’m happy to have been able to help bring this vital, successful program here to San Joaquin County.” The Discovery Challenge Academy welcomed its inaugural class in January with 116 cadets. The ChalleNGe Program targets teenagers who have dropped out of high school and provides them with the life skills and education needed to help turn their lives around and become productive members of the community. The program is a 5 1/2 month residential program in a military setting. During the academy, students earn 60 high school credits, serve at least 40 hours of community service, and compete for college scholarships. Congressman McNerney worked tirelessly to bring the Discovery Challenge Academy to San Joaquin County, advocating for the program in numerous meetings and communications with Army and National Guard Bureau leaders. Rep. McNerney successfully advocated for an additional $10 million in funding for the program in the FY 2014 Department of Defense (DOD) appropriations bill. He also wrote California legislators asking them to approve state matching funds, helping secure an additional $1.5 million for the program. Additionally, Congressman McNerney sent a letter to the Pentagon asking for the ChalleNGe program in San Joaquin County to commence. The Congressman’s efforts also helped the Army and the California National Guard establish a lease agreement for the ChalleNGe program at the Sharpe Army Depot. Before securing this agreement, the Army National Guard had held up the lease contract at Sharpe because of its interpretation of the rules surrounding such acquisitions. “What the Cal Guard accomplishes with its ChalleNGe academies is as important as anything we do during wildfire season or on the battlefield overseas,” said Maj. Gen. David S. Baldwin, Adjutant General for the California National Guard. “We are a community-based force, and offering these youth a chance to redirect their lives is critical not only to their futures, but to the future of California’s communities.” Congress established the ChalleNGe program in 1993. Presently, there are 38 programs across the nation, with California being recognized for graduating more than 90 percent of its students. California's other ChalleNGe programs, Grizzly Youth Academy in San Luis Obispo and Sunburst Youth Academy in Los Alamitos, hold the highest retention rates in the nation. The ChalleNGe program has proved to be one of the nation’s most effective means for prevention of delinquency and involvement in criminal activities. An independent cost-benefit analysis conducted by RAND Corporation determined that it is cost-effective, with a return on investment of $2.66 for every dollar spent. The program currently operates in 27 states and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is funded through a federal and state partnership, with the federal government contributing 75 percent. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.22.2017	Stockton, CA – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) joined the U.S. Postal Service to dedicate the U.S. Postal facility at 1048 W. Robinhood Drive in Stockton as the W. Ronald Coale Memorial Post Office. Rep. McNerney originally introduced H.R. 1132, to name the post office in honor of W. Ronald Coale, in March of 2015, and the bill was signed into law by President Barack Obama on June 13, 2016. As a result of Congressman’s McNerney’s bill, the post office now bears a plaque with the name of the former Port Commissioner and Stockton champion in recognition of Mr. Coale’s service and dedication to the people of Stockton and the entire community. “Ron Coale was a pillar of the community and a dedicated public servant to the people of Stockton. His efforts and service helped propel Stockton forward, most notably in his fight to transform the Port of Stockton into one of the largest and busiest ports in California,” said Rep. McNerney. “Ron was also a great friend who embodied the spirit of service to others. Many people who visit the post office will be inspired by his legacy that is sure to live on for generations.” Mr. Coale began his service in the United States Army. A veteran of the Korean War and honorably discharged in 1954, military service was the first in what became a lifetime of answering the call to serve in a variety of civic and public capacities. For 22 years, Coale was a member of the Stockton Port Commission, serving as chair of the Commission for three years. On the Commission, Coale played a critical role in securing the land transfer of Rough and Ready Island from the U.S. Navy to the Port in 2000. With the island, the Port of Stockton became the third largest port in California, and the second busiest inland port on the West Coast. A fierce advocate for the Port, Coale was active in the California Marine Affairs Navigation Conference, a statewide association of California Port Authorities, the International Association of Port Authorities, and the Association of Pacific Ports. Coale was elected to the Stockton City Council in 1983. Two years later, he was elected as Vice-Mayor of the council and served the city in that position until 1990. Coale was also an active member on the San Joaquin County Council of Governments, representing the Port of Stockton, Stockton City Council, and Metropolitan Transit District Board of Directors. Coale’s legacy also includes service on the California Public Utilities Commission and the Stockton Port District Board of Port Commissioners. From 2000 to 2001 he was the foreperson for the San Joaquin Grand Jury. Coale was also a member and past chairman of the Stockton Salvation Army Advisory Board, an eight-year gubernatorial appointee to the Atascadero State Hospital Advisory Board, and member of the advisory board for the YMCA of San Joaquin County. A native of Stockton, Coale attended local schools and held a teaching certificate in the field of transportation and distribution from the University of California, Berkeley. W. Ronald Coale passed away in 2014 at the age of 81. He is survived by his two sons, Ronald W. and Michael W. and five grandchildren: Ronald Thomas, Stephanie Lynn, Christopher Aaron, Jeffrey Michael, and Tyler Joseph Coale. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.18.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Jerry McNerney issued the following statement in response to the Senate confirmation of Scott Pruitt as Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. “Any doubt that Mr. Trump would keep his promises to protect the environment were put to an end when he nominated Mr. Pruitt to head the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). By nominating Mr. Pruitt, Trump made clear that he means to halt any progress made by our nation and by extension much of the world, toward fighting climate change. Unfortunately, Mr. Pruitt was confirmed by the U.S. Senate yesterday. His confirmation is a true tragedy for the United States and the world in so many ways. It will hurt the American economy, which is now posed to take the lead in producing clean energy and benefit from the resulting economic growth, including selling that technology to the rest of the world. By placing Mr. Pruitt in charge of the EPA, we will certainly see a significant rollback of the environmental protections that have been so successful in improving the quality of our air and water. Furthermore, the United States has taken a leadership position with respect to combatting climate change, and with our country backing away from its commitment to fight climate change, there will be little incentive for other countries to make the necessary changes and investments to reduce their own carbon emissions, making climate disasters a greater inevitability. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.16.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Mike Thompson (CA-05) will host a town hall meeting on Saturday, February 18th at 10:30 a.m. in Martinez to discuss the importance of protecting the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Medicare, and Medicaid. Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, California has witnessed the most dramatic gains in health coverage nationwide and has provided residents with many insurance options. Repealing the ACA would leave 5.8 million Californians with pre-existing conditions at risk of losing their coverage. The uncertain future of a repeal without a viable replacement has left many people worried about the future of their coverage. Representatives McNerney, DeSaulnier and Thompson invite residents to join them for this town hall meeting to discuss the importance of protecting the ACA and ensuring that all Americans have access to quality, affordable health care. Joint Town Hall with Representatives McNerney (CA-09), DeSaulnier (CA-11) & Thompson (CA-05)Protecting the Affordable Care Act, Medicare, and Medicaid Saturday, February 18, 2017 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. County Board of Supervisors Chambers, Room 107 651 Pine Street Martinez, CA 94553 ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.30.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Jerry McNerney issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s executive order imposing a ban on travel from seven countries and suspending the refugee program. “President Trump’s executive order on immigration is a sharp departure from our long and proud history of welcoming immigrants to our nation. It unfairly targets individuals based on their religion and country of origin, hurting both refugees who are fleeing persecution and others who have been valuable aides to our military in the fight against terrorism. This policy has already started tearing apart families and will hurt our national security by giving terrorist groups a significant recruiting tool. We need to stand together to repudiate and overturn this destructive policy.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.19.2017	Stockton, CA – Congressman Jerry McNerney released the following statement in response to efforts by Republicans in Congress to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “The Affordable Care Act has done much more than bring quality, affordable health coverage to millions of Americans. It has increased access to health care in this country by eliminating pre-existing condition exclusions, setting caps on out-of-pocket costs and ensuring families no longer face the threat of bankruptcy due to illness or medical emergencies. The ACA also lowers prescription drug costs for seniors and prevents insurance companies from charging women more for health coverage. “I oppose efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. The law is not perfect, but repealing the ACA will shock our health care system, causing millions of people to lose their coverage and costing thousands of lost jobs in my district alone. Instead of wasting time and resources to repeal a law that benefits millions of people, we should work together to make improvements and build on the progress we’ve made.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.17.2017	Stockton, CA – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement regarding the upcoming presidential inauguration. “I will not be attending the inauguration of President-Elect Donald Trump on January 20th. Instead, I will be in my district serving my constituents, as I was elected to do. “The election of Mr. Trump lacks legitimacy due to Russian hacking, which Mr. Trump encouraged, the FBI’s biased involvement, and other irregularities, and I cannot sanction the inauguration by attending the ceremony. However, because I support the peaceful transition of power and respect the office of the presidency, I will work with the new administration when possible to deliver for my district and move our country forward.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.11.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Mike Thompson (CA-05), Jerry McNerney (CA-11), and Doris Matsui (CA-06) reacted to the Secretarial Order from outgoing Interior Secretary Sally Jewell that outlines actions for the next administration to take to address the effects of drought and climate change on California's water supply and listed species. The order provides a timeline and directions to the new administration for the construction of the WaterFix tunnels: “The proposed WaterFix tunnels threaten to decimate the Delta’s ecosystem, destroy thousands of jobs, and risk the livelihoods of countless Californians. We were deeply disappointed to see Secretary Jewell and the Obama administration make this a priority despite repeated assurances that they did not support this project. The tunnels are a narrow-minded approach that will do great harm to the Delta region, and should not become a top-priority for the next administration.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney’s bill to protect Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Businesses (SDVOSB) was signed into law by the President as part of a veterans omnibus package that was passed by Congress. McNerney’s bill, H.R. 1313, the Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business Relief Act, will protect small businesses owned by disabled veterans in the event that the business owner passes away, by providing a longer transition period during which the business would keep its SDVOSB status and any Department of Veterans Affairs contracts associated with that status. “I have worked hard to ensure that our veteran small business owners have an opportunity to grow and succeed in the local economy. They have distinctive skills and a commitment to community that make them uniquely qualified to become part of one of the best economic drivers we have in our country – small businesses,” said Congressman McNerney. In the United States there are an estimated 500,000 Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses. Currently, if a veteran who was rated 100 percent disabled and who owned a service-disabled veteran-owned small business passes away, the surviving spouse has 10 years to transition the business away from service-disabled veteran-owned small business status. However, if the veteran business owner was rated less than 100 percent disabled or dies of a non-service connected injury, the surviving spouse only has one year to transition the business for contracts with the VA. The SDVOSB Act will allow a service-disabled veteran-owned small business, whose principal owner passes away and was rated less than 100 percent disabled at the time of death, with a sensible three-year transition period from SDVOSB status with the VA. H.R. 1313 was included in the passage of H.R. 6416, the Jeff Miller and Richard Blumenthal Veterans Health Care and Benefits Improvement Act of 2016. The SDVOSB Act is supported by the Paralyzed Veterans of America, AMVETS, VFW, IAVA, and the American Legion. "Service disabled veteran owned businesses play a critical role in federal contracting,” said Carl Blake, Government Relations Director of the Paralyzed Veterans of America. “PVA gladly supports this legislation that will ensure that the SDVOSB is not immediately penalized by the passing of the veteran business owner who honorably served this Nation." “AMVETS supports The Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business Relief Act, which would ensure some much needed equity to the surviving spouse of veterans rated at less than 100% disability.” said Diane M. Zumatto, AMVETS National Legislative Director. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Despite Congressman McNerney’s efforts, the damaging California drought rider was not removed from S. 612, the WIIN Act, which funds water resources projects across the country. While Rep. McNerney applauds the important provisions to fund water infrastructure projects in the original bill (commonly referred to as the Water Resources Development Act), he remains concerned about the devastating impacts the drought rider will bring to the Delta especially under an incoming Trump administration. Because this rider will weaken environmental protections for fisheries and the economies dependent upon the Delta, Rep. McNerney will continue to fight against the implementation of this misguided language. “The Water Resources Development Act is an essential, historically bipartisan bill, so I’m disappointed that House Republicans inserted this destructive rider. They may have won this battle, but we will never give up the fight.” said Rep. McNerney. “I along with a strong coalition of Representatives and Senators from Western States will be vigilant in protecting the Pacific fishing industry, fisheries, farmers, families, and natural habitats of our communities. We need to fight back at all levels, including at the state and local level to protect the California Delta. My delegation and California’s agencies and environmental organizations will continue to pursue solutions that benefit the entire state and this latest attack on our bedrock environmental protections will not stop our progress.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – Earlier this week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Jerry McNerney’s (CA-09) bipartisan bill, H.R. 6394, the Improving Broadband Access for Veterans Act of 2016. Congressman Adam Kinzinger (IL-16) was the lead Republican co-sponsor. A companion bill has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ). “Having broadband internet service is important for the more than 20 million veterans across our nation, with the highest population residing in California. A broadband internet connection helps veterans apply for jobs more easily, communicate with family and friends, keep up with current events, and obtain health care services. Veterans face many challenges when they return home; being without broadband access should not be one of those challenges. I commend my colleague Rep. Kinzinger for his efforts on this bill and the House for passing it with overwhelming support,” said Rep. McNerney. Low-income veterans and veterans residing in rural areas are at a higher likelihood of not having broadband internet service. The U.S. Census Bureau and the Pew Research Center both report that broadband adoption rates are significantly lower among Americans who live at or below the federal poverty level. Analysis by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration at the U.S. Department of Commerce further finds that broadband adoption rates in rural areas of the country are lower than in urban areas. H.R. 6394 directs the Federal Communications Commission to produce a report examining the current state of broadband internet access for veterans and what can be done to increase access, with a focus on low-income veterans and veterans residing in rural areas. The report must include findings and recommendations for Congress and be completed within one year of the bill’s enactment. “The findings and recommendations from this report will be key for paving the way to get more veterans connected and help close the digital divide,” said Rep. McNerney. “I am proud to co-lead H.R. 6394, which aims to improve broadband access for our veterans – especially those in rural areas, or those unable to afford it. After serving tirelessly to protect our country, veterans face many challenges when they return home. This bill is the first step towards alleviating one piece of the transition back into civilian life through the benefits afforded by broadband access – from connecting with family and friends, applying for jobs, accessing information on benefits and health services, and much more. Thanks to Congressman Jerry McNerney for working with me to introduce this legislation.” said Rep. Kinzinger. H.R. 6394 passed the House by 411-4. A companion bill, S. 3501, has been introduced by Senators Blumenthal and Booker. “This important legislation will bring to light the key hurdles hindering veterans’ access to broadband, and pave the way for meaningful action to ensure veterans have the information and tools they need to successfully navigate the transition from the armed services to civilian employment. Access to broadband is essential to conduct daily activities, pursue job and housing opportunities, obtain quality health care services, and stay in touch with family members,” said Senator Blumenthal. “In the digital age, broadband access is not a luxury — it’s a necessity. The Improving Broadband Access for Veterans Act will help close the digital divide and will ensure that the men and women who have sacrificed so much for our country have access to tools for communication and future success,” said Senator Booker. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) continued his fight to protect the Delta and families, farms, and businesses that rely upon it. Rep. McNerney spoke on the floor to criticize Republicans for attaching a last-minute rider to a bipartisan bill that would weaken environmental protections for salmon and other native fisheries in the Delta, while doing nothing to address California’s ongoing water shortages. “As the Representative of the California Delta, I have witnessed a troubling pattern of attacks against the health of the Delta and the communities it supports. This week, House Republicans attached a California drought rider to S. 612, otherwise known as the bipartisan Water Resources Development Act. This highly controversial language was developed behind closed doors without input from the communities most impacted. This rider would devastate the Delta, exacerbate salinity intrusion and water quality issues, and pick winners and losers in an already drought-stressed State,” said Rep. McNerney. Representatives from Washington, Oregon, and Arizona including the ranking members of all relevant committees have joined California to speak out about the damage this legislation would do in their states, including the devastation it would bring to the Pacific fishing industry, fisheries, and natural habitats.” “Although the bill has passed the House, I’m hoping the Senate is able to remove this damaging provision especially considering the agenda of a Republican controlled Congress and the incoming Administration. Instead of pitting communities against each other, we need to support conservation programs, water recycling initiatives, and stormwater capture projects. We must prioritize solutions that involve all stakeholders,” said Rep. McNerney. Yesterday, Rep. McNerney led members from California, Oregon, Arizona in sending a letter to President Obama urging his Administration to issue a veto threat to S. 612, the WIIN Act, otherwise known as the WRDA bill. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.31.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Energy and Commerce Committee Democratic leaders today sent a letter to full Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) requesting a hearing on the recent cyberattack that caused prolonged outages on popular websites in the U.S., including Twitter and Netflix. Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (D-CO), Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and Committee member Jerry McNerney (D-CA) write that the recent cyberattack raises serious questions about the vulnerability of internet infrastructure, as well as the ability of the U.S. to prevent similar attacks in the future. “The expansion of technology and increasing connectivity of devices make it imperative that we understand what happened in this recent cyberattack and assess what can be learned from it,” the five Committee leaders write in their letter. “This could have wide-sweeping effects not only on telecommunications and Internet regulation, but also on many other areas under the Committee’s jurisdiction. We urge you to hold hearings as soon as possible.” In the early morning of October 21, 2016, a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack was directed at the server infrastructure of Dynamic Network Services, Inc. — known as Dyn — which offers domain name system (DNS) services to some of the most trafficked sites on the internet. Attackers reportedly used malware to organize a network of Internet of Things devices to overwhelm Dyn’s servers with over one trillion bits of data every second, leaving many websites inaccessible to users across the country. DDoS attacks are a serious concern for consumers and businesses alike, leading the Democratic leaders to write that the Committee is, “uniquely positioned” to investigate these increasingly common and disruptive cyberattacks. A copy of the letter is available here. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09), who serves on the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, issued the following statement regarding yesterday’s distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks on Dyn. “I am deeply concerned about the widespread DDoS attacks on Dyn’s servers. Dozens of major websites were taken down by these attacks, demonstrating the far-reaching consequences that cyber security weaknesses can have for millions of Americans. Not only does this kind of attack limit access to important information, delay financial transactions, and disrupt our nation’s commerce flows, but it also points to significant vulnerabilities in our national security. These attacks are part of a recent trend in the growing number of DDoS attacks and are simply unacceptable.” “It is urgent for Congress to examine this issue along with ways to improve our cyber security so that we are able to better protect against malicious parties, including hostile state actors, from interfering with our networks. Doing this will be vital for the strength of our economy and our national security.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.18.2016	Stockton, CA – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced the start of his annual “Holiday Cards for Our Troops” program. In previous years, the Congressman’s district offices collected more than 10,000 cards from the community with personal messages of gratitude and hope for our men and women in uniform. Rep. McNerney is again inviting constituents to submit cards to his district offices that will be delivered to troops at home and overseas during the upcoming holiday season. “Our servicemen and women make tremendous sacrifices for our country throughout the year, and oftentimes the holiday season can be difficult for those stationed away from home,” said Rep. McNerney. “This holiday card program provides an opportunity for the community to express their gratitude and thank our troops for their service and all that they do to keep us safe. Many service members have told me that these cards, with their messages of encouragement and support, help boost morale when they cannot be home with their families and friends during the holiday season.” The holiday cards will be sent to troops stationed overseas in packages organized by the Contra Costa Blue Star Moms, East Bay Blue Star Moms, and A Million Thanks. To participate in the program, make or purchase a holiday card and write a message of thanks inside to a service member. Cards must be delivered to Rep. McNerney’s office in Stockton or Antioch by Friday, Nov. 4, 2016. Cards should remain unaddressed and inside unsealed envelopes. Holiday Card Guidelines: Make sure to sign your card Use salutations such as “Dear Service Member.” Cards addressed to specific individuals cannot be delivered through this program Do not include inserts such as photographs or candy Please no glitter or confetti Cards should not have an address or a return address Cards should be placed inside unsealed envelopes ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.05.2016	Washington, DC - Today, Reps. John Garamendi (CA-03), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Mike Thompson (CA-01) and Doris Matsui (CA-06), each of whom represent communities that would be severely impacted by the Governor’s California WaterFix, delivered a letter to the Bureau of Reclamation and the California Department of Water Resources calling for responses to a recent cost-benefit analysis of the California WaterFix Tunnels project The analysis, prepared by Dr. Jeffrey Michael at the University of the Pacific, raises key questions about the plan. The letter also raises a number of questions based upon another recent and unofficially released cost-benefit analysis prepared by David Sunding for the California Natural Resources Agency. “The analysis done by Dr. Michael shows that the advertised benefits of the Twin Tunnels simply don’t hold water,” said Congressman Garamendi. “Both cost-benefit breakdowns of the WaterFix that have been released to the public raise major questions about the viability of the project, and its funding sources.” “The numbers don’t pencil out for farmers south of the Delta,” said Congressman McNerney. “Delta farming operations could be severely disrupted, and endangered species are at risk of not surviving the consequences of this massive project. The WaterFix plan’s costs outweigh the alleged benefits and would require a large federal subsidy, while causing irreparable harm to Delta and Northern California communities who have not been adequately included in project negotiations. I urge the state to move away from the flawed WaterFix tunnels plan and implement the cost-effective policy solutions already outlined in the California Water Action Plan – like conservation, recycling, increased efficiency, and storage – that will ensure sustainable water supplies for a healthy Delta ecosystem and California’s farmers and communities statewide.” “Both reports confirm what we’ve long suspected –WaterFix doesn’t make good financial sense for California,” said Rep. Thompson. “Under these analyses, water users and even federal taxpayers would be on the hook for investments in a project that can’t promise better water deliveries. State and federal water agencies must not be allowed to squander taxpayer dollars on infrastructure that would devastate the Delta without any guaranteed benefit.” The letter can be viewed here. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
09.30.2016	Stockton, CA – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) strongly supported the passage of H.R. 5325, which funds the Department of Veterans Affairs’ planned community based outpatient clinic in French Camp, CA and which was signed into law by President Obama on Thursday. H.R. 5325, the Continuing Appropriations and Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017, and Zika Response and Preparedness Act, provides $194,430,000 for the French Camp Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC). “This is a victory for veterans in the Central Valley who have waited too long for the French Camp VA clinic to get off the ground. The VA now has the funding to finish the design, break ground, and get this facility built,” said Rep. McNerney. “I will continue to see this project through to completion so that our veterans have improved health care access in a safe and modern facility.” The French Camp CBOC will serve 87,000 veterans across a wide geographic area that includes San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Calaveras, Tuolumne and Amador Counties, among others. Congress approved the Central Valley community based outpatient clinic and community living center in 2004 as part of the VA’s Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services Initiative. In 2010, Congress appropriated $55 million for land acquisition and to fund construction planning. The 150,000 sq. ft. French Camp clinic will include mental health, primary care, physical therapy, occupational therapy, radiology, laboratory, pharmacy, audiology and speech pathology, dental, eye, prosthetics, and other specialty services on a telehealth basis such as podiatry, orthopedics, cardiology and rheumatology. Earlier this year, Rep. McNerney sent a letter to House and Senate Appropriations Committee members urging them to include funding for the French Camp clinic in any budget legislation and to come to an agreement as soon as possible. The letter can be read here. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
09.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09), who serves on both the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology and the Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, introduced legislation to increase broadband internet access for veterans. The Improving Broadband Access for Veterans Act of 2016 (H.R. 6165) directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to initiate a Notice of Inquiry examining veterans’ current access to broadband internet service and what can be done to increase access, with a focus on low-income veterans and veterans residing in rural areas. “Broadband access is critical for the more than 20 million veterans living across the nation, with the highest population in California. Broadband access enables veterans to more easily apply for jobs and obtain necessary vocational training, connect with family and friends, get important information about their benefits and military records, and access health care services. Veterans, who fight tirelessly to protect our country, face many challenges when they return home. Not having internet access makes what is already an incredibly difficult transition process even harder,” said Rep. McNerney. Veterans living below the federal poverty level or in rural areas are less likely to have broadband access. According to the Pew Research Center, less than half of Americans living below the federal poverty level have broadband internet access at home. Analysis by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration at the U.S. Department of Commerce further finds that internet adoption in rural areas is lower than in urban areas. “It is critical that we find ways to ensure that the more than 1.4 million veterans living below the federal poverty level and the 5.3 million veterans residing in rural communities have broadband access,” said Rep. McNerney. “By directing the FCC to examine current broadband access for veterans and what can be done to increase it, the Improving Broadband Access for Veterans Act will pave the way for getting more veterans online. By further directing the FCC to focus on veterans residing below the federal poverty line and in rural areas, my bill will help make sure these veterans are not left behind.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
08.15.2016	What: “Congress at Your Corner” event to meet with constituents. Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host a “Congress at Your Corner” event, where he will meet with constituents. The Congressman and his staff will also be available to help constituents with any assistance with federal agencies and related issues. When: Thursday, August 18th at 9:30 a.m. PST Where: Lathrop Senior Center 15707 Fifth Street Lathrop, CA Meet your Congressman on Thursday morning, August 18th at the senior center in Lathrop, CA. Rep. Jerry McNerney will hear directly from constituents on important issues that affect their lives. The Congressman will also update attendees on the latest from our nation’s capital and talk about what he is doing to serve the people and communities of California’s 9th Congressional District. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
08.11.2016	Stockton, CA – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to the California State Legislature’s Joint Legislative Audit Committee voting to approve an audit of the California WaterFix Project funding: “Since the Governor’s tunnels project would devastate the Delta region and will cost at least $20 billion dollars, it is more than appropriate for such a large infrastructure project to go through an official audit to determine its financial feasibility. I’m glad to see the Joint Legislative Audit Committee do its due diligence to get an audit of the costs and assess potential misuse of funds. I have said before that the tunnels project is a misguided strategy that not only wastes billions of dollars, but also threatens the way of life for an entire region while creating no new water in the process. As California experiences its fifth year of severe drought with projections of worsening droughts in the future, we are better off using limited financial resources to secure our water supply through investments that expand water recycling programs and other solutions that boost regional self-sufficiency across the state. I look forward to the State Auditor’s findings, and I will continue offering solutions that are a better use of taxpayers’ resources.” To learn more about the scope of the audit, visit: https://www.auditor.ca.gov/pdfs/analyses/2016-132.pdf. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
08.04.2016	Stockton, CA – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) participated in Startup Day Across America, a national initiative to highlight the entrepreneurship and innovation of startup businesses, by touring the research and development center for Sunverge Energy, a renewable energy company focused on intelligent energy storage and distributed energy resource management. The Congressman’s visit illustrated the important role of startup businesses as job creators in local economies, and provided a forum to discuss the challenges that startups face, in an effort to help expand startup opportunities in California’s 9th Congressional District. “Startups and entrepreneurs play a vital role in our nation’s economy by helping to address some of our most pressing issues, and more young companies should be developing right here in San Joaquin County. I’m proud to participate in Startup Day Across America to recognize the job-creating contributions of local companies like Sunverge Energy and others that harness innovation and ingenuity to promote greater renewable energy use and improve grid reliability,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “We can do more to foster startup opportunities and bring them to the region by promoting collaboration and resource sharing, investing in STEM education programs to prepare students to lead these companies of the future, and supporting policies that help turn innovative, unique ideas into America’s next great startup venture.” Sunverge Energy is best known for its Solar Integration System (SIS). According to Sunverge, the SIS is a distributed energy storage and management appliance made up of powerful storage batteries, electronics, and system-management software running in the cloud. This system, used by consumers and utilities, helps lower energy costs, increases energy reliability, strengthens the grid, and accelerates the adoption and integration of distributed renewable energy. “Sunverge welcomes Rep. McNerney’s visit on Startup Day Across America and applauds his leadership on this issue of crucial importance to both the environment and our economy,” said Sunverge Co-Founder and CEO Ken Munson. “Six years ago, Sunverge was a new company with new ideas for changing the way we manage renewable energy. Today, thanks to the support of leaders like Rep. McNerney, Sunverge employs more than 70 people in California, Georgia, Oregon, Massachusetts and Australia, and we are on track to double in size next year as we continue to develop innovative solutions in distributed, renewable energy for consumers and utilities.” Sunverge Energy was founded in Stockton, CA in 2009. The company’s headquarters is now located in San Francisco, while it runs its research and development operations in Stockton. An analysis of CrunchBase and AngelList, two startup online databases, shows that there are fewer startups in areas like San Joaquin and Contra Costa Counties relative to the greater Bay Area region. Startup Day Across America, a bipartisan and bicameral effort, provides local entrepreneurs with an opportunity to educate Members of Congress about the challenges they are facing and provide input on how policymakers can support their efforts to test new ideas, create new products, and grow their business. To learn more about Startup Day Across America visit: www.startupdayacrossamerica.com. Navigating the tricky field of startups and entrepreneurial opportunities can be difficult for people outside the entrepreneur community. This is why Rep. McNerney recently introduced the Strengthening Technical Assistance, Resources, and Training to Unleash the Potential of Veterans (STARTUP Vets) Act of 2016. This legislation would connect veterans aspiring to become business owners with technical and financial resources via incubators and accelerators that commit to creating more veteran-owned and operated businesses. Rep. McNerney is a member of the U.S. House Energy and Power Subcommittee within the House Energy and Commerce Committee and also co-chairs the House Grid Caucus. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.20.2016	Washington – Representative Jerry McNerney (CA-09) is calling for increased resources for law enforcement to boost mental health response training programs through legislation he recently introduced in Congress. The Mental Health Training Enhancement for First Responders Act of 2016 (H.R. 5864) is an effort to give law enforcement and first responders the necessary tools to better understand the signs and symptoms of mental health and assess the impact on individuals, families, communities, and those with the potential to enter the criminal justice system. “Law enforcement officers and first responders across the country are faced with difficult and often unpredictable situations on a daily basis that require careful response to ensure public safety. My Mental Health Training Enhancement for First Responders Act aims to provide officers and law enforcement personnel with appropriate intervention tools and techniques to address interactions involving individuals with mental illness who might be experiencing a crisis,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “Our police and first responders sacrifice much to keep us safe, and making investments in their training and skills development ensures they are best prepared to protect our communities.” Rep. McNerney’s legislation calls for specialized training that would provide officers with the tools to recognize the signs and symptoms of mental illnesses; stabilization and de-escalation techniques; disposition options; community resources; and funding for states to create a database for all public safety and outreach. The training should be facilitated by mental health personnel, experienced officers and other stakeholders and include role-playing scenarios and group problem-solving exercises; and address issues specific to local communities; in addition to providing cross training exercises with law enforcement and mental health professionals. The bill would also make funding available for mental health training for call-takers and 911 dispatchers that includes the following recommendations: Asking if there is a history of mental health, drug abuse, violence or victimization Determining if the person poses a harm to him/herself and/or others; Ascertaining if there is a weapon involved Establishing interagency sharing of best practice standards Providing supplemental training with a concise list of questions to ask compiled by mental health professionals Rep. McNerney’s legislation also looks to improve mental health response by leveraging community partnerships between schools and community and faith-based organizations. The bill amends the Ounce of Prevention Grant program focused on mentoring, tutoring, and job placement assistance, to include mental health professionals and allows for grants to be used to place law enforcement officials at participating schools. It also adds “mental health agencies” as a designee in the Community Schools Youth Services Program. In developing this legislation, the Congressman met with a series of stakeholders from local law enforcement, mental health experts and advocates, juvenile protection and delinquency groups, gang violence prevention, education leaders, community services, and other non-profit organizations throughout California’s 9th Congressional District. H.R. 5864 has the support of the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI). In a letter, Mary Giliberti, Chief Executive Officer for NAMI wrote the following: “Due largely to a lack of adequate mental health resources, police and other law enforcement officers throughout the country have become first responders to people with mental illness experiencing crises. Unfortunately, these officers generally are not trained to effectively respond to these difficult situations. The consequences can be harmful and even deadly for these officers or the people they are responding to… Thus, the Mental Health Training for First Responders Act is both timely and crucial. We appreciate your [Congressman McNerney’s] leadership introducing this bill.” H.R. 5864 has been referred to House Education and the Workforce Committee. Rep. McNerney has been a strong advocate for making more resources available to local law enforcement communities, pushing Congress to include robust funding for the COPS (Community Oriented Policing) Technology Grants and Hiring programs. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.19.2016	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced today that he has introduced legislation aimed at reducing truancy in our schools and keeping students on the track for achieving academic success. The Keep Students in School Act of 2016 (H.R. 5862) would provide local education agencies with more resources to improve student retention and engagement and provide support to families of at-risk children, and for other purposes. “Patterns of truancy and a lack of school attendance that begin at an early age can lead students down the wrong path toward poor academic performance or dropping out of school entirely. It is crucial that our schools are able to make early investments in student engagement and my Keep Students in School Act ensures that our educators and parents have the resources needed to effectively address the different factors that contribute to students staying in school,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “Efforts made early in the educational journey of at-risk students will help curb the dropout rate, prepare our young people to become productive members of our communities, and have long-term benefits for society.” Rep. McNerney’s legislation outlines a series of programs that the local education agencies (LEA) can establish or expand on to improve student retention and academic outcomes using the grant funding. This includes the following: Electronic attendance programs to collect and maintain attendance data to inform intervention strategies to boost attendance. After-school programs and recreational activities to improve student engagement and to establish a student retention and engagement policy. Student Absence policies that require schools to make phone calls to the parents of an at-risk child the same day that the child’s absence is noted. Collaborative efforts between schools, local agencies, and social workers to create programs focused on youth violence prevention to address issues facing at-risk children. Resources and support for parents of at-risk children, including school counseling; collaboration with community organizations to facilitate access to resources and support, including fulfilling any needs with respect to at-risk children created by budget deficits. Establish or expand a mentoring program under which a community volunteer is paired with an at-risk child who attends an elementary school to provide homework assistance and encourage attendance. Provide at least one licensed social worker for elementary schools and one licensed social worker for high schools served by the LEA. The legislation also allows LEAs to use the grant establish a teacher training and development program that focuses on issues relating to racial inequality and poverty. National data shows that students from low-income families are 2.4 times more likely to drop out of school than students from middle-income families and 10.5 times more likely than those that come from a higher-income family. African Americans and Hispanics are at a greater risk of dropping out than whites. Nearly 40 percent of all Hispanics students who dropout will do so before the 8th grade. Studies point to clear indicators for whether a student will drop out of school. Some of these include: grade retention; poor academic performance; high absenteeism; behavior problems; a lack of supportive adult figures at home or school; among other indicators. The Keep Students in School Act would also establish a federal task force to better address the hardships facing disadvantaged youth in our country. The task force would look at a series of factors that contribute to truancy and poor academic performance. This would include home environment factors like exposure to domestic violence and alcohol or drug abuse; economic factors including poverty, single-parent homes, frequent housing mobility, parents who work multiple jobs, lack of adequate transportation to school, lack of affordable childcare, and working students; and school environment factors, like hardships within the academic environment, including overcrowded classrooms, discriminatory attitudes of teachers and administrators, hostility from other students, lack of flexibility regarding the cultural or learning needs of the student, and inconsistent procedures for dealing with truancy. The task force would coordinate interagency efforts to address the hardships mentioned above and develop a comprehensive work plan that identifies and implements improvements to the federal programs by eliminating ineffective programs, redirecting resources; consolidating efforts of successful programs and incorporating positive youth development practices. San Joaquin County Superintendent of Schools James Mousalimas voiced support for the legislation. “Student success begins with student attendance and engagement. The grant program described in Congressman McNerney’s bill would help support our schools’ efforts to engage students, support families, and reduce truancy. Students who attend school regularly have more academic success and are able to pursue their college and career goals,” said Mousalimas. Rep. McNerney’s legislation is also supported by Give Every Child a Chance, a non-profit organization that provides afterschool programs to over 40 locations in San Joaquin County. “We are proud to support The Keeping Students in School Act introduced by Congressman McNerney. We support programs and funding opportunities that will positively impact the education of our youth and will assist them in becoming productive adults. This proposal will provide resources to better monitor student attendance and partner with outreach programs that improve student retention. This proposal will also support reaching out to at-risk children, teacher development, after school programs, collaboration with community based organizations and encourage parent participation in the education of their children,” said Carol Davis, CEO of Give Every Child A Chance. H.R. 5862 has been referred to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.15.2016	Washington – The Congressional Campaign Finance Reform Caucus (CFR Caucus), co-chaired by Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Rep. Walter Jones (NC-03), has expanded its membership with the recent addition of Rep. Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) and Rep. Jim Langevin (RI-02). This brings the total caucus membership to 31 representatives. The CRF Caucus also held its second meeting focused on contribution disclosure requirements, and the role of the Federal Elections Commission and its ability to enforce existing campaign finance laws. “Campaign finance reform is a bipartisan issue and there is tremendous support from the American people who want to see real, substantive changes to limit the coercive influence of money in politics. The Congressional Campaign Finance Reform Caucus seeks to be a forum for the kind of discussions needed to turn that enthusiasm into policy change and lays the foundation for new ideas and solutions to bring reform to the system,” said Rep. McNerney. “We need to look at ways to bring transparency to the process through greater disclosure requirements of contributions, examine the Federal Election Commission’s ability to enforce current rules, and explore other avenues that will restore the integrity of our democracy.” “I am greatly troubled by the undue influence that fat cat lobbyists and special interests have in Washington, DC. Now, more than ever, secretive special interest money plays an enormous role in our electoral process and in governing. I have long advocated for returning power to the people and getting big money out of politics. Forming the Campaign Finance Reform Caucus was another step in that direction and I am pleased that our ranks are growing. I’m looking forward to continuing our work when Congress reconvenes in September,” said Congressman Walter Jones. The CFR Caucus is comprised of Members of Congress who believe that our country’s existing campaign finance system is broken, and it is in need of substantive changes to put the voice of the people back into our electoral process. The current system is corrupted by excessive amounts of money from both sides of the aisle. This ever-increasing amount of money flowing into the U.S. political system distorts the electoral process and stifles the ability of elected officials to effectively govern and represent their constituents. At the most recent CFR Caucus meeting, members heard from Trevor Potter, President of the Campaign Legal Center and a former Chairman of the Federal Election Commission. Mr. Potter made the point that a high percentage of voters in both parties are calling for campaign finance reform to be addressed. In addition, he discussed various ways to reform the Federal Election Commission so that the agency could continue to carry out its enforcement duties. The CFR Caucus held its inaugural meeting in April of this year. Attendees were briefed by experts from the Congressional Research Service on the history of campaign finance policy and how that policy affects our politics today. A majority of Americans say fundamental changes need to be made to our campaign finance system. A 2015 NY Times/CBS poll found that 84 percent of Americans say money has too much influence in politics, and 85 percent of those surveyed said the campaign finance system should be either completely rebuilt or fundamentally changed. The CFR Caucus is committed to shining a bright light on the undue influence of money on the political process of electing our officials, and some day-to-day government operations, expenditures, programs, and institutional functions. The Caucus will also provide a forum to discuss and advance different solutions to reform the way campaigns are financed in this country in order to restore the voice of the voters. Rep. McNerney has been a vocal advocate for changes to our campaign finance system. The Congressman has introduced H.J.Res.31, a constitutional amendment to limit campaign contributions to individuals and prevent heavily-financed special interests and foreign investments from influencing our elections. The Congressman’s legislation specifies individual citizens or public election financing or voter education systems as the only sources of funding to directly or indirectly support or oppose campaigns for election to public office or to state ballot measures. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.15.2016	What: “Congress at Your Corner” event to meet with constituents. To celebrate July being National Ice Cream Month, Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host a “Congress at Your Corner” event at a local ice cream shop, where he will meet with constituents. The Congressman and his staff will also be available to help constituents with any assistance with federal agencies and related issues. When: Thursday, July 21st at 3:00 p.m. PST Where: House of Ice Cream at 947 N. El Dorado Street, Stockton, CA 95202 Get the scoop and meet your Congressman on Thursday afternoon, July 21th at House of Ice Cream in Stockton, CA. Rep. Jerry McNerney will hear directly from constituents on important issues that affect their lives. The Congressman will also update attendees on the latest from our nation’s capital and talk about what he is doing to serve the people and communities of California’s 9th Congressional District. Like many Americans, Congressman Jerry McNerney loves ice cream, and California is a place where a lot of ice cream gets made. The California Milk Advisory Board ranks California as America’s top producer of ice cream. California produced 127 million gallons of ice cream in 2013 according to the board. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.15.2016	What: “Congress at Your Corner” event to meet with constituents. Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host a “Congress at Your Corner” event to meet with constituents and hear their concerns. The Congressman and his staff will also be available to help constituents with any assistance with federal agencies and related issues. When: Wednesday, July 20th at 3:00 p.m. PST Where: Oakley Chamber of Commerce 3330 Main Street Suite B, Oakley, CA Meet your Congressman on Wednesday afternoon, July 20th at the Oakley Chamber of Commerce. Rep. Jerry McNerney will hear directly from his constituents on important issues that affect their lives. The Congressman will also update attendees on the latest from our nation’s capital and talk about what he is doing to serve the people and communities of California’s 9th Congressional District. After the “Congress at Your Corner” event, Rep. McNerney will join constituents at Guanatos Ice Cream, a local ice cream shop, to celebrate July as National Ice Cream Month. Guanatos Ice Cream is located at 3330 Main Street, next-door to the Oakley Chamber of Commerce. Rep. McNerney is expected to arrive at 4:00 p.m. PST. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.14.2016	Washington – This week, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) continued his unrelenting fight to protect the health of the Delta estuary and the entire region against ongoing harmful Republican tactics. Rep. McNerney offered an amendment to the House Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill to strike Rep. David Valadao’s H.R. 2898 rider language that would have weakened environmental protections for salmon and other native fisheries in the Delta and Northern California, while doing nothing to address California’s dire water issues. “As the Representative of the California Delta, I have witnessed a troubling pattern of persistent attacks against the Endangered Species Act and the health of the Delta. I made this point clear in a recent opinion piece, and I want to reiterate that Democrats must stay united in order to protect one of our most precious resources. The Republican strategy has reached a new low by desperately attaching riders to every piece of legislation moving forward, which also thwarts regular order. This is why I have responded in kind with amendments to strike harmful riders from H.R. 2898, that were attached in the Energy and Water Development Appropriations legislation a couple of months ago. Along with California and Oregon members, I also urged House and Senate leadership to reject the same riders from being attached to the House Energy bill. Yesterday, Congress voted on my amendment to strike these same riders from H.R. 5538, the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. “Although my amendment failed, it would have prevented damaging riders in the underlying bill from permanently overriding protections for salmon and other native fisheries in California’s Delta estuary. California’s ongoing drought - not federal environmental laws - is the primary reason for low water supplies across the state. These riders from H.R. 2898 do nothing to solve California’s dire water issues or address drought across the West. Instead, they preempt state laws, reduce management flexibility, and roll back our nation’s fundamental environmental laws. A coalition of representatives from Washington, Oregon, and Arizona have joined California to speak out about the damage this legislation would do in their states, including the devastation it would bring to the Pacific fishing industry, fisheries, and natural habitat. Instead of pitting communities against each other, we need to support water conservation programs, infrastructure improvements, and innovative water recycling initiatives. We need solutions that involve all stakeholders. “Mr. Trump, the presumed Republican nominee for President, has already weighed in and further distorted California’s drought and water scarcity crisis. He and Republican members are committed to an aggressive strategy to undo resource protections that my colleagues and I have fought so hard for because these laws protect our way of life. After next week, Trump will very likely be the leader and Presidential nominee of the Republican Party, which makes the threat to our communities even more real. We must remain vigilant and stay united to protect our jobs, families, and environment by making the Delta great again and doing what the West does best – innovating and exploring better solutions for all.” Watch Rep. McNerney speak on his amendment on the House floor. The House, led by a Republican majority, voted down the amendment 248-181. Earlier this week, Rep. McNerney led members from California and Oregon in sending a letter to House and Senate leadership that called on them not to include any of the H.R. 2898 language during conference negotiations on the energy bill. In a recent opinion piece in the Stockton Record, Congressman McNerney called for united defense of the Delta against Republican efforts to damage the estuary. “We cannot afford to waiver in our commitment to the Delta. Gambling with the health of the Delta region will jeopardize the economies and environment of California and other Western states. Now, more than ever, we must unite around smart action and investments that will strengthen our drought resiliency and create a sustainable water future,” McNerney argued in the piece. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.12.2016	Washington – In an effort to help veterans maximize their broad skill set off the battlefield, and navigate the tricky field of startups and entrepreneurial opportunities, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) has introduced the Strengthening Technical Assistance, Resources, and Training to Unleash the Potential of Veterans (STARTUP Vets) Act of 2016. This legislation would connect veterans aspiring to become business owners with technical and financial resources via incubators and accelerators that commit to creating more veteran-owned and operated businesses. “After completing their military service, many of our veterans look for opportunities to apply their unique set of skills and experiences to the business sector but can find it difficult to transfer their military experience into the civilian sector,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “The STARTUP Vets Act seeks to make that transition a little easier by connecting veterans with startup incubators and accelerators that can provide them with the capital, training, and other resources needed to cultivate their entrepreneurial pursuits and launch new business ventures.” This bill amends the Small Business Act to establish an incubator and accelerator grant program for veterans and members of the Armed Forces. The purpose of this legislation is to provide veterans the resources and tools to effectively transfer their relevant skills and experiences to a small business venture start-up or entrepreneurial opportunity, and to help veterans collaborate on business development ideas within their community. Through this legislation, grants will be made available on a competitive basis to incubators and accelerators that provide resources, assistance, and training to veterans in the pursuit of building entrepreneurship and small business ownership. A recent piece in The New York Times illustrates how connecting more veterans with training, educational resources and capital to boost their business acumen can result in successful, new business ventures. That piece also cites a Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation report, stating that veterans made up only 5.6 percent of all U.S. entrepreneurs in 2014. Incubators and accelerators are driving innovation in today’s economy by connecting entrepreneurs and different teams to create new startups, business ventures, and social initiatives. These entities support start-ups through partnerships, mentoring, and resources and connect them with seasoned entrepreneurs. Incubators and accelerators help cultivate new businesses by providing financial, technical, and industry support and services as necessary. “Veteran-owned businesses benefit local economies across the country, and I have fought hard to increase opportunities for these businesses to expand in California. The leadership, ingenuity and ability of our veterans to perform well under pressure are skills that every good business owner should possess, and the STARTUP Vets Act will set our veterans up for success,” add Rep. McNerney. The STARTUP Vets Act could help entities in San Joaquin County, including the Northeastern California Small Business Development Center, and Contra Costa County that provide small business training to individuals to assist them in starting and growing their businesses. “With the continued slow-to-moderate growth economy, entrepreneurship continues to be a viable option for many Americans, including those who are looking for opportunities after having served their country in the military,” said Nate McBride, Director of the Northeastern California Small Business Development Center at San Joaquin Delta College. “Any support given to facilitate that process for our veterans is a way to help them transition to meaningful and productive civilian life, and also continue to support economic development through entrepreneurship. Our center would be honored to provide the services outlined under this proposed legislation, or work with and support efforts of organizations that could provide these services,” added McBride. “The STARTUP Vets Act is a jobs bill. This legislation could provide members of the Armed Forces and veteran entrepreneurs with specialized small business training and resources to start and grow businesses, and serve more people. Veteran entrepreneurs are the backbone of America and are committed to excellence. As a veteran entrepreneur, I appreciate Congressman McNerney for always having our backs and fighting for veterans in Northern California to have access to quality healthcare and more economic opportunities,” said John L. Easter, Founder of the Homeless Veterans Program For Non-Commissioned Officers located in Stockton, CA. H.R. 5698 is the House companion bill to S. 2273 introduced by U.S. Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) last November. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.08.2016	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation’s announcement of a public comment period for the Northerly Districts’ draft drainage settlement agreement: “I am pleased to see the Bureau of Reclamation (Reclamation) heeding our recommendation to bring openness and transparency to this negotiation process, by offering a public comment period on the draft drainage settlement agreement between Reclamation and the Northerly Districts. The Drainage Settlement Agreement (Agreement) between the Northerly Districts and the United States’ Departments of the Interior and Justice not only contains a number of damaging provisions for the environment and taxpayers, but is currently being negotiated without transparency or input from the public. I am concerned that shifting drainage management responsibilities in this Agreement will negatively affect the Delta and future federal contract terms. It is critical that the public is able to review the Agreement and be heard.” In April of this year, Rep. McNerney led some of his House colleagues in the Northern California region in sending a letter to President Obama calling for greater transparency and public comment on the drainage settlement agreement between the United States and the Northerly Districts, as well as highlighting serious ongoing concerns with the drainage settlement agreement terms between Westlands Water District and the United States. Reclamation notes that comments are due by close of business on Monday, Aug. 8, 2016. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.08.2016	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) released the following statement in response to the shootings in Dallas that killed five police officers and wounded others: “Today we are confronted by yet another senseless act of violence – a mass shooting that left five Dallas police officers dead and another seven injured. These officers were ambushed while protecting a peaceful protest on the heels of the killings of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile, also by gun violence. I grieve with their families and the communities of Dallas, Baton Rouge, and the Twin Cities. Our country must end the violence that plagues our nation and continues to tear apart communities. We cannot respond to violence with more violence – doing so only results in further chaos and suffering. As our nation looks for understanding during this extremely trying time and seeks justice for these acts, we must remember our common humanity and continue working toward solutions that will reduce violence and make our streets and neighborhoods safe for everyone.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
06.30.2016	Washington – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) led his colleagues Reps. Barbara Lee (CA-13), Mark Takano (CA-41), Michael M. Honda (CA-17), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Janice Hahn (CA-44), and Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) in a letter to the leadership of the U.S. House and Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committees, requesting that the differences between H.R. 4590 and S. 2422 – bills to authorize funding for Department of Veterans Affairs construction projects throughout the country – be reconciled and promptly brought before Congress for consideration. The bills include multiple construction projects in California and projects in Washington, Maryland, Missouri, and Kentucky. Full text of the letter: June 30, 2016 The Honorable Johnny Isakson The Honorable Richard Blumenthal Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Committee on Veterans’ Affairs United States Senate United States Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable Jeff Miller The Honorable Corrine Brown Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Committee on Veterans’ Affairs U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairmen Isakson and Miller, and Ranking Members Blumenthal and Brown: The House and Senate have approved legislation – H.R. 4590 and S. 2422 – to authorize funding for numerous Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) construction projects throughout the Nation. Combined, these two measures would help to close access gaps for veterans’ health care. Funding for many of these projects was already appropriated in the Fiscal 2016 Omnibus package, and we hope that an agreement can be reached as soon as possible to reconcile H.R. 4590 and S. 2422 so that our veterans can gain access to the care that they deserve. The VA is currently challenged with a growing backlog of construction projects and antiquated infrastructure. The VA manages over 6,000 buildings and nearly 34,000 acres of land. Additionally, more than 4,000 critical infrastructure gaps remain, which is estimated to cost between $56 and $68 billion to close, including $10 billion in activation costs. The VA provides world-class care to our nation’s veterans, and we must make every effort to ensure they have access to facilities close to home. Funding project upgrades and new facilities will help in providing timely medical care and allowing veterans to be treated in state-of-the-art facilities. Our veterans deserve no less. Again, we request that differences between H.R. 4590 and S. 2422 are reconciled promptly and brought before Congress for consideration. Thank you for your leadership and for your attention to this important issue. Sincerely, _________________________ _______________________ Rep. Jerry McNerney Rep. Mark Takano Member of Congress Member of Congress _________________________ ________________________ Rep. Barbara Lee Rep. Michael M. Honda Member of Congress Member of Congress _________________________ ________________________ Rep. Tony Cárdenas Rep. Janice Hahn Member of Congress Member of Congress _________________________ _________________________ Rep. Zoe Lofgren Rep. Mark DeSaulnier Member of Congress Member of Congress _________________________ ______________________ Rep. Derek Kilmer Rep. Alan Lowenthal Member of Congress Member of Congress Link to a copy of the letter: https://bit.ly/295T9Cr. Rep. McNerney recently spoke on the House floor in support of H.R. 4590, a bill to authorize funding for numerous Department of Veterans Affairs construction projects, including the Livermore Realignment Project, a project that is important to veterans in the Central Valley of California and my district. This funding would provide for construction of a 158,000 square foot Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in French Camp, California. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
06.29.2016	Washington – Today, on a National Day of Action on Gun Violence Prevention, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) released the following video message urging Congress to take action and pass commonsense gun reform legislation, including expanding background checks on all commercial gun sales, that will help keep guns away from criminals, domestic abusers, and other dangerous individuals, reduce gun violence, and save lives. Excerpt from Rep. McNerney’s Message on Gun Violence Prevention: “In the aftermath of the deadliest mass shooting by a single individual in our nation’s history… It is now time to show the victims, survivors of gun violence, and the overwhelming majority of Americans… that there are leaders who are standing up to reduce gun violence and are fighting to actually make some improvements in this important issue… We shouldn’t have to wake up to news reports of innocent people gunned down before we take action. We are fighting to take action now to expand background checks on all gun sales and to prevent people with known terrorist connections from buying guns… Refusing to act does not make the problem go away. Too many lives have been lost,” said Rep. McNerney in his message. Link to video of Rep. McNerney’s message: https://youtu.be/b4_7eirmSKg. Full transcript of Rep. McNerney’s message as prepared: Americans have had enough of Congressional inaction on gun violence in our country. In the aftermath of the deadliest mass shooting by a single individual in our nation’s history, the Republican majority in the House refuses to consider any legislation to reduce gun violence. It is now time to show the victims, survivors of gun violence, and the overwhelming majority of the Americans, both Democrats and Republicans, who support commonsense gun laws, that there are leaders are standing up to reduce gun violence and are fighting to actually make some improvements in this important issue. Our country has seen 1,000 mass shootings over the last 1,260 days, but sadly, mass shootings are only a small portion of the gun violence that takes place every day in our streets. Just about 90 people die from gun violence every day, in neighborhoods and communities across the country, including my home district. We don’t have to accept this. We shouldn’t have to wake up to news reports of innocent people being gunned down before we take action. We are fighting to take action now to expand background checks on all gun sales and to prevent people with known terrorist connections from buying guns. It’s shameful that Republicans in Washington continue to give in to the gun lobby and turn their backs on the American people who deserve a debate and a vote on these policies in the People’s House. Refusing to act does not make the problem go away. Too many lives have been lost. We must remain steadfast, and we must work toward meaningful reforms that will save lives. End of transcript. Yesterday, Rep. McNerney joined Cleveland School Remembers and other community groups in Stockton, CA for a community gathering to honor the victims and survivors of gun violence, and to call on Congress to pass commonsense gun reforms. Last week, Rep. McNerney joined with other House Democrats for a sit-in on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to call for action on gun violence prevention legislation, including expanding background checks on all commercial gun sales to keep guns away from criminals, terrorists, domestic abusers, and other dangerous individuals. On average, 108,926 people are shot by guns every year and more than 30,000 people die from gun violence. Roughly 90 people are killed by guns every day, according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Rep. McNerney is available to discuss today’s National Day of Action for gun violence prevention legislation. Please contact Mike Naple at 202-225-1947 or Mike.Naple@mail.houe.gov. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
06.23.2016	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today issued the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to authorize appropriations for Veterans Affairs construction projects, including the Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in French Camp, CA: “The VA medical facility at French Camp will improve health care access for veterans in the San Joaquin Valley, and more than 60,000 veterans throughout the greater Central Valley region. Veterans in our region have waited too long for this clinic, and each step moves us closer to construction on a project that will ensure these veterans receive the benefits they earned while serving our nation. Building a new clinic will also bring hundreds of jobs to the area. I have fought hard to make this clinic a reality for the veterans in our community and I applaud this latest development toward its completion.” Rep. McNerney has been a strong champion for bringing a new VA CBOC to French Camp, CA. Funding for the French Camp clinic was included in the FY16 omnibus spending bill passed by Congress in December 2015. Congress has shown support for this project by appropriating money for the French Camp CBOC in FY17. Congress will formally work to authorize funding so that once the design development is complete the VA can begin construction. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
06.22.2016	Washington – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) participated in a sit-in on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to call for action on gun violence prevention legislation, and issued the following statement: “My Democratic colleagues and I have had enough when it comes to Congress’ refusal to take commonsense, simple actions to reduce gun violence in our country. Together, we are taking a stand against gun violence in our cities and across our nation with a sit-in on the floor of the House of Representatives to demand that Speaker Paul Ryan and Republican Leadership allow a vote on gun violence reduction legislation. “In the aftermath of the deadliest mass shooting by a single individual in our nation’s history, Republicans are refusing to bring gun reform legislation before the House. It is unconscionable that many of my colleagues are content with doing nothing and instead are blocking a vote on bipartisan legislation that would help reduce gun violence and save lives. “I hope that today’s sit-in shows the American people – including the victims and survivors of gun violence and the overwhelming majority who support commonsense gun laws – that there are leaders who are standing up to reduce gun violence and are fighting to actually make some improvement on this important issue. “Our country has seen 1,000 mass shootings over 1,260 days. But sadly, mass shootings are only a sliver of our gun violence problems. Nearly 90 people die from gun violence each day - in neighborhoods and communities across the country, including my home district. But we don’t have to accept this. We don’t need to wait to wake up to another news report of innocent people gunned down before we can take action. We can fight for safer communities and a safer America by taking action now to pass gun reform legislation to expand background checks on all commercial gun sales and to keep guns out of hands of dangerous individuals, criminals, and terrorists. “It is shameful that the Republicans are turning their backs on the American people who deserve a debate and a vote on these policies in the people’s House. Refusing to act does not make the problem go away. Too many lives have been lost. We must remain steadfast, and we must work toward meaningful reforms and fight for a nation with less gun violence.” As of this statement, the sit-in is still happening on the floor of the House. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
06.16.2016	Washington – To help communities still struggling in the aftermath of the Great Recession, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) is once again pushing for Congress to pass the Revitalize Our Cities Act, introduced this week. H.R. 5498 would extend the federal Empowerment Zones program and authorize new zones for urban areas with high unemployment, poverty, and high foreclosure rates to help boost economic growth in those regions. “The Revitalize Our Cities Act aims to strengthen communities and boost economic vitality in areas that still struggle to put people back to work. I’ve spoken with many constituents who are still having trouble either finding a good-paying job or making ends meet in areas where jobs and economic opportunities remain scarce,” said Congressman Jerry McNerney. “My legislation would provide tax incentives to hire new employees, as well as to invest in local schools to improve educational outcomes and prepare students for success beyond the classroom, among other economic investments. The Revitalize Our Cities Act takes a commonsense approach that will move distressed cities toward success, and I call on Congress to move it forward.” The Revitalize Our Cities Act would extend new Empowerment Zone designations for another three years, instead of letting the program expire at the end of this year. The legislation would allow for an additional 20 cities as Empowerment Zones across the country. An area is eligible for a new Empowerment Zone designation only if the average unemployment rate and the average rate of residential and commercial foreclosures in the area are each higher than that of their respective state averages for the period beginning January 1, 2012 and ending with the date of enactment of this legislation. Cities selected as federal Empowerment Zones would receive various tax benefits, as would school districts and local businesses, to spur investment in the area and promote economic growth. “Resources made available through an Empowerment Zone designation will help attract new business investments that will bring back jobs and revitalize urban areas in my district, places like the San Joaquin Valley, where unemployment is still higher than California’s average. Providing new economic opportunities is essential to providing these communities with a foundation to rebuild and thrive once again,” added Rep. McNerney. Under a federal Empowerment Zone designation, state and local governments can issue tax-exempt bonds to finance the construction of specific public buildings, such as schools. Unfortunately, some low-income communities have found it challenging to finance new schools or rehabilitate existing schools. A federal empowerment zone designation would allow a local school district in the zone to issue Qualified Zone Academy Bonds that could be used to renovate schools, buy equipment, develop curricula, and or train teachers. Click here to read a full description of the tax incentives available under a federal Empowerment Zone designation. The Revitalize Our Cities Act has the support of multiple local leaders and business organizations across California’s 9th Congressional District. “The Revitalize Our Cities Act is important legislation that will help struggling communities, like those in parts of Contra Costa County that face higher levels of unemployment and poverty. Through designation as federal Empowerment Zones, these cities would be eligible for resources and tax benefits to invest in schools, expand small businesses, and promote economic growth. As a leader in this community, I’m glad to see Congressman McNerney standing up for the people in our region… we need to do everything possible to boost investment and expand economic opportunity in the region,” said Antioch Mayor Wade Harper. “San Joaquin County is still recovering from the last economic recession. Congressman McNerney’s Revitalize Our Cities Act could aid in that recovery by making it possible to allow Stockton and other cities in San Joaquin County to qualify for designation as an empowerment zone,” said San Joaquin County Superintendent of Schools James Mousalimas. “Tax incentives for local businesses to hire locally would help provide more jobs, which strengthens the families of children attending schools in our communities. The incentives could also create local jobs that will be waiting for our students once they complete their education. For young people still in school, the Act also provides a tax credit for businesses hiring 16- or 17-year-olds for summer jobs.” “The Revitalized Our Cities Act is a critical bill to jumpstart investment in the City of Stockton and San Joaquin County and thank you Rep. McNerney for introducing it again. The tax credits and incentives in this bill can assist small businesses and minority businesses in creating jobs and growing our economy. Minority businesses often face higher barriers to entry and disproportionately lack access to capital. This bill provides resources that minority businesses can benefit from. Our community’s designation as a federal empowerment zone could generate new jobs, and this is a jobs bill,” said Paulette Amous-Gross, CEO of the African American Chamber Foundation of San Joaquin. “The Greater Stockton Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors, our membership and community appreciate and commend Congressman McNerney for introducing this important piece of legislation for the betterment of all,” said Douglass W. Wilhoit, Jr., CEO of the Greater Stockton Chamber of Commerce. Rep. McNerney has long fought for legislation that would revitalize local economies across California’s 9th District. Earlier this week, the Congressman sent a letter to President Obama, criticizing his administration’s decision to exclude Stockton, CA from the last and final round of Promise Zone Initiative designations. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
06.14.2016	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, issued the following statement on today’s D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals' decision upholding the Federal Communication Commission’s (FCC) Open Internet Order: “I am pleased with the D.C. Circuit’s decision to uphold the FCC’s Open Internet rules. These rules prohibit broadband providers from unfairly limiting consumer access to online content and ensure that the Internet remains a place for innovation and economic growth. This decision supports the principles of fairness and openness for consumers across the country.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
06.12.2016	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to the horrific Orlando nightclub mass shooting that has so far left 50 people dead and 53 injured: “Our entire nation is in shock after yet another senseless mass shooting devastates the Orlando community, and I mourn with the families and victims of this tragedy. Our mourning must be coupled with action. This is the deadliest mass shooting in our nation’s history where 50 Americans were killed and many others injured by an assault weapon. This was also an act of hate against LGBT Americans who were gathered together to celebrate Pride, like so many LGBT communities across America will do this month. We cannot stand for these acts of hate, violence, and terrorism that cut short the lives of too many innocent victims. Gun violence is a problem that affects our communities on a daily basis and we must take steps to reduce it. This means passing commonsense gun reforms that will help keep guns out of the hands of criminals, terrorists, and dangerous people and making sure our law enforcement officials have the tools and resources they need to keep our communities safe. I stand with the people of Orlando, the LGBT community, and all victims of gun violence to fight for solutions that will reduce violence and save lives.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
05.26.2016	Washington, DC – Representatives Jerry McNerney (CA-09), John Garamendi (CA-03), and Ted W. Lieu (CA-33) released the following statement about their amendment striking provisions originally from H.R. 2898, introduced by Rep. David Valadao (CA-21), that were attached to the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill: Congressman Jerry McNerney said, “I am disappointed that this important appropriations bill contains policy provisions that would drain fresh water from the California Delta with over-pumping. These provisions would ravage the ecology of the Delta, destroy the livelihoods of fishermen and farmers across the West Coast, and harm the communities we serve. California needs sustainable solutions like innovative water conservation efforts, infrastructure improvements, and water recycling programs. We must put the days of choosing one economic sector over another behind us.” “Today, San Joaquin Valley Republicans showed that they will stop at nothing to gut the Endangered Species Act, the Clean Water Act, and the biological opinions that protect our precious Delta ecosystem,” said Congressman Garamendi. “I look forward to working with Congressman McNerney to do everything possible to make sure that these provisions never become law.” “I am proud to have cosponsored Rep. McNerney’s amendment to strip the Energy and Water Appropriations bill of its harmful drought rider, and I am disappointed the House of Representatives failed to adopt the amendment. Attempting to fix California’s drought by adopting dangerous language to harm our fish and undermine the Endangered Species Act is not the answer. I appreciate Rep. McNerney’s leadership on this issue.” – Rep. Ted W. Lieu The 2017 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill failed to pass in the House of Representatives by a vote of 112-305. “I am pleased that, ultimately, the Valadao drought provisions will not be moving forward,” added Congressman McNerney. “I will continue working with my colleagues to defeat future attempts to pass these harmful provisions or other efforts to weaken the Endangered Species Act or harm the Delta.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
05.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – House Democrats from California, Oregon, and Washington issued the following joint statement in response to Rep. John Garamendi (CA-03) introducing companion legislation to Senator Dianne Feinstein’s drought bill that was heard in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources, Water and Power Subcommittee today. The House members included in this joint statement are: Reps. Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Michael M. Honda (CA-17), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Jim McDermott (WA-07), and Kurt Schrader (OR-05). “Members from the California, Oregon, and Washington delegations have concerns about any legislative proposals that would harm the water quality and supply of our states, disadvantage our local farmers and fishermen, or violate tribal trust responsibilities. While we are pleased that the Garamendi bill includes language from bills that we have offered, the price our states and ecosystems may pay in exchange for longer-term provisions within the proposed legislation is too high. This legislation’s modification of environmental laws not only sets a troubling precedent, but also pressures federal and state agencies to increase diversions from an increasingly damaged ecosystem that is close to a devastating collapse. “Furthermore, House Republicans have indicated that they are looking to conference the Senate version of this bill with Representative Valadao’s H.R. 2898 ­­­– a piece of legislation that we overwhelmingly oppose. Any legislation that emerges from a conference would not be acceptable to many of the diverse stakeholders in our home states. “We understand the immense pressure that severe drought conditions place on water allocations. That is why we have put forth and advocated for policy alternatives that promote greater regional resiliency and more efficient management of our water supply. We remain committed to working together to advance policies that will move us toward a sustainable water future and build the regional self-sufficiency this drought and future droughts require.” The following are statements from individual House Members and Delegations: California “My district contains a majority of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, the heart of California’s water system. I remain deeply concerned with any legislation, including H.R. 5247, that tries to dictate California water policy, especially when it will have detrimental effects on our environment by diverting more water away from the families, farmers, and economies of the Delta. This could also set a dangerous precedent for how we manage our water supply for years to come. I’m committed to working with all stakeholders throughout the state and Congress to build drought resiliency and self-sufficiency in regions across the Nation. This can be achieved by making smart investments in innovative and efficient strategies that will create more water and a sustainable water future for us all,” said Congressman McNerney. “While I appreciate the work of my colleague Congressman John Garamendi, I remain concerned that this legislation continues to micromanage operations in the Bay-Delta to the detriment of fisheries and ecosystems. Sadly, based on the past actions of House Republicans to insert their radical rider into last year’s appropriations bill, I fear this bill too will be hijacked and used to push for more extreme water legislation that will harm California communities and jobs that depend on healthy fisheries,” said Congressman Huffman. “I cannot in good faith cosponsor a bill that will be twisted and distorted in this political process to harm my constituents. I will continue to work with Congressman Garamendi, Senators Feinstein and Boxer, and the rest of my colleagues to promote new investments in water infrastructure and modernize outdated systems, wherever possible, to find a common ground and real solutions.” “We cannot set the needs of one Californian against another in our efforts to find a solution to the state’s drought crisis,” said Congresswoman Matsui. “Sacramento sits at the confluence of the American and Sacramento Rivers, which are directly impacted by Delta operations. I have concerns that the legislation as proposed will negatively impact our region’s economy, drinking water supply, and ecosystem. As our discussions continue, I will do everything I can to address California’s immediate and long term water infrastructure needs, while balancing that goal against Northern California’s needs.” “No part of our state has been immune to the devastating impacts of the drought. Communities have seen their resources stretched thin and ecosystems have been pushed to the edge,” said Congressman Thompson. “This bill is not the solution. Without appropriations from Congress, local communities will never see the infrastructure investments promised in this proposal. In effect, we will be left with a bill that is dangerous and shortsighted. It will undermine water managers’ ability to balance needs across regions, and jeopardize the long-term stability of the Delta. Now is not the time to bend the rules that protect our state’s water system. Instead, Congress should get serious about effective, long-term solutions to the ongoing drought.” Oregon “This bill will have serious implications for the thousands of coastal families whose livelihoods depend on the ocean and waterways of Oregon. We support commonsense solutions to deal with the effects of California’s drought, but not if they come at the expense of Oregon’s fishing industry. Our fisheries and coastal communities cannot afford another setback,” said Oregon Representatives DeFazio, Blumenauer, Bonamici, and Schrader. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
05.03.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) re-introduced his water recycling bill that calls on Congress to authorize 33 projects that would bring more resiliency to the water supply in the region and throughout the State of California. “Tackling California’s drought problem requires bold, forward-thinking solutions that will increase current water supplies, and this includes expanding water recycling projects,” said Rep. McNerney. “I continue to call on Congress to take action and get these projects the authorization and funding they need. These projects will take pressure off the Delta and use the latest technologies to produce water that can be used for irrigation, agriculture, and conservation.” Congressman McNerney’s bill, the Western Water Recycling and Drought Relief Act, calls on Congress to authorize 33 regional water recycling projects that, when funded, can provide over 100,000 acre-feet of new water – enough water to meet the needs of over half a million residents. These water projects need Congressional authorization in order to compete for Title XVI construction funds through the Bureau of Reclamation. Developing recycled water reduces dependence on Delta supplies. Recycled water projects like Delta Diablo in Antioch, CA improve water supply reliability, and reduce wastewater discharge into the fragile Bay-Delta environment. List of Water Recycling Projects (Newly-Added Projects in Bold): Benicia water reuse project Brentwood recycled water project Central Dublin recycled water distribution and retrofit project Central pipeline direct potable reuse in Santa Clara County Central Redwood City recycled water project City of Pleasanton recycled water project Concord recycled water project Contra Costa County refinery recycled water project, phase 1 Delta Diablo Sanitation District recycled water project Delta Diablo high purity water treatment facility Dublin recycled water expansion project Ford Pond indirect potable reuse and Coyote Valley reuse in Santa Clara County Hayward recycled water project Ironhouse Sanitary District Cypress recycled water project Ironhouse Sanitary District industrial recycled water project Ironhouse Sanitary District direct potable reuse project Los Gatos indirect potable reuse in Santa Clara County (Phase 1 – highly purified water treatment facility) Los Gatos indirect potable reuse in Santa Clara County (Phase 2 – recharge and conveyance) Mid-basin indirect potable reuse in Santa Clara County (Phase 1 – highly purified water treatment facility) Mid-basin indirect potable reuse in Santa Clara County (Phase 1 – recharge and conveyance) Mountain View recycled water system expansion North Valley regional recycled water project Palo Alto recycled water pipeline project Pure Water Monterey a groundwater replenishment project San Jose Water Company recycled water project Sunnyvale continuous recycled water production project Sunnyvale indirect potable reuse in Santa Clara County (Phase 1 – highly purified water treatment facility) Sunnyvale indirect potable reuse in Santa Clara County (Phase 2 – recharge and conveyance) Waikaoloa Beach Resort wastewater reclamation facility expansion project West Bay Sanitary District recycled water project Westside indirect potable reuse in Santa Clara County (Phase 1 – highly purified water treatment facility) Westside indirect potable reuse in Santa Clara County (Phase 1 – recharge and conveyance) Wolfe Road recycled water project ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
05.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-9) and Congressman Walter Jones (NC-3) launched the bipartisan Congressional Campaign Finance Reform Caucus to address the undue influence of money on our political process. “I'm excited to launch the Campaign Finance Reform Caucus with my colleague, Congressman Jones,” said McNerney. “Since the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision, too much campaign spending comes from undisclosed and unregulated sources. We need reform that brings transparency to the campaign finance system and restores the voice of the voters. Our democracy depends on it,” McNerney said. “By bringing together members from both sides of the aisle, the Caucus can address these inequities and advocate for changes to the current system.” The Center for Responsive Politics reports that total federal election spending in 2012 was more than $6.2 billion, doubling money spent on the 2000 campaign. A joint report issued by the Brookings Institution and the American Enterprise Institute found that, adjusted for inflation, House candidates spend more than 300 percent as much getting elected as they did nearly 30 years ago – an average of $1.6 million dollars every two years. “I am greatly troubled by the undue influence that fat-cat lobbyists and special interests have in Washington, DC. Now, more than ever, secretive special interest money plays an enormous role in our electoral process and in governing. Beginning in my days in the North Carolina General Assembly, I have long advocated for returning power to the people and getting big money out of politics. Launching this Campaign Finance Reform Caucus is another step in that direction,” said Congressman Jones. At its inaugural meeting on Thursday, Reps. McNerney and Jones were joined by other Caucus members and were briefed by academic and legal scholars on the history of campaign finance policy and its effects on politics today. The Caucus will hold regular meetings to educate members of Congress and staff about these policies and advocate for relevant policy proposals. The Caucus is open to all members of Congress and will provide a forum to discuss and advance solutions to reform the way campaigns are financed in this country. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
04.20.2016	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced he will reveal the winners of this year’s Congressional Art Competition on Saturday, April 23rd at 1pm. The ceremony will take place at Lodi Community Art Center, 110 West Pine Street, Lodi, CA 95240. All students who entered the competition will have their artwork on public display, and each entrant will receive a certificate. A panel of judges will select the winning entries, and the grand prize winner from the district will be flown to Washington, D.C. along with a guest to attend a national awards ceremony in June. The winner’s artwork will also be displayed in the U.S. Capitol complex, where it will be seen by Members of Congress and visitors to our nation’s capital. The second, third and fourth place winners will have the opportunity to display their artwork in one of Congressman McNerney’s three offices, located in Washington, D.C., Stockton and Antioch. WHAT: California’s 9th Congressional District Art Competition Awards Ceremony WHEN: Sat., April 23, 2016 1pm - 3pm WHERE: Lodi Community Art Center 110 West Pine Street Lodi, 95240 ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter sent today to President Obama, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and 9 other members of Congress from California and Oregon are calling on the federal government to continue to maintain protections for the wild salmon populations that depend on California’s fragile Bay-Delta estuary. The letter counters recent requests by some in Congress to waive critical protections for salmon and other protected species. The letter asks that science, not political preferences, direct the management of water deliveries from the Bay-Delta estuary. Maintaining the scientifically justified protections based on real-time monitoring data will not only ensure compliance with state and federal law, but help protect thousands of fishing jobs across the West Coast, threatened and endangered species, and sources of clean drinking water. “We are not arguing that these are easy calls, but we appreciate your Administration’s continued defense of the scientifically-based protections for endangered species, which helps protect family farms in the Delta, drinking water for the state of California, and fishing jobs across the West Coast,” the members wrote. “We urge the Administration to reject calls to increase pumping from the Delta beyond allowable limits, and instead to protect endangered fish and wildlife – and the thousands of jobs and communities that depend on a healthy estuary.” Earlier this week, hundreds of individuals and businesses in the West Coast salmon fishing industry sent a letter of opposition to any drought legislation that threatens critical salmon runs. The signatories on the letter along with Congressman McNerney are Representatives Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), and Barbara Lee (CA-13). The full text of the letter is below. April 13, 2016 The Honorable Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to support the Administration’s implementation of scientifically sound protections for salmon and other endangered species in California’s Bay-Delta estuary. Recently, some Members of Congress have requested that the Administration ignore the biological science and waive protections for salmon and other endangered fish species. We urge the Administration to instead continue to maintain the scientifically justified protections based on real time monitoring data. This course will not only ensure compliance with the law, but help protect thousands of fishing jobs across the West Coast. Thankfully, recent storms have resulted in greatly improved snowpack and reservoir storage in the state of California after four years of drought. We understand that California’s extensive network of dams and reservoirs is already capturing more than half of the runoff in the entire Sierra watershed this winter, which has led to increased water supply allocations for contractors of the State Water Project (SWP) and Central Valley Project (CVP). Despite the record drought conditions in 2015, the CVP allocated nearly 3 million acre feet of water last year, primarily to irrigated agriculture in the Sacramento and San Joaquin Valleys. The 2016 State Water Project allocation is already more than twice last year’s allocation (nearly 1.9 million acre feet of water this year). These deliveries are the result of herculean efforts by state and federal fish and water agencies, which have coordinated in an unprecedented fashion. Unfortunately, California’s native fish and wildlife have not fared well during this drought. Monitoring has revealed record low abundances of threatened and endangered fish species as well as tremendous impacts on Central Valley fall run Chinook salmon, the backbone of the salmon fishery. The salmon fishery along the West Coast is facing significant reductions this year, which will likely continue in the years to come. This will have significant economic impacts on the coastal economy in California, Oregon, and Washington. Other species key to the commercial and recreational fishing industries, including flounder and steelhead, are also being harmed by low freshwater flow rates through the Bay-Delta. Despite the grave risks of extinction, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has repeatedly allowed pumping levels higher than what is recommended by agency biologists over the past several months. Starting in mid-February and continuing well into March, the CVP and SWP have been pumping at the maximum levels allowed under biological opinions protecting endangered salmon and other species. These are not arbitrary pumping levels, nor are they overly cautious: the protections now under attack are the minimum necessary to avoid extinction of these native species, have been upheld by the courts, and undergo annual independent scientific peer review to ensure they are responsive to new scientific information . Management of water exports from the Bay-Delta estuary is a difficult balancing task, and should rely on biological science as dictated by the law, not political preferences. Earlier this month, based on real time monitoring and other information, state and federal agencies agreed to reduce pumping to protect these severely endangered species, while at the same time CVP and SWP water contractors have received notice that their projected water deliveries will increase this year. We are not arguing that these are easy calls, but we appreciate your Administration’s continued defense of the scientifically-based protections for endangered species, which helps protect family farms in the Delta, drinking water for the state of California, and fishing jobs across the West Coast. We urge the Administration to reject calls to increase pumping from the Delta beyond allowable limits, and instead to protect endangered fish and wildlife – and the thousands of jobs and communities that depend on a healthy estuary. Sincerely, ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
04.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and John Garamendi (CA-03) released the following statement today in response to the news that the Office of Inspector General (OIG) within the Department of the Interior will conduct a review of the Delta Habitat Conservation and Conveyance Program, also known as California WaterFix. The OIG will investigate claims made by internal whistleblowers that the Bureau of Reclamation executed a Financial Assistance Agreement (FAA) with the California Department of Water Resources without authorization under current law; violated cost sharing requirements set forth under the FAA; and granted funds to support duplicative projects. “We are encouraged to learn that the Department of Interior’s Office of Inspector General (OIG) will conduct a review of the Bureau of Reclamation’s (BOR) role in funding the ill-conceived California WaterFix.” “As we have previously suggested in correspondence with BOR, the agency has acted outside its statutory authority in granting nearly $60 million to support the review of the WaterFix conveyance project. Such gross mismanagement of taxpayer dollars must spell the end of federal involvement in this project, which amounts to nothing more than a thinly-veiled water grab that threatens to decimate water quality and supply for the families, farmers and species that rely on the Delta.” “We applaud the OIG for taking this important first step toward not only protecting millions in taxpayer dollars, but the future of the Delta. We urge the OIG to investigate the full range of allegations made by our offices in conjunction with other stakeholders.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
04.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) released the following statement in response to a discussion draft of encryption legislation circulated by Senators Dianne Feinstein and Richard Burr. “This draft legislation, which mandates that companies decrypt information transmitted by their equipment or provide the means to do so when ordered by a court, fails to take into account the technological complexities and could present more national security risks than it solves. Such a mandate, if enforced, could introduce vulnerabilities into our national security, making it easier for criminals, terrorists, and other bad actors to gain access to secure information. Our national security would be best served by an expert-level policy debate on how to ensure that law enforcement has access to necessary information without weakening our security or individual liberties. To do this, we should convene leading experts from areas including technology, consumer protection, commerce, national intelligence, and law enforcement to inform Congress on how to best address these issues. The McCaul-Warner Digital Security Commission Bill, of which I am an original cosponsor, would do just that. I look forward to the House and Senate continuing to work on a bicameral and bipartisan approach to deal with this complex and important issue.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
04.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Steve Scalise (LA-01) sent a letter last week to Secretary Ernest Moniz to urge him to establish a previously authorized Center of Excellence at the Department of Energy to promote technology transfer and development between Israel and the United States. Both Reps. Scalise and McNerney believe this Center of Excellence will provide an excellent platform to enhance ties between the United States and Israel in the academic, private and public centers. Once established, the Center would foster student and faculty exchange programs, collaborative research initiatives, industry partnership, technology transfer and bring together the world’s most innovative countries in the development of new solutions to pressing problems. Congressman McNerney has been advocating for a more collaborative role between Israel and the United States, especially since Israeli water technology companies have been helping California with its long-standing drought. “Severe drought is impacting different regions all across our country, but especially the West. I represent the Delta region, which is the hub of California’s water supply,” said Congressman McNerney. “A Center of Excellence at the Department of Energy is essential to promote important and collaborative technological innovation between Israel and the United States. We can use that type of innovation to address the drought with advanced water technology as well as further the energy sector.” Scalise praised the effort as an opportunity for increased cooperation between the United States and our Israeli allies. “America has no greater ally than Israel, and we should take every opportunity to increase the cooperation between our two countries—especially when it comes to critical issues like energy,” Scalise said. “Tulane University and the Greater New Orleans region are already an important hub for cutting-edge technologies that can greatly benefit both America and Israel, and this Center of Excellence will only enhance the leading role our community plays on the international stage.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.24.2016	Washington, DC – Amid California’s ongoing drought, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Jerry McNerney (CA-9) introduced the Sustainable Water Supplies Act (H.R. 4862) to increase the water supply in areas of Northern California by expediting the expansion of the Los Vaqueros Reservoir in Contra Costa County. The reservoir is a 160,000 acre-foot storage facility built in response to the state’s last historic drought in 1977. It was last expanded in 2012 to meet local water needs, and is permitted to be nearly triple its current size. “As we enter the fifth year of a devastating drought, it is long past the time to find ways to guarantee fresh, clean water for the residents of Contra Costa County and the surrounding area. Our local industry and economy would greatly benefit from a sustainable water source without the public spending a single federal dollar. An expansion of our water supply at no federal cost is a no-brainer," said Congressman DeSaulnier. “I am happy to support environmentally sound storage projects like Los Vaqueros. This bill will promote an important expansion to an essential reservoir at no cost to the government and could provide even more water supply reliability in the region. We must move toward regional self-sufficiency, and responsible water infrastructure projects like Los Vaqueros are an important part of that process,” said Congressman Jerry McNerney. “We thank Congressman DeSaulnier and Congressman McNerney for their efforts in support of water storage projects in California. Further expansion of the reservoir and conveyance facilities would broaden the regional water supply benefits and protection of Delta fisheries. CCWD looks forward to this opportunity to demonstrate how partnerships with local agencies who use space in the reservoir can help us meet our regional needs,” said Lisa M. Borba, Vice President of the Contra Costa Water District. The legislation outlines a phased approach for the expansion of the reservoir with the help of the Federal Bureau of Reclamation. Under the first step, outside water districts would lease extra space in the existing 160,000-acre-foot reservoir to store surplus water. The reservoir would later be enlarged to up to 500,000 acre feet after enough agencies or water districts agree to share costs and become partners in the planned expansion. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.24.2016	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement applauding Senator Maria Cantwell for her leadership on water security and drought issues, following the Senator’s release of a white paper entitled, “A National Policy Framework to Address Drought and Water Security in the United States,” which aims to advance the development of a 21st Century approach to move our nation toward a sustainable water future: “With severe drought impacting different regions all across the United States, and especially the West, we need to have forward-thinking conversations that unite us. As the member that represents the Delta region, which is the hub of California’s water supply, I am happy to support Senator Cantwell’s bold vision for water security in the 21st Century. These are the principles that we should all rally behind. Comprehensive solutions like these are representative of the vision I believe in and will promote water sustainability in California and the West. We must move forward on bold solutions that take into account the current stressors of our environment and include technological long term approaches that will build our water resiliency and security. I will fight for solutions like these and I am working to further similar efforts in a comprehensive water bill that I will introduce this Spring. I appreciate Senator Cantwell’s leadership and commitment to this issue and my colleagues and I look forward to bringing these ideas to our districts and communities.” A copy of Senator Cantwell’s white paper can be found at: https://www.energy.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/files/serve?File_id=03D88F56-1AE2-4DEE-A3EC-7CAC0E9BCF03 ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.22.2016	Washington – U.S. House Representative Jerry McNerney (CA-09) participated in a first-of its-kind White House Water Summit as a panelist to discuss innovative financing and water infrastructure solutions. The summit, which coincides with World Water Day, featured panel discussions and speakers from the public and private sectors to raise awareness of water issues facing our country. Rep. Jerry McNerney has been advocating for a long-term approach that prioritizes a sustainable water future for California and our nation. “Severe drought is impacting regions all across the United States, but especially the West. I represent the Delta region, which is the hub of California’s water supply.” said, Rep. Jerry McNerney. “California has set the bar for innovation in energy and technology and we can apply that type of innovation to address the drought and work toward securing our nation’s water supply.” “I believe that a sustainable water strategy includes implementing technology to boost water and energy efficiency, developing new water supplies through recycling and reuse, funding water infrastructure repair, and improving regional self-sufficiency through stormwater capture and groundwater banking. That’s why I will be introducing a comprehensive sustainable water bill this spring to advance these types of forward-thinking solutions. And I’ll continue working with colleagues from both sides of the aisle along with consumers, water districts, governmental agencies, and businesses to move these solutions forward.” Congressman McNerney has shown leadership in working toward a sustainable water future. In July of last year, Rep. McNerney held events with technology innovators and representatives from the renewable energy, agriculture, business, and water recycling sectors to discuss technology and science-based solutions to the drought. The Congressman also introduced bipartisan legislation to establish a smart water management pilot program meant to spur innovative projects. Rep. McNerney has fought for a robust Clean Water State Revolving Fund program to improve our water infrastructure and provide a cleaner, more efficient water supply. After the Congressman introduced legislation and sent a bipartisan letter urging the highway bill conferees to repeal the municipal bond limitation in WIFIA (Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act), this repeal became law. Rep. McNerney has also introduced legislation calling on Congress to authorize 27 regional water recycling projects that can create water for irrigation, agriculture, conservation, and to increase the potable water supply. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
03.15.2016	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the Pacific Fisheries Management Council (PFMC), the Federal agency responsible for the management of West Coast salmon fisheries, released three options for California’s 2016 sport and commercial salmon fishing seasons. Each of those proposed options would cut the number of salmon fishing days for commercial fishing by more than 20 percent, with the most restrictive option for Fort Bragg cutting fishing days by 45 percent, representing a significant cut in this iconic and economically valuable fishery. In response to the news, congressional representatives from across the Bay-Delta region voiced concerns about the state of the salmon fishing industry and legislation that would further exacerbate salmon population declines, and urged their colleagues to instead pass comprehensive drought legislation that protects devastated Northern California salmon runs and the economic value they represent. The options proposed by the PFMC include effort reductions that range from 20 percent from last year all the way to complete closures in some areas. The proposed plans are available for public review until early April, at which point a final salmon season will be determined. California’s salmon fishing industry represents an economic value of approximately $1.4 billion, making the dire announcement — especially the option that would entirely eliminate commercial fishing during the coming season — of significant concern to California’s economy and jobs in coastal communities. The PFMC’s announcement yesterday comes at a vulnerable moment for fishing fleets, with fishermen facing simultaneous crises in California crab fisheries and declines in the Klamath salmon fishery and the Bay-Delta salmon fishery. Representatives Matsui, McNerney, DeSaulnier, and Thompson have all supported Congressman Huffman’s Drought Relief and Resilience Act, a range of short- and long-term solutions to stretch water supplies and build new clean water infrastructure, creating jobs without undermining environmental protections, preempting state laws, or redirecting impacts from one drought-stricken area to another. The legislation directs U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, in consultation with state and federal agencies, to prepare a plan to address the impacts of drought on the salmon population. “The Pacific Fisheries Management Council report is another reminder that the drought and the resulting environmental degradation are having adverse effects on our West Coast salmon runs. We need to fight for solutions that don't make this problem worse and instead protect the livelihood of the farmers, fishermen, and families that depend on healthy salmon fisheries. We must work together to pass comprehensive legislation that provides drought relief without undermining crucial environmental laws and preserves these salmon runs for this critical industry,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09). “California’s salmon fishermen will unfortunately face further devastating losses and significant economic hardship this year, worsened by the constant push to divert more water from the Bay-Delta estuary,” said Rep. Huffman (CA-02). “Yesterday’s announcement confirms that this is not the time for Congress to weaken protections for salmon and their ecosystems. Unless we begin enacting both short and long-term solutions to our drought challenges, salmon fishermen will continue to pay the price. That’s why I am urging my colleagues to support my responsible drought legislation to achieve sustainable salmon runs and protect salmon fishing jobs, while building a more robust, resilient water supply for California.” “Our work to protect and restore California’s fisheries is an important element in our overall effort to protect the watershed,” said Congresswoman Doris Matsui (CA-06). “As we consider a balanced approach to the drought crisis, we must protect our region’s ecosystem – including Northern California salmon runs.” “Californians are counting on us to provide comprehensive and sustainable solutions to increase our water supplies without harming California’s fishing industry. As a former member of the Delta Protection Commission, I understand the importance of salmon conservation which is vital to local industry and to our economy,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11). “The regulations released by the Pacific Fisheries Management Council for the upcoming salmon fishing season confirm that five years of drought have been devastating for the health of the Delta and the critical species that depend on the estuary for their survival. We’re now faced with three options for a limited fishing season, each one more devastating than the last for a $1.4 billion industry that supports 23,000 jobs. This verdict will make painfully clear the importance of sound water management that doesn’t prioritize south of delta interests over an industry on the brink of collapse,” said Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-05) ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.14.2016	Washington – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09), the only Ph.D. mathematician in Congress issued the following statement in celebration of Pi Day, March 14, 2016: “Pi Day celebrates everything fascinating in the world of mathematics by recognizing its most famous and irrational number: 3.14…. First discovered in Ancient Greece, Pi has captivated mathematicians like me, and thinkers for thousands of years, and its properties continue to endure in today’s popular culture. Technically speaking, π is the ratio of the circumference of a circle to the diameter of the circle. It is classified as a transcendental number meaning that is not algebraic or the root of any integer polynomial. Pi also has an infinite, non-repeating decimal expression when calculated. “On March 14th we also celebrate the birthday of Albert Einstein, and his incredible contributions to science and our understanding of the universe we live in. I think it is fitting that Pi and Einstein share a day of recognition since π is an integral part of Einstein’s field equations for his general relativity theory. “From the early days of civilization to the space exploration of the 21st Century, we have used science and mathematics to create the building blocks of our society and beyond. Pi Day serves as a fun reminder to our students about the importance of studying Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) in school, and how the tools learned in those subjects can lead to successful careers. It is also an opportunity for Congress to reflect on the intersection between STEM subject matter and public policy decision-making. “Whether using π in an equation, telling a friend your ‘punniest’ Pi Day joke, or eating a slice of delicious sweet or savory pie, I hope we all take time to recognize the significant role that mathematics play in our world and the ability of one number to capture our creativity and imagination.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.11.2016	Stockton, CA – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) celebrated the groundbreaking of the Discovery Challenge Academy, a California National Guard program for at-risk youth to help them turn their lives around through skills training and education. The Congressman attended the ceremony along with members of the California National Guard, San Joaquin County Office of Education, state and local elected officials, to applaud the new academy and the renovation of the Sharpe Army Depot that will house the program. “The National Guard's Challenge programs have a real record of success when it comes to helping at-risk youth turn their lives around, and I'm proud that our San Joaquin community will serve as the home for the Discovery Challenge Academy,” said Rep. McNerney. “I was glad to help secure federal funding for the program. It took tireless advocacy and teamwork to deliver this Challenge site for the young people in our region looking to earn a second chance through the hard work and educational opportunities that the program provides.” Congressman McNerney worked tirelessly to bring the Discovery Challenge Youth Academy to San Joaquin County, advocating for the program in numerous meetings and communications with Army and National Guard Bureau leaders. Rep. McNerney successfully advocated for an additional $10 million in funding for the program in Congress in 2014. He also wrote California legislators asking them to approve state matching funds, helping secure an additional $1.5 million for the program. Additionally, Congressman McNerney sent a letter to the Pentagon asking for the Challenge program in San Joaquin County to commence. The Congressman’s efforts also helped the Army and the California National Guard establish a lease agreement for the Challenge program at the Sharpe Army Depot. Before securing this agreement, the Army National Guard had held up the lease contract at Sharpe because of its interpretation of the rules surrounding such acquisitions. “Many Challenge program participants go on to attend college, get a good-paying job, and make valuable contributions to society. Programs like the Challenge, that help deter youth from dropping of out of school, delinquency, and criminal activity, are critical investments that will improve our community for many years to come,” added Rep. McNerney. The Discovery Challenge Academy will welcome its inaugural class in January 2017 with 150 cadets. California’s Challenge academies have served more than 6,000 cadets since their establishment. “What the Cal Guard accomplishes with its Challenge academies is as important as anything we do during wildfire season or on the battlefield overseas,” said Maj. Gen. David S. Baldwin, Adjutant General for the California National Guard. “We are a community-based force, and offering these youth a chance to redirect their lives is critical not only to their futures, but to the future of California’s communities.” Discovery Challenge Academy is California’s third National Guard Challenge program, joining the Grizzly Youth Academy in San Luis Obispo and Sunburst Youth Academy in Los Alamitos. California’s programs are consistently among the academies with the highest retention rates out of all 38 Challenge programs nationwide. The Challenge program targets teenagers who have dropped out of high school and provides them with the life skills, job training and education needed to help get back on track. Participants in the program take part in a half-year residential program on active or closed National Guard bases, a National Guard training center, or a school campus. Following this residential phase the participants return to their communities and take part in a 12-month mentoring program. Each class averages 100 participants and the program has produced over 121,000 graduates since its inception in 1993. The Challenge program has been statistically proven to be one of the nation’s most effective means for prevention of delinquency and involvement in criminal activities. A cost-benefit analysis conducted by RAND Corporation determined that it is cost-effective, with a return on investment of $2.66 for every dollar spent. The program currently operates in 27 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is funded through a federal/state partnership, with the federal government contributing 75 percent. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.09.2016	Stockton, CA – Standing with small business advocates and community leaders, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced new legislation to promote greater compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act’s (ADA) accessibility standards within the business community. ADA accessibility compliance lawsuits have hit the Stockton area particularly hard, with some businesses forced to shut down, relocate, or payout large settlements. New York, Alabama, Florida, and Pennsylvania are among other states also affected by ADA-related lawsuit abuse. The COMPLI (Correcting Obstructions to Mediate, Prevent, and Limit Inaccessibility) Act, H.R.4719, focuses on increasing ADA accessibility compliance among businesses to prevent predatory lawsuits from “high-frequency litigants” that hurt small businesses while not always bringing resolution the accessibility issue. “I have heard from numerous local businesses who were forced to shut down, lay off employees, pay out large settlements, or change locations because of repeated lawsuits and threats of lawsuits that leave these businesses with little to no financial resources or time to fix the problem and become compliant,” said Rep. McNerney. “My COMPLI Act would give businesses a 90-day period after notification of a potential infraction to correct the access barrier. Increasing ADA compliance among the business community is good for the local economy, and it is something we can achieve while at the same time ensuring that aggrieved individuals are still able to bring lawsuits against businesses for ADA infractions. The ADA gives equal rights and access to individuals with disabilities, and I want to make sure everyone has equal access to enjoy the businesses within our communities.” The COMPLI Act will require a potential plaintiff or aggrieved individual to provide written notice to the owner of the business, by certified mail, which identifies the specific ADA violation and the date and time the individual experienced the barrier. Some of the most common ADA infractions include: not having enough accessible parking spaces; having non-compliant or missing parking signs; and issues related to loading zones and van accessible aisles. Rep. McNerney’s legislation provides the business owner 90 days from the date of notification that a barrier exists to correct the barrier, before any lawsuit or demand letter can be issued. A business owner may qualify for an additional 30 day extension if he or she attempts in “good faith” to remedy an access barrier but is unsuccessful within the original 90 day compliance period. Good faith can be determined if the business owner has: secured the appropriate construction permits and hired contractors to complete construction; or has begun construction and has worked to minimize delays in completion. The business owner must also notify its customers of the ADA violation while it is in the process of correcting the barrier. Businesses must provide this notification to customers within 15 days after receipt of an ADA violation notice. The California Commission on Disability Access (CCDA) found that 54 percent of all ADA accessibility claims filed in California came from just two law firms, and 46 percent of those claims were filed by only 14 plaintiffs. “As someone who has used a manual wheelchair for the past 17-years, I understand and appreciate the significance of the Americans with Disabilities Act. However, as a defense attorney I understand that the ADA is severely abused and has become a money making scheme for a small handful of attorneys and serial plaintiffs,” said Rachelle Golden, an ADA defense attorney. The COMPLI Act defines a “high-frequency litigant” as an individual who has brought 10 or more civil actions alleging ADA violations within the previous 12-month period. The bill aims to limit a high-frequency litigant’s ability to repeatedly file lawsuits in bad faith and encourages business owners to invest in updating their properties to meet the accessibility standards of the ADA. The legislation also prohibits damages from being awarded to plaintiffs who were not denied reasonable access or reasonable use to a facility because of an ADA violation, in an attempt to curb “drive-by” plaintiffs” that prey on businesses without ever entering them or attempting to engage them in a business transaction. Lastly, the bill requires the Department of Justice to submit a report to Congress two years after the bill is enacted, which: Determines how many people were categorized as a “high frequency litigant” during the two year period in each state Provides analysis on whether the bill’s provisions had an effect on the number of ADA accessibility lawsuits filed Provides analysis on whether the bill’s provisions have negatively impacted an individual’s ability to bring a legitimate, good-faith accessibility claim Recommends whether an attorney’s fee cap should be introduced in the future to reduce ADA abuse “Most businesses are unaware of what violations they potentially have on their property, and when served with a complaint, they are forced with a decision to fight against the lawsuit, or close their doors. Most often, complaints allege minor, if not trivial violations, that are easily correctable without much difficulty or expense. It is imperative that federal legislature catch up with California state law and provide a notice and opportunity to cure before a lawsuit can be commenced. The COMPLI Act would allow businesses the opportunity to learn of and correct ADA violations before they are forced to engage in costly litigation,” added Golden. The COMPLI Act is supported by small business and small business advocacy groups. The Greater Stockton Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors took action on Thursday, February 25, 2016 to “support in concept” Congressman McNerney’s new bill to protect businesses and the community from “drive by lawsuits” in regards to the Americans with Disabilities Act. “Harassment and threats by the unscrupulous is not the way to accomplish full compliance! Fairness and cooperation will allow businesses to fully comply with the law if given a fair chance. It is important that the State of California follows the lead of Congressman McNerney and does the same,” said Judith Buethe, President of the Greater Stockton Chamber for 2015/16 and owner of Judith Buethe Communications. Excessive ADA compliance lawsuits forced Chuck’s Hamburgers in Stockton to relocate after 55 years of service at the same location. “I believe that this particular law was a good one when written. The problem lies with the few people that take advantage of the loophole. I’d like to thank Rep. McNerney for his support on such delicate matters,” said Steve Grant, owner of Chuck’s Hamburgers. “I felt that this law wouldn't be seen for the negative impact it has on our communities and small businesses because it is lawyer versus lawyer and they manipulate the law. I’d like to thank Rep. McNerney for asking people like me to share my experience and offering small business owners hope that laws such as this will be changed.” “We are excited about the introduction of the COMPLI Act. This is a necessary bill to ensure that the intent of the ADA is unchanged while providing relief to business to come into compliance without frivolous lawsuits closing their doors. We believe this is a great opportunity for the ADA community to work together with the business community to better educate business on the needs and partner on compliance. We look forward to supporting Congressman McNerney on these efforts and advocating for the bill’s passage,” said Bob Gutierrez, Chairman-elect of the San Joaquin County Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. “We are so very glad Congressman McNerney has authored this badly needed bill,” said Pat Patrick, President and CEO of the Lodi District Chamber of Commerce. “Small businesses have been unfairly singled out and targeted by predatory lawyers taking advantage of ADA laws. The law without an enforcement clause has become an unfortunate opportunity for predatory lawyers. The provisions in Congressman McNerney’s ADA bill will give small businesses a 90-window to bring their business into ADA compliance.” “This bill will allow businesses the opportunity to comply with ADA irregularities within a reasonable 90-day period without the burdensome legal costs of a civil suit. Small businesses are the lifeblood of our local economy and this bill would protect them from predatory lawyers and individuals who target them to obtain a financial settlement. CVACC supports Congressman McNerney on this legislation,” said Dennis Lee, CEO and President of the Central Valley Asian-American Chamber of Commerce. “The California Delta Chambers & Visitor’s Bureau fully supports Congressman Jerry McNerney’s COMPLI Act. ADA abuses cost local businesses much time and money. We feel this legislation will help curb some of the excesses,” said Bill Wells, Executive Director of the California Delta Chambers & Visitor’s Bureau. "The Antioch Chamber of Commerce is excited to support the new legislation that Congressman McNerney is bringing forth to update the Americans with Disabilities Act to give our businesses the opportunity to improve their facilities in a timely manner and avoid unlawful suits that are ruining their businesses, the jobs they create, and the ability to support their family,” said Sean Wright, CEO of the Antioch Chamber of Commerce. The COMPLI Act is now referred to the House Judiciary Committee for consideration. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
03.01.2016	Washington – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation authored by Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) to honor the life of Stockton champion and former Port Commissioner W. Ron Coale with a post office dedication. H.R. 1132 would name the U.S. Postal facility at 1048 W. Robinhood Drive as the W. Ronald Coale Memorial Post Office in recognition of Mr. Coale’s service and dedication to the people and community of Stockton, CA. The bill now goes to the U.S. Senate for consideration. “I’m pleased to see legislation honoring Ron Coale, a true public servant to the people and community of Stockton, pass the House of Representatives. Ron was a model citizen and steward of San Joaquin County and our country, having held leadership roles on multiple boards and commissions, and serving in the Army during the Korean War,” said Rep. McNerney. “I proposed this bill shortly after Ron’s passing nearly two years ago because I believe his legacy serves as an important example for Stockton’s next generation of community leaders. A wonderful person and friend, I am glad to recognize all that Ron Coale has accomplished through this post office dedication bill.” Watch Rep. McNerney speak on his bill recognizing W. Ron Coale on the House floor. Mr. Coale began his service in the United States Army. A veteran of the Korean War and honorably discharged in 1954, military service was the first in what became a lifetime of answering the call to serve in a variety of civic and public capacities. For 22 years, Coale was a member of the Stockton Port Commission, serving as chair of the Commission for three years. On the Commission, Coale played a critical role in securing the land transfer of Rough and Ready Island from the U.S. Navy to the Port in 2000. With the island, the Port of Stockton became the third largest port in California, and the second busiest inland port on the West Coast. A fierce advocate for the Port, Coale was active in the California Marine Affairs Navigation Conference, a statewide association of California Port Authorities, the International Association of Port Authorities, and the Association of Pacific Ports. Coale was elected to the Stockton City Council in 1983. Two years later, he was elected as Vice-Mayor of the council and served the city in that position until 1990. Coale was also an active member on the San Joaquin County Council of Governments, representing the Port of Stockton, Stockton City Council, and Metropolitan Transit District Board of Directors. Coale’s legacy also includes service on the California Public Utilities Commission and the Stockton Port District Board of Port Commissioners. From 2000 to 2001 he was the foreperson for the San Joaquin Grand Jury. Coale was also a member and past chairman of the Stockton Salvation Army Advisory Board, an eight-year gubernatorial appointee to the Atascadero State Hospital Advisory Board, and member of the advisory board for the YMCA of San Joaquin County. A native of Stockton, Coale attended local schools and held a teaching certificate in the field of transportation and distribution from the University of California, Berkeley. W. Ron Coale passed away in 2014 at the age of 81. He is survived by his two sons, Ronald W. and Michael W. and five grandchildren: Ronald Thomas, Stephanie Lynn, Christopher Aaron, Jeffrey Michael, and Tyler Joseph Coale. Rep. McNerney introduced H.R. 1132, to name the post office in honor of W. Ron Coale, in March of 2015. H.R. 1132 passed the U.S. House Oversight and Government Reform Committee in December of 2015. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.29.2016	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today announced that he is an original cosponsor on bipartisan legislation, authored by U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10), to establish the McCaul-Warner Commission on Digital Security. The bipartisan Commission will be tasked with developing recommendations for maintaining privacy and digital security while also finding ways to keep criminals and terrorists from exploiting technologies to evade justice. U.S. Senator Mark Warner (D-VA) has introduced companion legislation in the Senate to establish this Commission. “Congress’ highest priority is the security of our country. We must do everything possible to fight terrorism and bring criminals to justice. This includes consulting with national security experts and taking rational action that strengthens our country and responds to the threats and risks to our cyber security without making us more vulnerable. Given the complexities of ‘exceptional access,’ our security is best served by a thorough analysis and policy debate that includes lawmakers, national security experts, law enforcement, technology stakeholders, and privacy advocates,” said Rep. McNerney. “That is why I am proud to co-sponsor legislation calling for the creation of a Commission on Digital Security. Recent events and the fast pace that technology advances in today’s world illustrate the need for our country to engage in this policy discussion on privacy and national security.” The Commission will bring together leaders and experts from law enforcement, technology companies, national security, the privacy community, global commerce and economy, and others to examine the intersection of digital technology and national security. The Commission will include 16 members. House and Senate majority and minority leadership will be the appointing authority to the Commission. The Commission will have one year from the date of its initial meeting to submit a final report to Congress. The recommendations and findings in the report must be approved by at least 12 of the 16 voting members. The McCaul-Warner Commission on Digital Security was introduced with the following original House cosponsors: Jim Langevin (D-RI-02); Pat Meehan(R-PA-07); Suzan Delbene (D-WA-01); Mike Bishop (R-MI-08); Ted Lieu (D-CA-33); Will Hurd (R-TX-23); Kathleen Rice (D-NY-04); Blake Farenthold (R-TX-27); Eric Swalwell (D-CA-15); Dan Donovan (R-NY-11); Jerry McNerney (D-CA-09); Barbara Comstock (R-VA-10); Mimi Walters (R-CA-45); Ryan Costello (R-PA-06); Dave Reichert (R-WA-08). More information on the legislation is available here. Last December, Rep. McNerney co-authored an opinion piece in The Hill that discussed concerns with “exceptional access” – the ability to unlock encrypted data on devices made by companies such as Google and Apple. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.25.2016	Washington – At a full committee mark-up hearing today, the U.S. House Veterans’ Affairs Committee voted to advance legislation authored by Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) to reform the Veterans Administration (VA) construction process in order to reduce construction project backlog, and ensure that more veterans are able to access the health care benefits they earned. H.R. 4129 would jumpstart construction by allowing the VA to enter into public-private partnership agreements with non-federal entities to build major medical facility projects. The bill now awaits consideration by the full House. “The status quo of the VA construction process that has come to be defined by cost overruns, delays, and reduced quality of care is completely unacceptable, and reforming the process is long overdue. I’ve seen firsthand how even routine appointments can burden our veterans because they have to travel far outside of their community to use the health care benefits they earned serving our country,” said Rep. McNerney. “My bill would give the VA the ability to leverage partnerships between the VA and non-federal entities – such as local and state governments and private partners – to jumpstart construction of medical facility projects that would help connect more veterans with health care. We owe it to our veterans to do everything possible to speed-up construction, reduce the backlog, and improve their access to quality health care.” Rep. McNerney’s bill permits these nonfederal entities and partners to raise half of the funds for major medical projects to facilitate the construction process. Project restrictions include major medical facility projects where Congress has already appropriated funds; the design and development phase is complete; and construction has not begun, as of the date of the enactment of this Act. In 2013, 50 major construction projects were under management by the VA at a cost of more than $12 billion. A U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found that for some of the VA’s largest medical construction projects, costs had skyrocketed and schedule delays threw the projects off track. Projects in Denver, Las Vegas, Orlando, and New Orleans have all experienced significant setbacks in their construction. The GAO found that as of January 2015, delays for these projects ranged from 14 to 86 months, and cost increases ranged between 66 percent and 144 percent. This includes the cost of the New Orleans project increasing by $40 million and the Orlando project being delayed 39 to 57 months. Under Rep. McNerney’s bill, the VA would enter into agreements on a competitive basis with non-federal entities, like state government, municipalities, port authorities, flood control districts, and provide matching funds. These entities could take the lead on construction, with the ability to raise capital for the project and accelerate the construction of major medical facilities. In 2014, Rep. McNerney introduced similar legislation to push VA construction projects forward. The House Veterans’ Affairs Committee also voted to allocate funding for the VA Community Based Outpatient Clinic project in French Camp, CA in their FY 2016 VA Seismic Safety, Construction, and Lease Authorization Act. “This is another critical step to move the French Camp VA clinic to the construction phase of the project. This clinic is an important investment in the health and well-being of the 87,000 across the Central Valley region that would be served by the clinic,” said Rep. McNerney. “I applaud this latest development, and I will be closely monitoring the progress as this construction project moves forward.” The Senate Veterans Affairs Committee must also vote to allocate funding for the French Camp VA clinic as part of its larger construction authorization act. In 2015, funding for the French Camp clinic was included in the FY16 omnibus spending bill passed by Congress and signed by President Obama. The VA estimates that the French Camp clinic will break ground in 2017 and take two and a half to three years to complete. If the project stays on schedule, the French Camp CBOC should open late in the year in 2019 or early in 2020. The Army Corps of Engineers will be the project manager for this major construction project. Rep. McNerney has been a tireless advocate for securing the authorization and funding for more VA facilities, particularly the French Camp clinic, repeatedly calling for the financial resources to complete the project. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.18.2016	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09), along with Northern California House Reps. Jared Huffman (CA-02), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Mike Thompson (CA-05), and John Garamendi (CA-03), sent a letter to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in support of the efforts of four statewide non-profit organizations, looking for answers about the Bureau’s funding and federal assistance grants to the California Department of Water Resources to support Governor Jerry Brown’s “WaterFix” tunnels plan. The non-profit organizations include: the Planning and Conservation League, the Southern California Watershed Alliance, the Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen's Associations and the California Water Impact Network. You can read their original letter to the Bureau of Reclamation here. Full text of the Congressional letter: February 18, 2016 David Murillo, Regional Director Mid Pacific Regional Office Bureau of Reclamation Federal Office Building 2800 Cottage Way Sacramento CA 95825-1898 Dear Mr. Murillo: Thank you for your efforts in managing very challenging water supply allocations in California over the span of the drought. We support the collaborative approach between federal and state agencies, but we remain concerned with the level of federal participation in Governor Jerry Brown’s “WaterFix” tunnels plan. We must diligently vet an incredibly expensive, major water infrastructure project especially when our constituents will be affected for years to come and many of our questions about the plan remain unanswered. We recently sent a letter to Governor Brown outlining our concerns regarding premature allocations of state funding to the WaterFix plan. We support the attached statewide non-profit constituent letter that seeks to find answers to important questions raised about Bureau of Reclamation’s funding and federal assistance grants to the California Department of Water Resources in support of the Waterfix Tunnels Plan. We request that your agency provide answers to the attached letter in a timely manner so that we can more accurately address our constituents’ concerns. Thank you for your attention to this request. Sincerely, _____________________________ _____________________________ JERRY MCNERNEY JARED HUFFMAN Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ MARK DESAULNIER DORIS MATSUI Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ _____________________________ MIKE THOMPSON JOHN GARAMENDI Member of Congress Member of Congress In January of this year, these same Northern California House Democrats sent a letter to Governor Jerry Brown regarding his budget proposal as it relates to the “WaterFix” tunnels plan. Specifically, the letter asked how the $3.6 million allocation will be used, and requests a more detailed discussion with the Brown administration as to why budgetary funding was deemed necessary for the regulatory review of the WaterFix tunnels at this time. Rep. McNerney, whose district contains a majority of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, has long opposed Governor Brown’s tunnels, an ill-advised plan that would devastate the Delta’s fragile ecosystem and hurt families, farmers, and businesses in the region. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.17.2016	Washington – Ahead of tomorrow’s Federal Communications Commission (FCC) vote on the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for unlocking set-top boxes, Representatives Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Renee Ellmers (NC-02), and Joe Barton (TX-06), all members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, sent a bipartisan letter to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler, raising concerns about the potential privacy implications of the proposal. In the letter, the Congressional members ask if there are differences between privacy obligations that cable operators have under Section 631 of the Communications Act and what third-party device manufacturers and app developers that seek access to consumers’ data would have under the self-certification model, among other privacy-related questions. Full text of the letter: February 17, 2016 The Honorable Tom Wheeler Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street, SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Wheeler: We value policies that encourage technological innovation and competition in the marketplace and that seek to provide consumers with more products and increased choices. However, consumer privacy should be protected in the process, and we are concerned about the potential privacy implications of your proposal to unlock set-top boxes. The fact sheet published on the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) website on January 27, 2016 states that “the privacy protections that exist today will also apply when alternative navigation devices are used.” It is our understanding that Section 631 of the Communications Act subjects cable operators to certain requirements regarding the use and disclosure of consumers’ personally identifiable information. A recent Broadcasting & Cable article reports that third-party device manufacturers and app developers will have to self-certify that they are in compliance with similar privacy obligations that cable operators have under Section 631 in order to obtain access to consumers’ data. Are there any differences between privacy obligations that cable operators have under Section 631 and what third-party device manufacturers and app developers that seek access to consumers’ data will have under the self-certification model? What recourse will be available to consumers in cases where third-party device manufacturers and app developers fall short of fulfilling their privacy obligations? Additionally, we are concerned about protecting consumers from unwanted targeted advertising. What rights would consumers using third-party devices have with respect to data about their viewing habits being collected by these devices and then sold to other companies for advertising purposes? As the FCC prepares to vote on the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for unlocking set-top boxes, we hope that you and the Commission carefully consider the important issue of protecting consumers’ privacy and respond to the above questions no later than March 2, 2016. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, _________________ _________________­ Jerry McNerney Joe Barton Member of Congress Member of Congress _________________ Renee Ellmers Member of Congress The letter is also available here. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.17.2016	Antioch, CA – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) applauded the grand opening of the new Antioch Health Center, a facility that will allow Contra Costa Health Services to meet the growing demand for health care services in the East County region. The Congressman also had the chance to tour the new facility that includes nearly double the number of exam rooms as the health center’s previous location on Lone Tree Way. “This is a great day for the people of Antioch, the greater Contra Costa region, and our Ninth Congressional District. I believe that access to quality health care is an important building block that helps our community prosper and grow. This new Antioch Health Center is larger, with the capacity to provide medical care to more patients seeking care. I am confident that this health center will help improve community health and be a valuable resource that will serve people for years to come,” said Rep. McNerney. According to Contra Costa Health Services, the new Antioch Health Center will integrate behavioral care and physical health care to better address the needs of its patients. "As Health Director of Contra Costa Health Services, I am grateful for the opening of this new Health Center which will expand access to health care in East County. I am particularly proud of the opportunity for further integration of physical and behavioral health services, so necessary for truly addressing the needs of our patients,” said Dr. William Walker, Director of Contra Costa Health Services. The new Antioch Health Center will have 20 medical exam rooms and two group rooms – twice the number of exam rooms at the center’s old facility. The Antioch Health Center manages over a thousand visits each week. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.17.2016	Washington – U.S. House Representatives Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Jeff Denham (CA-10), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Michael M. Honda (CA-17), and Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) are calling on the U.S. Department of Veterans (VA) to provide further explanation of the potential Tuberculosis exposure at the VA Palo Alto Medical Center. In a bipartisan letter to VA Secretary Robert A. McDonald, the representatives are asking for an update on the situation, and posing a series of questions to ensure that the VA will take all necessary steps to protect patients, visitors, and staff system-wide against the current potential exposure and cases in the future. “As many as 177 veterans and 53 employees were potentially exposed to TB late last year, leading to the subsequent exposure of those who assist and provide services to veterans, including congressional staff. This is unacceptable. The VA failed to follow public health protocol and notify anyone who may have come into contact with exposed veterans or employees. A lack of uniformity system-wide and a culture that requires overhaul in many respects have proven problematic. The VA must have protocols in place for notifying management in instances of exposure to a particular disease or infection,” the Congressional members wrote in the letter to Secretary McDonald. Full text of the letter: February 16, 2016 Secretary Robert A. McDonald U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: We are writing you to express our disappointment and concern over a potential Tuberculosis (TB) exposure at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Palo Alto Medical Center. According to information provided by the VA, as many as 177 veterans and 53 employees were potentially exposed to TB late last year, leading to the subsequent exposure of those who assist and provide services to veterans, including congressional staff. This is unacceptable. In October 2015, an employee at the VA Palo Alto hospital tested positive for TB and continued to work at the facility until management was notified in January 2016. It is troubling that the employee failed to alert any direct supervisors of their health status, yet shared the TB results with colleagues. And although we respect the privacy of those who may be affected and the need to prevent undue alarm, we find the speed at which information is released to be troubling. The VA failed to follow public health protocol and notify anyone who may have come into contact with exposed veterans or employees. The lack of notice to not only VA visitors, but also our staff, who regularly came into contact with veterans who were exposed, is also deeply concerning. The VA has been contacting the veterans who may have been impacted by this incident via phone call; these veterans will need to take additional tests to determine if they have TB, and will need to return for a follow-up exam 6-8 weeks after the initial test. The VA also plans to inform veterans about their right to use legal avenues against the VA as a result of this incident. An independent assessment of the Veterans Health Administration as required by the Veterans Choice Act, detailed the massive undertaking needed to improve care at VA facilities across the nation. The report noted that, “While VHA exhibits a deep commitment to serving Veterans…VHA’s health care facilities provide strikingly different patient experiences, apply inconsistent business processes, and differ widely on key measures of performance and efficiency.” The Palo Alto Health Care System is a leader in quality of care and innovation not only in VA health facilities, but for medical facilities across the U.S. VA health facilities in Pittsburgh, PA and Loma Linda, CA have also dealt with TB exposure, further underscoring the need for a uniform policy and training across the system. A lack of uniformity system-wide and a culture that requires overhaul in many respects have proven problematic. The VA must have protocols in place for notifying management in instances of exposure to a particular disease or infection. We know that you, your staff, and VA employees are committed to caring for veterans, and that you will take all necessary steps to protect patients, visitors, and staff system-wide. To that end, we request an update on the potential TB exposure situation and have enclosed a list of questions. Please send us your response as soon as possible. We appreciate your attention to this urgent matter. Is the VA implementing a plan to ensure more unified operations and reporting at its medical facilities? When will this be implemented, if not done so already? What are the current protocols for supervisors throughout a VA health facility to share information throughout the VA health system, from employee through the Secretary? What are the current protocols for the VA to notify veterans when they are potentially affected by an illness or disease caused by medical equipment or personnel? Are there established timelines for the VA to notify veterans in these instances? Is the VA developing a communications outreach plan to all those – including visitors – who may be affected by TB? Does the VA compensate veterans for additional medical services that are required as a result of a potential exposure? What are the steps taken by the VA should a veteran become infected? What are the consequences for employees who fail to report potential medical improprieties? What is the VA doing to assist the employees who were exposed to their co-worker? Are they being compensated for additional medical care needed as a result of the exposure; is the VA providing paid leave; are they eligible for legal action against VA? Sincerely, _________________________ _________________________ Jerry McNerney Jeff Denham United States Representative United States Representative _______________________ _______________________ Mark DeSaulnier Michael M. Honda United States Representative United States Representative _______________________ Zoe Lofgren United States Representative Cc: Dr. David Shulkin, Undersecretary for Health Elizabeth Freeman, Director of the VA Palo Alto Health Care System The letter is also available here. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.16.2016	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today released a video message to celebrate Black History Month. In his address, the Congressman reflected on African American political and civil rights pioneers who fought for equality, and the great achievements from the African American community that have shaped our nation. Rep. McNerney also spoke about the need to restore the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to ensure that all Americans are able to exercise their right to vote. “Each year during the month of February, we reflect on the vital contributions that African Americans have made to this nation throughout our history and appreciate the collective strength diversity brings to our country,” said Rep. McNerney in the video message. “We celebrate trailblazers like Rosa Parks, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Mae Jemison, and the late Stockton councilman and civil rights activist Floyd Weaver from my congressional district, and many courageous men and women who fought for change and continue to work for equality to this day.” Link to Rep. McNerney’s Black History Month video message: https://bit.ly/1QcqyEO. Full text of Rep. McNerney’s video message as prepared: Hello, I’m Congressman Jerry McNerney and I’m proud to celebrate Black History Month with you. Each year during the month of February, we reflect on the vital contributions that African Americans have made to this nation throughout our history and appreciate the collective strength diversity brings to our country. We celebrate the political and civil rights pioneers of the 1950’s and 1960’s and of today. People like Rosa Parks, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and the late Stockton councilman and civil rights activist Floyd Weaver from my congressional district, and many courageous men and women who fought for change and continue to work for equality to this day. In addition, we celebrate the many African American trailblazers… women like Mae Jemison who was the first African American woman in space, and who is an inspiration to our children studying math, science, engineering, and technology. African Americans have woven their legacy into the fabric of our nation through great accomplishments in literature, education, business, technology, the arts, sciences, sports and entertainment. While persevering through adversity, African Americans continue to make progress against the odds of several social justice issues, such as voter suppression. Sadly, Republicans refuse to fix the Supreme Court’s flawed decision that weakened a key section of the voting rights act of 1965. Until Congress passes bipartisan legislation to fix this decision, the right to vote for all Americans is under attack. This black history month, let us work together to find real solutions to the problems that continue to plague our African American communities across the country so we may ensure a better, brighter and more equitable future for all Americans. When thinking about African Americans’ dynamic history and the important role it plays in our relations today, I’m reminded of the Latin phrase, “e pluribus unum” or ‘out of many, one’. Out of our many differences that make us unique, we are smarter, stronger, and more prosperous when we unite together. Happy Black History Month! ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.15.2016	Washington – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to the death of United States Supreme Court Associate Justice Antonin Scalia, and the resulting vacancy on the Court: “With the passing of Justice Antonin Scalia, the United States Supreme Court loses one of its finest conservative voices and interpreters of the Constitution. Filling this vacancy will certainly have a significant influence on the future direction of the Court. The Republican leadership in the U.S. Senate and the Republican presidential candidates are now demanding a delay in the process of confirming a new associate justice until after the presidential election, promising to deny any Obama appointee a confirmation hearing. “The American people do not deserve this kind of obstructionism and hypocrisy. Let’s put this partisan divide aside and support the president’s duty to appoint a new justice. Once President Obama announces a nominee, the Senate should allow a fair hearing to proceed, followed by a vote on confirmation. We owe it to the founders of this great nation, and to all those who have fought over the centuries to protect our freedoms, to uphold the Constitution both on the battlefield and in Washington.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.12.2016	Washington – Looking to showcase the artistic talent and creativity of high school students in his district, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced that his office is taking submissions for the 2016 National Congressional Art Competition. Sponsored by the United States Congress, this annual competition serves as a way to showcase the artistic talents and accomplishments of high school students throughout the country. “The creativity and vision presented by our young constituents never ceases to amaze me. I am inspired each year by these students as their expression of art through education continues to grow,” said Rep. McNerney. “It is important to encourage our youth to pursue their dreams, and I’m excited to see the artwork from this year’s competition.” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide a unique opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with this nationwide competition. A panel of judges will select the winning entries, and their decision will be announced at a special ceremony and exhibit. The grand prize winner from the district will be flown to Washington, D.C. along with a guest to attend the overall winners’ awards ceremony in June. The winner’s artwork will also go on display in a busy corridor that leads to the U.S. Capitol, used daily by members of Congress, staffers, and visitors to Washington, D.C. The second, third and fourth place winners will have their work displayed in one of Congressman McNerney’s three offices, located in Washington, D.C., Stockton, and Antioch. Students and teachers interested in the Congressional Art Competition should visit Rep. McNerney’s website: mcnerney.house.gov. They can get more information and download the required release form. Rules for Submissions: The contest is open to all high school students in California’s 9th District. The deadline to submit artwork is Friday, April 8, 2016. Entries may be up to 28” x 28” x 4” (including the frame). The art work may be: Paintings – including oil, acrylics, and watercolor Drawings – including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers Collage Prints – including lithographs, silkscreen, and block prints Mixed Media Computer Generated Art Photography All entries must be an original in concept, design and execution. Submissions and a release form can be dropped off at either of Congressman McNerney’s district offices. Please see the corresponding addresses below: Antioch Office Stockton Office Office of Congressman Jerry McNerney Office of Congressman Jerry McNerney 4703 Lone Tree Way 2222 Grand Canal Blvd, Suite 7 Antioch, CA 94531 Stockton, CA 95207 Students and teachers may also contact Rep. McNerney’s Stockton office at (209) 476-8552 or his Antioch office at (925) 754-0716 with additional questions. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.10.2016	Washington – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to Senator Dianne Feinstein introducing her revised drought relief bill: “California’s severe drought, the resulting water shortages, and the inevitability of future droughts require us to pursue solutions that create new water and enhance regional sustainability across the state. I am encouraged to see that Senator Feinstein’s revised legislation includes provisions to boost water recycling and desalination projects to move us in that direction. I have championed expanding water recycling and other efforts to create new water that will make more efficient use of our existing water supply and help alleviate pressure on the Delta’s fragile resources. When it comes to California water policy, my number one concern is any outcome that would negatively impact the Delta, its ecosystem, farmers, and economy. As this legislation moves forward, I will keep these priorities in mind and continue working with all stakeholders to put California on the path toward a more sustainable water future.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.09.2016	Washington – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Proposal: “The President’s final budget proposal charts a new, innovative course for America’s sustainable energy future by urging Congress to double our nation’s investment in clean energy research and development. Such a commitment of resources would drive the creation of good-paying American jobs, reduce carbon emissions that cause climate change, and move our economy in the right direction to compete in the 21st Century. “Given the water shortages in California caused by severe drought, it is good to see that this budget includes more than $2 billion in much-needed State Revolving Funds. These funds will help improve our drinking water and wastewater infrastructure and ensure our communities are able to access clean, safe water. “This budget also looks to strengthen America’s future by expanding access to early child care and tax credits for hardworking families, improving Pell grants to help more students afford college, while also providing workforce training and technology to revitalize our manufacturing industry. This proposal also makes critical investments in cybersecurity protections to ensure the safety of our country and help us all become more digitally secure. “While not all members of Congress will agree with every item, I believe this is a proposal worthy of discussion and debate and, eventually, bipartisan agreement to ensure that we enact a responsible Fiscal Year 2017 budget.” To read President Barack Obama’s Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Proposal, visit https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.08.2016	Stockton, CA – In an effort to better connect veterans with resources and benefits, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host a Veterans Resource Fair on Saturday, February 20 at San Joaquin County Worknet in Stockton. This event will feature a variety of government agencies, partners, and organizations offering resources for education, employment and health care, among others. What: Rep. McNerney will host a Veterans Resource Fair to better connect veterans with resources and benefits. When: Saturday, February 20, 2016 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Where: San Joaquin County WorkNet 56 S. Lincoln Street Stockton, CA 95203 Resources confirmed for the fair include: VA Northern California Health Care System San Joaquin County Veterans Service Office (VSO) San Joaquin Delta College VA National Cemetery Administration Sacramento Vet Center University of the Pacific San Joaquin County Behavioral Health Services San Joaquin County WorkNet California Dept. of Veterans Affairs (CalVet) Employer Support of the Guard & Reserve VA Oakland Regional Office VA Palo Alto Health Care System Dignity’s Alcove Swords to Plowshares State of California Employment Development Department (EDD) Interested attendees should RSVP with Rep. McNerney’s Stockton Office at 209-476-8552. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
02.05.2016	Washington – Ahead of Super Bowl 50 this weekend, Congressman McNerney (CA-09) took to the U.S. House floor to recognize Dr. Bennet Omalu, a resident of Lodi, CA, who was the first medical professional to identify, diagnose, and name Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE), a progressive degenerative disease that is found in people who have suffered repetitive brain trauma, including sub-concussive hits that do not show any immediate symptoms. CTE is prevalent in athletes who participate in high contact sports, like football, boxing, and wrestling. Rep. McNerney also stressed the importance of supporting research to find cures for CTE and traumatic brain injuries. “Recognizing Dr. Bennet Omalu’s groundbreaking medical research is particularly relevant as we prepare to watch Super Bowl 50 because Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) is prevalent in athletes who participate in high contact sports, like football. Since Dr. Omalu’s discovery, we now know CTE is a progressive degenerative disease that is found in people who have suffered repetitive brain trauma, including sub-concussive hits that do not show any immediate symptoms,” Rep. McNerney. “It is imperative, as a nation, that we support research on CTE and brain injuries to figure out how much high-impact sports are affecting the health of our children and athletes.” Link to video of Rep. McNerney recognizing Dr. Omalu’s work on chronic, traumatic brain injury: https://bit.ly/1P70fm4. Full text of Rep. McNerney’s floor remarks as prepared: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the medical achievements and discoveries of an extraordinary man from my district, Dr. Bennet Omalu. Dr. Omalu’s medical achievements, focusing primarily on brain injuries, have recently come to prominence spotlight with the movie, “Concussion,” which chronicles Dr. Omalu’s career and the controversy his discoveries have created with the National Football League. Dr. Omalu’s medical research is also particularly relevant, as we prepare to watch Super Bowl 50 this weekend. Dr. Omalu was born in Nnokwa, Nigeria and was the sixth of seven siblings. His mother was a seamstress and his father was a civil mining engineer and respected community leader who encouraged Omalu’s career in medicine. His long medical career began at the age of 16, when he started attending medical school at the University of Nigeria. Omalu earned a Bachelor of Medicine and a Bachelor of Surgery in 1990. In 1994 Dr. Omalu moved to Seattle, Washington and completed an epidemiology fellowship at the University of Washington. In 1995, he moved to New York to complete residency training in anatomic and clinical pathology. After completing the residency, Dr. Omalu trained as a forensic pathologist at the Allegheny County Coroner’s Office in Pittsburgh. It was here, after conducting an autopsy on former Pittsburgh Steeler Mike Webster, that Dr. Omalu made a groundbreaking discovery that would forever change our understanding of brain injuries. Dr. Omalu was first to identify, diagnose, and name Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy. Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy, or CTE for short, is a disease prevalent in athletes who participate in high contact sports, like football, boxing, and wrestling. Since Dr. Omalu’s discovery, we now know that CTE is a progressive degenerative disease that is found in people who have suffered repetitive brain trauma, including sub-concussive hits that do not show any immediate symptoms. Early symptoms of CTE are usually detectable 8 to 10 years after the original brain trauma, and include disorientation, dizziness, and headaches. As the disease progresses, individuals with CTE can experience memory loss, social instability, erratic behavior, and poor judgment. The worst cases of CTE show symptoms of dementia, vertigo, impeded speech, tremors, deafness, slowing of muscular movements, and suicidal tendencies. Dr. Omalu’s continued research on brain injuries and CTE has given us a greater understanding of the long term effects of repetitive brain trauma. According to the CDC, approximately 3.8 million people suffer from concussions a year and about 208,000 people seek treatment in emergency rooms for traumatic brain injuries. Approximately two-thirds of those emergency room visits are children ages 5-18. The rate of reoccurrence with traumatic brain injuries is high-- an athlete who sustains a concussion is four to six times more likely to sustain a second concussion. Dr. Omalu has advocated for more education among the athletes who play high contact sports, teaching them about the risks associated with repetitive brain trauma. He has committed himself to advancing the medical understanding of CTE, brain injuries, and their effects on the people who suffer from them. Today, Dr. Omalu has eight advanced degrees and board certifications, including a Master of Public Health & Epidemiology and Master of Business Administration. Dr. Omalu resides in Lodi, California and serves as the chief medical examiner of San Joaquin County, California and as a professor in the UC Davis Department of Medical Pathology and Laboratory Medicine. The Bennet Omalu Foundation, named after Dr. Omalu is committed to funding research, raising awareness, providing care, and finding cures for people suffering from CTE and traumatic brain injuries. It is imperative, as a nation, that we support research on CTE and brain injuries and figure out how much high-impact sports are affecting the health of our children and athletes. I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring the research and achievements of Dr. Bennet Omalu and all he has done to further the understanding of the human brain. Rep. McNerney is a member of the Congressional Neuroscience Caucus and the Congressional Brain Injury Task Force. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.28.2016	Washington – In an effort to reduce government waste and address food insecurity, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) recently introduced a bill that would help eradicate wasteful practices among government contractors who provide food services to the federal government. H.R. 4382, the Food Waste Accountability Act, would require some food service contractors to document and report how much of their surplus food is thrown away, composted, or donated. With this bill, Congressman McNerney aims to reduce food waste and provide more quality, edible food for vulnerable families in need across the nation. “It is unacceptable that 40 percent of America’s food supply is wasted each year at a time when so many vulnerable communities suffer from food insecurity. The Food Waste Accountability Act will implement greater transparency with our federal food service contractors to determine how much food is being wasted, and help provide food supplies to feed families most in need,” said Rep. McNerney. “Promoting greater accountability of the contractors that handle and distribute the food to our federal government will ensure a reduction in food waste moving forward and help lower the number of American families living with food insecurity.” The Federal Food Donation Act of 2008 attempted to address food waste by requiring all federal contracts over $25,000 that involve the purchase, service, or sale of food to encourage donation of surplus food to nonprofit organizations that serve food-insecure populations. However, current law is silent when it comes to reporting requirements, and it is unclear whether or not any federal agencies or contractors are following the recommendation. Rep. McNerney’s legislation would strengthen the Federal Food Donation Act by implementing reporting requirements for the contracts to provide further clarity on food donations and waste reduction. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Economic Research Service, an estimated 31 percent of food loss happens at the retail and consumer levels, which translated to nearly 133 billion pounds and $161 billion worth of food waste in 2010. That amount of waste has a dramatic impact on food security, resource conservation, and climate change. In 2014, an estimated 17.4 million American households were food insecure at some point during the year. H.R. 4382 is supported by Feeding America, the Food Bank of Contra Costa and Solano, and the Emergency Food Bank of Stockton/San Joaquin County. “The amount of food that is wasted is unacceptable when you consider that one in eight residents of Contra Costa and Solano Counties relies on the Food Bank’s services. The Food Bank of Contra Costa and Solano believes H.R. 4382 is an important step toward making food waste more visible so we better understand the excesses and scarcities within our food system,” said Carly Finkle, Advocacy Manager for the Food Bank of Contra Costa and Solano. “This bill will encourage food contractors to reduce surpluses in the amounts of food they prepare, facilitate partnerships with organizations that can safely rescue foods, and encourage the proper composting and recycling of wastes.” “The Emergency Food Bank of Stockton/San Joaquin County supports the Food Waste Accountability Act. As part of the industry of providing food access to families in need, we, as with other organizations, are sometimes challenged with the available food supplies in our county. We hope that this bill addresses the concern of food waste throughout the U.S.,” said Mario Supnet, Executive Director of the Emergency Food Bank of Stockton/San Joaquin County. “Here in San Joaquin County, we partner with many organizations and share our resources to benefit our local community. Our partners support many unemployed and underemployed individuals and families. Increasing accessibility to federal food contractors can make a dramatic impact in our community by reducing food waste and leveraging those resources locally.” H.R. 4382 has been referred to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.21.2016	Washington – On the sixth anniversary of the disastrous U.S. Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) is calling for long-overdue fixes to our broken campaign finance system. Rep. McNerney is advocating for H.J.Res.31, a constitutional amendment to limit campaign contributions to individuals and prevent heavily-financed special interests from influencing our elections. “Citizens United made an already broken campaign finance system much worse. Over the past six years we’ve seen its damaging effects, with excessive amounts of dark money from hidden donors, corporations, and special interests flowing into electoral campaigns while crushing the voice of individual voters,” said Rep. McNerney. “This corrosive influence drives much of the partisan gridlock in Washington and many state capitals, making it exceedingly difficult to tackle some of our country’s most complex and pressing issues. This is why I’m advocating for significant changes that will overhaul our broken campaign finance system to remove the destructive influence of unlimited dark money contributions, and restore the health of our democracy.” In Citizens United v. FEC, the Supreme Court ruled that corporations have the same free speech rights as people, allowing highly-financed special interest to use their money to fund campaigns for public elective office and ballot initiatives. Since the Citizens United decision, a majority of campaign spending now comes from undisclosed and unregulated sources. A report from Center for Responsive Politics (CFRP) illustrates that while federal elections are becoming more expensive, fewer people are making contributions. In 2012, CFRP also found that spending from outside entities required to disclose contributions (that is, not candidates or parties) totaled over $1 billion. That pales in comparison to the amount of so-called “dark money” from SuperPACs and groups that aren’t required to disclose their donors, estimated at over $300 billion. Rep. McNerney’s legislation specifies individual citizens or public election financing or voter education systems as the only sources of funding to directly or indirectly support or oppose campaigns for election to public office or state ballot measures. A majority of Americans say fundamental changes need to be made to our campaign finance system. A 2015 NY Times/CBS poll found that 84 percent of Americans say money has too much influence in politics, and 85 percent of those surveyed said the campaign-finance system should be either completely rebuilt or fundamentally changed. Congressman McNerney has repeatedly advocated for campaign finance reform to remove the influence of money in our elections and restore the voice of the voters. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.20.2016	Stockton, CA – As the second session of the 114th Congress gets underway, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today released information highlighting the casework services his district offices delivered last year on behalf of constituents in California’s 9th Congressional District. The Congressman’s offices handled over 1,000 constituent cases in 2015 and helped secure over $1,187,480.80 in money and benefits due to his constituents. “Whether by phone, email, in-person office visit or while out in the community, constituents contact my offices on a daily basis for assistance with federal government agencies and a variety of services. Last year, my office helped folks who had trouble with their social security benefits, needed assistance solving housing issues, and sought to honor the memory of a local veteran, among other cases,” said Rep. McNerney. “Constituent casework is a vital part of my service in Congress. I’m proud of the dedicated work of my staff and the results we’ve delivered to improve the community.” Constituents reach out to Rep. McNerney’s office for help with a variety of concerns and issues related to federal government services. In 2015, Rep. McNerney’s district offices handled 1,028 constituent cases. These cases included assistance with the U.S. Departments of State, Veterans Affairs; the U.S. Social Security Administration; the Internal Revenue Service; and the U.S. Postal Service, among others. The Congressman’s office was able to secure $1,187,480.80 in money and benefits for his constituents. Rep. McNerney’s office also acquired and presented 36 military medals. California’s 9th Congressional District includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. See the chart below for a full breakdown of 2015 casework by federal agency. 2015 Constituent Casework Highlights Constituent: Mrs. Patricia Miller on behalf of father James Elmore Miller Case Type: Request for military medals, United States Department of Veterans Affairs Description: Mrs. Miller, a Stockton police officer, sought Congressman McNerney’s help in securing documentation and medals that her father, James Elmore Miller, may have earned during his service in World War II. Mr. Miller served in the United States Army, earning the rank of Master Sergeant E9. After the Congressman’s staff contacted the National Personnel Records Center to secure all of Mr. Miller’s medals, Mrs. Miller and her family met with the Congressman for a presentation of the medals on behalf of her father. Medals Presented: Army Commendation Medal Good Conduct Medal & Clasp Silver 2 Loops World War II Victory Medal National Defense Service Medal Korean Service Medal Overseas Service Ribbon & Numeral 2 United Nations Service Medal Constituent: Mr. Mark W. Cunningham Cast Type: Internal Revenue Service Description: Mr. Cunningham and his wife asked for Congressman McNerney’s help to secure their 2014 tax year transcript, which their daughter needed in order to file her financial aid application to attend college. Rep. McNerney’s office contacted the Taxpayer Advocate Service, an independent organization within the Internal Revenue Service, and was able to get them their transcript for tax year 2014. Constituent: Mr. Andrew T. Bell Case Type: United States Postal Service Description: Mr. Bell wanted to pay his monthly rent with a money order from his local Post Office. Although the debit card used to purchase the money order was charged, there was a glitch in the system and the money order was never processed. The Post Office told Mr. Bell that he would be fully reimbursed within the next couple days. Those days turned into a week and a half without Mr. Bell receiving a refund. Mr. Bell was now worried that he wouldn’t have enough money to cover rent for the month and could be evicted, so he contacted Congressman McNerney’s office for assistance. The Congressman’s staff promptly contacted the Post Office to inquire why the refund had not yet been issued and explain how it was affecting Mr. Bell’s life. The Post Office corrected the error and Mr. Bell received a full refund, which he was able to use to pay his rent and avoid eviction. Constituent: Mr. Charles Carlson on behalf of late father Mr. Ellis Carlson Case Type: Request for military medals, Department of Veterans Affairs Description: Mr. Carlson, of Lodi, CA, requested Congressman McNerney’s help in getting documentation and medals that his father Mr. Ellis Carlson may have earned during his service in World War II. Mr. Ellis Carlson served in Australia and New Guinea with the Army Air Corps in the 5th Air Force 90th Bombardment Group (The Jolly Rogers), 400th Bombardment Squadron, Heavy (The Black Pirates) as a Tech Sergeant, Flight Engineer/Waist Door Gunner in a B-24 bomber crew. While serving two tours in the South Pacific, Mr. Carlson was awarded the Silver Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal and the Presidential Unit Citation Emblem with three oak leaves for extraordinary heroism. Following his overseas service, Mr. Carlson was assigned to the 4th Air Force where he flew patrol missions stateside off the Pacific West Coast with a sub-hunter crew for one year, finishing his service as a B-24 electrical systems/flight engineer instructor before his honorable discharge after three and a half years in the Army Air Corps/Air Force. Congressman McNerney’s staff reached out to the National Personnel Records Center and after securing the medals, the Congressman presented them to Mr. Carlson on his father’s behalf and thanked him for his father’s distinguished service to our country. Medals Presented: Silver Star Medal Distinguished Flying Cross Air Medal Good Conduct Medal Silver Star Medal Asiatic Pacific Campaign Medal Four Bronze Stars World War II Victory Medal Presidential Unit Citation Honorable Service Lapel Button A FULL BREAKDOWN OF REP. MCNERNEY’S 2015 CONSTITUENT CASEWORK Federal Agency Number of Cases U.S. Department of Agriculture 2 U.S. Department of Education 10 U.S. Social Security Administration 123 U.S. Postal Service 24 U.S. Office of Personnel Management 15 U.S. Department of the Treasury 4 U.S. Department of Labor 12 U.S. Department of Transportation 1 U.S. Department of the Interior 10 U.S. Census Bureau 1 U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 416 U.S. Department of Defense 77 U.S. Department of State: immigrant visas 60 U.S. Department of State: non-immigrant visas 20 U.S. Department of State: passport 12 U.S. Department of State: other 9 U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 96 U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 3 U.S. Customs and Border Protection 3 Transportation Security Administration 2 Federal Emergency Management Agency 3 Internal Revenue Service 41 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 11 Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 3 National Archives and Records Administration 3 Federal Communications Commission 1 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 3 National Labor Relations Board 1 Housing Issues (CFPB, OCC, HUD, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac) 23 Referrals to Other Members for Out-of-District Casework 15 Referrals to State Reps for State-related Casework 10 Referrals (Miscellaneous) 5 California Military Department 4 Federal Bureau of Prisons 1 Miscellaneous 13 Total Cases Handled 1,028 Military Medals Acquired and Presented 36 Money Procured to Constituents $1,187,480.80 Link to a full PDF of this release: https://bit.ly/1QmS9rO. If you are a constituent in California’s 9th Congressional District and need assistance with a federal agency, please reach out to Rep. McNerney’s district offices: Stockton District Office 2222 Grand Canal Blvd., Suite 7 Stockton, CA 95207 (209) 476-8552 Antioch District Office 4703 Lone Tree Way Antioch, CA 94531 (925) 754-0716 For media inquiries, please contact Mike Naple at 202-225-1947 or Mike.Naple@mail.house.gov. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.15.2016	Stockton, CA – Like many Americans across the country, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will honor Martin Luther King, Jr.’s spirit and legacy of service by celebrating Dr. King’s holiday and lending a hand to help constituents in his district. The Congressman has made it a tradition to participate in events to highlight the importance of service. “Service and volunteerism can cause transformative and lasting change in our communities and make a real difference in the lives of people, young and old. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. believed in the value and power of service and understood that even the simplest acts could bring people together to produce great results,” said Rep. McNerney. “We can all be of service to our community – whether by cleaning up a park, reading to children, assisting seniors, or volunteering at a shelter – and I encourage everyone to answer the call to serve.” Rep. McNerney will participate in a Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service event, in coordination with Friends of Marsh Creek Watershed, in Oakley, CA. Volunteers will be cleaning up the creek bed, picking up trash, planting and weeding, and all while learning about the local ecology. Monday January 18th at 10:00 a.m. Friends of Marsh Creek Watershed MLK Day of Service Creekside Park 3900 Creekside Way Oakley, CA Rep. McNerney encourages people to participate in a few hours of service in honor of Dr. King’s commitment to improving the lives of others. The Corporation for National and Community Service is promoting service events for Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service. To find opportunities to serve on Monday, January 18th visit: https://www.nationalservice.gov/mlkday. Rep. McNerney will continue his Day of Service events into the week by promoting early childhood literacy at the Cesar Chavez Central Library where he will read to preschoolers. Thursday, January 21st at 10:30 a.m. Cesar Chavez Central Library 605 North El Dorado Street Stockton, CA For people interested in service opportunities in their local community throughout the year, visit: www.volunteermatch.org/. Congressman McNerney will also join his constituents for two Martin Luther King, Jr. celebrations in California’s 9th Congressional District: Sunday, January 17th at 6:00 p.m. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration Stockton Memorial Civic Auditorium 525 North Center Street Stockton, CA Monday, January 18th at 1:00 p.m. City of Antioch 8th Annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration Deer Valley High School 4700 Lone Tree Way Antioch, CA ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.14.2016	Washington –Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) along with Northern California House Democrats, including Reps. Jared Huffman (CA-02), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), John Garamendi (CA-03), Mike Thompson (CA-05), and Doris Matsui (CA-06) sent a letter to Governor Jerry Brown regarding his budget proposal as it relates to the “WaterFix” tunnels plan. Specifically, the letter asks how the $3.6 million allocation will be used, and requests a more detailed discussion with the Brown administration as to why budgetary funding was deemed necessary for the regulatory review of the WaterFix tunnels at this time. Link to the letter: https://bit.ly/2017jpl. Full text of the letter: January 13, 2016 Hon. Jerry Brown Governor State Capitol, Suite 1173 Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Governor Brown: We applaud your recent budget announcement that includes $323 million for a continued drought response. A commitment of resources is needed to implement the comprehensive and innovative solutions that will move us toward a sustainable water supply. But, we are alarmed that your administration is also dedicating $3.6 million in part to incorporate the proposed “WaterFix” tunnels plan into a broader Delta Plan. Because the WaterFix tunnels plan has not received any of the state or federal permits required to begin construction and there remains serious concerns about the design, efficacy, and cost of the tunnels, we believe assigning resources is premature and inappropriate. Your budget calls for a portion of the $3.6 million to be allocated to the Delta Stewardship Council to incorporate the tunnels into the Delta Plan. This allocation is from the General Fund that also contains funding from the 2014 Proposition 1 Water Bond. You made a promise to all Californians that no money from Proposition 1 would be used for the WaterFix tunnels. The tunnels and related planning, design, and construction activities are to be funded entirely by the state and federal water project contractors that benefit from the project. If this dedicated sum of money funds a regulatory review process administered by the Delta Stewardship Council, we still believe the funding could be better spent on other solutions. We would like to know how the $3.6 million will be used and would appreciate a more detailed discussion with your administration as to why budgetary funding was deemed necessary for the regulatory review of the WaterFix tunnels at this time. If the Water Fix tunnels are constructed, not a single drop of new water will be added to California’s water supply. The plan’s environmental project documents still fail federal and state requirements for environmental review and the tunnels will encourage reliance on water exports, to the detriment of Delta agriculture, fisheries, and wildlife, as well as communities and water users within and upstream of the Delta. Furthermore, the tunnels plan still lacks the best available science and would impede the ability to fund investments in long-term water reliability and quality, reuse, drought and flood protection, and ecosystem improvements. Instead of forcing a permitting process through the California State Water Resources Control Board, we urge you, again, to focus your efforts and state resources on developing the sustainable solutions in your California Water Action Plan. We believe the state can make faster progress in responding to the drought if it uses its resources to increase recycling, conservation, stormwater capture, and groundwater banking and shifts its priorities toward regional self-sufficiency. We look forward to working with you to ensure sustainable water supplies for a healthy Delta ecosystem and California’s farmers, fishermen, and communities statewide. Sincerely, _____________________________ _____________________________ JERRY MCNERNEY JARED HUFFMAN Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ MARK DESAULNIER JOHN GARAMENDI Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ MIKE THOMPSON DORIS MATSUI Member of Congress Member of Congress These Northern California House Democrats have sent previous letters to Governor Brown arguing that his multibillion-dollar tunnels fail to increase water supply and would devastate an already fragile Delta ecosystem. Rep. McNerney, whose district contains a majority of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, has long opposed Governor Brown’s tunnels, an ill-advised plan that would devastate the Delta’s fragile ecosystem and hurt families, farmers, and businesses in the region. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.12.2016	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s final State of the Union address: “President Obama’s final State of the Union struck a constructive tone and reminded us that, as Americans, we have always seen challenges as opportunities to strengthen our lives. We can confront our most pressing challenges by working together and forging a bipartisan common ground for the good of our country, the safety of its people, and the benefit of future generations. “With signs our national economic recovery is pointing in a positive direction due to continued job growth, we need to fight for policies that will broaden this economic improvement to the regions still suffering from high unemployment, where families struggle to make ends meet. To boost job growth at home, we need to pursue policies that will put people back to work – investing in local economies rather than bolstering economies abroad. These efforts should be coupled with education policies that help prepare students with the tools and knowledge that will make them competitive for the jobs of a modern economy. “President Obama suggested that we need to make change work for us. I can think of no better area where this applies than with our efforts to curb the effects of climate change, a serious threat to the health of families and children in my district and across the country. I believe that reducing carbon emissions is an opportunity to help improve our local economy, by investing in clean-energy technologies and helping people become more energy-efficient. I introduced legislation to help advance these efforts because I believe we can work toward a stronger economy and healthier environment at the same time. “Moving forward, we must create a culture in government that enables elected leaders at all levels to work collaboratively to protect our country and find solutions to our challenges. The President called for us to fix our politics, and I believe that starts with sincere efforts to bring long-overdue reform to our campaign finance system. “Under our current laws, the voices of individuals are pushed aside in favor of the interests of the wealthy few who use massive amounts of money to exert influence over our political system. This creates the unfortunate scenario that stunts our ability to govern and severely limits our ability to meet the demands of the challenges before us. I believe we can restore the integrity of our democracy, and I am committed to working to change how campaigns are financed. “America is a great nation founded on the values of freedom and liberty, and we must take the appropriate steps to protect our way of life. I believe we must confront any extremists or terrorist organizations that threaten our security and stability as a leader in the international community. “I believe that by working together we will rise to meet the demands of our greatest challenges and promote the strength of our nation, and I look forward to partnering with my colleagues to achieve results and improve the lives of all Americans.” Prior to President Obama delivering his State of the Union, Rep. McNerney released a video message where he delivered his State of the California 9th Congressional District for 2016. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.12.2016	Washington – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) released the following statement opposing legislation authored by Rep. David G. Valadao (CA-21) to codify the drainage settlement between Westlands Water District and the U.S. federal government: “I have been vocal in my strong opposition to this settlement agreement that is nothing more than a handout to Westlands, and it should come as no surprise that I oppose this bill, or any legislation, that would codify principles that benefit the nation’s largest water district at the expense of taxpayers and the environment. I am deeply concerned about how this legislation will impact the Delta, its ecosystem and regional economies, and water deliveries up and down the state. The Westlands settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice sets a disturbing precedent that rewards negligent behavior, and I will fight against this legislation moving forward.” Rep. McNerney has been a leading oppositional voice to the Westlands Water District settlement agreement. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
01.12.2016	Washington – Ahead of President Obama’s final State of the Union, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today released a video message delivering the State of California’s 9th Congressional District. The Congressman highlighted some of what he’s accomplished on behalf of the district, discussed some of our biggest challenges, and outlined his goals for this year in Congress. Excerpt from Rep. McNerney's State of California’s 9th District Address: “We live in a unique region, home to the Delta and some of the richest agricultural land in the world. Our district is a transportation hub, making it a prime location for manufacturing and distribution. At the same time, there are several challenges we face… I’ve been a strong advocate for the region by fighting to provide more funding to create jobs improving our roads, bridges, and levees, to encourage small businesses to hire individuals previously out of work… managed to secure federal funding to build a veterans outpatient clinic and nursing home at French Camp… I recently became a grandpa, and my grandson reminds me that we must also take action now to protect the planet for future generations… As we move through the year, I want to hear from you. Please reach out to my offices in the district and in Washington,” said Rep. McNerney in his address. Link to video of Rep. McNerney's State of California’s 9th Congressional District Address: https://youtu.be/ZSvf1lUw1HE. Full text of Rep. McNerney's State of California’s 9th Congressional District Address as prepared: Hi. As President Obama gets ready to deliver his last state of the union address, I’d like to review the state of our Ninth Congressional District… to highlight some of what we’ve accomplished together… discuss some of our biggest challenges… and to outline my goals for this year in Congress. But before I get into specifics, I want to say that I’m honored to represent you in Washington. Since 2007, I’ve given this job my complete commitment and worked in a bipartisan way to deliver real results for our district and our nation. We live in a unique region, home to the California delta and some of the richest agricultural land in the world. Our district is a transportation hub, making it a prime location for manufacturing and distribution. At the same time, there are several challenges we face, and I think the most important issue facing our district is the economy. Too many people are unable to find jobs. Working families struggle to make ends meet. Things have improved, but not enough. I’ve been a strong advocate for the region by fighting: To provide more funding to create jobs improving our roads, bridges, and levees… To encourage small businesses to hire individuals previously out of work… To promote STEM education to prepare the younger generation for green jobs coming to our region… To boost veteran-owned small businesses… And to stop outsourcing jobs that should go to out-of-work Americans. I’m working to make it easier for folks in our region to get ahead with a good-paying jobs that let them provide for their family, and put them on a path to own a home or see their child attend college. I will also continue fighting for policies that ensure our families have access to affordable health care and family services. California is home to nearly 2 million veterans; I’ve focused on improving the lives of our veterans since my first term in office. Just a month ago, after years of bipartisan work, I managed to secure federal funding to build a veterans outpatient clinic and nursing home at French Camp, next to the San Joaquin County hospital. This is an important step for a project that will eventually serve 87,000 veterans in our greater region, and employ 900 workers during construction. I won’t rest until this clinic is built. We must take care of the men and women who served our country. We owe it to them to make sure they get the health care benefits they’ve earned. The safety of our community is a top priority. Over the past years, our community has been plagued by senseless violence. I’ve worked closely with police departments across the district to better understand the crime and public safety challenges we face. I’ve also participated in routine police patrols to get a feel for the situations that officers must respond to on the streets. As a result, I’ve secured money for critical police programs such as the Byrne grants, and enforcement technology like the shot spotter system that enables police to instantly locate gun fire within feet of the source. Safe neighborhoods go hand-in-hand with a strong economy. The 9th district is uniquely positioned to attract businesses and entrepreneurs from the bay area and beyond. Our district is home to the California Delta. This body of water supports millions of acres of farmland and serves as a habitat for countless species. We, more than most of California, are aware of the fragile state of our water system, and how it depends on the delta. We’ve also seen and felt the effects of more than four years of extreme drought, and understand that we must do something to address this crisis and future droughts. Unfortunately, Governor Brown and other leaders have decided that the best approach for our state is to guarantee that more water can be siphoned from the delta through two massive tunnels, no matter the consequences for the delta, our farmers, our businesses, and our families. I oppose construction of the tunnels, and I’ve have been at the center of the fight at the federal level to halt their construction. I’ve also organized members of congress from the delta region to oppose this misguided tunnels plan that does nothing to address our drought problems or create any new water. We need forward-thinking solutions that will truly serve the entire state with a sustainable water system, not just serve the few who can afford the best lawyers. I’m now finalizing legislation to improve and modernize our state’s water system that will be fair to everyone – and I plan to release it shortly. Some of you might have heard that I recently became a grandpa. I’m excited to watch my grandson grow up. He reminds me that we must take action now to protect the planet for future generations. Climate change is a huge challenge that poses a specific threat to our delta region and demands a response from all levels of government. The San Joaquin Valley has some of the poorest air quality in the state, and breathing this air has a direct impact on the health of our families and children. In addition, a significant portion of our district is at or near sea level, and the heavy rains that are expected with rising sea levels and warming oceans will eventually threaten serious flooding in our district. Consequently, I’ve been working with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to provide funding and approvals to improve the delta levee system. But just preparing for natural disasters is not enough. We need bold action to reduce carbon emissions and curb the effects of climate change. This is why I’ve introduced the Consumers REBAT Act. This legislation puts a price on carbon to reduce emissions and distributes the revenue generated to consumers. You will have more income to purchase efficient cars, upgrade your homes, or save the money for a rainy day. This new income will boost the national economy, and especially the economy in our region. The last challenge I want to talk about is the way that our election campaigns are financed. Because of recent outrageous Supreme Court decisions, unlimited amounts of money from hidden donors, including corporations and possibly even foreign interests, are flowing into election campaigns at all levels of government. This corrosive influence has contributed to the partisan gridlock we see in Washington and many state capitals, making it exceedingly difficult to tackle some of the most complex and pressing issues such as gun violence, immigration reform, and the grossly unequal distribution of earnings in this country. This is extremely frustrating, and makes many people lose confidence in our government. A majority of Americans believe with me that money has too much influence in politics, and that our campaign-finance system should be completely rebuilt For my part, I’ve proposed a constitutional amendment that will stop the ability of heavily-financed special interests to influence our elections. In addition, I’m forming a bipartisan congressional caucus to fight for meaningful campaign finance reform, and hope that we can educate the people of this country on why achieving this reform is so badly needed. As Americans, we have a lot to be proud of. We see turmoil in much the world, but as a country we’ve always risen up to meet our greatest challenges head on. As we move through the year, I want to hear from you. Please reach out to my offices in the District and in Washington. Let me know what you think of my proposals and tell me what issues are important to you. Thank you for listening to my vision for our district and our country. Take care and I will see you around the district! ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.21.2015	French Camp, CA – Building upon his long-standing commitment to our nation’s veterans, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09), today, joined with local veterans and community leaders to announce the planned construction of the VA Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in French Camp, CA. Funding for the CBOC was included in the FY16 omnibus spending bill passed by Congress and signed by President Obama last week. Securing funding for the project is a critical step to move the clinic forward to the construction phase. “With this funding, our veterans are virtually assured of having a facility in their community that will make it easier for them to access the health benefits they have earned. Construction on this clinic is long-overdue. Over the years, Rep. Jeff Denham and I fought tirelessly and took every measure possible to secure funding for the project in the budget. I’m glad to see that Congress is finally making this important investment in the health and well-being of our veterans who will benefit once the project is completed,” said Rep. McNerney. “We cannot waiver on our commitment to the men and women who’ve served our country, and I will continue working with the VA and all of our partners and stakeholders to ensure that this facility provides them with the best health care services possible.” The FY16 omnibus spending bill provides $1.24 billion for major VA construction projects. These funds are sufficient to start construction on the long-overdue $139 million CBOC in French Camp, CA, one of the projects included in the Administration’s FY16 budget request for the Department of Veterans Affairs. “Our veterans cannot and should not have to wait any longer to see the French Camp CBOC completed. I will not rest until I see this facility, which will serve thousands of Valley vets, built,” said Rep. Jeff Denham (CA-10). The French Camp CBOC will serve 87,000 veterans across a wide geographic area that includes San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Calaveras, Tuolumne and Amador Counties, among others. The French Camp site is a 52-acre, undeveloped parcel of farmland, located adjacent to I-5, the San Joaquin General Hospital and the existing Stockton CBOC. “In 2005, the San Joaquin County community came together to advocate for this clinic to better serve our veterans. Ensuring that veterans are able to easily access the health care benefits they’ve earned will improve their future, and it is an important way to honor all veterans and to remember those who have gone before us. While there is still much work to be done to make the clinic a reality, I want to thank all of the leaders who have helped push this project forward,” said Tino Adame State Chairman of Veterans affairs and Rehabilitation for the American Legion. The 150,000 sq. ft. French Camp CBOC will include mental health, primary care, PT/OT, radiology, laboratory, pharmacy, audiology and speech pathology, dental, eye, prosthetics, and other specialty services on a telehealth basis such as podiatry, orthopedics, cardiology and rheumatology. The next steps for the French Camp CBOC is for the House and Senate Veterans Affairs committees to allocate the funds listed in the House-and Senate-passed spending bills in their project authorizations. The Army Corps of Engineers will be the project manager for this major construction project. The VA estimates that the French Camp clinic will break ground in 2017 and take two and a half to three years to complete. If the project stays on schedule, the French Camp CBOC should open late in the year in 2019 or early in 2020. Rep. McNerney has been a strong advocate for securing the authorization and funding for the French Camp clinic, repeatedly calling for the financial resources to complete the project. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.18.2015	Washington – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement applauding the House passage of the FY16 omnibus spending bill that includes the funding needed to construct the French Camp Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC): “The omnibus spending bill my colleagues and I passed in the House is a necessary compromise that will fund the government for the next year. While the bill reflects some tough choices, it also provides funding for critical programs that support job creation, health care for families and children, investments in renewable energy production, environmental protection, small business loans, and VA construction. “The omnibus is a tremendous victory for thousands of our veterans who will have better access to health care because it includes funding to build the long-overdue Community Based Outpatient Clinic in French Camp, California. Veterans across my district and throughout the San Joaquin and Central Valleys have waited more than a decade for this clinic so they can gain access to state-of-the-art medical care and services that they deserve. “Many veterans have difficultly accessing the health care benefits they’ve earned serving our country due to a lack in quality clinics and services in their region. This places an unnecessary and unfair burden on veterans who have to travel significant distances for simple medical appointments and check-ups. I have worked in a bipartisan manner for years to get funding for the French Camp clinic, a project that has been ‘construction ready’ for some time. This facility will serve nearly 87,000 veterans, and I am glad to finally see Congress commit the proper resources so this project can break ground in the near future.” The FY16 omnibus appropriations package provides $1.24 billion for major VA construction projects. These funds are sufficient to fund the VA’s top FY16 major construction projects, including the long-overdue project at French Camp. The French Camp CBOC will serve 87,000 veterans across a wide geographic area that includes San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Calaveras, Tuolumne and Amador Counties, among others. Rep. McNerney has been a strong advocate for securing the authorization and funding for the French Camp clinic, repeatedly calling for the financial resources to complete the project. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.18.2015	French Camp, CA – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host a press conference with veterans and community leaders to announce funding and next steps for the construction of the VA Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in French Camp, CA. Funding for the CBOC was included in the FY16 omnibus spending bill passed by Congress today. What: Press Conference Rep. McNerney will host a press conference to announce funding and next steps for the construction of the VA Community Based Outpatient Clinic in French, Camp, CA. When: Monday, December 21, 2015 12:30 p.m. PST Where: Health Plan of San Joaquin First Floor Conference Room 7751 S. Manthey Road French Camp, CA The French Camp CBOC will serve 87,000 veterans across a wide geographic area that includes San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Calaveras, Tuolumne and Amador Counties, among others. Rep. McNerney has been a strong advocate for securing the authorization and funding for the French Camp clinic, repeatedly calling for the financial resources to complete the project. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.17.2015	Washington – On the heels of the successful United Nations Climate Conference in Paris where nearly 200 nations agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) is showing his leadership on the issue by introducing the Consumers REBATE (Rebate to ban Emissions and Boost AlTernative Energy) Act. This new climate legislation is aimed at reducing emissions, boosting the economy, and promoting cleaner air and healthier communities. “Combating the dangerous effects of a changing climate begins with growing the economy in a way that reduces carbon emissions from polluters and fossil fuels that dirty our air, harm the health of our families and communities, and hinder our country’s long-term energy independence. My Consumers REBATE Act takes the revenue generated from pricing carbon over time and puts it in the hands of consumers to empower individuals to become more efficient in their energy choices,” said Rep. McNerney. “We must look at climate change, one of the great challenges facing future generations, as an opportunity for America to be the leader of a new clean energy economy. Now is the time to build on the innovative technologies and investments we’ve already made with market-based approaches that will further drive renewable energy production, promote job creation and produce a cleaner environment.” The Consumers REBATE Act puts a price on carbon extracted from coal, oil, and natural gas and returns that revenue back to the consumer. Under the legislation, the applicable price for taxable carbon is $15/per ton of carbon emission. The price is paid by the producer, miner, or importer of the oil, coal or natural gas. The U.S. Treasury is instructed to make quarterly payments or reinvestments back to all eligible consumers. The Consumers REBATE Act is built to increase American innovation and leadership in manufacturing and energy production by including a tariff on goods imported from countries that do not have carbon markets or pricing. A recent study from Regional Economic Modeling, Inc., released by the Citizens’ Climate Lobby, shows that the benefits of a carbon fee and dividend approach include: a 33 percent decline in carbon emissions after 10 years, 52 percent after 20 years; an increase in employment of 2.1 million jobs after 10 years; 13,000 lives saved annually after year 10; and a nearly $80 billion increase in GDP from 2020 forward. “The world took a great step forward in Paris to bring climate change under control, and the next step needed to ensure success is to put a price on carbon,” said Marti Roach, leader of the Contra Costa Chapter of Citizens' Climate Lobby. “Congressman McNerney's bill does that in a way that protects families and helps our economy. Congress can provide leadership for the rest of the world by enacting a market-based solution like this.” During the recent international climate negotiations, three former cabinet secretaries — George Shultz, Robert Reich and Steven Chu — and four Nobel Economics Laureates also made the argument for taxing carbon emissions. Furthermore, a recent World Bank report highlighted pricing carbon as one step in reducing emissions in a way that results in investments and maintains a strong economy. Countries representing a quarter of the world’s economy are establishing carbon markets. These efforts illustrate that countries can reduce emissions, promote a cleaner environment and boost the economy at the same time. After California announced a cap on carbon in 2006, more than $12 billion in clean energy venture capital has flown into the state, more than all other states combined, according to information from the Environmental Defense Fund. Scientists have warned that without taking action to curb the effects of climate change, we will continue to see more severe droughts, storms, and increasingly rising sea levels. Reports have also shown that the effects of climate change will disproportionately affect lower-income communities. “I am concerned about how communities in my district will feel the effects of climate change. In particular, rising sea levels and stronger storms will greatly increase the risk of flooding in many low-lying towns in Contra Costa and San Joaquin Counties. The Consumers REBATE Act will not only curb emissions to help slow the effects of a changing climate, it will also provide critical economic benefit to low-income families and individuals while improving the health of our communities,” added Rep. McNerney. A former wind engineer, Rep. McNerney is an expert in renewable energy and a strong advocate for policies that will reduce carbon emissions, curb the effects of climate change, and spur a growing clean energy economy. Rep. McNerney is a trained scientist and one of only two members of Congress with a technical Ph.D., his in mathematics. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.16.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement on the renewable energy tax credits and oil export ban provisions in the omnibus spending bill: “The purpose of the oil export ban was to help America ensure the maximum supply of oil for domestic consumers to prevent shortages and price gouging. Our situation today is substantially different than it was in the 1970’s. New oil recovery technology has made the United States the world’s biggest oil producer, even though our country still consumes more oil than it produces. “As Congress considers lifting the oil exports ban as part of the omnibus spending legislation, I believe that such a policy change cannot just be a free giveaway to oil companies at the expense of energy consumers and American families. Any shift on the oil ban should occur in a manner that protects the economy, creates American jobs, and invests in our clean energy future. I am encouraged to see that the omnibus proposal includes renewable energy tax credits to offset some of the potential negative economic effects of lifting the ban. “These tax credits are an important tool that will help spur an innovative, robust clean energy economy, create good jobs, and reduce carbon emissions. The United States just signed an agreement with nearly 200 countries signaling a move toward a clean fuel future. Our national energy priorities should reflect that commitment, and with these multi-year renewable energy tax credits, we are taking steps to promote greater wind, solar, and renewable power production and increased energy efficiency. These critical investments in clean energy will also help boost our economy, and I will support the omnibus bill in its current form when it comes to floor.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.11.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to the Republican Drought Press Conference at noon today: “The Republican response to our Senators this morning was more than disappointing. Despite their statements, I do not agree that this was an open and transparent process. These unfinished negotiations did not receive final sign off from our Senate and House colleagues and certainly did not result in a fully vetted bipartisan product. “I, along with many of my colleagues in California and members from Oregon, Arizona, and Washington, have consistently raised our concerns with Republican proposals that would harm our communities’ water quality and supply, disadvantage our farmers and fishermen, and violate tribal trust responsibilities. Micromanaging our water supply system to prioritize some regions over others while weakening environmental protections and clean water laws does not responsibly address the drought and will not create any new water. Despite these concerns, I have always promoted and pursued policy alternatives that encourage greater resiliency and more efficient management of our precious water supply. “Since we continue to face unprecedented water shortages, discussions on how to solve the drought are far from over, so we must remain vigilant against any legislative action or policy that will destroy the Delta’s ecosystem, divide communities, and hinder solutions needed to address an ongoing drought crisis. I look to future negotiations that follow regular order as an opportunity to explore real, innovative solutions that invest in the technologies and policies necessary to build the long-term resiliency and regional self-sufficiency this drought requires.” This week, Rep. McNerney led 20 House Democrats from California, Oregon, Arizona, and Washington in sending a letter to President Barack Obama, expressing their disapproval with Republican congressional efforts to hijack the drought crisis affecting western states. Congressman McNerney has shown leadership in pursuing and expanding bold, innovative solutions that create more water to help California address its severe drought crisis. In July of this year, Rep. McNerney held a roundtable with technology innovators and representatives from the renewable energy, agriculture, business, and water recycling sectors to discuss technology and science-based solutions to the drought. The Congressman also introduced bipartisan legislation to establish a smart water management pilot program meant to spur innovative projects. Rep. McNerney has also introduced legislation calling on Congress to authorize 27 regional water recycling projects that can create water for irrigation, agriculture, conservation, and to increase the potable water supply. The Congressman also led his California and Oregon House Democrat colleagues in sending a letter to U.S. Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer. The letter stressed that any legislation addressing California’s drought requires serious compromise and should include policies that do not negatively impact the economies, farmers, communities, and environments of California, Oregon, and other Western states. In October, Rep. McNerney led a follow-up letter with 27 House Democrats from four delegations including CA, WA, AZ, and OR to Senators Murkowski and Cantwell stressing the concerns these delegations have about the potential negatives impacts of the Rep. Valadao bill moving forward. The Congressman has hosted a California Drought Solutions Forum to bring together a variety of stakeholders and experts to discuss ways in which to advance technological, scientific, and energy solutions that are crucial in helping California respond to the drought. Rep. McNerney is currently working on a comprehensive drought relief bill that incorporates many of the innovative solutions that need to be championed. It will promote forward thinking water and energy policies along with a focus on regional self-sufficiency and water infrastructure. The Congressman will be introducing this bill early next year. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
12.09.2015	Washington—Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) led 20 House Democrats from California, Oregon, Arizona, and Washington in sending a letter to President Barack Obama, expressing their disapproval with Republican congressional efforts to hijack the drought crisis affecting western states. The letter also calls on the President to work to keep any harmful drought legislation out of a must-pass government funding bill. Full text of the letter: December 9, 2015 President Barack Obama White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to express our disapproval with Republican congressional efforts to hijack the drought crisis affecting western states. Republican leadership is currently working to include provisions in the omnibus spending legislation that are similar to those we have continuously opposed. It is unacceptable that our Republican colleagues are attempting to bypass regular order with a damaging rider that fails to provide meaningful drought relief. Secret maneuvering only confirms that our House counterparts have not negotiated in good faith and that any drought relief language included in must-pass spending legislation will not reflect the input of all stakeholders. Previous drought bills, including the House-passed H.R. 2898, contained numerous environmentally damaging provisions similar to those in this rider. These provisions would harm our communities’ water quality and supply, disadvantage our farmers and fishermen, and violate tribal trust responsibilities. Your administration has clearly voiced its opposition to H.R. 2898. Interior Deputy Secretary Mike Connor stated in his hearing testimony that, “H.R. 2898 dictates operational decisions, prescribes infeasible outcomes, and creates new conflicts among existing laws that will hinder, rather than help, an effective drought response . . . We believe that H.R. 2898 will slow decision-making, generate significant new litigation, and limit the real-time operational flexibility that has proven critical to maximizing water delivery during the current drought.”[1] You also issued a Statement of Administration Policy on the bill: “The Administration strongly opposes H.R. 2898 . . . because it fails to address critical elements of California’s complex water challenges and will, if enacted, impede an effective and timely response to the continuing drought while providing no additional water to hard hit communities.” Federal, state, and local officials have worked in real-time to maximize limited water supplies, prioritize public health and safety, meet state water quality requirements, and ensure a balanced approach. We do not believe that the proposed rider offers relief to our states and communities or builds upon the state and federal agencies ongoing work to address the drought. Instead, this Republican rider would micromanage the operations of California’s water supply system to benefit some stakeholders over others, undermine the Endangered Species Act by overriding existing biological opinions, and weaken the Clean Water Act. The State of California, nearly the entire California House Democratic Delegation and delegations from Oregon, Arizona, and Washington have said repeatedly that such an approach is unacceptable. Given the severity of the drought and its impact on our economy, environment, and the well-being of our constituents, it is reprehensible to tie the health of the Delta, and the many west-wide economies and species it supports, to must-pass spending legislation. We are also disappointed that our House counterparts did not provide the same level of support during negotiations for comprehensive drought solutions, such as water recycling, innovative financing, and infrastructure repair efforts, which are included in S. 1894. We will continue our efforts, however, to advocate for solutions that provide sustainable relief and break us out of a cycle of reliance on an oversubscribed water supply. In order to bring drought relief to our great states, we must bring all affected stakeholders together to respond to the current drought and build regional resiliency to face future droughts. It is vital to put the days of choosing one economic sector or one geographic region over another behind us. We appreciate your attention to these issues and hope that your administration will work to keep any harmful drought legislation out of a must-pass government funding bill. In doing so, you will ensure that any legislation moving forward is properly vetted and prevents further harm to the drought-stricken communities and environment in California and the entire western United States. Sincerely, ____________________________ _____________________________ JERRY MCNERNEY RAUL GRIJALVA Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ JARED HUFFMAN PETER DEFAZIO Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ JOHN GARAMENDI MIKE THOMPSON Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ DORIS MATSUI MARK DESAULNIER Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ MIKE HONDA ANNA ESHOO Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ JACKIE SPEIER ZOE LOFGREN Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ EARL BLUMENAUER ERIC SWALWELL Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ MARK TAKANO TED LIEU Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ SUSAN DAVIS LOIS CAPPS Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ DEREK KILMER SUZANNE BONAMICI Member of Congress Member of Congress ___________________________ BARBARA LEE Member of Congress Cc: Brian Deese, Senior Advisor to the President, White House Christy Goldfuss, Managing Director, White House Council on Environmental Quality Shaun Donovan, Director, Office of Management and Budget Mike Connor, Deputy Secretary, U.S. Department of the Interior John Bezdek, Senior Advisor to the Deputy Secretary, U.S. Department of the Interior Will Stelle, Regional Administrator, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Trent Bauserman, Associate Director for Legislative Affairs, White House Council on Environmental Quality Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney. ### [1] United States. Cong. Senate. Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. Full Committee Legislative Hearing on Western and Alaska Water Legislation, Oct. 8, 2005. 114th Cong 1st sess. 1 (2015).
12.09.2015	Washington –Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced today that legislation to honor the life of Stockton champion and former Port Commissioner W. Ron Coale has cleared its latest legislative hurdle. H.R. 1132 would name the U.S. Postal facility at 1048 W. Robinhood Drive as the W. Ron Coale Memorial Post Office in recognition of Mr. Coale’s service and dedication to the people and community of Stockton, CA. The U.S. House Oversight and Government Reform Committee approved the bill this week. It now awaits consideration by the full House. “Ron was a true public servant to his country, state, and the people in our community and I am glad to see this legislation move forward. Ron’s countless achievements and lifetime of service can be seen and felt throughout Stockton and the greater San Joaquin County region, most notably in his leadership that helped transform the Port of Stockton into an economic driver and the third largest port in California,” said Rep. McNerney. “A tireless advocate and a good friend, I believe Ron’s dedication to others is an inspiration to all of us. Our community is a better place because of him, and I am proud to honor his legacy through this legislation.” Mr. Coale began his service in the United States Army. A veteran of the Korean War and honorably discharged in 1954, military service was the first in what became a lifetime of answering the call to serve in a variety of civic and public capacities. For 22 years, Coale was a member of the Stockton Port Commission, serving as chair of the Commission for three years. On the Commission, Coale played a critical role in securing the land transfer of Rough and Ready Island from the U.S. Navy to the Port in 2000. With the island, the Port of Stockton became the third largest port in California, and the second busiest inland port on the west coast. A fierce advocate for the Port, Coale was active in the California Marine Affairs Navigation Conference, a statewide association of California Port Authorities, the International Association of Port Authorities, and the Association of Pacific Ports. Coale was elected to the Stockton City Council in 1983. Two years later Coale was elected as Vice-Mayor of the council and served the city in that position until 1990. Coale was also an active member on the San Joaquin County Council of Governments, representing the Port of Stockton, Stockton City Council, and Metropolitan Transit District Board of Directors. Coale’s legacy also includes service on the California Public Utilities Commission and the Stockton Port District Board of Port Commissioners and, from 2000 to 2001, he was the foreperson for the San Joaquin Grand Jury. Coale was a member and past chairman of the Stockton Salvation Army Advisory Board, an eight-year gubernatorial appointee to the Atascadero State Hospital Advisory Board, and member of the advisory board for the YMCA of San Joaquin County. A native of Stockton, Coale attended local schools and held a teaching certificate in the field of transportation and distribution from the University of California, Berkeley. W. Ron Coale passed away in 2014 at the age of 81. He is survived by his two sons, Ronald W. and Michael W. and five grandchildren: Ronald Thomas, Stephanie Lynn, Christopher Aaron, Jeffrey Michael, and Tyler Joseph Coale. Rep. McNerney introduced H.R. 1132, to name the post office in honor of W. Ron Coale, in March of this year. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.06.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s address on combating terrorism: “As a member of Congress, there is nothing I take more seriously than the security of our country and the safety of all its citizens and residents. Tonight, President Obama made it clear that the United States will not be ruled by fear. The recent tragedies in San Bernardino and Paris are reminders that extremists are focused on undermining our cherished values of freedom and liberty, and making every effort to spread violence and terror to more places in the world. “Our military and law enforcement have taken every conceivable measure to disrupt terror networks at home and abroad to eliminate acts of violence. As terrorist tactics evolve, so must our techniques to meet the demands of our security – this includes keeping guns out of the hands of foreign and domestic terrorists who promote death and destruction. “To defeat terrorism we must work with our international partners and allies around the world, especially in the Middle East. President Obama called on Congress to take action. In responding to these attacks of terrorism, we must consider all available tools including diplomacy with potential allies, and military force against those who intend to hurt us. I am committed to reviewing any policy meant to fight extremism, reduce violence, and make our nation safe.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
12.04.2015	Washington – Northern California Representatives Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Mike Thompson (CA-05), John Garamendi (CA-03), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Jackie Speier (CA-14), and Ami Bera (CA-07) released the following statement strongly opposing House Republican leadership’s attempt to put harmful drought policy into a must-pass spending bill outside of regular order: “We are disappointed that our Republican colleagues are attempting to bypass regular order with a damaging rider. The lack of openness and transparency, the dictated format of the negotiations and, now, this tactic to push ill-conceived provisions into a must-pass spending bill have made the outcome of the current drought negotiations unacceptable.” “Not only would this rider have long-term, damaging effects on communities across the state, it would fail to build on the state and federal agencies’ ongoing work to respond to the drought. We must put the days of choosing one economic sector or region over another behind us. “Given the severity of the drought and its impact on our economy, environment, and well-being of our constituents, it is reprehensible to tie the health of the Delta and its fragile ecosystem to must-pass spending legislation. This Republican rider would violate landmark environmental laws and neglects the interests of the Delta and its stakeholders.” Yesterday, members of the California House delegation sent a letter to U.S. House and Senate leadership outlining their opposition to moving forward with drought legislation as an attachment to a spending package to fund the government. ###
12.03.2015	Washington – Emphasizing the need to reform the process for constructing U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facilities to promote greater access to health care for our nation’s veterans, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) introduced legislation that would expedite construction for new facilities across the nation, including the outpatient clinic authorized to be built in French Camp, CA. Rep. McNerney is introducing this bill ahead of a U.S. House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee hearing that will discuss construction projects. “I’ve experienced firsthand how veterans in my district have to travel long distances for routine appointments and the burden that limited access to care can put on their lives. While our veterans have earned these benefits in service to their country, the current system for VA construction has been plagued by cost overruns and delays. Further action is required to make sure the VA health delivery systems meet the health care needs of our veterans,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “One way to achieve this is to expedite the construction of more clinics and facilities that can administer care and connect veterans to vital services. I am committed to using every possible approach to provide veterans with quality health care they need.” In 2013, 50 major construction projects were under management by the VA at a cost of more than $12 billion. A U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found that for some of the VA’s largest medical construction projects costs had skyrocketed and schedule delays threw the projects off track. Projects in Denver, Las Vegas, Orlando, and New Orleans have all experienced significant setbacks in their construction. The GAO found that as of January 2015, delays for these projects ranged from 14 to 86 months, and cost increases ranged between 66 percent and 144 percent. This includes the cost of the New Orleans project increasing by $40 million and the Orlando project being delayed 39 to 57 months. H.R. 4129 would jumpstart construction by establishing a pilot program to allow the VA to enter into partnership agreements with non-federal entities to build major medical facility projects. The bill would allow non-federal entities to initiate and manage the construction for major medical facility projects at sites where Congress already allocated funding, and for which design work has been completed, but construction has yet to begin. For each project, the VA would enter into agreements on a competitive basis with non-federal entities, like state government, municipalities, port authorities, flood control districts, and provide matching funds. These entities could take the lead on construction, with the ability to raise capital for the project and accelerate the construction of major medical facilities. One of these projects could include the outpatient facility already authorized for construction in French Camp, CA. Rep. McNerney has been a tireless advocate for securing the authorization and funding for more VA facilities, particularly the French Camp clinic, repeatedly calling for the financial resources to complete the project. “My legislation is an investment in the health of our veterans in communities where expanded access is most needed – this includes the facility in French Camp that would serve the 87,000 veterans in the Central Valley. Constructing these facilities will also boost regional economies through job creation,” said Rep. McNerney. In 2014, Rep. McNerney introduced similar legislation to push VA construction projects forward. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
12.03.2015	Washington – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today applauded the U.S. House passage of the FAST Act that included a provision that strikes the prohibition barring municipalities from using tax exempt bonds toward Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) projects. Last week, Rep. McNerney and Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) led their House colleagues in a bipartisan letter urging that this provision be included in the final highway-transportation bill language. “Lifting the tax-exempt municipal bond ban for WIFIA projects is a significant win and represents a long overdue investment in America’s crumbling infrastructure that will benefit millions of Americans. Critical repairs to our aging water infrastructure would help us to better manage water shortages and respond to drought conditions that put pressure on our water supply,” said Rep. McNerney. “This fix will also benefit the economy through the hundreds of thousands of jobs created in building these water infrastructure projects. I applaud Rep. Curbelo for his efforts to lift this ban so that communities across the nation have access to safe, clean drinking water.” An estimated 7 billion gallons of water is lost per day in this country due to leaky pipes. This can result in some cities losing as much as 30 percent of their water. Currently, there are enough shovel-ready drinking water projects in the country to create more than 400,000 jobs, including 90,000 construction jobs. Lifting the tax-exempt municipal bond ban for WIFIA projects will help get some of these projects up and running. “I am pleased to see this fix included in today’s FAST Act to allow the WIFIA program to use tax-exempt municipal bonds to revitalize our nation’s aging water infrastructure. This important change will not only create jobs, but will help to ensure that all Americans have an ample supply of clean water in their communities. I thank Rep. McNerney for his leadership on this issue and for his dedication to fixing our country’s current water systems. Today’s passage of the FAST Act is a victory for all Americans,” said Rep. Curbelo. Earlier this year, Rep. McNerney tried to suspend this ban by introducing H.R. 1710 to help states, including California, with declarations of emergency due to severe drought conditions. Rep. McNerney also co-sponsored Rep. Curbelo’s legislation, H.R. 3756, that would have removed the financial assistance limitation for WIFIA water projects. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
11.20.2015	Washington – Yesterday, Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) led their House colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter to the Chairs and Ranking members of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works and House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, urging the conference committee on the transportation reauthorization bill to include a provision that strikes the prohibition that bars municipalities from using tax exempt bonds toward Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) projects. The Senate version of the highway-transportation bill included the necessary fix to the WIFIA program. Earlier this year, Rep. McNerney previously tried to suspend this ban by introducing H.R. 1710 to help states, including California, with declarations of emergency due to severe drought conditions. Rep. McNerney is also a co-sponsor of Rep. Curbelo’s legislation, H.R. 3756, that would remove the financial assistance limitation for WIFIA water projects. Full text of the letter: November 19, 2015 The Honorable James Inhofe The Honorable Barbara Boxer Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Environment and Public Works Committee on Environment and Public Works 205 Russell Senate Office Building 112 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Bill Shuster The Honorable Peter DeFazio Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure 204 Cannon House Office Building 2134 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairmen Inhofe and Shuster and Ranking Members Boxer and DeFazio: We write to you regarding the importance of investing in our nation’s infrastructure, for both transportation and water. As you know, the current surface transportation extension is set to expire on December 4, 2015. U.S. water infrastructure is crumbling, costing millions of dollars, hurting job growth, and impacting states’ ability to manage droughts and water shortages. We lose an estimated 7 billion gallons of water per day from leaking pipes, with some cities losing as much as 30 percent of their water. There are enough shovel-ready drinking water projects around the U.S. that would create jobs for more than 400,000 American, including almost 90,000 direct construction jobs. In addition, nearly $335 billion worth of repairs, upgrades, and replacements are needed by water systems in the next 20 years. To help address this issue, Congress passed the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (PL 113-121), that makes crucial investments in our nation’s infrastructure. Despite support from a variety of stakeholders, section 5028(a) of this legislation prohibited municipalities from using tax exempt bonds toward Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) projects. The Senate-passed long-term highway bill, H.R. 22, included a provision striking that prohibition - a necessary fix to the WIFIA program. While similar language was excluded from the House-passed Surface Transportation Reauthorization & Reform Act, we encourage the Conference Committee to take action similar to the Senate and include language to eliminate section 5028(a) in any surface transportation reauthorization conference bill that may be developed by the conferees. Thank you for your attention to this issue and we look forward to working with you on the important infrastructure needs of our great nation. Sincerely, _____________________________ _____________________________ JERRY MCNERNEY CARLOS CURBELO Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ ALAN LOWENTHAL ALCEE L. HASTINGS Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ FREDERICA WILSON MARIO DIAZ-BALART Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON JARED HUFFMAN Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ JIM COSTA MARTHA MCSALLY Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ MIKE HONDA JULIA BROWNLEY Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ ILEANA ROS-LEHTINEN ADAM SMITH Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ JOHN GARAMENDI CHRIS COLLINS Member of Congress Member of Congress ____________________________ GREGG HARPER Member of Congress ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
11.19.2015	Washington — The effects of climate change are being felt worldwide, impacting every corner of the planet and every sector of the global economy. With the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Conference of the Parties (COP21) just two weeks away, more than 150 countries, representing roughly 90% of global emissions, have already submitted plans for reducing carbon pollution to the United Nations, and over 80 companies from across the American economy have pledged their support for action on climate change. Despite this overwhelming support from the international and business communities, Congressional Republicans continue to bury their heads in the sand by refusing to hold even one hearing on climate change or commonsense policy proposals ahead of this historic summit. With House Republicans refusing to acknowledge the threats that climate change poses globally, Energy and Commerce Democrats, along with members of the House Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition (SEEC), convened a forum to hear directly from the international community. The forum, entitled “Global Solutions to Climate Change,” was led by Congressman Paul Tonko (NY-20), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy and SEEC Co-Chair. Also in attendance were Rep. Anna Eshoo (CA-18); Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01); Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-09); Rep. Doris Matsui (CA-06), SEEC Co-Chair; Rep. John Sarbanes (MD-03); Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09); Rep. Joe Kennedy III (MA-04); Rep. Matt Cartwright (PA-17), SEEC Vice-Chair; and Rep. Jared Huffman (CA-02). “The climate talks in Paris are the latest opportunity for the global community to commit to real actions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and fight climate change. As a renewable energy expert, I know that these climate solutions are possible, and I’ve seen firsthand how American leadership has moved them forward,” said Congressman McNerney. “By harnessing innovative technologies we can expand the production of clean energies like wind and solar, that will help make our families, communities, and environment safer. Working together with our international partners, officials at all levels of government, and the business community we can take steps to curb the damage caused by climate change. I look forward to seeing the progress that will be made at these historic negotiations.” “Climate change is one of the toughest challenges the world has faced, and no nation is immune from its impacts,” said Congressman Tonko. “To that end, every nation must be a part of the solution. The United States can and should be a strong leader in this effort, and we must build upon the progress already made as we stand on the eve of a historic global conference on climate change in a few weeks. That's what we heard today. I thank our panelists, Energy and Commerce Democrats, and SEEC Members who took time to bring the attention to this important issue. We will continue to call on our colleagues in the House to act on climate.” “Addressing climate change is the issue of our time,” said Rep. DeGette. “We need to take immediate, international action to invest in renewable energy production and reverse the damage caused so far. I am committed to working on this with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle because it is not only good for our economy, it is vital to the future of our planet.” “Our rapidly changing climate is having profound impacts on our planet, with devastating consequences for our local communities,” said Congresswoman Doris Matsui. “In the Sacramento region alone, we are constantly under the threat of flooding which is only exacerbated by extreme weather events. Taking action now will help our economy and our environment, which the clean energy sector is demonstrating in my district. As we approach the climate summit in Paris, our country needs to unite around global efforts to combat climate change.” Today’s hearing underscored that not only a majority of Americans, but also a majority of nations from around the world, want meaningful action on climate change,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “It’s time for Congress to stop bending to the will of special-interest polluters, and instead, to advance solutions that reduce our carbon emissions and invest in renewable energy.” “When it comes to our environmental future this country is at a crucial crossroads and the consequences of inaction are steeper than they have ever been,” said Congressman Kennedy. “As the President and international community gather to address climate change next month, today’s forum was a tremendous opportunity to learn more about efforts around the globe to protect our environment.” “Today's forum was a great opportunity to hear perspectives on climate change from the international community before the Paris climate negotiations begin in December. Americans are working towards a clean energy future. We, as a nation, have recognized our moral responsibility to future generations, and we plan to lead the way in addressing this challenge,” said SEEC Vice-Chair Matt Cartwright (PA-17). “What we heard loud and clear today is that most countries don’t have the luxury of politicizing and trivializing the threat of climate change. Sadly, the Republican leadership in the House has decided that Congress should be the world's last bastion of climate change denial but for today's witnesses and the countries they represent, the science is too obvious and the stakes are too high to delay action, which is why I am so glad that the House Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition held this Democratic forum to hear these important international perspectives,” said SEEC Member Jared Huffman (CA-02). It also featured testimony from leading experts and representatives from foreign governments, including Ambassador Ambassador Mathilde Mukantabana, Ambassador of the Republic of Rwanda to the United States of America, Ambassador Ronald Jumeau, Roving Ambassador for Climate Change and Small Island Developing State Issues of the Republic of Seychelles, Ms. Kitty van der Heijden, Ambassador for Sustainable Development of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Mr. Bruno Fulda, Counselor for Ecology, Sustainable Development, Energy and Transportation at the Embassy of France, and Dr. Mark Z. Jacobson, Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Stanford University. The panelists discussed the unique challenges faced by their countries, adaptation and mitigation efforts already underway, and their expectations for COP21. Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
11.19.2015	Washington – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Congressman Jeff Denham (CA-10) sent the following letter to the Senators and House Members responsible for negotiating and finalizing legislation to fund the government for the remainder of FY16, urging them to adopt the funding levels established in the Senate- passed amendment to H.R. 2029 for Department of Veterans Affairs major construction projects. Maintaining these funding levels would provide the funding needed to construct the French Camp Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC). “I applaud my colleagues in the Senate for passing a bipartisan Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill that will provide funding for the French Camp Clinic. Veterans in the Central Valley have waited for this much-needed project to break ground for too long. I have been a strong advocate for this essential project from the beginning, and I will continue working on a bipartisan basis until the French Camp project is funded so that our veterans can receive the health care services they’ve earned and deserve,” said Rep. McNerney. “Valley veterans have waited for too many years now for the French Camp Clinic to open,” said Rep. Denham. “They shouldn’t have to suffer through day-long trips to the VA in Palo Alto for routine care when French Camp is ready to be built. This facility will serve an estimated 87,000 veterans, and I’m glad to see Senate appropriators allocating the funding level necessary to get construction underway.” Rep. McNerney has been a strong advocate for securing the authorization and funding for the French Camp clinic, repeatedly calling for the financial resources to complete the project. Full text of the letter: November 19, 2015 The Honorable Thad Cochran Chairman Senate Committee on Appropriations 5-128, The Capitol Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Hal Rodgers Chairman House Committee on Appropriations H-305, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Barbara Mikulski Ranking Member Senate Committee on Appropriations S-146A, The Capitol Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Nita Lowey Ranking Member House Committee on Appropriations 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairmen Cochran and Rodgers, and Ranking Members Mikulski and Lowey: We write to request that as you negotiate and finalize legislation to fund the government for the remainder of FY16, you adopt the funding levels established in the November 10, 2015 Senate- passed amendment to H.R. 2029 for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) major construction projects. The funding level in this version of H.R. 2029 is consistent with the VA budget request for FY 2016 and will ensure that our veterans have access to state-of-the-art medical care and services that they deserve. In particular, this appropriation would fund many critical projects, including the construction of a new community based outpatient clinic (CBOC) located in French Camp, California. The French Camp CBOC will serve an estimated 87,000 veterans across a large geographic area that includes San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Calaveras, Tuolumne and Amador Counties, among others. California’s Central Valley veterans face many challenges accessing the care they need from the VA, with hours of travel required for even routine appointments. Congress approved the Central Valley community based outpatient clinic and community living center in 2004 as part of the VA’s Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services initiative. In 2010, Congress appropriated $55 million for land acquisition and to fund construction planning. This project is now ‘construction ready’ in every sense — and our Central Valley veterans are eager to see progress on a project promised to them in 2004. Given the critical lack of adequate health care facilities for veterans in the Central Valley, we request that the funding levels for VA major construction projects in the Senate-passed amendment to H.R. 2029 are included in the FY 2016 omnibus spending package. Thank you for your commitment to ensuring our veterans receive the highest level of care and for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, _____________________________ _____________________________ Jeff Denham Jerry McNerney United States Representative United States Representative Cc: Sen. Mark Kirk, Chairman, Senate Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies; Sen. Jon Tester, Ranking Member Senate Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies; Rep. Charlie Dent, Chairman, House Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies; Rep. Sanford Bishop, Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies; ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep.
11.19.2015	Washington – Rep. McNerney issued the following statement on his vote to oppose H.R. 4038: “My highest priority as a member of Congress is the safety and security of the people in my district, and the protection of all Americans. The horror and tragedy of the recent terrorist attacks in Paris have echoed around the world, and serve as a stark reminder that we must do everything possible to keep our country safe. Any actions or policies that we advance in response to the brutality and hatred we’ve seen in Europe and the Middle East should bolster the security of our nation, and promote greater safety for our people. These efforts should reflect our American values, and our position as a leader in the international community. “Currently, refugees considered for entry into the United States, no matter their country of origin, must undergo an extensive and robust screening process. These procedures include multiple layers of safeguards; screenings and background checks to ensure that an applicant meets all the requirements set forth by national security agencies, and does not pose a threat to the United States. Under the current system, those conditions must be met for an applicant to be admitted, in a process that typically takes 18 to 24 months. Our efforts should focus on continuing to improve upon and strengthen current protocols. Instead, H.R. 4038 puts roadblocks in place that would hinder the government’s ability to ensure proper implementation of the existing system that has kept Americans safe since its creation after 9/11. “Although H.R. 4038 sounds tough, I am concerned that it will do the opposite of what its intended by bringing the current working system to a halt, thereby freezing refugees – many who are women and children – in a state of hopelessness, potentially creating more radicalized individuals and weakening our international coalition to fight ISIS. Moreover, H.R. 4038 legislates from a place of fear and does not reflect our core American values that make America the greatest nation in the world. “For these reasons I opposed H.R. 4038. Only by standing together can we drive out the darkness, confront extremism, and hold a firm line against ISIS and all terrorism.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
11.18.2015	Washington – As Californians begin to prepare for the El Niño weather season, Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) is pushing Congress to pass newly introduced legislation aimed at making sure local authorities are empowered on the ground to respond to flood disasters and prevent levee failures. Current Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) regulations put constraints on a local agency’s ability to commit already scarce resources by limiting emergency assistance and work eligible for disaster assistance and reimbursement. “El Niño could bring severe and unpredictable weather across California that could result in additional stress to the state’s already fragile levee system. In a flood situation, local authorities do not have time to be caught up in federal red tape. They must be readily able and prepared to respond to a disaster scenario, should a levee break or become overwhelmed. Preparation is critical in flood-prone regions as well as those not previously known for flooding, even after long periods of intense drought conditions,” said Rep. McNerney. “With the Emergency Flood Response Act, I want to make sure the local agencies on the ground, specifically those with the most knowledge operating in a flood region, have the tools necessary to prepare, plan, and respond effectively to limit potential damage and injury that can be caused by flooding and crumbling levees.” Levees are human-made structures that hold back or control flood waters from damaging housing, agricultural lands, businesses, and other areas. There are over 13,000 miles of levees across California. The Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta region includes 1,100 miles of levee infrastructure that is considered aging and susceptible to structural integrity problems and failure. Existing law allows the Army Corps of Engineers to supplement state and local entities in flood fighting, and in certain situations for “advance measures” assistance to prevent or reduce flood damage conditions of imminent threat of unusual flooding. Yet, the law restricts and limits the ability of local entities to respond quickly. Rep. McNerney’s legislation, the Emergency Flood Response Act, directs FEMA to establish an emergency flood activity pilot program to assist flood response efforts in response to a levee failure or potential levee failure, and for other purposes. The Emergency Flood Response Act intends to help local entities establish and maintain a flood emergency fund through a FEMA competitive grants pilot program. The funds would be used for emergency flood activities and would also ensure a unified command system for response in flood disaster scenarios. These funds would be applied to emergency flood activities that include: pre-planning and emergency action on levee failure prevention; closing levee breaks; making relief cuts and dewatering flooded areas; and limiting the extent, depth, and duration of flood waters in the event of a levee failure. A 2012 report from the American Society of Civil Engineers, gave California’s levee system a “D” grade. According to the Army Corps of Engineers’ National Levees Database, nearly half of the 47 levee systems in Sacramento and San Joaquin Counties were classified as “unacceptable” based on their prior periodic inspection. The Emergency Flood Response Act is supported by San Joaquin County. “San Joaquin County is pleased to support Congressman McNerney’s efforts to introduce legislation that will address the current limitations of FEMA regulations that limit emergency assistance and work eligible for disaster assistance and reimbursement. It is imperative that local agencies, which already commit scare resources to assist in levee failure prevention, have access to additional financial resources to plan and assist in disaster response efforts without being hindered by these regulatory limitations. This pilot program is the first step in achieving timely and coordinated response efforts for people and communities in the floodplain, nationwide,” stated San Joaquin County Supervisor Kathy Miller. The bill will be referred to the appropriate House policy committee. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
11.14.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to the terrorist attacks in Paris: “Yesterday the world watched a horrific scene of violence unfold in Paris, one that as of now left 129 people dead and 300 others wounded. We all mourn this catastrophic loss and our thoughts and deepest sympathies are with the people of France and those affected as they recover and rebuild. We now know that ISIS claims responsibility for this terrorist attack. It is yet another tragic example of the dangers that our world faces from radical groups and extremists like ISIS, al Qaeda or Boko Haram. “In solidarity with our allies, we must recognize how this kind of barbaric behavior is able to breed in lawless regions and grow into senseless violence that is unleashed on peaceful societies. We must resolve to not only support countries, like France, when crippled by these attacks, but work together with all nations to promote peace and understanding to curb these kind of conflicts and situations before they explode on the world stage. As more details become known, we stand united with France and recommit ourselves to fight against terrorism and violence.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
11.10.2015	Washington – Ahead of tomorrow’s observance of Veterans Day, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) delivered a video message to honor the brave men and women in uniform who have courageously served their country. The Congressman also reiterated his commitment to ensuring that our veterans are able to access the quality health care and services they deserve, through his work as a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “Our country has a rich history of men and women answering the call of duty… There is no greater sacrifice than putting oneself in harm’s way in service to your country. That sacrifice, patriotism, and service are what we recognize on this very special day. I am proud to honor their dedicated and admirable service, today and each day throughout the year. A big part of honoring this service is making sure that we provide for our veterans here at home,” said Rep. McNerney in the video message. Link to video message: https://youtu.be/PM6rdpStg0k. Full transcript of the Veterans Day video message: Hello! My name is Jerry McNerney, your congressman for East Contra Costa, North and Central San Joaquin, and South Sacramento Counties. Veterans Day is a time to celebrate the American heroes serving in our armed forces. It’s a time to reflect on the courage and bravery that our men and women in uniform have shown while serving in our nation’s Armed Forces. Our country has a rich history of men and women answering the call of duty. From the Continental Army that staged a revolution to free us from a tyrannical monarch… To the Allied troops who stormed the beaches at Normandy to advance freedom and democracy… Even today… we still have many troops who are currently serving overseas in Afghanistan and Iraq to ensure that our nation remains safe and secure… and we are steadily bringing them home. There is no greater sacrifice than putting oneself in harm’s way in service to your country. That sacrifice, patriotism, and service are what we recognize on this very special day. I am proud to honor their dedicated and admirable service, today and each day throughout the year. A big part of honoring this service is making sure that we provide for our veterans here at home. As a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I’ve been an active voice for ensuring that our service men and women get the best quality health care and services that they so rightly have earned. This includes establishing new facilities to make sure our veterans don’t have to go far out of their way to access critical care. Join me in recognizing these noble men and women who risk their lives to defend our nation and our values both at home and abroad. Thank you to all of our veterans for your invaluable service to our nation. Have a happy and safe Veterans Day! And may God bless America! ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
11.09.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement on the hydropower provisions included in H.R. 8: “Hydropower is an important element of any overall strategy to reduce carbon production in California and throughout the country to fight against climate change - possibly the most important, long-term challenge facing our generation. This is why I worked with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to identify ways to streamline the hydropower permitting process. While thorough environmental review is essential, and no hydropower project is the same, the relicensing process can exceed 10 years and can result in costly and unnecessary delays. “From the outset, the intent in updating the hydropower licensing process was to work toward a bipartisan agreement that preserved environmental protections. I have always maintained that promoting clean power generation, protecting water quality and supply, and safeguarding species that are vital to a sustainable ecosystem, are critical to any proposal to reform the hydropower licensing process. We need to maintain a high standard of protection of the Clean Water Act and the Endangered Species Act as part of the permitting process. I know that all stakeholders share the goal of a more efficient licensing process for hydropower, one that maintains existing environmental protections, while creating a more efficient licensing and re-licensing process for hydropower. I look forward to continue working with any and all interested parties toward this shared goal.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.29.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement on his vote to support the bipartisan budget agreement passed in the U.S. House of Representatives: “I voted to support this bipartisan budget agreement because it will help address some of the critical issues facing American families. It spreads sequester relief funding across both defense and domestic programs, which is good news because that helps avoid deep cuts to critical programs that provide health care to children and seniors, protects disability benefits, and funds services that our most vulnerable populations depend on. This budget also provides a strong measure of economic stability by creating an estimated 340,000 American jobs in the next year. This budget agreement also suspends the debt limit until 2017 – a move that I am hopeful will allow Congress to look beyond shutdown battles and crises to other issues, like investing in our crumbling infrastructure and fighting for economic policies that will build a stronger middle class and move our country forward.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.22.2015	Washington – Continuing his efforts to boost job growth locally and across the United States, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today pushed forward a legislative package that targets existing tax loopholes that encourage shipping jobs overseas and provides greater transparency of corporations that regularly outsource American jobs. The legislation would also levy stronger penalties against businesses that falsify information on their outsourcing activity when applying for government contracts, and also for any illegal transactions businesses engage in that involve “tax havens” in foreign countries. “We should not continue providing incentives that make it easy for American companies to ship jobs overseas at a time when good-paying jobs are still difficult to come by here at home, and hardworking people are still getting back on their feet. With this legislation, I want to shine a light on these abusive loopholes that result in corporations sending jobs abroad instead of making those jobs available locally to help build a strong middle class,” said Rep. McNerney. “When companies outsource jobs they are choosing to invest in the economies of other countries at the expense of the American worker, and this puts our economy at a competitive disadvantage.” It is estimated that from 2000 to 2009, multinational corporations cut 2.9 million U.S. jobs while at the same time adding 2.4 million jobs outsourced abroad. Annual U.S. job loss due to offshoring is estimated to be around 300,000 jobs. That is roughly equivalent to the population of Stockton, CA. The Stop Outsourcing and Create American Jobs Act would curb American job losses by cracking down on the tax loopholes that corporations with federal contracts employ to ship jobs abroad using taxpayer dollars. This legislation would direct the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury to establish a list of “corporate tax haven countries” and increase the civil and criminal penalties for corporations found guilty of any transactions involving a tax haven country, including fraud, false claims, and tax evasion. The bill would also give federal agencies the authority to request the history of a corporation’s outsourcing practices when applying for government contracts. It would also allow the agencies to give preference for contracts to companies that have not outsourced jobs within the last year. If a corporation provides false information on its outsourcing history during the application process, it would be subject to a fine, under this legislation, that could amount up to the value of the contract for which it is competing. The legislation would also ban corporations that provide falsified information from seeking new government contracts for two years. Rep. McNerney introduced a similar version of the Stop Outsourcing and Create American Jobs Act during the previous Congress. The bill is co-sponsored by Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13). It also has the support of the AFL-CIO. “Keeping jobs in the U.S. should be among the highest priorities of our government, and federal procurement decisions should be tailored to achieve that goal. By discouraging the use of offshore tax havens and giving preference to firms that keep jobs in the U.S., the Stop Outsourcing and Create American Jobs Act will help more working families succeed in today’s economy,” said Bill Samuel, AFL-CIO Director of Government Affairs. Rep. McNerney also introduced the Outsourcing Accountability Act. This legislation would require large corporations, with annual revenues of $ 1 billion or more, to disclose the number of its employees working domestically and the number of its employees working abroad. Under this legislation, any company required to file reports with the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) must annually disclose to its shareholders and the SEC, the number of employees working domestically compared to the number of employees that company has working outside the United States. The company must also report the percentage change from the previous year in number employees working domestically versus abroad. “Many consumers want to buy products, goods, and services from companies that put American workers first, and I believe one way to encourage that investment in our economy is to make a company’s outsourcing behavior publicly available. The Outsourcing Accountability Act not only provides transparency for those consumers, it informs interested stakeholders about important business practices, and serves to make the public aware of the corporate tax loopholes that are costing Americans the jobs that provide a decent living wage,” said Rep. McNerney. The Outsourcing Accountability Act is also co-sponsored by Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13) and is supported by the AFL-CIO. “Too many U.S. companies claim to be ‘Made in America’ while continuing to ship jobs overseas hoping that no one will notice. By requiring greater disclosure of corporate outsourcing practices, the Outsourcing Accountability Act will help end this hypocrisy and force companies to live up to their commitment to keep jobs in America,” added Bill Samuel, AFL-CIO Director of Government Affairs. Both bills will be referred to U.S. House Committees for further consideration. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.16.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today issued the following statement in response to the resignation of Department of Veterans Affairs Under Secretary for Benefits Allison Hickey: “We must move beyond the waste and misuse of taxpayer money that have long been associated with the VA. Although the backlog of disability claims has decreased significantly under the leadership of VA Under Secretary Allison Hickey, her involvement with the misuse of funds within the Veterans Benefits Administration was unacceptable and had become a distraction that drew the department away from its core mission to take good care of our veterans. The VA needs strong leadership committed to putting veterans first, and correcting the mismanagement of their care. I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that the VA addresses the backlog and quality of care, among other issues to ensure our veterans gets the care they so rightly deserve.” Rep. Jerry McNerney serves on the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.08.2015	Washington—Northern California Representatives Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Doris Matsui (CA-06), and John Garamendi (CA-03) released the following statement opposing H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, ahead of this legislation being heard today in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee: “We’ve said this before and we will say it again: H.R. 2898 does not offer any real solutions needed to bring serious and significant relief to our drought-stricken home state of California. Not only would this legislation have long-term, damaging effects on communities across the state, it would fail to build on the state’s ongoing work to respond to the drought through innovative water conservation efforts, infrastructure improvements, and water recycling programs. “H.R. 2898 does nothing to boost California’s long-term resiliency and prepare our communities for droughts in the future. Instead of coming to the table with fresh ideas that would help solve the drought crisis, our Republican colleagues would rather rehash old, failed policies – including their crusade to repeal the Endangered Species Act that would destroy natural habitats and eviscerate many species in the process. “Furthermore, this legislation takes a divisive approach that neglects to include the voices of farmers, fishermen, families, water agencies and businesses of the Delta and Northern California communities that would be harmed. H.R. 2898 is opposed by the State, commercial and sport fishermen, Native American tribes, environmental groups, and recreational employers – and the Obama administration has already threatened to veto it. “Nearly four years into a historic drought, we stand at a pivotal moment. How we confront the drought and the resulting massive water shortages will set a precedent for years to come. By preempting state laws, reducing management flexibility, eliminating protections for salmon and endangered species, and rolling back environmental laws, the provisions in H.R. 2898 would make it more difficult for federal and state agencies to act at a time when Californians need to move forward together. “We must put the days of choosing one economic sector or one geographic region over another behind us. We need better, more comprehensive solutions based on policies that reflect the reality of the problem. We must bring all affected stakeholders together to advance legislation that assists the entire state in responding effectively to the current drought and builds regional resiliency to face future droughts.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.07.2015	Stockton – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced the start of his annual “Holiday Cards for Our Troops” program. In previous years, the Congressman’s district offices collected more than 8,000 cards from the community with personal messages of gratitude and hope for our men and women in uniform. Rep. McNerney is again inviting constituents to submit cards to his district offices that will be delivered to troops at home and overseas during the upcoming holiday season. “Our service men and women make tremendous sacrifices for our country throughout the year, and oftentimes the holiday season can be difficult for those stationed away from home,” said Rep. McNerney. “This holiday card program provides an opportunity for the community to express their gratitude and thank our troops for their service and all that they do to keep us safe. Many service members have told me that these cards, with their messages of encouragement and support, help boost morale when they cannot be home with their families and friends during the holiday season.” The holiday cards will be sent to troops stationed overseas in packages organized by the Contra Costa Blue Star Moms, East Bay Blue Star Moms, and A Million Thanks. To participate in the program, make or purchase a holiday card and write a message of thanks to a service member. Cards must be delivered to Rep. McNerney’s office in Stockton or Antioch by Friday, Nov. 6, 2015. Cards should remain unaddressed and inside unsealed envelopes. Holiday Card Guidelines: * Make sure to sign your card * Use salutations such as “Dear Service Member.” Cards addressed to specific individuals cannot be delivered through this program * Do not include inserts such as photographs, confetti, or glitter * Cards should not have an address and should remain inside an unsealed envelope Below are the addresses of Rep. McNerney’s offices where cards can be dropped off. Stockton 2222 Grand Canal Blvd., Suite 7 Stockton, CA 95207 (209) 476-8552 Antioch 4703 Lone Tree Way Antioch, CA 94531 (925) 754-0716 ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.07.2015	Washington – Ahead of tomorrow’s Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing where drought legislation is on the agenda, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today led 26 of his California, Oregon, Arizona, and Washington House Democrat colleagues in sending a letter to Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Lisa Murkowski and Ranking Member Maria Cantwell voicing their strong opposition to H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015. The letter argues that H.R. 2898 does nothing to solve California’s water crisis or address the drought impacting Oregon, Arizona, Washington and states throughout the West. Instead, H.R. 2898 preempts state laws, reduces management flexibility, eliminates protections for salmon and other endangered species, and rolls back our nation’s fundamental environmental laws. Full text of the letter: October 7, 2015 The Honorable Lisa Murkowski The Honorable Maria Cantwell United States Senate United States Senate 709 Hart Senate Office Building 511 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Murkowski and Ranking Member Cantwell: We are writing to express our concerns with H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, which passed the House in July and will be a part of the upcoming legislative hearing in your Committee tomorrow. This bill does nothing to solve California’s water crisis or address the drought impacting Oregon, Arizona, Washington and states throughout the West. Instead, H.R. 2898 preempts state laws, reduces management flexibility, eliminates protections for salmon and other endangered species, and rolls back our nation’s fundamental environmental laws. The State of California opposes federal legislation that would “weaken state and federal environmental protections, pre-empt state law and favor one region or economic sector of the state over another,” which is exactly what this bill does. Moreover, this proposal would not support the State’s groundbreaking work to address the drought through water conservation programs, infrastructure improvements, and innovative water recycling initiatives. We are pleased that state and federal agencies have been making great progress by working proactively and collaboratively. These agencies should retain the statutory flexibility to best manage our water supply rather than the prescriptive language proposed in H.R. 2898. In fact, the Department of the Interior agrees that this bill is the wrong course of action because it would, “impede an effective and timely response to the continuing drought while providing no additional water to hard hit communities.” H.R. 2898 is also yet another attempt to chip away at the Endangered Species Act. Important protections have been targeted in recent legislation for the African elephant, greater sage grouse, gray wolf, northern long-eared bat, Sonoran desert tortoise, and many other species. H.R. 2898 simply adds the Delta smelt and several salmon and steelhead runs to the list of species that have been deemed as no longer needing protection. Further, the bill preempts state law, including California’s long-standing system of water rights, overriding the regulations that Californians themselves have devised to administer the state’s complex water supply system. An expansion of federal management over the world’s most complicated water structure sets a bad precedent for states across the country. H.R. 2898 also reaches into other Western states, including Oregon and Washington. By weakening protections for fish in California’s Bay-Delta, this bill has potential far-reaching and damaging impacts on the Pacific Northwest’s fishing industry, wildlife, and related economy. On multiple occasions, Senators and House Members of the Oregon delegation wrote to express parallel concerns with similar short-sighted legislation, H.R. 5781, that passed the House in the 113th Congress. Furthermore, opposition to this legislation includes other key stakeholders such as commercial and sport fishermen, Native American tribes, environmental groups, and recreation employers. The Obama Administration also issued a veto threat against this bill because of its potential to undermine environmental laws. Responsible solutions to the West’s short and long-term water shortages require input from all stakeholders without prioritizing sectors of the economy or geographic regions over others, and without further endangering at-risk species. This historic drought demands an unprecedented compromise involving all affected parties. We remain committed to working on federal drought legislation that does not negatively impact the economies, farmers, communities, and environments of California, Oregon, Arizona, Washington, and other Western states. Sincerely, _____________________________ _____________________________ JERRY MCNERNEY JARED HUFFMAN Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ PETER DEFAZIO MARK DESAULNIER Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ SUSAN DAVIS ERIC SWALWELL Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ EARL BLUMENAUER MIKE THOMPSON Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ TED LIEU ZOE LOFGREN Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ LOIS CAPPS MIKE HONDA Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ BARBARA LEE ANNA ESHOO Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ DORIS O. MATSUI JOHN GARAMENDI Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ SUZANNE BONAMICI JACKIE SPEIER Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ ADAM SCHIFF SCOTT PETERS Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ SAM FARR MARK TAKANO Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ RAUL GRIJALVA RICK LARSEN Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ SUZAN DELBENE JIM MCDERMOTT Member of Congress Member of Congress ___________________________ DEREK KILMER Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Al Franken The Honorable Martin Heinrich The Honorable Mazie K. Hirono The Honorable Angus King The Honorable Joe Manchin III The Honorable Bernard Sanders The Honorable Debbie Stabenow The Honorable Elizabeth Warren The Honorable Ron Wyden The Honorable Barbara Boxer The Honorable Dianne Feinstein In July of this year, California and Oregon House Democrats sent a letter to U.S. Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer opposing H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015. The signatories include 19 California representatives – half of the California House Democratic Delegation – and three Oregon representatives, all who voted against H.R. 2898 in the House. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.05.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to President Obama announcing that negotiators have finalized the Trans-Pacific Partnership Trade Agreement: “Today the Obama administration reached an agreement on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a pact five years in the making to foster increased trade with a dozen Pacific Rim countries. Now that the terms of the agreement are finalized, Congress will have the opportunity to see specifics of the TPP not previously offered up by the Obama administration. I look forward to reviewing the facts and having an open discussion about the details of this agreement. If approved by Congress, the TPP would become the largest U.S. trade pact since the North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico in 1993. “I strongly believe that any trade agreement must protect middle class families and prioritize jobs for American workers. Too many American jobs have been outsourced as a result of prior deals; we must ensure that any agreement strengthens the middle class and does not unduly benefit one American industry at the expense of another. It is also important that aspects of this agreement maintain strong environmental protections and don’t threaten our efforts to combat climate change. I will weigh these concerns as my colleagues and I analyze this agreement, and I will listen to the views of local stakeholders and my constituents before the TPP comes to the House floor for a vote.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.05.2015	Stockton, CA – Today, standing in the heart of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) held a press conference where he voiced his opposition to Governor Jerry Brown’s “WaterFix” tunnels plan, and explained why this ill-advised plan would devastate the Delta’s fragile ecosystem and hurt the families, farmers, and businesses in the region. Rep. McNerney stressed his position while the public comment period for the “WaterFix” tunnels plan environmental review documents remains open through the end of October. The Congressman also highlighted why the plan is not the right solution for managing California’s water supply, and the need to pursue alternative, forward-thinking solutions. “Red flags have been raised across the board on the Governor’s tunnels plan that does nothing to fix the state’s existing water supply management and severe drought problems. From the underlying science and environmental impacts to the projected financial costs, this ‘fix’ is riddled with uncertainty every step of the way,” said Rep. McNerney. “The only thing clear is that the tunnels are a repackaging of old ideas that waste billions of dollars and threaten the way of life for an entire region without creating a single new drop of water.” The Governor’s plan requires the construction of two enormous tunnels, 40 feet in diameter and 30 miles long, and would use three intakes to get water from the Sacramento River. The plan also calls for additional water pumps to be built at an expanded Clifton Court Forebay, an existing reservoir near Tracy, CA. The new and existing pumps would maintain optimal water levels in the forebay and move water from the new tunnel outlets, through San Joaquin County, to existing canals that distribute water across the state. Yet, these environmental review project documents show significant financial concerns and negative impacts for the Delta region. At a cost of approximately $16 billion, the tunnels would yield a minimal return on investment when it comes to new water supply. Every water user in the Delta could be injured from the changes in water quality, quantity, and levels as a result of the tunnels. The potential increase in salinity and the resulting contamination to crops grown in the Delta region is also a major concern. State contractors are also making plans to acquire as many as 300 farms in the Delta in order to construct the tunnels. “Construction from the tunnels would cause serious disruption and irreparable damage to farms, communities, and the environment. While we cannot afford to waste money on this wrong, outdated approach, we also cannot just say no,” added Rep. McNerney. “We should be using our resources to fund innovative, forward-thinking solutions that create new water and take pressure off the Delta by boosting regional self-sufficiency across the state.” Speakers at the press conference included: Barbara Barrigan-Parrilla, Executive Director of Restore the Delta; Jeffery Michael, Director of the Center for Business and Policy Research at University of the Pacific; and Tom Zuckerman, third generation Delta farmer, among other regional stakeholders. “Fourteen years of proposed tunnel construction will decimate the Delta’s $5.2 billion annual agricultural economy, and destroy family farms dating back to the 1850s. 500,000 acres of Delta farms cannot survive dewatering & construction running 24-hours a day, seven days a week, for fourteen years,” said Barbara Barrigan-Parrilla, Executive Director of Restore the Delta. “Farming families cannot survive being left for fourteen years with homes with no water service, no access to their property, and no farming income.” “According to the current documents, the Tunnels will deliver little to no new water, and that assumption is critical because it delivers little to no new water to those paying the $17 billion tab,” said Jeffrey Michael, Director of the Center for Business and Policy Research at the University of the Pacific. “The Tunnels project described in the environmental impact report is not financially feasible. It makes no economic sense for the water agencies sponsoring the project, and certainly makes no economic sense for the state as a whole.” “The current drought reveals the stupidity of blowing $15 to $50 billion on tunnels which don't increase the water supply instead of conservation, groundwater storage in wet years, and recycling projects leading to regional self-sufficiency at a far cheaper cost,” said Tom Zuckerman, a third generation Delta farmer. Last month, Rep. McNerney, along with Northern California House Democrats, sent a letter to Governor Jerry Brown expressing their concerns with the “WaterFix” tunnels plan. The letter argues that the multibillion-dollar tunnels fail to increase water supply, devastate an already fragile Delta ecosystem, and divert funding from more effective statewide water solutions for California. The letter also urges the Governor to focus on forward-thinking solutions like conservation, efficiency, recycling, stormwater capture, and groundwater recharge. In July of this year, Congressman McNerney also voiced his concerns over the irreversible damage the “WaterFix” tunnels plan would cause to the Delta region. Congressman McNerney has shown leadership in pursuing and expanding bold, innovative, technological solutions that create more water and address the energy-water nexus as a part of a comprehensive approach to address California’s severe drought crisis. In August of this year, Rep. McNerney hosted a California Drought Solutions Forum that brought together farmers, water technology innovators, policy makers, state government, academia, and others to discuss how to advance the crucial water and energy efficient technological solutions that are needed to respond to the ongoing drought. Rep. McNerney has also introduced bipartisan legislation to establish a smart water management pilot program meant to spur innovative projects. And, the Congressman introduced legislation calling on Congress to authorize 27 regional water recycling projects that can create water for irrigation, agriculture, conservation, and increase the potable water supply. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.01.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement on his vote not to support the FY16 National Defense Authorization Act: “As a member of Congress, my biggest priority is the safety and security of my constituents, our servicemen and women, and our nation. While I have previously supported National Defense Authorization Acts, this current version does not represent the best interest of our national security, and I could not vote to support it. This bill relies on tricky budgetary maneuvers and misuses $38.3 billion in Overseas Contingency Operation dollars to avoid funding reductions as a result of sequestration. This funding approach is highly problematic for our military because the Department of Defense would not be able to rely on this same set of funds with any certainty in future budgets. “That’s why the Joint Chiefs and Ranking Member Adam Smith of the House Armed Services Committee are opposed to this misguided fiscal policy. Short-term funding creates instability and inhibits the Department’s ability to do any long-term planning or prioritization, and it does not best position our military at a time when we are dealing with unpredictable and potentially dangerous conflicts around the world. We must do better. We must take a more sustainable budgetary approach and enact a bill that ensures that our fellow Americans serving in the military have the resources to perform their duties and keep our nation safe.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
10.01.2015	Stockton, CA – As the public comment period on California Governor Jerry Brown’s “WaterFix” tunnels plan environmental review documents remains open through the end of October, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will hold a press conference to educate the public on this ill-advised plan. The “WaterFix” tunnels plan would devastate the fragile ecosystem of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, and the way of life and economy of the Delta region. The Congressman will also highlight why the plan is not the right solution for managing California’s water supply. The press conference will be held in conjunction with special guest Restore the Delta. Speakers will include: Barbara Barrigan-Parrilla, Executive Director of Restore the Delta; Jeffery Michael, Director of the Center for Business and Policy Research at University of the Pacific; and Tom Zuckerman, third generation Delta farmer, among other regional stakeholders. WHEN: Monday, October 5th 10:00 a.m. WHERE: The west end of Eight Mile Road Stockton, CA Directions from I-5: Take the exit for Eight Mile Road and drive west until you hit the end of the road. Take a left and drive until you see signs for the event. Carpooling is encouraged. Earlier this week, Rep. McNerney, along with Northern California House Democrats, sent a letter to Governor Jerry Brown concerning the California “WaterFix” tunnels plan. The letter argues that the multibillion-dollar tunnels fail to increase water supply, devastate an already fragile Delta ecosystem, and divert funding from more effective statewide water solutions for California. In July of this year, Congressman McNerney voiced his concerns over the irreversible damage the “WaterFix” plan would cause to the Delta region. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
09.30.2015	Stockton, CA – To raise awareness to how California Governor Jerry Brown’s “WaterFix” tunnels plan would devastate the fragile ecosystem of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta and the way of life and economy of the Delta region, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host a press conference on October 5th that highlights his opposition to this ill-advised plan. The Congressman will address these concerns, and discuss why the plan is not the right solution for managing California’s water supply. “I’ve repeatedly said that the Governor’s ‘WaterFix’ is not the right solution to our water crisis. Not only would these tunnels do lasting damage to the Delta ecosystem and farmers, families, and businesses in the region, the plan would waste billions of dollars without creating any new water. Those of us in the Delta community must stand up and make our voices heard. We must also advocate for innovative solutions that boost resiliency and efficiency across all communities, protect the health of existing water supplies and improve our ability to respond to droughts in the future,” said Rep. McNerney. The press conference will take place in conjunction with special guests Restore the Delta. It will occur as the public comment period on the “WaterFix” environment review documents remains open through the end of October 2015. The press conference will take place in the heart of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta. Speakers will include Barbara Barrigan-Parrilla, Executive Director of Restore the Delta, and Jeffrey Michael, Director of the Center for Business and Policy Research at University of the Pacific, among other regional stakeholders. WHEN: Monday, October 5th 10:00 a.m. WHERE: The west end of Eight Mile Road Stockton, CA Directions from I-5: Take the exit for Eight Mile Road and drive west until you hit the end of the road. Take a left and drive until you see signs for the event. Carpooling is strongly encouraged. Earlier this week, Rep. McNerney, along with Northern California House Democrats, sent a letter to Governor Jerry Brown concerning the California “WaterFix” tunnels plan. The letter argues that the multibillion-dollar tunnels fail to increase water supply, devastate an already fragile Delta ecosystem, and divert funding from more effective statewide water solutions for California. In July of this year, Congressman McNerney voiced his concerns over the irreversible damage the “WaterFix” plan would cause to the Delta region. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
09.28.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09), along with Northern California House Democrats, including Reps. Jared Huffman (CA-02), John Garamendi (CA-03), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Ami Bera (CA-07), and Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), sent a letter to California Governor Jerry Brown concerning the California “WaterFix” tunnels plan. The letter argues that the multibillion-dollar tunnels fail to increase water supply, devastate an already fragile Delta ecosystem, and divert funding from more effective statewide water solutions for California. The full text of the letter: September 25, 2015 The Honorable Jerry Brown Governor, State of California State Capitol, Suite 1173 Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Governor Brown: We appreciate your office extending the public comment period for the updated environmental review documents for the California “WaterFix” tunnels plan. Although we are continuing to review project documents, we have identified a number of serious concerns that we would like to address at this time. We understand that your administration is moving forward with the WaterFix tunnels plan, but we still believe that these multibillion-dollar tunnels fail to increase water supply, devastate an already fragile ecosystem, and divert funding from more effective statewide water solutions for California. In a time of severe drought, we need to conserve water and augment our water supply throughout the entire state. If the tunnels are constructed, not a single drop of new water will be added to California’s water supply. Additionally, the tunnels would take thousands of acres of farmland out of production in the Delta area and potentially impair properties around the region through eminent domain. Other negative impacts of the proposed tunnels plan include the depletion of essential freshwater from the Delta estuary and groundwater supplies; and the degradation of water quality for farmers, cities, and wildlife, including further saltwater intrusion. To date, your administration has yet to provide a viable financial plan for the tunnels. WaterFix environmental documents show that building the tunnels will yield less than 200,000 acre-feet of water annually for Central Valley farmers. These farmers will be responsible for the project’s estimated cost of $10 billion, or over $150,000 per acre. Independent economists estimate the tunnels’ water yield will cost around $3,000 per acre-foot. As a result, Central Valley farmers will pay a steep increase in costs without a real return in water, Delta farming operations could be severely disrupted, and Delta and Northern California communities will no longer be guaranteed substantial environmental restoration efforts. “WaterFix” and “EcoRestore” require a much smaller restoration effort than the original Bay Delta Conservation Plan so many of the previous benefits that were described by your administration no longer apply. To clarify these concerns, we request that your administration issue an official cost-benefit analysis along with a viable financial plan that will provide crucial information to affected stakeholders. Although we remain concerned about the WaterFix tunnels plan, we appreciate the drought relief proposals that were included in your California Water Action Plan such as conservation, recycling, increased efficiency, and storage. These cost-effective solutions will benefit the entire state for years to come. Your administration has stated that the tunnels are only one part of a comprehensive plan, but the construction and operation of WaterFix will misdirect a substantial amount of funding away from these forward thinking solutions California desperately needs to pursue. The WaterFix plan’s costs appear to severely outweigh its benefits, while causing irreparable harm to Delta and Northern California communities who thus far have not been adequately included in project negotiations. We urge you to move away from the flawed WaterFix tunnels plan and implement the cost-effective policy solutions already outlined in your California Water Action Plan like conservation, recycling, increased efficiency, and storage that will ensure sustainable water supplies for a healthy Delta ecosystem and California’s farmers and communities statewide. We look forward to continue working with you on innovative solutions that effectively address California’s drought crisis. Sincerely, _____________________________ _____________________________ JERRY MCNERNEY MIKE THOMPSON Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ JARED HUFFMAN AMI BERA Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ JOHN GARAMENDI MARK DESAULNIER Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ DORIS MATSUI Member of Congress ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
09.27.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement after meeting with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to California: “I’m appreciative of the opportunity to meet with the Indian Prime Minister to discuss issues that are important to my constituents and our country. As we become more and more globally connected through technological advancements, it is critical that we foster productive dialogue that boosts peace and prosperity around the world. This is especially important when it comes to protecting human rights and civil and religious freedoms -- the values of democracy that are the founding principles of the United States. Our world is a better place when people are free from persecution and able to live in a just society. And I was pleased to be able to convey this to Prime Minister Modi when we met.” Rep. Jerry McNerney is a member of the American Sikh Congressional Caucus. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
09.24.2015	Washington – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to Pope Francis’ historic address to a joint session of Congress: “Pope Francis delivered an inspirational message to the American people, rightfully calling on us all to treat everyone with a sense of dignity and respect, with the same level of compassion we would hope that others would show to us. I hope that the Pope’s aspirational words about working together for the common good resonate with people all across our nation. The Pope also urged us to be stewards of the earth – to nurture the environment and ‘redirect our steps’ when it comes to combating the threat of climate change so that future generations will be able to enjoy the natural resources of our planet that we do now. I agree that Congress does have a critical role to play and we should not delay in confronting this significant environmental challenge of our time. Working together, we can harness the technologies and innovative ideas that will result in communities with less pollution and healthier families, a cleaner environment, and a sustainable future where we all thrive.” Ahead of Pope Francis’ visit, Rep. McNerney joined fellow House Democrats in a video message calling on the Pope to discuss ways to take action on climate change. Rep. McNerney’s message in the video is as follows: “Pope Francis, thank you for your work on climate change. We must support clean power alternatives such as wind and solar to keep our environment healthy for the sake of families here in America and around the world.” The video message can be viewed on YouTube using this link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oUxiBmPWvHs&feature=youtu.be. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
09.23.2015	Washington – Ahead of Pope Francis’ historic address to the United States Congress, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) joined fellow House Democrats in a video message calling on the Pope to discuss ways to take action on climate change. “Pope Francis has been a compassionate voice when it comes to protecting the health and well-being of our planet. We are already seeing the impact of climate change and the effects that carbon emissions from the use of fossil fuels have on our environment. We can fight climate change and reduce emissions by investing in wind and solar power and other innovative technologies that will move us toward a more sustainable future. I look forward to hearing the Pope’s vision to create a cleaner, healthier world for all of us,” said Rep. McNerney. In the video message, Rep. McNerney thanked Pope Francis for his efforts on climate change and highlighted the importance of investing in clean power sources to keep our families and environment healthy. Rep. McNerney’s message in the video is as follows: “Pope Francis, thank you for your work on climate change. We must support clean power alternatives such as wind and solar to keep our environment healthy for the sake of families here in America and around the world.” The video message can be viewed on YouTube using this link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oUxiBmPWvHs&feature=youtu.be. Rep. McNerney is joined in the video by Congressman Mark Takai (HI-01), Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Congressman Ted Lieu (CA-46), and Congressman Raul Grijalva (AZ-03). ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
09.22.2015	Antioch, CA – In an effort to spur hiring in the small business community and boost local economies, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) introduced new legislation to help small businesses hire workers who have been previously unemployed or out of the workforce. The Small Business Relief Act would provide tax credits for small businesses that hire unemployed workers and make additional credits available to small businesses located in areas with high unemployment. Rep. McNerney announced the legislation today at a Small Business Expo in Antioch, co-hosted with California Assemblymember Jim Frazier (D-Oakley) to connect new and emerging small businesses with resources to help them grow. “Small businesses are the engine for job creation and the backbone of a thriving, local economy, and we need to help them grow in our community. With my legislation, small businesses would be able to expand by hiring people who are currently unemployed. This would not only create local jobs, it would also put people who have been struggling back to work and boost economies in regions across the nation where there is particularly high unemployment,” said Rep. McNerney. The San Joaquin Valley has long suffered from some of the highest unemployment rates in California. As of July 2015, the state’s unemployment rate stood at 6.2 percent compared to 8.9 percent in Stockton and 7.2 percent in Antioch, according to the latest report from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. “Across the San Joaquin Valley there are still far too many people looking for gainful employment, and the unemployment rate in the region is much higher than the national rate. The Small Business Relief Act will help create the job opportunities needed to return people to the workforce, expand small business operations, and boost our economy. I’m committed to advocating for policies that improve job growth in the region. Making it easier for innovative small businesses to hire unemployed workers is one step toward a stronger economy,” added Rep. McNerney. The Small Business Relief Act would provide a tax credit of 7.5 percent of wages earned by an employee in 2015, and five percent in 2016, applicable to the first $75,000 of an employee’s salary. Small businesses in counties where the unemployment rate stands higher than the national rate would be eligible for a tax credit of 15 percent in 2015, and 10 percent in 2015. To be eligible to receive these credits, small businesses must have annual revenue that doesn’t exceed $20 million or have no more than 100 full-time employees. The new employees working at the small businesses that would receive these tax credits must be full-time employees working at least 30 hours per week. The Small Business Relief Act is supported by the Small Business Majority and the Central Valley Asian American Chamber of Commerce. "The introduction of the Small Business Relief Act by Congressman McNerney today is encouraging news for small businesses and their employees. Legislation that incentivizes small employers to grow their businesses and create jobs will help strengthen our economy and move us further down the path to recovery. What’s more, this bill encourages small employers to hire workers who were previously unemployed, which will lower our unemployment rate, put more money in the pockets of consumers and bolster small employers’ bottom lines,” John Arensmeyer, Founder & CEO of Small Business Majority. “The Small Business Relief Act is a critical bill for our region and small business owners. Northern California has some of the highest unemployment regions in the country and I appreciate Congressman McNerney for seeking to provide tax incentives to small business owners to help them to hire more people in our area,” said Dennis Lee, Founder & CEO of Central Valley Asian American Chamber of Commerce. Congressman McNerney has been a leader in expanding opportunities for small business owners and job creators in California’s 9th District. In the previous Congress, Rep. McNerney championed similar tax credit legislation to encourage small businesses to hire unemployed workers. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
09.17.2015	Antioch, CA – To connect new and emerging small businesses with resources to help them grow, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will join California Assemblymember Jim Frazier (D-Oakley) to host a Small Business Expo on September 22nd at the Antioch Community Center. “California’s small businesses and entrepreneurs represent some of the leading innovators and engines for job creation in the nation,” said Rep. McNerney. “We need to continue to foster an environment where more small businesses can pursue creative ideas and be successful. That’s why I’m hosting this expo to connect small business and start-up owners in my district with the tools and resources that can help them be competitive in our local economy and around the globe.” Assemblymember Frazier agreed. “Having owned a small business myself, I’m committed to helping other small-business owners and managers learn about all the state and local resources available to them,” he said. “This event provides a great opportunity for East Contra Costa business leaders to gain useful information to help their shops grow.” Federal, state, and local agencies will be available at the Expo to assist small business owners and entrepreneurs with the following services: contracting; licensing; the certification process; the regulatory process involving permits and labor laws; government grants and loans; and resources for veteran and minority-owned businesses. When: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 8:00 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. PST Where: Antioch Community Center 4703 Lone Tree Way Antioch, CA 94531 The government agencies and business-minded organizations that will be available to provide resources, information, and advice to expo attendees include: California Department of General Services California Delta Chambers & Visitor's Bureau Contractors State License Board - State of California U.S. Small Business Administration Contra Costa Small Business Development Center California Department of Industrial Relations City of Antioch Antioch Chamber of Commerce Workforce Development Board of Contra Costa County Welcome Wagon Los Medanos College U. S. Census Bureau Governor's Office of Business and Economic Development (GO-Biz) Small Business Majority California Employment Development Department-Workforce Services California Employment Development Department-Taxpayer Education and Assistance Program California State Board of Equalization Prior to his election to Congress, Rep. McNerney formed a start-up company to manufacture wind turbines. Assemblymember Frazier previously owned and operated a general contracting company. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
09.15.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to the drainage settlement between Westlands Water District and the U.S. federal government approved today: “This settlement between Westlands Water District and the Department of the Interior is nothing short of alarming. It’s a ‘sweetheart deal’ negotiated without transparency – resulting in an outrageous windfall for Westlands regardless of how much affected land is ultimately retired. The settlement forgives Westlands’ massive $350 million debt owed to the government and taxpayers while giving them an advantageous, no-need-to-review contract that could improve the water deliveries they receive from the San Joaquin-Sacramento Delta and further devastate the Delta’s fragile ecosystem. “Westlands will also not be required to meet specific performance measures for how the land will be managed moving forward – meaning that the drainage problems at the heart of this matter could continue to contaminate farmland and injure wildlife. It’s important that water agencies and stakeholders are aware of what Westlands is getting out of this deal and the troubling precedent that this could set for the future. The next stop for this settlement is Congress, where I will strongly oppose it and ask the tough questions necessary when California’s largest and very profitable water district is absolved of its obligations at the expense of taxpayers and the environment.” In July, Rep. McNerney led his colleagues in sending a letter to the U.S. Department of the Interior, Environmental Protection Agency, and Department of Commerce, requesting further information and a briefing on the proposed settlement. The Department of the Interior responded in September with an hour-long briefing on Friday, September 11 for House members who sent the letter. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
09.14.2015	Stockton, CA – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to the death of Tim Egkan, chief brand officer for Ten Space Developers: “I am deeply saddened by the senseless and tragic death of Tim Egkan. I had the pleasure of meeting Tim a few times around Stockton. He cared deeply about our community and was a fierce believer in its potential and in what the future could hold for all Stocktonians. Tim was a young man with a transformative vision for what this community could be. He saw a vibrant downtown community in the heart of the city bustling with local businesses, housing, shops, and restaurants. Just prior to his passing, Tim was doing what he does best – sharing his vision and excitement about all of Stockton’s possibilities with artisans and entrepreneurs and encouraging them to relocate to the community. Tim was a true champion for Stockton taken far too soon, and my thoughts are with his family and friends at this difficult time. It is my hope that in response to Tim’s death we can all work together to realize his vision for a stronger, brighter Stockton.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
08.28.2015	Washington – In anticipation of His Holiness Pope Francis’ upcoming visit to our nation’s capital, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced a ticket lottery for constituents in California’s 9th Congressional District who are interested in visiting Washington, DC to attend the Pope’s address to Congress on September 24, 2015. “Pope Francis’ visit to our nation’s capital is sure to be a momentous occasion. This is the first time that the Pope will deliver an address to Congress, and I look forward to hearing his message for the American people,” said Rep. McNerney. “I’m glad that we are able to share this historic event with constituents with the opening of this ticket lottery.” Pope Francis will deliver his remarks to a Joint Congressional Session promptly at 10 a.m., followed by a brief appearance on the steps of the Capitol. This event marks only the tenth time that a Pope has visited the United States, and the first time in history that a Pope will formally address Congress. Tickets are for standing room only admission on the West Lawn simulcast during Pope Francis’ address and may not be sold or redistributed for any reason. Constituents who are selected in the lottery are responsible for making their own travel arrangements. Constituents may submit a request for tickets by visiting my website at https://mcnerney.house.gov/papal-visit-tickets. Requests for tickets can be made through September 4, 2015. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney
08.27.2015	Stockton, CA – With California in the middle of its fourth consecutive drought year, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today hosted a California Drought Solutions Forum at the Robert J. Cabral Agricultural Center to look at different solutions, approaches, and partnerships that are needed to respond to this drought crisis. The public forum featured moderated discussions on how to advance crucial water and energy efficient technological solutions from experts that include farmers, water technology innovators, policy makers, state government, academia, and others. “All communities across California are affected by this historic drought crisis and we are all being challenged to make do with less water. The impacts of the drought demand that we take action now through bold, innovative approaches to develop comprehensive solutions that protect California’s water supply, economy, agriculture, and environment,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “We must look at forward-thinking policies that include urban and agricultural water conservation and energy efficiency, water recycling and reuse, and regional self-sufficiency through stormwater capture and groundwater recharge. Doing so will vastly improve our drought response and long-term water sustainability.” Rep. McNerney moderated two diverse panels during the two-hour forum. The first panel, titled “Water, Energy, and Technology: Partnerships and Solutions,” highlighted technologies that would be the most effective in conserving and creating new water and saving energy, and the federal and state government partnerships and private investments that can best advance those technologies. Participating panelists included: Dr. Robert Kostecki, Staff Scientist and Deputy Division Director at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory; Virginia Lew, Manager, Energy Efficiency Research Office at California Energy Commission; Cindy Tuck, Deputy Executive Director, Government Relations at Association of California Water Agencies; Mark Dixon, Executive Architect, Smarter Cities and Safer Planet Solutions at IBM; and Dominque Gómez, Director, Operations and Market Development at WaterSmart Software. The second panel titled, “Agriculture, Technology, and Water Sustainability,” focused on the tools, technologies, and policies that can help the agricultural sector become more resilient, and how we can best leverage those opportunities through federal, state, or local initiatives. Participating panelists included: San Joaquin County Agricultural Commissioner Tim Pelican; Dr. David Zoldoske, Director, Center for Irrigation Technology at California State University, Fresno and member of the California Council on Science and Technology; Scot Moody, General Manager of Stockton East Water District; Richard Howitt, Professor, Agricultural and Resource Economics, at University of California, Davis; and Aric Olson, CEO, Jain Irrigation, Inc. Studies and experts from the Pacific Institute, the University of California, Santa Barbara, and the Natural Resources Defense Council have shown that addressing California’s drought problem with technology, science, and energy-related solutions has the potential to boost our water supply, expand use of existing limited resources, and build greater regional self-sufficiency. Increasing the efficiency of our water supply, reusing existing resources through recycling, and improving stormwater capture capacities could produce up to 14 million acre-feet of water annually. That’s the equivalent of supplying water to up to 14 million homes. These approaches would also ease pressure off of the Delta instead of disrupting its fragile ecosystem. Congressman McNerney has shown leadership in pursuing and expanding bold, innovative solutions that create more water and address the energy-water nexus as part of a comprehensive approach to address California’s severe drought crisis. In July, Rep. McNerney held a roundtable with technology innovators and representatives from the renewable energy, agriculture, business, and water recycling sectors to discuss technology and science-based solutions to the drought. The Congressman also introduced bipartisan legislation to establish a smart water management pilot program meant to spur innovative projects. Rep. McNerney has also introduced legislation calling on Congress to authorize 27 regional water recycling projects that can create water for irrigation, agriculture, conservation, and to increase the potable water supply. Rep. McNerney has also spoken out on multiple occasions on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives about the need to protect and fund State Revolving Funds (SRF) programs for clean and safe drinking water infrastructure. Rep. McNerney also led his California and Oregon House Democrat colleagues in sending a letter to U.S. Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer to stress their concerns about the Republican approach. The letter emphasized that any legislation addressing California’s drought requires serious compromise and should include policies that do not negatively impact the economies, farmers, communities, and environments of California, Oregon, and other Western states. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
08.20.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today issued the following statement to announce his support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the nuclear agreement reached between the P5+1 nations and Iran: “The ability of a nuclear-armed Iran to foster further turmoil and insecurity in the Middle East is a threat to the security of our entire global community. At the same time, any efforts to block Iran’s path to a nuclear weapon must be crafted in America’s best national interest. “Those are the sentiments I expressed when President Obama first announced the international nuclear agreement with Iran a little more than a month ago. Protecting the safety and well-being of our country is my top priority. That is the mindset in which I reviewed and scrutinized the provisions of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). After a very thorough assessment of the agreement and supporting materials as well as discussions with experts, Obama Administration officials, and constituents, I have decided that I will vote to support the Iran nuclear agreement. “I previously supported heavy sanctions against Iran as a means to block them from building a nuclear weapon. These sanctions alone, however, were not enough to stop Iran’s ongoing nuclear pursuit. Further diplomatic efforts with Iran became necessary, and those multilateral talks resulted in the JCPOA currently before Congress. “I support this agreement because I believe the security of the United States will be better served if it is accepted by Congress. Standing together with our international partners, this agreement takes significant steps to deter Iran from building a nuclear weapon. It also still allows us to protect the interests of Israel and our other allies in the region. “Iran currently has a two-month breakout time to produce a nuclear weapon. The agreement negotiated by the P5 +1 countries will require Iran to reduce its stockpiles of nuclear materials and refining capacity to about a one-year breakout time with a very intrusive inspection program to enforce the terms. After 10 years, some of the restrictions will begin to lift, but this will not be without constraints or verification processes to meticulously monitor Iran’s nuclear program. “If in that time Iran decides to break out and develop a nuclear weapon, it will take one year for them to do so. At the same time, the inspection requirements built into the agreement will have provided the United States with better capabilities to detect any questionable activity and take whatever action is necessary to stop Iran. Those provisions will put our country in a better, more secure position in 10 years than that of having no deal with Iran today. “I have also reviewed the tenants of the agreement through a scientific lens, given my background and experience as an engineer working at Sandia National Laboratories. Many scientists and engineers have endorsed this agreement, calling it a ‘guidepost’ for future nuclear non-proliferation negotiations. Nuclear proliferation is an existential threat to all nations and humanity. Non-proliferation agreements, like the JCPOA, can help promote peace and security in the Middle East and also around the world. “Regarding Iran’s participation in terrorism and other hostile activities, this agreement does nothing to prevent the United States from taking appropriate actions to punish or further sanction Iran in the future. With or without the agreement, our nation must stay vigilant, keeping a watchful eye for any aggression on Iran’s part that threatens the region or any of our allies through terrorist activities. And we should consider any necessary additional steps needed to maintain peace and security in the region. “I believe that should Congress fail to approve the JCPOA, the chances of Iran continuing to restrain its nuclear ambitions and returning to the table are slim. The better course of action is for Congress to accept the agreement and to closely monitor its implementation to ensure that Iran abides by the terms and obligations and works diplomatically to improve the stability and security of the Middle East.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
08.18.2015	What: “Congress at Your Corner” event to meet with constituents Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host a “Congress at Your Corner” event to meet with constituents in California’s 9th Congressional District and hear their concerns. The Congressman and his staff will also be available to help constituents with any assistance with federal agencies and related issues. When: Thursday, August 20th at 4:30 p.m. PST Where: Lodi Community Art Center 110 West Pine Street Lodi, CA Meet your Congressman on Thursday afternoon, August 20th. Rep. Jerry McNerney will host a “Congress at Your Corner” event to hear directly from his constituents on important issues that affect their daily lives. The Congressman will also update attendees on the latest from our nation’s capital and talk about what he is doing to serve the people and communities of California’s 9th Congressional District. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
08.14.2015	Stockton, CA – Recognizing that we need to look at different approaches and partnerships to respond to California’s historic drought, including advancing crucial technological, scientific, and energy solutions, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host a California Drought Solutions Forum in Stockton, CA. Open to the public, the forum will feature experts and voices that include farmers, water technology innovators, policy makers, federal and state government, academia, and others. Rep. Jerry McNerney’s California Drought Solutions Forum will take place on August 25th at the San Joaquin County’s Robert J. Cabral Agricultural Center in Stockton, CA. The two-hour forum will begin at 10 a.m. PST. “California’s crippling drought demands that we look at innovative solutions that promote regional self-sufficiency and make all of our communities more resilient in the face of massive water shortages,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “The purpose of this forum is to bring together experts and stakeholders to discuss forward-thinking policies and actions when it comes to making our water supply and infrastructure more energy efficient, improving conservation, and looking at how new technologies can be applied across sectors, including agriculture, to help create new water, increase sustainability, and make more efficient use of our existing water resources.” The forum will feature two diverse panels of stakeholders that include farmers, water technology innovators, policy makers, federal, and state governments, academia, and other experts. 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m.: PANEL: Water, Energy, and Technology: Partnerships and Solutions Panel Invited panelists include: GE; California Energy Commission, Water Energy Technology Program; U.S. Department of Energy, Water Energy Technology Team; ACWA; and IBM. 11:00 a.m. – Noon: PANEL: Agriculture, Technology, and Water Sustainability Panel Invited panelists include: San Joaquin County Agricultural Commissioner; CSU Fresno; California Council of Science and Technology; Stockton East Water District; UC Davis; and California Department of Food and Agriculture. The forum is open to the public and constituents are encouraged to attend. Congressman McNerney has shown leadership in pursuing and expanding bold, innovative solutions that create more water to help California address its severe drought crisis. In July, Rep. McNerney held a roundtable with technology innovators and representatives from the renewable energy, agriculture, business, and water recycling sectors to discuss technology and science-based solutions to the drought. The Congressman also introduced bipartisan legislation to establish a smart water management pilot program meant to spur innovative projects. Rep. McNerney has also introduced legislation calling on Congress to authorize 27 regional water recycling projects that can create water for irrigation, agriculture, conservation, and to increase the potable water supply. As additional legislation meant to address California’s drought problem was introduced and voted on in Congress, Rep. McNerney led his California and Oregon House Democrat colleagues in sending a letter to U.S. Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer. The letter stressed that any legislation addressing California’s drought requires serious compromise and should include policies that do not negatively impact the economies, farmers, communities, and environments of California, Oregon, and other Western states. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
08.05.2015	What: Congressman Jerry McNerney’s Antioch Office Open House Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host an Open House at his Antioch office to meet with constituents and hear their concerns. The Congressman and his staff will also be available to help constituents with any federal agency and department assistance they might need or to discuss other federally-related issues. When: Saturday, August 8th 11:00 a.m. - Noon PST Where: Antioch Office Antioch Community Center 4703 Lone Tree Way Antioch, CA Spend your Saturday morning at the Antioch Community Center to meet your Congressman! This is an opportunity for constituents to speak with Rep. Jerry McNerney on important issues that affect their daily lives. The Congressman will also update attendees on the latest from our nation’s capital and talk about what he is doing to serve the people and communities of California’s 9th Congressional District. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.29.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer introducing new legislation to address California’s drought problem. “I am very concerned about some provisions included in the bill that are similar to the House Republican water legislation that I strongly opposed. Responsible solutions that address short and long-term water shortages in the West should reflect input from all affected districts and their representatives without prioritizing certain economies or geographic regions at the expense of others. This legislation does have some important ideas that will help address California’s historic drought crisis - including water recycling and other conservation programs that can help people and communities better conserve existing water resources. I remain committed to working with my home state Senators and the California delegation as long as we move toward solutions that help create more water and provide the drought relief that is long overdue.” Last week, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) led his California and Oregon House Democrat colleagues in sending a letter to U.S. Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer opposing H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015. The signatories include 19 California representatives – half of the California House Democratic Delegation. Click here to read the letter. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.29.2015	Washington – Yesterday, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Congressman Jeff Denham (CA-10), and Delegate Aumua Amata Coleman Radewagen (American Samoa-At Large) sent a bipartisan letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald regarding the Veterans Choice Program and the VA’s $3 billion shortfall in the FY 2015 budget. The letter calls upon Secretary McDonald to put together a plan of action to address how the VA will change its business practices and better forecast its budget to avoid dramatic shortfalls that could delay health care services in the future. Full text of the letter: July 28, 2015 The Honorable Robert A. McDonald Secretary Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: As a result of extended delays in patient care by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health care system, Congress passed the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-146), which created the Veterans Choice Program. This provision was intended to provide veterans with flexibility in meeting their health care needs inside and outside of the VA system. On July 13, 2015, VA stated in a letter to the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs that it is facing a $3 billion shortfall in the FY 2015 budget and that funds from the Choice Program would have to cover the gap in funding or VA would face shutting down hospital operations during August 2015. The cause of this shortfall must be identified and steps taken to prevent any repeat, but we cannot allow for any VA hospitals to close. We know your commitment to our nation’s veterans remains steadfast, which is why we call upon you to hold the senior management employee or employees responsible for this shortfall in the FY 2015 budget accountable. From the construction cost overruns in the hundreds of millions in Denver to the backlog in disability claims it is apparent that there are significant structural challenges within the VA and more accountability is crucial. The VA must take important actions now if the health care system is to remain effective in the 21st Century. There is a role for increased public and private partnerships in the building of future major construction projects at the VA and the agency should continue exploring how best to address this issue. Furthermore, VA must clearly articulate the challenges it is facing. A review of VA operations throughout the Department is desperately needed as the current structure has proven inadequate for our veterans. We call upon you to put together a plan of action on how the VA is going to change its business practices and better forecast the budget so that it can avoid dramatic shortfalls in the future. The men and women who served this nation deserve no less. We look forward to a prompt response by August 31, 2015. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, _____________________________ _____________________________________________ Rep. Jerry McNerney Rep. Jeff Denham _____________________________________________ Del. Aumua Amata Coleman Radewagen ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.23.2015	Washington – Yesterday, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) led his California and Oregon House Democrat colleagues in sending a letter to U.S. Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer opposing H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015. The signatories include 19 California representatives – half of the California House Democratic Delegation – and three Oregon representatives, all who voted against H.R. 2898 last week. The signatories expressed their commitment to working with the Senators on federal drought legislation that does not negatively impact the economies, farmers, communities, and environments of California, Oregon, and other western States. H.R. 2898 now goes to the Senate for consideration. Full text of the letter: July 22, 2015 The Honorable Dianne Feinstein The Honorable Barbara Boxer United States Senate United States Senate 331 Hart Senate Office Building 112 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 Dear Senators Feinstein and Boxer: We are writing to express our concerns with H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, which passed the House last week. This bill does nothing to solve California’s water crisis or address the drought impacting Oregon and states throughout the West. Instead, H.R. 2898 preempts state laws, reduces management flexibility, eliminates protections for salmon and other endangered species, and rolls back our nation’s fundamental environmental laws. The State of California opposes federal legislation that would “weaken state and federal environmental protections, pre-empt state law and favor one region or economic sector of the state over another,” which is exactly what this bill does. Moreover, this proposal would not support the State’s groundbreaking work to address the drought through water conservation programs, infrastructure improvements, and innovative water recycling initiatives. We are pleased that state and federal agencies have been making great progress by working proactively and collaboratively. These agencies should retain the statutory flexibility to best manage our water supply rather than the prescriptive language proposed in H.R. 2898. In fact, the Department of Interior agrees that this bill is the wrong course of action because it would, “impede an effective and timely response to the continuing drought while providing no additional water to hard hit communities.” Further, this bill preempts state law, including California’s long-standing system of water rights, overriding the regulations that Californians themselves have devised to administer the state’s complex water supply system. An expansion of federal management over the world’s most complicated water structure sets a bad precedent for states across the country. H.R. 2898 also reaches into other Western states, including Oregon. By weakening protections for fish in California’s Bay-Delta, this bill has potential far-reaching and damaging impacts on Oregon’s fishing industry, wildlife, and related economy. On multiple occasions, Senators and House Members of the Oregon delegation have written to you expressing parallel concerns with similar short-sighted legislation, H.R. 5781, that passed the House in the 113th Congress. We also note that opposition to this legislation includes other key stakeholders such as commercial and sport fishermen, Native American tribes, environmental groups, and recreational employers. The Obama Administration also issued a veto threat against this bill because of its potential to undermine environmental laws. Responsible solutions to the West’s short and long-term water shortages require input from all stakeholders without prioritizing sectors of the economy or geographic region at the expense of others. This historic drought demands serious compromise involving all affected parties and we appreciate the leadership you have shown for this crisis thus far. We remain committed to working with you on federal drought legislation that does not negatively impact the economies, farmers, communities, and environments of California, Oregon, and other Western states. Sincerely, _____________________________ _____________________________ JERRY MCNERNEY JARED HUFFMAN Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ PETER DEFAZIO MARK DESAULNIER Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ SUSAN DAVIS ERIC SWALWELL Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ EARL BLUMENAUER MIKE THOMPSON Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ TED LIEU ZOE LOFGREN Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ LOIS CAPPS MIKE HONDA Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ BARBARA LEE ANNA ESHOO Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ DORIS O. MATSUI JOHN GARAMENDI Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ SUZANNE BONAMICI JACKIE SPEIER Member of Congress Member of Congress ____________________________ _____________________________ ADAM SCHIFF SCOTT PETERS Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ SAM FARR MARK TAKANO Member of Congress Member of Congress ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.22.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement regarding the death of Hayward Police Sergeant Scott Lunger of Brentwood, CA: “I was deeply saddened to learn about the death of Sergeant Scott Lunger, a true public servant who died while serving his community. Like his fellow law enforcement officers, Scott put the safety and well-being of others ahead of his own every day at work, and his sacrifice will not be forgotten. Scott’s death is a tremendous loss to the Brentwood community, but his dedication and service remain an inspiration to us all. My thoughts and condolences are with Scott’s family, friends, and the entire Hayward Police Department as we mourn this terrible loss.” Sergeant Scott Lunger was shot and killed in the line of duty during an early morning traffic stop on Wednesday, July 22, 2015. Sergeant Scott Lunger is a resident of Brentwood, CA and a constituent of California’s 9th Congressional District. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.21.2015	Washington – Following through on his call for bold, forward-thinking solutions to address California’s historic drought crisis, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced that he and Congressman Adam Kinzinger (IL-16) have introduced bipartisan legislation to establish a smart water management pilot program meant to spur innovative projects. Rep. McNerney announced the Smart Energy and Water Efficiency Act at a roundtable discussion yesterday, in Stockton, CA, with technology innovators and representatives from the renewable energy, agriculture, business, and water recycling sectors. “Californians are looking for leadership from Congress to address the state’s crippling drought and we cannot afford to keep offering up the same old ideas. We need to innovate and think differently about the water challenges we face by focusing on solutions that help create new water and use the water we have wisely. This is the only way to build sustainable drought responses and efficient water management for the future,” said Rep. McNerney. “This legislation would help jumpstart that process and invest in projects that result in the technological and scientific-based solutions we need to provide clean water efficiently from recycling and other sources, and to help communities make significant progress in water conservation.” “I am pleased to join Congressman Jerry McNerney in introducing the Smart Energy and Water Efficiency Act to promote smart and effective programs to reduce our water use and environmental impact. Many of the hundreds of thousands of miles of water pipes in this nation are decades old and have the potential for costly and wasteful leaks,” said Rep. Adam Kinzinger (IL-16). “Innovative use of technology, including pilot programs like those included in this bipartisan legislation, is going to be an important part of creating a modern and efficient water infrastructure.” Under the pilot program this legislation would establish, a utility, municipality, water district, or other authority that provides drinking water, water recycling, or water reuse services would be able to compete for project grants from the U.S. Department of Energy. The projects would demonstrate and deploy novel and innovative technology-based solutions aimed at increasing the energy and water efficiency of drinking water, recycled water, and water reuse systems. They would also improve drinking water, water reuse, and recycled water systems to help communities across the United States take significant steps in conserving water, saving energy, and reducing costs. In addition these solutions would support innovative processes and the installation of advanced automated systems that provide real-time data on energy and water. “This forward thinking bill presents the opportunity to harness innovative Internet of Things (IoT) technology to drive smarter energy efficiency and water management solutions. The pilot program will accelerate deployment of these cutting-edge solutions by demonstrating a repeatable foundation of building blocks, which can be customized to the nation’s diverse range of energy and water management challenges,” said Marjorie Dickman, Global Director & Managing Counsel, Internet of Things (IoT) Policy, Intel Corporation. Competitive grant selections for these projects will be based on a project’s anticipated energy and costs savings; the novelty of technology employed; how well it integrates next generation sensors, software, analytics, and management tools; the predicted cost-effectiveness of the project due to energy efficiency savings, water savings or reuse, and adverted infrastructure costs; and how the technology can be scalable and deployed across geographic regions. Congressman McNerney is committed to pursuing and expanding bold, innovative solutions that create more water to help California address its severe drought crisis. Last month, Rep. McNerney introduced legislation calling on Congress to authorize 27 regional water recycling projects that can create water for irrigation, agriculture, conservation, and to increase the potable water supply. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.16.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today took steps to eradicate water hyacinth, an invasive aquatic species taking over Delta waterways, after the House unanimously passed his amendment to H.R. 2898. The amendment offered by Rep. McNerney would include water hyacinth in a pilot project included in H.R. 2898 to implement the invasive species control program. “The unruly growth of water hyacinth affects the entire Delta region. It clogs waterways – preventing the movement of water through the Delta, negatively affecting farmers, recreational opportunities, and disrupting the natural ecosystem. These problems have only become worse due to the drought,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “I was pleased to see the House adopt my amendment to include water hyacinth in a pilot invasive species control program. We need to do everything possible to eradicate water hyacinth, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to make that happen.” Water hyacinth can double in size every 10 days and its seeds can remain buried in sediment and viable for 20 years. In the Port of Stockton – the third largest inland port in the country – water hyacinth affects ship traffic, causing unreasonable delays that can cost importers approximately $200,000 in additional expenses. Rep. McNerney previously helped to secure $1 million in federal funding to help an existing effort between federal, state, and local partners focused on managing water hyacinth infestation and this amendment continues to build off that work. Click here to watch Rep. McNerney discuss his water hyacinth amendment on the House Floor. While the amendment did pass, Rep. McNerney did not vote to support the overall H.R. 2898 legislation because its solutions fail to address California’s drought, while causing serious ecological and economic damage to the Delta region. “While I was glad to see my water hyacinth amendment pass the House, I still could not support this Republican bill because it does nothing to solve California’s historic drought crisis. This bill would only damage a fragile ecosystem and hurt the local Delta economy,” said Rep. McNerney. “California is known for our technological innovation and we should be pursuing bold, forward-thinking solutions that create new water and don’t pit economies or regions of California against each other. We should be addressing water efficiency, storage, reuse and recycling, water management, innovative water projects, and a long-term approach to water shortages. I am working with my colleagues to that end, but I cannot support any legislation that doesn’t move us in that direction.” Click here to watch Rep. McNerney speak in opposition of H.R. 2898 on the House Floor. Rep. McNerney previously called out his GOP colleagues on how H.R. 2898 promotes destructive strategies with no concern for how this plan will reduce agricultural jobs and hurt local economies and industries across the Delta region. Rep. McNerney is committed to pursuing and expanding innovative solutions that create more water to help California address its severe drought crisis. This includes calling on Congress to authorize 27 regional water recycling projects that can create water for irrigation, agriculture, conservation, and to increase the potable water supply. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.15.2015	Washington – A group of House Democrats are calling out House Republicans for not taking into account the impact that the Valadao drought legislation will have on the economies of the Delta farming and Northern California and Oregon fishing communities, or the larger impact on communities across California. Reps. Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Jared Huffman (CA-02), and Peter DeFazio (OR-04), offered a pair of amendments that would require the legislation to take economic impact into consideration. Those amendments were not adopted. “Once again, with the rejection of these amendments, the Republicans are refusing to come to the table with any real, long-term solutions to respond to California’s drought crisis. The Republican proposal does not create new water, and it promotes destructive strategies with no concern for how this plan will reduce agricultural jobs, and hurt local economies and industries across the Delta region, said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “At the same time, it is unacceptable that the Republicans would also block efforts to ensure this legislation does not have harmful effects on water quality, saltwater contamination, and available water resources for families and agricultural producers alike. California is struggling with severe conditions, and our communities should not continue to suffer while Republicans try to have it both ways. I am committed to working with all of my colleagues who want to pursue bold, forward-thinking solutions to help California better manage its water supply.” Rep. McNerney’s amendment would have blocked the implementation of any provision in H.R. 2898 that results in reductions in agricultural employment and recreational opportunities for the five Delta counties: Contra Costa County, Sacramento County, San Joaquin County, Solano County, and Yolo County, California. “Yesterday my Democratic colleagues and I suggested more than 20 amendments to improve Rep. Valadao’s water bill and ensure that it does not hurt my Northern California constituents or other stakeholders throughout the state. We wanted to ensure the bill does not negatively impact tribal water rights, preempt California water law, or violate fish and wildlife code,” Huffman said. “Yet, all but four Democratic amendments were quickly rejected by the Republican Majority without even a vote. I am disappointed that my Republican colleagues are continuing to treat the drought as a political opportunity instead of working across the aisle to create a bill that helps all of California.” Reps. Jared Huffman and Peter DeFazio’s amendment would have prevented any provision of H.R. 2898 from being implemented if the Pacific Fishery Management Council certifies that it could reduce employment or recreational opportunities for commercial or sport fishermen. “With my own home state of Oregon suffering from severe drought, I appreciate the need to relieve the debilitating situation in California. However, the solution that Republicans have concocted will devastate the fisheries and recreation industries along the entire Pacific Northwest coast, and will provide only a short-term solution for California’s drought. HR 2898 will create another costly ecological disaster—this time with America’s fisheries—that American taxpayers will have to foot the bill for, just as they did in 2007, when the federal government spent millions in response to the catastrophic salmon disaster,” said Rep. DeFazio. “Rather than diverting funding from Oregon fisheries and multiplying the devastation, we should invest in preventative measures that could lessen the drought’s economic effects. Instead of listening to all stakeholders and allowing Oregon’s fishing industry a seat at the table, which my amendment would have permitted, Republicans are forcing through a short-sighted measure that will have a destructive effect on businesses and families across Oregon and the Pacific Northwest,” added DeFazio. H.R. 2898 is scheduled for debate and a vote on the House Floor tomorrow. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.14.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement that the P5+1 nations have reached a nuclear agreement with Iran: “The real possibility of a nuclear-armed Iran and its ability to foster instability in the Middle East region is a threat that concerns the entire international community. This threat has caused increasing likelihood of armed conflict with unpredictable and possibly devastating consequences. I have supported sanctions and negotiations as an alternative to certain conflict. Now that President Obama and global leaders have negotiated a diplomatic solution to curb Iran’s nuclear capabilities, it is the responsibility of Congress to give the agreement the review and scrutiny it deserves. “Congress must ensure that this deal provides sufficient safeguards to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons, including the right measure of sanctions and international inspections to keep Iran in line with the terms of the agreement. While this agreement is an important step toward a more peaceful world we must remain watchful to ensure that Iran continues to act in good faith without deviation. We should only advance an agreement with Iran that is in our best national interest, and protects the security of the American people – both at home and abroad.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.13.2015	Washington – After a successful tour of Delta Diablo to highlight the importance of investing in water recycling projects to ease California’s drought crisis, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced that his introduced bill gained nine co-sponsors from the California House Delegation. “Tackling California’s drought problem requires bold, forward-thinking solutions that will increase current water supplies, and this includes expanding water recycling projects,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “This is exactly why I am calling on Congress to take action and get these projects moving – and I’m glad to see a handful of my colleagues join me in this effort. These projects will take pressure off the Delta and use the latest technology to produce water that can be used for irrigation, agriculture, conservation, and to increase the potable water supply.” The California Water Recycling and Drought Relief Act calls on Congress to authorize 27 regional water recycling projects that, when funded, can provide over 100,000 acre-feet of new water – enough water to meet the needs for over half a million residents. These water projects need Congressional authorization in order to compete for Title XVI construction funds through the Bureau of Reclamation. The co-sponsors on the bill include: Reps. Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Sam Farr (CA-20), Mike Honda (CA-17), Jackie Speier (CA-14), John Garamendi (CA-03), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), and Eric Swalwell (CA-15). “As our state faces a severe drought crisis we should be innovative and explore every option for maximizing our existing water supply, including water recycling. I am pleased to join Congressman McNerney in introducing legislation which would provide crucial federal funds for this effort and would help California maximize its voter-approved Prop 1 funds, that my colleagues and I created in the state legislature to improve our water quality, supply and infrastructure,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. Developing recycled water reduces dependence on Delta supplies. Recycled water projects like Delta Diablo in Antioch, CA improve water supply reliability, and reduce wastewater discharge into the fragile Bay-Delta environment. Rep. McNerney also announced he will host a roundtable of technology, water, and agriculture stakeholders to discuss new water management technologies that are energy efficient, and how these 21st Century solutions can promote greater conservation, water savings and long-term drought mitigation. Participants in the roundtable will include Environmental Entrepreneurs (E2) and other experts and stakeholders. The roundtable will take place on July 20. “I’m convening this roundtable to discuss the different ways in which Congress and the federal government can advance technological, scientific, and energy solutions that are crucial in helping California respond to its severe drought crisis. Right now, House Republicans are offering policies from the past and lack the innovation needed to move us forward and secure our water supply for the future,” said Rep. McNerney. List of 27 Water Recycling Projects Benicia recycled water project to Valero refinery Brentwood recycled water project Central Dublin recycled water distribution and retrofit project Central Redwood City recycled water project Concord recycled water project Contra Costa County refinery recycled water project, phase 1 Delta Diablo recycled water project Delta Diablo high purity water treatment facility Dublin recycled water expansion project Fresno east central recycled water facility Fresno downtown recycled water distribution Fresno southwest recycled water distribution Hayward recycled water project Ironhouse Sanitary District Cypress recycled water project Ironhouse Sanitary District industrial recycled water project Ironhouse Sanitary District direct potable reuse project Pure Water Monterey A Groundwater Replenishment Project Mountain View recycled water project North Valley regional recycled water project Palo Alto recycled water pipeline project Pleasanton recycled water project Potable Reuse in Santa Clara County, phase 1 San Jose Water Company recycled water project Sunnyvale continuous recycled water production project West Bay Sanitary District Recycled Water Project Wolfe Road recycled water project Yountville recycled water project ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.10.2015	Washington – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement responding to the latest ”Water Fix” and “Eco Fix” environmental documents, that will result in irreversible damage to the Delta Region: “Governor Brown continues to push a misguided plan that favors South of Delta water interests while turning a deaf ear to the concerns of farmers, families, and small business owners of the Delta region. The way of life for these communities will be harmed should this plan continue to move ahead – not to mention the lasting environmental damage it will cause to the Delta ecosystem. Furthermore, this plan wastes billions of dollars and will not create any new water the state so desperately needs. We must chart a new way forward that brings everybody to the table. “We also need to pursue bold, innovative solutions that prioritize technological, energy, and water-efficient approaches to manage the state’s water supply and produce more water. The Governor’s plan is not the fix we need. I will continue to oppose any proposal that fails to protect the health of the Delta as part of a comprehensive drought solution, and leaves part of California ill-prepared for droughts in the future.” Congressman McNerney has been a strong champion for the people and communities of the Delta region. Last week, the Congressman called on Congress to authorize 27 regional water recycling projects. Investing in water recycling technology helps augment existing water supplies and relieves pressure on Delta water supplies. Earlier this year, Rep. McNerney introduced two water bills: one that would help local water agencies begin new projects to capture, store and recycle more water, and another that would ensure the health and safety of drinking water during drought conditions. ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
07.02.2015	Antioch, CA – Recognizing that water recycling is a critical part of a larger, comprehensive approach to addressing California’s drought crisis, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today announced that he would introduce legislation calling on Congress to authorize 27 additional regional water recycling projects. To highlight this announcement, Rep. McNerney toured Delta Diablo, the site for one of the water recycling projects he believes needs to be authorized. “I’m calling on Congress and introducing legislation to authorize more regional water projects – because expanding water recycling is one component of a comprehensive solution needed to address California’s long-term drought challenges,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “In this extreme drought, California communities a struggling to conserve the limited water available. That’s why it’s important to continue investing in water recycling technologies that treat wastewater and augment current supplies. Funding these projects creates additional water supplies available to ease pressure off the Delta, irrigate public spaces, grow crops, increase the potable water supply, and support environmental restoration.” These 27 projects, when funded, can provide over 100,000 acre feet of new water – enough water to meet the needs for over half a million residents. These water projects need Congressional authorization in order to compete for Title XVI construction funds through the Bureau of Reclamation. “We thank Congressman McNerney for his leadership in introducing legislation which will proactively support new drought-tolerant water sources while protecting the Delta.” said Gary Darling, spokesperson for the Western Recycled Water Coalition. Developing recycled water reduces dependence on Delta supplies. Recycled water projects like Delta Diablo improve water supply reliability, and reduce wastewater discharge into the fragile Bay-Delta environment. When constructed, the Delta Diablo Recycled Water Project will provide more than 4,000 acre-feet per year of recycled water to municipal, commercial, and industrial users in Antioch and Pittsburg – equivalent to meeting the water needs of 16,000 households. “I was disappointed when House Republicans recently offered up their water plan because it once again simply panders to South Valley water users by proposing more water south, but will not move us forward. We need to look at bold, forward-thinking solutions that use new technology and scientific advancements to improve the management and conservation of California’s water supply. This will better prepare communities for severe drought conditions in the future,” added Rep. McNerney. List of 27 Water Recycling Projects Benicia recycled water project to Valero refinery Brentwood recycled water project Central Dublin recycled water distribution and retrofit project Central Redwood City recycled water project Concord recycled water project Contra Costa County refinery recycled water project, phase 1 Delta Diablo recycled water project Delta Diablo high purity water treatment facility Dublin recycled water expansion project Fresno east central recycled water facility Fresno downtown recycled water distribution Fresno southwest recycled water distribution Hayward recycled water project Ironhouse Sanitary District Cypress recycled water project Ironhouse Sanitary District industrial recycled water project Ironhouse Sanitary District direct potable reuse project Monterey peninsula groundwater replenishment project, phase 1 Mountain View recycled water project. North Valley regional recycled water project Palo Alto recycled water pipeline project Pleasanton recycled water project Potable Reuse in Santa Clara County, phase 1 San Jose Water Company recycled water project Sunnyvale continuous recycled water production project West Bay Sanitary District Recycled Water Project Wolfe Road recycled water project Yountville recycled water project ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
06.26.2015	Washington – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges legalizing same-sex marriage nationwide: “This country was founded on the principle that all people are treated equally under the law, and with this Supreme Court decision we take another step toward realizing that equality for the LGBT community. Now all Americans, regardless of preference, have the freedom and the right to marry the person they love. This is a historic moment for our country as we continue to seek equality and justice for all. It is a momentous day for everyone who wants to build a family and life with the person they love.” ### Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney.
06.25.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-9) today issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court ruling that upheld critical portions of the Affordable Care Act: “All Americans should have access to quality and affordable health care when they need it, and today's Supreme Court decision reaffirms that health care will be available to millions of people. This is an important victory that keeps health care accessible for more than 6 million people, including many lower and middle income families, who would not otherwise be able to afford insurance. “In California, and in my district, we are seeing that the Affordable Care Act works. Hardworking families are receiving quality health care coverage through the state exchange. With this Supreme Court decision, we should move forward and look at ways to make improvements, instead of wasting time and resources to tear down a law that is providing millions of people with life-saving health care.” Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney. ###
06.25.2015	Washington—Northern California Representatives Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Doris Matsui (CA-06), and Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) released the following statement in response to the House GOP water bill: “When it comes to addressing California’s water challenges, we need bold, forward-thinking action and real, workable solutions – none of which exists in the water bill offered by our Republican colleagues. “What’s worse is that this divisive, reckless approach is déjà vu. We are deeply disappointed by the lack of progress represented in this bill, and fearful that its passage could have lasting, devastating effects to all communities across California. This bill clearly neglects to include the voices from the very stakeholders – Delta and Northern California communities, fishing industry, farms, tribes, and water districts– that this bill stands to harm. “We are deeply disappointed by the lack of progress represented here, and believe that its passage would be disastrous for millions of Californians. Specifically, the legislation would radically change how the federal government releases water through the Central Valley Project by instructing federal officials to pump maximum amounts of water and overriding the flexibility they need to operate a complex water system. “This bill makes it more difficult for federal and state agencies to make important decisions at a time when California faces its worst drought in a generation. It also undermines crucial environmental protection laws, harms vulnerable species populations, and continues to put different parts of the state at odds with each other when it comes to finding a path forward. “As a delegation, we are committed to working with all stakeholders and will keep our focus on comprehensive, technologically-innovative, state-wide solutions that not only will help families, farmers, small businesses, and fish and wildlife endure this drought but will better prepare our communities for the next one.” ###
06.15.2015	Stockton, CA – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-9) released the following statement congratulating the City of Stockton for receiving the All-America City Award by the National Civic League: “The All-America City Award is a testament to the resolve and enduring strength of the people of Stockton who believe that the best days are yet to come. Stocktonians have faced some incredible challenges in the recent years, and bravely chose to face them with hard work and a deep commitment to building a vibrant and bustling city. I could not be prouder to represent such an incredible group of Californians. This award truly belongs to all Stocktonians – the families, businesses, organizations, and local leaders – who joined together to ensure that all members of the community were included in the investment in the future of Stockton. I congratulate the city and all Stocktonians on this well-deserved and important recognition that illustrates to California and the nation a turning of the page toward new prosperity and progress.” The City of Stockton has previously received the All-America City Award from the National Civic League in 1999 and 2004. Rep. Jerry McNerney proudly serves the constituents of California’s 9th Congressional District that includes portions of San Joaquin, Contra Costa, and Sacramento Counties. For more information on Rep. McNerney’s work, follow him on Facebook and on Twitter @RepMcNerney. ###
06.12.2015	Washington, DC – Every day, thousands of lunches, dinners and naps are ruined by unwanted sales calls. Soon, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) will consider new rules they believe will allow these calls to blocked and avoided easier. Unfortunately, the changes they’re proposing may actually make harassing American families even easier. With that in mind, Reps. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Tony Cárdenas (D-San Fernando Valley, CA) wrote a letter to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler and Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Chairwoman Edith Ramirez, calling on them to update FCC and FTC rules to protect American consumers and families. Reps. McNerney and Cárdenas were joined in this bipartisan effort by fellow members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ) and Rep. Gus Bilirakis (R-Fla). The Committee has jurisdiction over wide swaths of American interstate commerce, including the laws governing telephone solicitation. “While… the FCC indicates the Commission intends to address some of these issues, we have concerns that this item may not provide sufficient guidance and would leave businesses still unsure how to comply with an outdated law in a time of modern technology,” members said in part of the letter. Their concern is in the implementation and enforcement of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) of 1991 and the Do Not Call Registry. These provisions are intended to protect consumers from the unwanted intrusion of telemarketing calls, including “robocalls.” “American families juggle so much during the day. The last thing they need is an intrusive, unwanted robocall when sitting down for dinner,” said Congressman McNerney. “As technology improves and people communicate in new ways, I believe it is important that the laws meant to protect consumers are updated to meet the needs of new consumer behavior. We need to make sure that businesses are able to reach out to consumers in a manner that complies with the law without exposing people to further harassment.” “Americans have the right to not be harassed every moment of the day by someone trying to sell them something or, worse yet, trying to scam them,” said Cárdenas. “As a former small business owner, I understand the importance of talking to customers, and I appreciate the hard work that goes into selling a product. However, American families should be able to decide when they want to make a purchase, not be cold-called and badgered. I am happy to lead my colleagues from both sides of the aisle in an effort to help make that happen.” Legal efforts have been successful over the years in curbing disruptions to consumers, but despite these successes, the rules have not kept pace with technology. 44 percent of American homes have only a wireless phone, an option that likely was never anticipated in 1991. As a result, some of the protections created by TCPA clearly need to be modernized to reconcile the law with the modern communications landscape. TCPA complaints continue to top the charts at the FCC with more than 200,000 consumer complaints filed in 2014. FTC data is similarly alarming, with more than 1.7 million robocall complaints over the last year. It’s time for Congress to step up to the plate and save dinnertime, and the rest of the day, from these scammers and unwanted calls. CLICK HERE to read the letter. ###
06.05.2015	Stockton, CA - Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today toured the Sharpe Army Depot to announce that the Army and the California National Guard have established a lease agreement that will ensure the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe program at the Sharpe Army Depot in Lathrop, CA will begin as scheduled in January 2016. “The National Guard Youth ChalleNGe program opens new doors for at-risk youth in San Joaquin County who want to work hard and invest in a brighter future, and I am glad to see that the program will now go forward,” said Congressman McNerney. “This program has a proven track record for turning participants into productive members of their communities by giving them the tools and skills they need to go onto college, find meaningful employment, and achieve success.” The California National Guard will now be able to proceed with its plans to acquire vacant federal buildings at the Sharpe Army Depot in Lathrop to house Youth ChalleNGe program participants and activities. Until this agreement was reached, the Army National Guard had held up the lease contract at Sharpe because of its interpretation of the rules surrounding such acquisitions. Congressman Jerry McNerney was joined on the tour by Assemblymember Susan Eggman (D-Stockton), as well as members of the Army and California National Guard to discuss the importance of the Youth ChalleNGe Program. This victory is a direct result of Congressman McNerney’s tireless efforts to ensure the success of this vital program, which included advocating for the program in numerous meetings and communications with Army and National Guard Bureau leaders. Major General David S. Baldwin, the Adjutant General of California, applauded Congressman McNerney’s efforts. “The Youth Challenge education program for at-risk youths is truly life-changing, keeping troubled young adults from ending up behind bars and opening the doors of opportunity for the lives they want to lead. While there were many helpful stakeholders, I want to particularly thank Representative Jerry McNerney for his work to secure a third Youth Challenge location for the California National Guard, in Stockton,” said Major General David S. Baldwin, the Adjutant General of California. “This would not have happened without the personal attention Representative McNerney paid to it.” The National Guard Youth ChalleNGe program targets teenagers who have dropped out of high school and provides them with the life skills and education needed to help them turn their lives around. Participants in the program take part in a half-year residential program on active or closed National Guard bases, a National Guard training center, or a school campus. Following this residential phase the participants return to their communities and take part in a 12-month mentoring program. Each class averages 100 participants and the program has produced over 121,000 graduates since its inception in 1993. Congressman McNerney successfully advocated for an additional $10 million in funding for the program in Congress last year. He also wrote California legislators asking them to approve state matching funds, helping secure an additional $1.5 million for the program. Additionally, Congressman McNerney sent a letter to the Pentagon asking for the Youth ChalleNGe program in San Joaquin County to commence. The Youth ChalleNGe program has been statistically proven to be one of the nation’s most effective means for prevention of delinquency and involvement in criminal activities. A cost-benefit analysis conducted by RAND Corporation determined that it is cost-effective, with a return on investment of $2.66 for every dollar spent. The program currently operates in 27 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is funded through a federal/state partnership, with the federal government contributing 75 percent. ###
05.27.2015	Antioch, C.A. – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced today that he will hold a senior assistance fair in Brentwood. The event will take place on Wednesday, May 27th from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. at the Brentwood Senior Activity Center. Representatives from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Social Security Administration, Alzheimer’s Association, AARP, and Contra Costa County Aging and Adult Services will be on hand to offer one-on-one assistance to seniors. Seniors can receive help with obtaining benefits, including applying for Social Security and Medicare benefits, checking on the status of a previous application, and obtaining help with missing Social Security payments. For questions regarding the workshop, contact Congressman Jerry McNerney’s Antioch office at 925-754-0716. Event details: WHAT: Senior Assistance Fair WHEN: Wed, May 27, 2015 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. WHERE: Brentwood Senior Activity Center 193 Griffith Lane Brentwood, CA 94513
05.19.2015	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Jerry McNerney’s bill to protect Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Businesses (SDVOSB) unanimously passed the House of Representatives. McNerney’s bill, H.R. 1313, the Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business Relief Act, would protect small businesses owned by disabled veterans in the event that the business owner passes away, by providing a longer transition period during which the business would keep its SDVOSB status and any Department of Veterans Affairs contracts associated with that status. In the United States, there are an estimated 500,000 SDVOSB’s. A SDVOSB is a business that is at least 51 percent directly owned and controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans. Under current law, when the veteran and small business owner passes away, the surviving family members and business owners are not given sufficient time to transition away from SDVOSB status, putting the businesses in jeopardy of losing any federal contracts they might have. The transition period outlined in Congressman McNerney’s bill would last 10 years after the veteran-owner’s death, so long as the veteran was either 100 percent disabled or died from a service-connected disability. The transition period would last 3 years in all other cases. “I’m pleased that my colleagues in the House supported this commonsense fix that honors the service of our disabled veterans and protects their hard work and investment so that their families and co-owners can continue their legacy. It is only right that we provide our heroes and their families, and the business’s employees with flexibility and certainty to ensure their businesses continue to thrive.” said Rep. McNerney. The Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA) and AMVETS have endorsed Congressman McNerney’s bill: "Service disabled veteran owned businesses play a critical role in federal contracting,” said Carl Blake, Government Relations Director of the Paralyzed Veterans of America. “PVA gladly supports this legislation that will ensure that the SDVOSB is not immediately penalized by the passing of the veteran business owner who honorably served this Nation." “AMVETS supports The Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business Relief Act, which would ensure some much needed equity to the surviving spouse of veterans rated at less than 100% disability.” said Diane M. Zumatto, AMVETS National Legislative Director. ###
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Jeff Denham (R-Turlock) and Jerry McNerney (D-Stockton) today authored a letter to the Sens. Mark Kirk (R-IL) and Jon Tester (D-MT), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee’s Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee, requesting that the Senate fund the VA’s Livermore Realignment Project in French Camp. “Funding for French Camp is long overdue,” said Rep. Denham. “Central Valley veterans have waited far too long for construction to begin. The project is shovel-ready and will eliminate the six-hour roadtrip many of our vets have to endure regularly to have access to quality healthcare. This comes after years of work to get the project moved up the VA’s priority list. Our veterans cannot be penalized because of the VA’s cost overruns and mismanagement in other states. There are still many months to go in this debate and today’s letter is just one step I’m taking to make sure this gets built for our veterans.” “I’m disappointed that my colleagues opposed my amendment on the House floor today to fund the French Camp clinic but I remain committed to securing funding for the facility through this year’s appropriations process. That includes continuing to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate,” said Rep. McNerney. “Veterans in the San Joaquin Valley have been waiting for over ten years for this project to get off the ground. Our veterans need this clinic now, not further delays. I challenge my colleagues to work together to get this done. I won’t give up fighting until we break ground on this facility. Our veterans deserve no less.” Reps. McNerney and Denham supported the President’s budget request of $139 million for the Livermore Realignment Project when it was introduced in February of this year. The Senate will have the opportunity to mark up their own FY 2016 Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill, which falls under Sens. Kirk and Tester’s jurisdiction, and match it with the House’s version before it becomes law. The full letter is available here.
04.29.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. McNerney released the following statement in response to the announcement that the City of Stockton was not selected as a Promise Zone under the Administration’s Promise Zone Initiative, a program aimed at providing federal resources to help revitalize the most economically-challenged communities. “I’m outraged and disappointed by this decision. Once again, the Administration has ignored Stockton and the San Joaquin Valley. The second largest city in our nation to declare bankruptcy, Stockton has suffered from disproportionately high crime, foreclosure and unemployment rates. Although our area has made improvements, the economic needs are daunting. That’s why it’s so baffling that the Administration would fail to designate Stockton as a Promise Zone. It has become clear over many years that the Administration is satisfied with ignoring this region and letting it fend for itself. I again urge the President to visit Stockton. If he saw the poverty that exists in the city and surrounding area, he would not continue to overlook this region. The local public and private partnerships are already in place to execute and successfully increase economic output, improve educational outcomes and lower violent crime. Now we need the federal government to step up and do its part. Until then, the message to the people of Stockton is clear – the Administration is failing to do what it can to help our city. I will continue to fight for Stockton to be included in the next phase of the Promise Zone Initiative and to deliver vital federal resources that will put our region on a path to a strong economic recovery.”
04.20.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. McNerney issued the following statement today regarding the House Republican Appropriations Committee members Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) budget proposal: “We all agree that the construction issues in Denver are beyond comprehension and completely unacceptable. However, to slash funding in half is a grave disservice to our nation’s veterans. To punish veterans and further delay the care and treatment they need close to home just because of what’s occurred in Denver is inexcusable. I will continue to fight for the veterans in our region and will continue to make every effort possible to get the French Camp facility fully funded as soon as possible.” This week Republican Members of the House Appropriations Committee reduced funding for VA major construction projects by $582 million. This threatens care and services, as well as jobs, for veterans throughout the nation. The president’s budget included $1.144 billion in funding for VA major construction projects, including the new community based outpatient clinic in French Camp, CA. The full Appropriations Committee will consider the bill next week before sending it to the House floor, and the Senate Appropriations Committee will take up the issue in the coming months. ###
04.16.2015	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced he will reveal the winners of this year’s Congressional Art Competition on Saturday, April 18 at 1pm. The ceremony will take place at Lodi Community Art Center, 110 West Pine Street, Lodi, CA 95240. All students who entered the competition will have their artwork on public display, and each entrant will receive a certificate. A panel of judges will select the winning entries, and the grand prize winner from the district will be flown to Washington, DC along with a guest to attend a national awards ceremony in June. The winner’s artwork will also go on display in the U.S. Capitol complex where it will be seen by Members of Congress and visitors to Washington, D.C. The second, third and fourth place winners will have the opportunity to display their artwork in one of Congressman McNerney’s three offices, located in Washington, D.C., Stockton and Antioch. WHAT: 2015 9th Congressional District Art Competition Awards Ceremony WHEN: Sat., April 18, 2015 1pm - 3pm WHERE: Lodi Community Art Center 110 West Pine Street Lodi, 95240
03.30.2015	With California in the midst of its worst drought in a generation, Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) has introduced two water-related bills: one that would help local water agencies begin new projects to capture, store and recycle more water, and another that would ensure the health and safety of drinking water during drought conditions. HR 1710 would temporarily suspend a ban on the use of tax-exempt bonds in projects funded under the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA), if a state’s governor issues a drought declaration of emergency. This change would allow local governments and water agencies to more easily raise funds for large drinking water, wastewater and water reuse projects. In 2014, WIFIA began providing low-interest federal loans for up to 49% of large water projects. However, as written, the law prohibits tax-exempt bonds from funding the remaining 51%. The Protect Drinking Water from Droughts Act, HR 1709, would amend the Safe Drinking Water Act and direct the EPA to monitor the quality of drinking water in regions affected by drought, and make recommendations about how to mitigate any negative effects. According to the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), shrinking amounts of water during droughts can concentrate contaminants such as heavy metals, industrial chemicals and pesticides, and sediments and salts. The NRDC also writes that during droughts, drinking water supplies are susceptible to harmful algal blooms and other microorganisms. “We all need to work together to help protect our families, farmers and small businesses from the effects of this unprecedented drought,” said Rep. McNerney. “These two bills are a part of the solution. One will enable local water agencies to raise the funds to begin construction on projects to capture and save more water; and the other will make sure the water we drink remains safe and healthy during drought conditions. I’ll continue to work with local officials and my colleagues here in the House to look for any further legislative solutions.” H.R. 1709 is co-sponsored by Rep. Doris Matsui (CA-6), Rep. Mike Honda (CA-17), Rep. Lois Capps (CA-24), and Rep. Paul Tonko (NY-20). HR 1710 is co-sponsored by Reps. Matsui and Tonko (NY-20).
03.25.2015	Washington, DC – Today the House Veterans’ Affairs subcommittee on Economic Opportunity held a hearing on a bill authored by Rep. Jerry McNerney to protect small businesses owned by disabled veterans in the event that the business owner passes away, by providing a transition period during which the business would keep its service disabled veteran-owned small business status and any Department of Veterans Affairs contracts associated with that status. “My bill protects the families of our disabled veterans who own and operate small businesses,” said Rep. McNerney. “Without this legislation, any VA contracts that a service disabled veteran owned small business holds would be in jeopardy when the veteran-owner passes away. The business could very well go bankrupt without those contracts, creating an unnecessary financial hardship for the late veteran’s family and co-owners.” Several Veterans Service Organizations (VSOs) offered their support of Rep. McNerney’s bill, including the VFW, American Legion, Iraq & Afghanistan Veterans of America, and Paralyzed Veterans of America. The VFW said in a statement “The VFW supports this legislation, which would allow the surviving spouse of a deceased veteran business owner to continue operating the business as a service-disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB) for a period of three years following the veteran’s death. (This bill is) a necessary protection that allows for a transition period for the bereaved spouse to restructure the business as necessary.” The Paralyzed Veterans of America PVA also supports the bill, saying in its statement that the bill “will allow the business to retain the SDVOSB status for three years upon the passing of the veteran to allow for a transition of the business. This three year period would apply to SDVOSB contracts with the VA and all federal agencies.” The transition period would last 10 years after the veteran-owner’s death, if the veteran were either 100 percent disabled or died from a service-connected disability and three years in all other cases. A Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) must be at least 51 percent owned by a veteran who is rated as 100 percent disabled according to the Veterans Administration. Under current law, when the veteran and small business owner passes away, the surviving family members and business owners are not guaranteed any time to transition away from SDVOSB status, putting the businesses in jeopardy of losing any federal contracts they might have. Last year, there were an estimated 500,000 SDVOSBs in the U.S.
03.23.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) has sent a letter to the Pentagon to ensure the California National Guard’s Youth ChalleNGe program (NGYGP) in San Joaquin County can begin as scheduled in January, 2016. The bipartisan letter was also signed by eleven other California members of congress. The letter urges the National Guard Bureau to allow the California National Guard to proceed with its plans to acquire vacant federal buildings at the Sharpe Army Depot in Lathrop to house program participants and activities. As the letter explains, the California Guard believes Sharpe is a “prime location due to the availability of excess property as well as being located in an economically disadvantaged region” of the state. Rep. McNerney and the other members wrote the letter because the Army National Guard has to-date held up the purchase of the buildings at Sharpe because of their interpretation of the rules surrounding such acquisitions. "Representative McNerney is a leader in the development and expansion of the Youth ChalleNGe program in the San Joaquin Valley, said Major General David Baldwin, Adjutant General of the California National Guard. “Dropouts in California make up nearly half of the heads of households on welfare, and nearly 75 percent of the current prison population. Our National Guard ChalleNGe academies are the best solution to mitigate these outcomes. California has two of the nation's top ChalleNGe programs. Representative McNerney and I believe the central valley will be well served by a third ChalleNGe academy at the Sharpe Army Depot." Participants in the NGYGP take part in a half-year residential program on active or closed National Guard bases, a National Guard training center, or a school campus. Following this residential phase the participants return to their communities and take part in a 12 month mentoring program. Each class averages 100 participants and the program has produced over 121,000 graduates since its inception in 1993. If the California Guard is unable to acquire thee necessary buildings, it may have to delay the opening of the Youth ChalleNGe program, leaving thousands of at-risk youth in San Joaquin County without access to this essential program. Congressman McNerney successfully advocated for additional funding for the program in Congress last year, resulting in a $10 million increase. He also wrote California legislators asking them to approve state matching funds, helping win an additional $1.5 million for the program. The letter to the National Guard Bureau in Washington was also signed by Reps. Grace Napolitano, David McKinley, Ted Lieu, Tom McClintock, Lois Capps, Norma Torres, Juan Vargas, Jackie Speier, Tony Cardeñas, Mike Honda, and Alan Lowenthal. The Youth ChalleNGe program currently operates in 27 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is funded through a federal/state partnership, with the federal government contributing 75 percent of the operating costs.
03.19.2015	Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) introduced bipartisan legislation today to modernize Medicare, improve care for seniors, and create significant savings for the federal government. The measure was cosponsored by Reps. David B. McKinley (R-WV) and Budget Committee chairman Tom Price (R-GA). H.R. 1458, the Bundling and Coordinating Post-Acute Care (BACPAC) Act, creates a new approach that coordinates care for seniors when they leave the hospital. By bundling post-acute care payments, BACPAC creates powerful incentives that will lead to savings of $20 to $50 billion and strengthen Medicare’s finances. “BACPAC will save money and result in better care for patients and more certainty for providers,” said Rep. McNerney. “According to a recent study by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, one in eight Medicare patients were readmitted to the hospital within 30 days of being released after surgery. BACPAC is an evidence-based model that aims to significantly reduce these costly and often unnecessary readmissions. I will urge my colleagues to support this commonsense reform to Medicare payments.” “For the past three years, we have been working on this legislation to help reduce the stress for seniors dealing with Medicare after a hospital visit. This bipartisan reform addresses the complicated decisions Medicare patients face by providing private-sector coordinators to guide patients through the process. BACPAC will strengthen Medicare for decades to come, help seniors receive the most effective care, and save taxpayers tens of billions of dollars,” said McKinley. "When it comes to health care reform, our goal is always to have the highest quality of care delivered in the most efficient and effective manner possible. These reforms would both increase choices for Medicare patients and save taxpayer dollars," Rep. Price said, "They are an important part of building a more accountable and responsive health care system.” Douglas Holtz-Eakin, President of the American Action Forum, has written on this proposal saying, “It’s past time for Medicare to be modernized. A sensible first step toward this objective is with post-acute care bundling – payment based on the treatment of an entire illness or injury, not each individual service provided.”
03.13.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09), the only PhD mathematician in Congress, today issued the following statement in honor of International Pi Day, March 14, 2015: "As the only Mathematician in Congress, I would like to recognize a day of growing acclaim in America and around the world: π-Day, March 14, or 3.14. This day brings acknowledgment to the most famous number, which represents, among other things, the ratio of the circumference of a circle to the diameter of the circle. "Approximately 3.1415926, π has captured the imagination of thinkers since antiquity. The concept was discovered in Ancient Greece, referenced in the Bible, and has been refined over the millennia. π is in a class of numbers, called transcendental numbers, that cannot be expressed as a ratio of two integers or as the root of a polynomial, but has a infinite, non-repeating decimal expression. π pops up all over the place in modern mathematics, so much so that people wonder if it has some sort of mystical property. "Though its roots date back thousands of years, Pi is still very relevant today. It can be used to calculate the size of tornadoes and waves in meteorology, for example. And as we learned around the time of the Super Bowl, it can even be used to help us figure out the volume of an inflated football. "π has become a part of pop culture, too. There’s an episode of the original “Star Trek” series in which Mr. Spock asks the computer to calculate π to the last digit – driving the computer crazy. On The Simpsons, a character jokes “What’s the fastest way to get a group of babbling scientists’ attention? Shout ‘Pi is exactly three!’” And of course in the recent movie Life of Pi, the young protagonist memorizes hundreds of digits of π. "A state government even once tried to legislate Pi. In 1897 some Indiana state legislators tried to pass a bill that defined Pi as 3.2. As a mathematician, I am still embarrassed on their behalf nearly 120 years later. "What makes π-Day so special this year is not only the date March 14, but the year is 2015, and since in the United States we usually express the date as MMDDYY, that means this year Pi Day falls on 031415. As you may notice, this constitutes the first 5-digits of π. Let’s take it one nerdy step further and add time to the equation: that means that at 9:26 am on Saturday we will have 31415926, which just so happens to be the first eight digits of Pi. "I hope that at 9:26 am on Saturday, March 14, 2015, everyone pauses for a moment to recognize π and appreciate the importance of this number and of mathematics in general for providing civilization some of the tools upon which society was built. "Personally, I will enjoy some pizza pie and some of my wife Mary’s delicious peach pie on Saturday."
03.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) has introduced H.R. 1313, the Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) Relief Act. The bill would protect small businesses owned by disabled veterans in the event that the business owner passes away, by providing a transition period during which the business would keep its SDVOSB status and any federal contracts associated with that status. The transition period would last 10 years after the veteran-owner’s death, if the veteran were either 100% disabled or died from a service-connected disability. The transition period would last 3 years in all other cases. A Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) must be at least 51 percent owned by a veteran who is rated as 100 percent disabled according to the Veterans Administration. Under current law, when the veteran and small business owner passes away, the surviving family members and business owners are not guaranteed any time to transition away from SDVOSB status, putting the businesses in jeopardy of losing any federal contracts they might have. Last year, there were an estimated 500,000 SDVOSBs in the U.S. “My bill is a commonsense fix that will make sure we honor the service of our disabled veterans and protect their hard work and investment,” said Rep. McNerney. “I will urge my colleagues to pass this bill and allow these veterans to leave a legacy to their families and co-owners when they pass away.“ The House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity will hold a legislative hearing on Rep. McNerney’s bill on March 24th. The Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business Relief Act is endorsed by the Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA) and AMVETS: "Service disabled veteran owned businesses play a critical role in federal contracting,” said Carl Blake, Government Relations Director of the Paralyzed Veterans of America. “PVA gladly supports this legislation that will ensure that the SDVOSB is not immediately penalized by the passing of the veteran business owner who honorably served this Nation." “AMVETS supports The Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business Relief Act, which would ensure some much needed equity to the surviving spouse of veterans rated at less than 100% disability, ” said Diane M. Zumatto, AMVETS National Legislative Director. For more information about the SDVOSB program, visit vetbiz.gov. ###
03.06.2015	The U.S. House of Representatives this week unanimously passed an amendment written by Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) intended to spur development around the nation’s passenger rail stations. Congressman McNerney’s amendment would direct Amtrak, the nation’s largest passenger rail carrier, to consider the proposals of economically and socially disadvantaged small businesses as it decides how to design stations and invest in the future of Amtrak stations and surrounding communities. “Many of our communities have had a tough time recovering from the economic downturn of the last few years. A great opportunity for growth and recovery is to focus on socially and economically disadvantaged small businesses located in our hard hit city centers," said Rep. McNerney. "These businesses often lack access to capital, and the train stations in places like Stockton and Antioch can be catalysts for economic growth in those neighborhoods. Amtrak should allow these small businesses, owned by minorities, women, and other deserving groups, to have their request for proposals considered in station development schemes and give them information to compete for contracts based on federal subsidies as Amtrak makes investments in its station facilities. As these small businesses grow and create jobs, the overall quality of life will improve in our local communities. The amendment was included as part of HR 749, which authorizes $7.2 billion for passenger rail services over the next four years, including $5.8 billion for Amtrak and $1.2 billion in grants to States. “Thank you Congressman McNerney for introducing your amendment to the Passenger Rail Reform Act that encourages the participation of socially and economically disadvantaged businesses in transportation proposals,” said Donna DeMartino, General Manager/CEO of San Joaquin RTD. “San Joaquin County has a vast public transportation network and it is important for women and other socially and economically disadvantaged businesses to be included in public transportation proposals and economic development opportunities.” “Thank you Congressman McNerney for introducing this amendment,” said Contra Costa Transportation Authority Executive Director Randy Iwasaki. “Transportation plays a crucial role in facilitating a strong economy and creating complete communities with opportunities to live, work and play. Creating opportunities to put more women, minorities and small business owners to work on and near our transportation system improves both our economy and our communities.” “Thank you for offering an amendment to H.R. 749 that will allow for women-owned businesses and other socially and economically disadvantaged firms to be considered for future station development opportunities around Amtrak stations,” said Jeanne Krieg, Chief Executive Officer of Tri Delta Transit. “This amendment will make sure that the process is more inclusive while keeping the intent to strengthen multi-modal connections, capturing development-related streams, and better leveraging station assets intact.”
03.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today issued the following statement on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s planned speech to Congress on Tuesday, March 3: “I won’t be attending Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s speech to Congress on Tuesday. I will continue to be a strong supporter of Israel’s national security, but I believe it was wrong for the Prime Minister and Speaker Boehner to arrange this event without informing the White House and Democratic leaders in both the House and Senate. His speech comes amidst diplomatic treaty negotiations intended to curtail Iran’s capability to develop nuclear weapons, and could disrupt any progress that has been made to this point. These negotiations and accompanying sanctions are the primary effort holding back Iran’s ability to develop a nuclear bomb. We should let the negotiations proceed in good faith while closely monitoring Iran’s actions and only loosen sanctions slowly if we see proof of Iran’s intentions to back away from nuclear weapons capabilities.”
03.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) has introduced a bill (H.R. 1132) to designate the U.S. Postal facility at 1048 W. Robinhood Drive in Stockton, California as the “W. Ronald Coale Memorial Post Office” in recognition of Mr. Coale’s lifetime of public service to Stockton and San Joaquin County. Mr. Coale, who passed away last year, served 22 years on the Stockton Port Commission, which included three terms as chairman. He was a strong proponent of the Marine Highway, a federally- funded project to move ocean cargo containers between Stockton and Oakland, as well as between West Sacramento and Oakland, by barge. He was also instrumental in convincing the federal government to transfer the former Rough and Ready Island Naval Station to the port. “Ron Coale spent his life serving our community, and I am proud to recommend him for this honor,” said Rep. McNerney. “His efforts made Stockton’s Port what it is today: a major transportation hub for agricultural exports, and the third largest facility of its kind in our state. He loved serving on my service academy selection board for six years, and was a pleasure to work with. ” In addition to his time as Port Commissioner, Mr. Coale served on the Stockton City Council, the San Joaquin County Council of Governments, the Stockton Metropolitan Transit District Board of Directors, the California Public Utilities Commission, and the Stockton Port District Board of Port Commissioners. W. Ron Coale was born in Stockton, attended local schools, graduated from Stockton College, and earned a teaching certificate in the field of transportation and distribution from the University of California at Berkeley. Before returning to Stockton, he served in the U. S. Army from 1952 to 1954. “Ron Coale was a public servant and a friend,” added Rep. McNerney. “Our community is a better place today because of his service.”
02.26.2015	Washington, DC- Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement after today's FCC vote to adopt new rules concerning broadband access in the U.S.: "Today, the FCC took a historic step in voting to protect the internet as we know it. Reliable broadband access is essential for the future of commerce, education, and innovation in this country. The FCC clearly took into account the more than four million public comments they received in advance of their decision. "Today's vote is an important step in an ongoing process to keep the internet as open for innovation and economic growth as possible. The FCC is responsible for providing the framework for internet communications, and I look forward to the release of the order. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that we empower consumers and businesses as technologies change and advance."
02.26.2015	Antioch, California – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today announced that the federal Department of Transportation has awarded the Contra Costa Transportation Authority (CCTA) a $200,000 grant that will allow the agency to begin planning an Integrated Corridor Management (ICM) plan for the SR-4 region. "CCTA is one of the first recipients of this grant in the country and sets quality of performance standards for other areas in the country. I’m proud to have helped bring home this money for our community," said Rep. McNerney. "The agency will be able to use the grant funding to work with state and city transportation agencies to help ease congestion along the SR-4 corridor and keep drivers and mass transit users up-to-date on any delays or problems." “Highway 4 ICM represents the integration of technology with highway infrastructure to smooth traffic,” said CCTA Chair Julie Pierce. “The Integrated Corridor Management program is the next evolution of improvements along this busy corridor, and will preserve the mobility benefits gained by the Highway 4 widening and eBART project for decades to come.” The ICM program promotes the integrated management and operations of the combined transportation system in a defined corridor; that is, all of the participating highway, arterial, rail, transit, traveler information, incident response, and operations teams from local, city, county, and state agencies will operate as one entity in mitigating real-time recurring and nonrecurring congestion. ICM will promote joint responses to traffic incidents and other transportation issues, which are quicker and more coordinated than individual agency responses. Travelers can use real-time information to avoid delays by choosing alternate routes, changing their departure time, or choosing a different mode of transportation for that day- all based on up-to-the-minute information that is available via apps, traffic reports and highway information signs. ###
02.20.2015	Washington, DC – After a nearly six-month review of the Oakland Veterans Affairs Regional Office, the VA’s Office of the Inspector General (OIG) released a report today showing the Oakland VA had failed to maintain records of thousands of veterans’ claims. "Veterans who contact their local VA shouldn't have to wait years for a response," said Rep. McNerney. "But losing these letters and other records is completely unacceptable." "I've spent my congressional career advocating for the veterans in my district and around the nation. This report is yet another unfortunate example of mismanagement at the VA and illustrates the need for transparency at the Department. I will use my seat on the House Veterans' Affairs Committee to oversee the VA's activities until these lapses are a thing of the past." Key findings of the report on failures at the Oakland VA Regional Office (VARO) include the following: “(OIG) substantiated the allegation that Oakland VARO staff had not processed a significant number of informal requests for benefits dating back many years." “Some of these informal claims dated back to July 2002.” “Oakland VARO staff did not perform an adequate review or take actions needed on all of the unprocessed informal claims found by staff when the office was undergoing a construction project.” “Because of the poor record keeping, (OIG) could not verify the VARO’s original document count of 13,184 unprocessed informal claims or the 2,155 identified as requiring additional review or action. We also could not confirm that only 537 informal claims remained to be processed following the special project team’s review.” The OIG also confirmed that the Oakland VA office identified at least 13,184 unprocessed claims in 2012, some stretching back over a decade. However, the Veterans Benefit Administration is unable to verify that the 13,184 claims were ever processed or whether the veterans have received the benefits they earned. To view the full report, please click here. ###
02.12.2015	Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today introduced a proposed amendment to the U.S. Constitution that would significantly change the way political campaigns are financed. The amendment would allow contributions to candidates primarily from individuals who are eligible to vote in the election in which that candidate is involved. No contributions or spending by non-individuals of any kind would be allowed. Contributions from individuals who reside outside of a district would be allowed only up to the amount donated from individuals inside that district. Congress, states and localities must also establish limits on spending or adopt public financing rules, and each may also establish a system of public campaign financing that would eliminate fundraising altogether. “I wrote this amendment because our current campaign finance system is broken, and I believe this dysfunction is a growing threat to our democracy,” said Rep. McNerney. “Each election cycle the spending just seems to increase, and all this money is drowning out the voices of the voters and keeping us from doing the important work we need to do.” Rep. McNerney’s constitutional amendment applies to both direct contributions (money donated to a candidate or ballot initiative) and indirect contributions (other spending intended to influence the outcome of an election or ballot initiative). The Center for Responsive Politics (CFRP) recently found that total federal election spending in 2012 was over $6.2 billion, more than double the $3 billion spent in the 2000 campaign. CNN also reported that, adjusted for inflation, House candidates spend over 300 times as much today getting elected as they did 20 years ago – an average of $1.6 million dollars every two years. Since the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision, much of this campaign spending now comes from undisclosed and unregulated sources. In 2012, CFRP found that spending from outside entities (that is, not candidates or parties) totaled over $1 billion. So-called “dark money”- from groups that don’t disclose their donors – is estimated at over $300 billion, but could be more. “This outsized emphasis on fundraising restricts the choices voters have,” said Rep. McNerney. “It means that voters have fewer opportunities to learn about the candidates’ leadership abilities, policy ideas, and plans. I believe Citizens United has diminished free speech in this country, rather than protected it. If we don’t change how campaigns are financed, we risk further disillusionment by voters, lower voter turnout, and elections that are decided by just a privileged few.”
02.06.2015	Stockton, CA – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today announced that the San Joaquin Regional Transit District (RTD) had won a competitive $4.7 million grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation to purchase five Proterra battery-electric buses and a charging station. “Congratulations to San Joaquin RTD on winning this very competitive grant,” said Rep. McNerney. “RTD is leading the way on moving towards a zero emissions public transit fleet, and I was proud to support their grant application with a letter to the Federal Transit Administration. RTD’s efforts are a model for other cities to follow in providing efficient transportation services that keep our air clean and save money in the long run.” RTD plans to add the zero-emission buses and charging station to expand service and increase capacity at the Stockton Downtown Transit Center, which is the transfer point for nearly all of the RTD's routes. ###
02.04.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced today that he has been chosen by his House colleagues for a seat on the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. Rep. McNerney previously served on the Veterans’ Affairs Committee from 2007-2012. “I am proud of the work that I have done for veterans in my district and around the nation,” said Rep. McNerney. “I look forward to building on those efforts and to continue working with my colleagues on a bipartisan basis to make sure our veterans get the care and benefits they’ve earned. “My seat on the committee will also give me an opportunity to work on improving oversight of VA construction projects – like the Community Based Outpatient Clinic in my district. “Our role in Congress must be to hold the VA accountable for delivering on the promise we’ve made to our servicemen and women, and their families. They’ve served us, now it’s our turn.” The House Veterans Affairs’ Committee oversees the Department of Veterans Affairs and has jurisdiction over almost all matters relating to veterans, including veterans' hospitals, medical care, and treatment of veterans, employment, and benefits. Rep. McNerney also serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
02.03.2015	Stockton, California – Rep. Jerry McNerney will host a free workshop on Saturday, February 7th from 10am to 2pm where attendees can learn more about Covered California health insurance plans and sign up for coverage on the spot. The workshop will take place at the El Concilio Community Center and Preschool, located at 224 S. Sutter Street in Stockton. The “Get Covered, San Joaquin!” workshop is co-hosted by Assemblymember Susan Talamantes Eggman, in coordination with El Concilio, and Covered California. Covered California representatives will meet with attendees one-on-one to help them decide which health plan is best for them, determine what financial aid they might be eligible for, and sign them up for coverage if desired. Open enrollment runs through February 15. After that date, participants cannot enroll in coverage unless they have a qualifying life event, like getting married or having a child. “I’m hosting this workshop to make sure folks in San Joaquin County know about the affordable options for health insurance in our state, and to make sure they get the financial assistance they need to pay for a plan,” said Rep. McNerney. “I’m proud that the Affordable Care Act and Covered California have reduced the number of uninsured Californians to its lowest level in a generation, while also helping to bring down health care costs.” As a part of the national health care law (also called the Affordable Care Act), Covered California allows individuals and their families to compare health plans and choose the one that works best for their health needs and budget. Based on income and family size, many county residents will also qualify for financial assistance to help pay for premiums and other out-of-pocket costs, such as medications, routine tests and copays for doctor visits. By law, no one can be denied coverage for having a pre-existing condition. WHAT: FREE Covered California Workshop WHEN: Saturday, February 7th, 10am-2pm WHERE: El Concilio Community Center, 224 S. Sutter Street, Stockton, CA 95203 WHO: Rep. Jerry McNerney, Representatives of Covered California
02.02.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Jeff Denham (CA-10) today applauded the inclusion of funding for the construction of the Central Valley Community Based Outpatient Clinic in French Camp as part of President Obama’s FY 2016 budget request for the Department of Veterans Affairs. Both members have long championed the need for construction of this facility The president’s budget request calls for $139 million in funding for the Livermore Realignment Project. Specifically this funding would provide for construction of a 150,000 sqft Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) at the French Camp Site. “The president heard our bipartisan call for action and included funding for the French Camp project in his budget for the VA,” said Rep. McNerney. “I have been pressing the administration since I came to Congress to build this facility. Veterans in the Central Valley are waiting too long and driving too far to get the quality care they have earned.” “The inclusion of the French Camp Veterans Affairs clinic in the President’s budget request is a major step forward to bringing high quality healthcare to veterans right here in the Central Valley,” said Rep. Denham. “However, it is clear that we must remain vigilant in our oversight to ensure that the project is completed on-time and on-budget. We worked on a bipartisan basis to get to this point, and I’m pleased to see French Camp funding take priority in the President’s budget.” The French Camp project has been deemed “shovel ready,” as the land has already been purchased and the facility has been designed by an architect. In a January 13, 2015 letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald, the two Representatives noted: Central Valley veterans deserve access to state-of-the-art health care facilities closer to their home and have waited patiently for construction to start for years. One completed, the (facility) will serve approximately 87,000 veterans in San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Calaveras, and Tuolumne Counties, and create employment for nearly 400 people, and hundreds more during construction. The French Camp site is a 52-acre, undeveloped parcel of farm land, located adjacent to I-5, the San Joaquin County General Hospital and the existing Stockton CBOC. The location affords excellent visibility from the major roadways and will present opportunities for continued collaboration with the county hospital. Services at the CBOC will include Primary Care, Mental Health, PT/OT, Radiology, Laboratory, Pharmacy, Audiology and Speech Pathology, Eye, Dental, Prosthetics and limited other specialty services on a part-time and/or telehealth basis (Includes Cardiology, GI, Rheumatology, Orthopedics, Podiatry). Milestones in French Camp medical facility construction: · 2004: VA Secretary identifies a national Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services plan, which approves Livermore for realignment · Post CARES: VA commissions study for site selection based on Veteran population, demographics, accessibility and projected future state · 2007: Secretary approves CLC facility in the Central Valley · 2008: VA Palo Alto completes major construction (OMB300) application for this project · 2009: Secretary approves CLC facility to be located in San Joaquin County · 2010: $55 million is approved by Congress to purchase the two parcels and to hire the project architect · 2011: French Camp Site selected for new Central Valley CBOC/CLC · 2011: Fremont Technology Court/Auto Mall Parkway selected for new East Bay CBOC · 2012: Schematic design was been completed by architect - HDR San Francisco ###
01.29.2015	Washington, DC – In honor of Data Privacy Day, Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) this week joined a bipartisan group of his colleagues in introducing H.R. 580, the Data Accountability and Trust Act (DATA). The DATA Act requires commercial entities that own or possess any personal information of consumers to implement effective information security policies and procedures to safeguard that information. Additional provisions in the law would require these entities to notify individual consumers, as well as the Federal Trade Commission, following consumer data breaches and when personal information is accessed or acquired by unauthorized persons. “Consumers need to feel confident that their information is secure when they use the internet for things like shopping, paying their bills, or booking travel. I’m proud to sponsor this bill as an important step towards ensuring that businesses are taking action to protect our personal information, and keep us informed when that information falls into the wrong hands.” Personal information is defined as an individual’s first name or initial and last name, or address, or phone number in combination with (i) a social security number; (ii) driver’s license, passport, military ID number or similar government document number; or (iii) a financial account number, credit or debit card number and any required security or access code or password for an individual’s financial account. Recent, massive data breaches and cybercriminal attacks on firms and commercial networks and databases have enormously impacted consumers, consumer confidence and the economy. Rep. McNerney serves on the House Energy & Commerce Committee, which recently announced that there would be a series of hearings throughout the coming year to examine these numerous and increasing threats. The Energy & Commerce Committee is the House committee with primary jurisdiction over interstate commerce, consumer protection and trade matters. The Committee is also primarily responsible for authorizing and overseeing the activities of the Federal Trade Commission. Under the DATA Act, the Commission would be authorized to adopt regulations that spell out appropriate information, security policies and procedures and to take enforcement actions and assess civil penalties up to $5 million for violations of, either the law’s information security policy and procedure or its breach notification requirements, along with state attorneys general against violators under the law. Joining Rep. McNerney as sponsors of the bill are Reps. Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) and Joe Barton (R-Texas) along with U.S. Reps. Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.), David Cicilline (D-R.I.)
01.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) re-introduced a bipartisan bill to improve the energy and water efficiency of federal buildings. H.R. 568, the Thermal Insulation Efficiency Improvement Act, requires the Department of Energy to submit a report to Congress on the impact of thermal insulation on energy and water use systems in federal buildings and the return on investment of installing such insulation. The bill is cosponsored by Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), and is identical to one introduced by Rep. McNerney last year, which passed the full House of Representatives. “My bill will help us save taxpayer money and make sure the federal government is using energy responsibly,” said Rep. McNerney. “This legislation passed the House last year because my colleagues agreed that there are commonsense ways to reduce costs and help conserve both water and energy. This bill will also encourage innovation and lead to creating good-paying jobs. We can use the findings from this study to make sure we are doing everything we can in both federal and private buildings to maximize energy and water efficiency.” The National Insulation Association (NIA) estimates that installing thermal insulation in commercial and industrial buildings could save $4.8 billion a year, as well as creating nearly 90,000 jobs. The energy savings could reduce carbon emissions that would be the equivalent of removing 8 million cars from U.S. roadways.
01.23.2015	Washington, DC - Following a strong push by President Barack Obama during his 2015 State of the Union to make college education affordable, Rep. Jerry McNerney joined dozens of his House colleagues introducing the Student Loan Interest Deduction (SLID) Act. The SLID Act would increase tax deductions for interest paid on student loan debt and help ease the burden of repaying loans for education. "There is no better investment in our nation's future than higher education, said Rep. McNerney. “This bill is a commonsense solution that will help put money back into our economy and make it more affordable for students to go to college." The SLID Act would help individuals pay back their loans by doubling the tax deduction for interest paid on student loan debt from $2,500 to $5,000 for singles and from $5,000 to $10,000 for married couples. It would also eliminate upper income limits on deductions, meaning that people with student debt are no longer penalized for earning a higher salary as they advance in their careers. Under the SLID Act, regardless of how much a taxpayer makes, they would receive the same deduction until all their student loans were paid off. As of 2013, the total of student loan balances in the United States exceeded $1.2 trillion, quadruple what it was in 2003. This is more than Americans owe in both credit card debt ($882.6 billion) and auto loan debt ($15.1 billion). The SLID Act has been endorsed by: the American Council on Education, the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU), the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA), the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers (AACRAO), the Consortium for Government Relations on Student Affairs (CGRSA), the American Dental Education Association (ADEA), the American Dental Association (ADA), the American Student Dental Association (ASDA), and the Association of American Universities (AAU). "This bill provides relief to students and families who are facing the growing debt resulting from the rising cost of earning a college education. It will also have a positive effect on the economy by allowing graduates to keep a bit more of their income for other pressing needs," said Mike Reilly, Executive Director of the AACRAO. "The Great Recession and its aftermath has made it more and more challenging for college graduates to get started on their careers. Many borrowers recently lost important student loan benefits and those changes have increased the amount they owe. As a result, it is critical that federal policy makers look for ways to help college graduates manage the burden of their student loan debt. This legislation represents a very helpful step in that effort," said Terry W. Hartle, Senior Vice President of the American Council on Education. Joining Rep. McNerney as original co-sponsors are Reps. Charles Rangel (the bill’s original sponsor), Madeleine Bordallo, Corinne Brown, Matt Cartwright, John Conyers, Chaka Fattah Al Green, Raúl M. Grijalva, Luis Gutiérrez, Alcee Hastings, Ruben Hinojosa, Mike Honda, Bernice Johnson, Ann Kirkpatrick, John Larson, Barbara Lee, Dave Loebsack, Alan Lowenthal, Mike Quigley, Jim McDermott, Grace Meng, Gwen Moore, Rick Nolan, Ed Perlmutter, Collin Peterson, Stacey Plaskett, Terri Sewell, Juan Vargas, and Federica Wilson.
01.22.2015	Rep. Jerry McNerney recently wrote an op-ed that was published in both Roll Call and the Stockton Record about the urgent need to upgrade our nation's electric grid. The Congressman was joined in the piece by his Republican colleague, Rep. Renee Ellmers (NC). Here is the text: Interstate highway needed for our nation's electricity by Reps. Jerry McNerney & Renee Ellmers When President Dwight D. Eisenhower took office in 1953, our nation's roads were a patchwork of local byways and turnpikes that often didn't connect to one another. Some were well-maintained, while others were impassible at many times of the year. It was difficult to drive between certain cities without adding many hours to a trip — costing the nation billions in fuel and productivity. Eisenhower led the effort to modernize our roads, and by the time he left office in 1961, construction had begun. This project eventually became our Interstate Highway System and led to increased mobility and prosperity nationwide. Today, our nation's electricity infrastructure has much in common with the roads of the mid-20th century. It's 450,000 miles of high-voltage lines spread out over several grids and lacks the capacity to move power over great distances as efficiently as is needed. Outages are becoming more common as our population grows, demand rises and severe weather events test the resiliency of the grid. Though our grid has served us well, we've simply outgrown it. It's time to modernize the grid so we can better provide reliable, efficient and cheaper electricity while incorporating renewable sources to holistically tackle our 21st-century energy needs. We've made some progress over the past few years in modernizing the grid, but much more remains to be done. The Department of Energy has succeeded in working with the private sector to develop and implement new technologies that have improved grid efficiency and reliability. This includes the innovation of synchrophasors, which are devices making our grid "smart" — reporting data about the health of the grid 30 times per second. This allows for computers to manage power in real time and reroute it when necessary in the case of a planned or unplanned power outage. Microgrids are yet another example of this innovation, as they are smaller local grids that can connect to a nationwide grid and operate independently if needed. We must continue to work on many fronts: updating distribution and transmission systems, creating storage opportunities on small and large scales, and ensuring our grid is able to incorporate all sources of power effectively. By advancing these goals, we have a tremendous opportunity to create American jobs through manufacturing, construction, computer engineering, cybersecurity and more. Typically, most of us don't give thought to the grid until something with it goes awry. But it's a topic we need to keep in mind, as it touches every aspect of our daily lives: We depend on it in the care of our families, for health care needs and for our national security. The August 2003 outage in the Northeast left 50 million people without power, all because of a few downed trees. Weather-related outages such as this one can cost the United States $30 billion a year or more in lost wages, spoiled food and damage to infrastructure. These are just some of the reasons why we've launched the Grid Innovation Caucus. We believe we are in a unique position to inform and educate members of Congress and staff about issues related to grid innovation as California and North Carolina are leading the way in the advancement of grid technology. In order to address our outdated grid infrastructure, it is imperative we work with our colleagues in the House and Senate, along with relevant stakeholders and federal and state entities. Establishing a forum for discussion, debate and advocacy is essential as we bring our nation's electric grid into the 21st century. As members of the Energy and Commerce Committee and, more specifically, the Subcommittee on Energy and Power, our goal is to make sure that any comprehensive energy legislation that the House passes includes the right combination of funding, incentives and oversight to make sure that we leave a healthy and sustainable grid that will serve us for generations to come. — Rep. Jerry McNerney, D-Stockton, represents San Joaquin County and surrounding areas in the House of Representatives. McNerney and Renee Ellmers, R, North Carolina, are co-chairs of the Congressional Grid Innovation Caucus.
01.12.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Jerry McNerney today announced that he had been chosen by his Democratic colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to once again serve on the House Energy and Commerce Committee in the 114th Congress. The committee is the oldest standing legislative committee in the U.S. House and has the broadest jurisdiction of any congressional committee, covering topics like telecommunications, consumer protection, food and drug safety, public health research, environmental quality, energy policy, and interstate and foreign commerce. “I’m honored to have been selected by my colleagues to serve on the Energy and Commerce Committee,” said Rep. McNerney. “ This will be my third term on the E&C Committee, and it is the committee in which I have the keenest interest among the many committees of the House of Representatives. The committee will take on some of the most important issues facing our nation: energy policy, telecommunications, health care, the environment, and our nation’s commerce. I’m looking forward to continue to work on a bipartisan basis on privacy, cybersecurity, making sure our grid is ready to meet the needs of the 21st Century, improving health care and other policies that will benefit our families, create jobs, and protect our air and water.” Rep. McNerney will serve on three Energy and Commerce subcommittees in this Congress: Energy and Power; Communications and Technology; and Environment and the Economy. ###
01.08.2015	Today Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) issued the following statement about the attack at the French satrical magazine Charlie Hebdo:. "Yesterday’s attack in Paris on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo is an assault on a most basic freedom - the freedom of speech. My deepest condolences go to the families and loved ones of those who were so brutally murdered. "This incident is a reminder that the freedom to criticize institutions and religions isn’t universally respected around the world. We’ve always known that there are some governments that limit free speech within their own boundaries, but there are individuals and groups, both abroad and here at home, who wish to limit this freedom through intimidation and violence. "Every freedom-loving person understands that liberty cannot survive if good men and women remain silent while others are attacked. This nation was founded by those who were persecuted for what they believed, and today the U.S. attracts people from all over the world who want the freedom to think and speak without fear of violence. "Americans stand shoulder to shoulder with the people of France in affirming our commitment to free speech, and we must work together to prevent future attacks and to punish those who try to take away this fundamental right. We must also begin the much harder task of helping those who might wish us harm to understand that this right makes for a better, safer, more unified world and that we must all do what it takes to defend it."
01.08.2015	Congressman Jerry McNerney announced today that he will host an open house on Saturday, January 17 from 1pm to 3pm at his Antioch Office, located at 4703 Lone Tree Way. “I’m honored to continue to represent my community in Congress, and I am kicking off the new year by meeting with folks to let them know my staff and I are available to help with any federal issues they might have – whether it’s veterans benefits, social security payments, or connections to other federal resources. I’m looking forward to seeing everyone on Saturday.” Congressman McNerney and members of his staff will be on hand to provide information to residents of the Antioch area about the services and assistance his office can provide. Members of the media are welcome to attend. WHAT: Open House, Office of Rep. Jerry McNerney WHERE: Antioch Community Center 4703 Lone Tree way, Antioch, 94531 WHEN: Saturday, January 17, 2015, 1pm-3pm
12.04.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today sent a letter to House and Senate appropriators asking them to include additional money in the latest government funding bill for law enforcement agencies to hire more officers and purchase needed technologies. The letter to the chairmen and ranking members of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees asks them to include robust funding for the COPS (Community Oriented Policing) TechnologyGrants and Hiring programs in any FY 2015 spending bills passed by the two chambers. Rep. McNerney’s letter was co-signed by 47 of his House colleagues, including Reps. Dave Reichert (WA-8) and Bill Pascrell (NJ-9). Earlier this year, a bipartisan majority in the House passed an amendment authored by Rep. McNerney that would have made an additional $3 million available for the COPS technology grant program. “This funding is used by our law enforcement agencies to put more officers on the streets and buy the technology that helps them save lives,” said Rep. McNerney. “Many of our nation's police forces are operating with fewer officers than they need, and with outdated equipment. In my district, the Stockton Police Department purchased a new technology that allows them to accurately trace the location of a single gunshot. Officers from the SPD told me it enhanced their relationship with the community by allowing them to respond quickly which gives residents more confidence in their safety.” The COPS technology program awarded grants to over 3,000 law enforcement agencies around the United States until its funding expired in 2010. COPS is intended to advance the practice of community policing in America’s state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies. The National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO) applauded Rep. McNerney’s work on behalf of law enforcement: “NAPO, which represents 241,000 sworn law enforcement officers from across the country, is a staunch advocate of the COPS Hiring Program, said Bill Johnson, Executive Director of NAPO . "This critical program provides resources to put more police officers on the street, which allows officers to build strong relationships with the communities they serve. NAPO will continue to advocate for increased funding of this vital program, which contributes to increased public safety in communities across the nation.”
11.21.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today issued the following statement in response to the President’s speech yesterday announcing that he will take executive action to overhaul our immigration system: “President Obama’s announced policy on immigration is long overdue. This President has waited and waited for the House of Representatives to take action on a very broken immigration system. The Senate passed an immigration bill in 2013 that, although imperfect, laid the foundation for fixing the system. Unfortunately, the Republican House leadership not only refused to take this issue to the House floor despite the fact that it would have passed, but they politicized the issue for partisan gain. Americans need strong leadership in a complicated and dangerous world. President Obama has often shied away from confrontations with Republicans in the hope that they would come to the table and find common ground. This time, our President has taken a strong stand. The President’s policy is both responsible and compassionate. Americans who believe that immigrants actually help strengthen our nation and believe that families should not be ripped apart should rally around our President and support his policy. Meanwhile, I challenge the Republican leadership in Washington to act in our nation’s interest and pass an immigration bill instead of fueling the flames of bitter partisanship.”
10.27.2014	Stockton, California – After several meetings with local hospital officials in his district, Rep. Jerry McNerney today sent a letter to the head of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) seeking answers to questions about federal assistance to deal with potential Ebola cases. The letter to CDC Director Thomas Friedman conveys several concerns the hospital officials expressed about dealing with the any cases of the virus, including: dissemination of detailed safety procedures for health care workers; the availability of appropriate protective equipment for these workers; and the potential difficulty with transportation and disposal of hazardous waste associated with treating Ebola patients. “The hospital officials I have met with in recent weeks expressed confidence that their facilities are adequately prepared to handle a small number of Ebola Virus cases,” said Rep. McNerney. “But these officials raised legitimate concerns about training, the availability of personal protective equipment, and medical waste disposal. I will get answers from the CDC on what they are planning to do to help prepare our local health care facilities.” ###
10.24.2014	Stockton, CA – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced the start of his annual “Holiday Cards for Our Troops” program. Last year, the office collected more than 8,000 cards from the community with personal messages of gratitude to our men and women in uniform. Congressman McNerney again invites people to submit cards at either of his district offices to be distributed to troops at home and overseas. “The holiday season can be a difficult time of year for the men and women who serve our country,” Rep. McNerney said. “Being away from home and missing friends and family during the holidays is an incredible sacrifice. I know from talking with our service men and women that thoughtful words of encouragement and support from our community can make a huge difference in boosting their morale.” The cards will be sent to troops stationed overseas in packages organized by the Contra Costa Blue Star Moms, East Bay Blue Star Moms, Mid-Cal Blue Star Moms, and A Million Thanks. To participate in the program, make or purchase a holiday card and write a message of thanks inside to a service member, and deliver the card to Rep. McNerney’s office in Stockton or Antioch by Friday, Nov. 14, 2014. Cards should remain unaddressed and unsealed envelopes. Card Guidelines: Make sure to sign your card Use salutations such as “Dear Service Member.” Cards addressed to specific individuals cannot be delivered through this program Do not include inserts such as photographs, confetti, or glitter Cards should not have an address and should remain unsealed Below are the addresses of Rep. McNerney’s offices. You can drop off cards at either office. Stockton 2222 Grand Canal Blvd., Suite 7 Stockton, CA 95207 (209) 476-8552 Antioch 4703 Lone Tree Way Antioch, CA 94531 (925) 754-0716 On Saturday, November 8th from 12pm to 2pm, Congressman McNerney and his staff will host a holiday card signing party at his Stockton office, where cards will be provided for those who attend. Cards may also be dropped off at the event.
10.18.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jerry McNerney today issued the following statement on the recent cases of Ebola in the U.S.: "I am monitoring the situation with regards to the current Ebola outbreak. My primary concern is the health and safety of our families and health care workers. I will be meeting with officials from several area hospitals to review their preparedness and make sure we make available every possible federal resource to help them. "My Committee, Energy and Commerce, has jurisdiction over health care, and I will press the CDC to be ready to prevent the spread of this disease in America. We must continue to work towards more accurate and thorough screening procedures to keep new cases from reaching our shores. I am encouraged by the appointment of Ron Klain to lead the U.S. response to the outbreak. Mr. Klain must bring together all the appropriate federal agencies to minimize any further spread of Ebola here at home, and engage with West African authorities to contain the epidemic at its source."
10.16.2014	Washington, D.C. – Washington, DC - Rep. Jerry McNerney today announced the start of the Medicare Open Enrollment, which runs from October 15 to December 7. Rep. McNerney encourages residents of the ninth congressional district with Medicare to review their current health and prescription drug coverage options for 2015. Resources for Medicare Beneficiaries People with Medicare, their families, and caregivers can review and compare current plan coverage with new plan offerings, using many proven resources, including: Visiting www.medicare.gov to see plan coverage and costs available in their area, and enroll in a new plan if they decide to make a change. Open Enrollment information is available in Spanish. Calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227) for around-the-clock assistance to find out more about coverage options. TTY users should call 1-877-486-2048. Multilingua counseling is available. Reviewing the 2015 Medicare & You handbook. It is accessible online at:www.medicare.gov/pubs/pdf/10050.pdf-- and it has been mailed to the homes of people with Medicare. Getting one-on-one counseling assistance from the local State Health Insurance Assistance Program (SHIP). Local SHIP contact information can be found: At www.medicare.gov/contacts/organization-search-criteria.aspx or; On the back of the 2015 Medicare & You handbook or; By calling Medicare (contact information above) Extra Help Paying for Prescription Drugs People with Medicare who have limited income and resources may qualify for Extra Help paying for their prescription drug costs. There is no cost or obligation to apply for Extra Help, also called the low-income subsidy. Medicare beneficiaries, family members, or caregivers can apply online atwww.socialsecurity.gov/prescriptionhelp or call Social Security at 1-800-772-1213 (TTY users should call 1-800-325-0778) to find out more. During this Open Enrollment Period, Rep. McNerney reminds people with Medicare to never give their personal information to anyone arriving at their home uninvited or making unsolicited phone calls selling Medicare-related products or services. Beneficiaries who believe they are a victim of fraud or identity theft should contact 1-800-MEDICARE. More information is available atwww.stopmedicarefraud.gov
10.09.2014	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced today that the Antioch, California police department would receive a federal grant to allow the department to hire at least five additional officers. Rep. McNerney wrote to the Justice Department encouraging officials to consider Antioch for the funding, which will allow the city to continue to deter gang violence and related crimes. The police department will also place an emphasis on hiring veterans with the new money. “The men and women of Antioch PD are working hard to keep our community safe,” said Rep. McNerney, “and I am glad to support their efforts by helping bring home federal money to let them put more officers on the street.” The estimated amount of federal funds to be awarded over the three-year grant period is $625,000, which will be distributed though the Department of Justice’s Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. Congressman McNerney is a strong supporter of the COPS program. Over the summer he wrote an amendment that was passed by the House of Representatives allocating additional money to the COPS program for law enforcement agencies to purchase needed technology. He also wrote a bill that would encourage more hiring of veterans as police officers through the COPS program, building on the success Antioch has had hiring former service members.
09.29.2014	Congressman Jerry McNerney announced today that he will host a half-day workshop for small business owners and entrepreneurs in Stockton and the San Joaquin Valley. The workshop will take place on Wednesday, October 1 from 10am to 12pm, at the University of the Pacific’s DeRosa University Center, located at 3601 Pacific Avenue in Stockton. Attendees should arrive starting at 9:30am in order to register and find their seats. The workshop will feature speakers and resources for both current business owners and those looking to start their own small business. Topics will include finding start-up capital, including crowdfunding, loans, and government grants; resources for veterans and minority business owners; navigating the regulatory process including permits and employment law; and finding customers both locally and through international trade. “Small businesses are the job creators of today and tomorrow,” said Rep. McNerney. “Our entrepreneurs are enthusiastic, creative, and ready to compete around the nation and around the world. I am pleased to be able to host this event to give our small business owners some of the tools they can use to help them succeed.” Speakers at the event will include representatives of the U.S. Small Business Administration, the Stockton Small Business Development Center and the U.S. Census Bureau, and Stockton small business owner Robbie Swan (Sports Cuts & Colors). Several organizations will also be on-hand to provide resources and advice to attendees, including: SBA SBDC Worknet/ EDD Small Business Majority Stockton Chamber Hispanic chamber Delta Chamber and visitors bureau African American chamber Asian American Chamber Café Coop Huddle San Joaquin Partnership Success Capital California Board of Equalizations Stockton Dept. of Economic Development Congressman Jerry McNerney was a business owner prior to his election to the U.S. House in 2006, and has been a strong advocate for small businesses throughout his time in public service. He authored a bill in 2013 to provide tax credits for small businesses to hire employees who were previously unemployed, including additional credits for small businesses located in high unemployment areas.
09.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today introduced the Assuring Quality Care for Veterans Act to help improve medical care for veterans. “Our veterans have sacrificed for the nation and deserve the best care we can provide,” said Rep. McNerney. “My bill will help make sure VA doctors are well-trained and have access to the latest techniques and treatments.” Rep. McNerney’s bill will encourage VA medical professionals to participate in continuing education courses in their field of practice by increasing the amount of money the VA will cover for such classes from $1,000 to $1,600. This will be the first time the reimbursement rate has increased since 1991. “The VFW is pleased to offer our support for the Assuring Quality Care for Veterans Act,” said Ray Kelley, VFW’s legislative director. “Recruiting and retaining quality medical professionals is high priority for the VFW as highlighted in our recently published VA health care report, ‘Hurry Up and Wait.’ We thank Congressman McNerney for his leadership on this issue and look forward to working with him to ensure the passage of this important legislation.” The bill also allows the VA to offer reimbursements for continuing professional education to more VA health care employees, such as nurses, psychologists, physical therapists and other medical providers. Currently, only physicians and dentists can be reimbursed by the VA for continuing education courses. This provision is particularly important given the need for health care professionals who should be equipped with up-to-date training on how to provide care for traumatic brain injuries and post-traumatic stress disorder, both of which have been on the increase in the past decade.
09.16.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) introduced the Fast Help For Homeowners Act, to help speed up the short sale process and aid homeowners who may otherwise be facing foreclosure. The bill would require a second mortgage lender of a federal mortgage loan to review and make a decision on a short sale agreement within 45 days. If the lender does not make a decision within that time frame, the short sale will be deemed approved on the 46th day. “The housing market in my district has improved, but there are still too many homeowners here and around the nation who are struggling even though they have played by the rules,” said Rep. McNerney. “My bill will help those affected homeowners, communities, and small business owners.” A short sale is a mortgage sales transaction in which the seller’s lender agrees to accept a payment for less than the loan’s remaining balance. In the event of a foreclosure, the second mortgage is subordinate to the first mortgage, and the lender of the first mortgage receives payment first. When a homeowner initiates a short sale request, some second mortgage lenders use stonewalling tactics to delay a payment to the first mortgage lender. Short sales can help both lenders and homeowners. Often, it is far less costly for a lender to negotiate a short sale agreement than go through the foreclosure process. A short sale is also less damaging to a homeowner’s credit score than a foreclosure. “The National Association of REALTORS applauds Congressman McNerney for his efforts to improve the short sale process and provide distressed homeowners an alternative to foreclosure,” said Steve Brown, President of the National Association of REALTORS. “NAR stands ready to collaborate with Congressman McNerney and Congress to enact legislation that will help homeowners stave off foreclosure.” The bill also drew a bipartisan group of original cosponsors, including: Reps. Richard Nugent (R-FL), Thomas Rooney (R-FL), Jim Costa (D-CA), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Hank Johnson (D-GA), and George Miller (D-CA).
09.16.2014	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jerry McNerney (D-Stockton) announced today that, following a letter he wrote to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the agency has allocated $1.4 million in funding for improvements at Stockton Metropolitan Airport. Rep. Jeff Denham (R-Turlock) also joined in the letter to the FAA. “I’m proud to help bring home this funding, and pleased the FAA agreed with me that Stockton’s airport deserved the additional money to make some much-needed improvements,” said Rep. McNerney. “The airport will be able to address some safety concerns and be ready to grow its commercial passenger service.” The Stockton Metropolitan Airport is in the final stages of completing its Airport Capital Improvement Program (AICAP), and a key component of the program is reconstruction of the terminal parking ramp, the asphalt apron where passengers load and unload. The $1.4 million in additional federal funding will allow the airport to completely overhaul the ramp, instead of making temporary fixes that could cause safety concerns.
09.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today introduced a bill in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit FY 2015 federal funds from being allocated to California’s Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP). California has asked the federal government to contribute nearly $4 billion to help it implement the BDCP. Rep. McNerney previously introduced an amendment to withhold money for the BCDP as part of the FY 2015 Energy and Water appropriations bill. “The BDCP in its current form is based on bad science, and is not the solution California needs,” said Rep. McNerney. “We must invest in infrastructure and technology that will address our water issues in a smart way, including above- and below ground storage, recycling and conservation, and desalinization. We should not spend a dime on the BDCP until we are satisfied that it truly protects the unique ecosystem of the Delta and the lives and livelihoods of the families, farmers and small businesses that depend on it.” The Bay Delta Conservation Plan includes a proposal for two 35 mile-long tunnels that would divert water from the Delta and send it south. Just two weeks ago, the state delayed the plan’s implementation due to concerns about the environmental and economic impact of the tunnels, including the potential for salt water intrusion. Both the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers raised objections to the BDCP’s assumptions and called for major changes to the plan. The BDCP is estimated to cost $25 billion, but analyses by independent groups show that the final expense could be more than $64 billion. Reps. John Garamendi (CA-03) and Ami Bera (CA-07) have both signed on as original co-sponsors of the bill.
08.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today issued the following statement after the announcement by the California Department of Water Resources that it will delay implementation of the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP) until at least early 2015: “The delay in implementing the BDCP is good news, and I am encouraged that the state realizes the plan is deeply flawed,” said Rep. McNerney. “Delta families, farmers, and small businesses have had these concerns for years, and I am glad the state is finally paying attention. We need to work towards a water solution that is fair for the whole state and doesn’t endanger the California Delta. That plan that should include more storage, desalinization, conservation, and efficiency.”
08.01.2014	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) today issued the following statement following a bipartisan 420-5 vote by the U.S. House of Representatives in favor of a bill to improve medical care for veterans and reform the VA. “I voted for this bill because it’s a good first step towards correcting some of the unacceptable and systemic problems with the VA health care system. But there’s still a lot of work to be done. Veterans in my district are still driving too far and waiting too long to get the health care they’ve earned. The VA must build the new facility in French Camp as promised. And the VA must continue to take the appropriate steps to address inefficiencies in its health care system and standardize care across all its facilities.”
08.01.2014	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) and Jim Costa (CA-16) today introduced the Air and Health Quality Empowerment Zone Designation Act to address the poor air quality in the San Joaquin Valley. “Our bill addresses the serious health issues that are a direct result of the poor air quality in our region,” said Rep. McNerney. “Here in the San Joaquin Valley, we have higher childhood asthma rates than other areas in California and around the country. Not only are our children suffering needlessly, but these illnesses also place a financial burden on our communities. Our kids deserve to be healthy, attending school, and living in a clean environment, and my bill will help to achieve this goal,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “I am pleased to be joined by my Valley colleague, Representative Costa, in working to improve our air quality in the San Joaquin Valley.” The Air and Health Quality Empowerment Zone Designation Act targets areas with poor air quality and child asthma rates that are above the national average. Areas meeting these criteria could voluntarily request to be designated as empowerment zones, making them eligible to receive federal grant funding. In exchange for federal support, pollution control districts in these areas will develop and implement plans to improve air quality and public health in the zone. “The San Joaquin Valley suffers from air pollution levels that exceed Federal and California standards for clean air, directly impacting the health of the region’s children,” said Rep. Costa. "The disproportionately high numbers of children with asthma compared to the rest of California and the nation clearly demonstrates that action must be taken to improve the quality of life of our Valley’s children. I was proud to carry the legislation to create the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District over 20 years ago and I am equally proud to co-sponsor this legislation with Rep. McNerney. We have made progress, but there remains a road ahead of us to make our skies cleaner and our air clearer. This bill will provide the San Joaquin Valley with the tools necessary to reduce air pollution and improve overall public health.” To be eligible for the grants, the areas must meet specified national ambient air quality standards for ozone, have particular emission levels from agricultural sources, meet or exceed national asthma rates, and suffer from high unemployment rates. Recipients will match federal investment dollar for dollar. California’s San Joaquin Valley is among the regions that fail to meet national air quality standards. The Valley, which includes Kern, San Joaquin, Fresno, Stanislaus, Madera, King, Merced, and Tulare Counties, suffers from some of the worst air quality in both the state and Nation. Valley children miss hundreds of thousands days of school each year, and one in five children living in the Valley has asthma. Illnesses related to poor air quality cost the Valley approximately $3 billion annually.
