02.06.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), top Republican on the House Appropriations Committee and member of the Homeland Security Conference Committee, issued the following statement following the State of the Union Address: “I was pleased to hear President Trump's continued vision of a bipartisan policy agenda – one that addresses border security, protects the American worker, and ensures the needs of our men and women in uniform are kept a priority. Having just returned from a three-day trip to the southern border, I am more convinced than ever that we must find a solution to the humanitarian and security crisis we face, and I look forward to working with my fellow conferees to put a bipartisan plan in place that does just that,” said Rep. Granger. ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON —Representatives Nita M. Lowey (D-NY-17) and Kay Granger (R-TX-12), incoming Chairwoman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the acquittal of 43 NGO workers who had been prosecuted by the Egyptian government: “While the Egyptian government should not have targeted NGO workers in the first place, we are pleased that the rule of law eventually prevailed in the Egypt. With a number of challenges in the region, we welcome this step in the right direction, but we continue to be concerned with the state of human rights in Egypt. “The U.S.-Egypt relationship is a deep and historic one built on shared interests and honest communication, and one that we will continue to advance as incoming Chairwoman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee. We look forward to working with the Egyptian government to grow our mutual understanding and to advance human rights for all Egyptians.”
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) announced that the North Central Texas Council of Governments will receive a $20,000,000 federal grant for the Alliance Texas/Haslet Accessibility Improvement Project to construct and extend multiple 4-lane highways. The funding comes through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) grant program. “This is great news for North Texas,” Congresswoman Granger said. “As a result of this grant, the infrastructure in Haslet will be primed to support future regional growth. I’m grateful to Secretary Chao and the Trump Administration for supporting this important funding in my Congressional District. I have spoken to Mayor Bob Golden, and he is overjoyed with the award and said it will be important for the City of Haslet. He mentioned it was a team effort led by Michael Morris at the Council of Governments.”
12.03.2018	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX), Ranking Member-elect for the House Committee on Appropriations, announced today that Anne Marie Chotvacs will serve as the Staff Director for Republicans in the 116th Congress. “Anne Marie’s leadership and management skills are second to none, and even more importantly, she is deeply committed to finding policy and funding solutions that move our country forward. There is no more capable person to lead my staff and carry out the responsibilities of this position,” said Granger. Anne Marie brings to the position two decades of policy, budget, and appropriations experience. She has been responsible for a vast portfolio of issues during her career, including international affairs, natural resource management and conservation, labor, health, education, law enforcement, telecommunications, and small business. Anne Marie has held senior positions in the federal government, both in the Administration and the Congress, and has most recently been an executive in the private sector. She has also served as a board member for numerous non-profit organizations. Anne Marie holds an undergraduate degree from Presbyterian College in Business Administration and Political Science and a graduate degree from the University of Georgia in Public Administration. Granger also announced that long-time advisor Johnnie Kaberle will serve as the Deputy Staff Director for the minority. Johnnie brings over 20 years of policy experience, including 6 years of leadership experience handling appropriations and defense issues for then Majority Whip Roy Blunt. “Johnnie has been an invaluable member of my team for many years, and I am excited to have her join me at the Committee. Her background in national security, international affairs and Member services will be an invaluable asset to me and all of our Republican Members,” Granger said.
12.03.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after being elected by members of the House Republican Conference to serve as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee: “I am humbled by the support of my colleagues and excited to get to work reforming the Appropriations Committee into one that prioritizes Members and delivers results for the American people. In an era of divided government, our committee will play a vital role in advancing Republican priorities. I look forward working alongside my colleagues in the House and Senate and with the Trump Administration to fix the appropriations process and advance conservative values in the 116th Congress.” The House Appropriations Committee is one of the most powerful committees in Congress and is responsible for approving all government spending measures.
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement: “I offer my condolences to the entire Bush family on the loss of former President George H.W. Bush. He led a life of service, and his leadership made the world safer and freer. He led his life with such dignity and honor -- we could all learn from his example.”
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the Republican Steering Committee voted to elect her as the next GOP leader on the House Appropriations Committee: “It is an enormous honor to be able to serve as the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee. I appreciate the vote of confidence from the Steering Committee and all of the help and support I’ve received from so many Members. The hard work to reform the committee begins today. I am looking forward to fighting for conservative values and holding the Democrats accountable in the 116th Congress.”
10.25.2018	FORT WORTH, TX – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement on the devastation caused by Hurricane Michael: “The Appropriations Committee is ready to do whatever is needed to help in the recovery from devastation caused by Hurricane Michael. Dr. Dunn has kept me updated on the situation on the ground, especially at Tyndall Air Force Base. As Chairwoman of the Defense Subcommittee, I will be visiting Tyndall soon to see firsthand what is needed for the base and the community to fully recover.”
10.03.2018	FORT WORTH, TX – “Today, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers once again strongly affirmed its commitment to the Trinity River Vision flood control project and acknowledged that it is authorized for federal funding in this coming year's 2019 Energy and Water Development Act. In the October 3, 2018 statement released by Corps, they declare: ‘The Trinity River Vision/Central City project continues to embody the vision of safety for the people of North Texas through the flood risk management and ecosystem improvement missions of the Corps.’ “This statement from the Corps is appreciated as it clarifies any misleading interpretations caused by Wednesday's McClatchy Fort Worth Star-Telegram article. The Trinity River Vision flood control project is both strongly supported by the Corps and has received Congressional approval (2016) for matching federal funding ($526 million). Clearly, it is no secret that such funding will be spread over several years to match the progress of the state and local government partners as in the pending completion by TxDOT on the project's new bridges. Nor is it a secret that as a result of recent Hurricane recovery and relief efforts being stretched thin over the past two years, the current federal budget is step-funding (using incremental appropriation) for its other flood-control and water infrastructure projects.” A copy of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers October 3, 2018 statement is below: USACE committed to Fort Worth flood risk management solutions Posted 10/3/2018 Release no. 18-054 Contact Clay Church 817-886-1314 The Trinity River Vision/Central City project is a joint partnership between the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Tarrant Regional Water District. Other partners include Tarrant County, the City of Fort Worth, Streams and Valleys, Federal Highway Administration, and the Texas Department of Transportation. The Corps components of the overall project include flood risk management and ecosystem improvements. The project has been honored with numerous awards from the Corps for planning and communications. The current levee system in Fort Worth was built in response to a devastating flood in 1949 to protect a population of nearly 350,000 people. Today, that population has grown to nearly 900,000 people and this project will reduce risk from flooding for the people of Fort Worth. “Our various partnerships within the Trinity River Vision Central City Project are an extension of the Corps’ continued commitment to providing flood risk management solutions for the City of Fort Worth and the surrounding communities,” said Brig. Gen. Paul E. Owen, Commander, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Southwestern Division. Both the Hon. Mark Esper, Secretary of the Army, and the Hon. R.D. James, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, have recently visited Fort Worth to see first-hand the need for, and benefits of, the project. Hon. James stated, “This project will greatly benefit this community, the city and all the citizens around here.” Progress continues with construction of bridge pilings, design of the bypass channel and valley storage sites. Completed valley storage sites, which already provide Flood Risk Management benefits, include Ham Branch, Riverside Park, Samuels Avenue, and Gateway Oxbow. The project was fully authorized in the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (2016). The authorized project remains eligible for federal funding and, although it did not receive fiscal year 2018 Civil Works funding, it is being considered for funding provided in the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2019, recently signed by the President. To date, approximately $62 million in Federal funding has been invested in the project. The Trinity River Vision/Central City project continues to embody the vision of safety for the people of North Texas through the flood risk management and ecosystem improvement missions of the Corps.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the House’s passage of the final bipartisan agreement reached on H.R. 6157, which includes funding for the Department of Defense.” “After many years of neglecting our national security, our troop readiness, and the critical maintenance of our defense infrastructure, my legislation builds on the significant progress we started last year,” Granger said. “I worked in lockstep with Secretary Mattis to ensure this bill provides the critical-funding needed to implement the new National Defense Strategy, and to continue rebuilding our armed forces. It is our most basic responsibility to ensure our troops are ready to defend our nation, and that they have the very best training and the most effective weapons available.” “It is critical that the Department of Defense has predictable and timely funding so that Mattis and our military leadership can plan with accurate funding levels. For the first time in nine years, we have done just that.” Finally, this is a bill for Fort Worth. It has been the honor of my life to represent JRB/NAS Fort Worth, the service members, our veterans community, and the thousands of constituents who skillfully build the very equipment that this nation counts on to keep us safe, including the most innovative in the world such as the F-35 and V-22. The minibus passed by the House today provides significant investment in equipment, including: $9.3B for 93 F-35 aircraft $1.1B for 13 V-22 aircraft $1.7B for 18 C-130J aircraft, including 8 for the National Guard, like the 130s flown at JRB NAS Fort Worth $24.2B for 13 Navy ships, including: $4.3B for 2 Virginia-class submarines and $1.6B for 3 Littoral Combat Ships $1.2B for 58 UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters For more information, see the Appropriations Committee one-pager.
09.26.2018	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee joined this morning’s House Republican Leadership press conference to highlight how our military is stronger and Better Off Now. Thanks to Republican policies, we are rebuilding our military and ensuring that our troops have the resources they need to be effective. For the first time in a decade, the military won’t be relying on stopgap funding, as we vote on defense appropriations and plan to send it to President Trump’s desk. Chair Granger’s Remarks:"If you see a great big smile on my face, it’s because we’re going to pass a defense appropriations bill today. It’s so important. There’s really nothing more important than securing our nation and making sure our people in the military have the training and the equipment they need. "I’ve worked with Secretary Mattis now for two years on rebuilding our military, and this bill that we’re going to pass today shows major investments in our air superiority, our shipbuilding, our ground forces. The things they need, and the things they deserve. "This is the largest pay raise in nine years for our military. It’s not just the money — it’s to say ‘we’re with you and support you.’ The most important thing is it’s the first time in ten years we get defense bill funding on time. "Working with Secretary Mattis, he said the money’s important, but giving it to us on time so we have time to plan and to build is really the most important thing. That’s what we’re going to do. "It’s a large bill. We listened to 6,600 suggestions from members of Congress that said this is what we need. We were able to fit that in in most cases, but it all adds up to a great pat on the back and money for our military."
08.26.2018	FORT WORTH, TX – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement on the passing of Sen. John McCain: “John McCain was one of the toughest men I knew. With his passing, we have lost a true hero and a patriot. I had the privilege to serve with Senator McCain on the International Republican Institute (IRI) board of directors and witnessed firsthand his dedication to freedom at home and abroad. I was particularly grateful to his commitment to advance the cause of women’s rights. I send my heartfelt sympathies and prayers to Cindy and the entire McCain family at this difficult time.” -###-
08.23.2018	FORT WORTH, TX – Secretary of the Army, Dr. Mark T. Esper, toured the Fort Worth Trinity River Vision Project on Thursday afternoon. Accompanied by Congresswoman Kay Granger, Secretary Esper visited the offices of the Trinity River Vision Authority where he was able to tour the Education Center and receive a briefing on the history of the devastating flooding Fort Worth has experienced and progress of the project. Afterwards, he got a first-hand look at all the construction underway on this critical flood protection project. "It was extremely important to have Secretary Esper visit Fort Worth to tour the Trinity River Vision Project," said Rep. Granger. "I have advocated and supported this critical flood control project for years and would encourage any Washington D.C. leadership to come see the exciting progress happening in Fort Worth." As the Secretary of the Army, Secretary Esper will play a key role in helping to secure the remaining Federal funding while the project is ongoing. “I had a great day visiting Fort Worth to see the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Central City project and all the defense activities going on in this thriving city,” said Secretary Esper. “Representative Kay Granger’s (R-TX) leadership as the Chair of the House Appropriations defense sub-committee is greatly appreciated by the Army for our modernization efforts.” Due to Fort Worth’s booming population growth, the Army Corps of Engineers identified that the central city area of Fort Worth no longer has the flood protection that it needs. In response, the Trinity River Vision Project is well underway, and upon completion of the project, over 2,400 acres of flood relief will be brought to neighborhoods in Fort Worth. The award-winning Trinity River Vision has been called a “model project” by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. TRV is a partnership between the City of Fort Worth, Tarrant County, Texas Department of Transportation, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Tarrant Regional Water District, and Streams and Valleys. -###-
07.27.2018	FORT WORTH, TEXAS – Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) took part in a federal aviation grant announcement at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, along with U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, U.S. Senator John Cornyn, Fort Worth Mayor Betsy Price, Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings, and others. “I want to thank Secretary Chao for recognizing the importance of Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. “DFW is a major reason why the metroplex has such strong growth and prosperity. That’s why I’m so pleased that the U.S. Department of Transportation is committing this important infrastructure funding. “DFW International Airport is now one of the busiest airports in the world, transporting over 67 million customers every year. This grant will benefit not just the metroplex, but the nation as well. We all know how important infrastructure investment is to keep our nation’s vital systems running safely and efficiently. I know that the DFW team will make good use of this grant to ensure the airport will be ready for continued growth.” NOTE: DFW Airport today received a $180 million grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation for the construction of two major taxiway complexes. The new taxiways will enable aircraft to reach their gates without waiting to cross other runways during busy periods. Work on the first taxiway is expected to begin in 2019, with construction of the second taxiway expected in 2021. -###-
07.06.2018	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) took part in a Congressional diplomatic delegation that met with Russian government officials this week in Russia. Congresswoman Granger issued the following statement after the meetings: “I was honored to take part in the Congressional delegation led by Senator Richard Shelby and joined by U.S. Ambassador to Russia Jon Huntsman. "During our time in Russia, we met directly with Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, members of the Russian Duma and several former Russian ambassadors to the United States. The goal of these meetings was to begin addressing several of the geopolitical challenges facing the US relationship with Russia, including our differences in Syria, Ukraine, the Russian interference in the 2016 election and US sanctions on Russia. "We were blunt in our conversations with the Russians; we expressed our grave concerns about their policies and explained that any involvement in our elections is unacceptable. We stated that we can be competitors without being adversaries. We also made it clear that we can and should remain in dialogue as we try and work through our policy differences. "We hope to begin an ongoing dialogue with this group and I am personally convinced that future discussions are essential and can be helpful to our long-term relationship with the Russians. I also believe the upcoming Trump-Putin meetings can build on the work that was done in the past few days in Russia and represent an important opportunity for national security and world peace.”
06.29.2018	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted 359-49 yesterday in support of her bill, Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 6157): “The defense spending bill provides funding for more troops, more equipment, and more training. It also means more jobs and more opportunities for Texans. “My Congressional district is home to Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth. This bill supports the base and those who work there. My bill also provides $145.7 billion for equipment procurement, including: $9.4B for 93 new F-35 aircraft, and $1.1M for 13 V-22 aircraft. In total, it appropriates $674.6 billion for the Department of Defense and provides for a 2.6 percent pay raise for our troops – the largest pay raise in nine years. “My bill provides significance resources for the National Guard who are so important to both our national and Homeland security. Texas has faced terrible natural disasters this year and the National Guard was always there to help. My bill provides $1.8B for 18 C-130J aircraft for the National Guard, which is the plane flown by the 136th airlift wing at NAS Fort Worth JRB. Additionally, there is significant money in this legislation for the National Guard Counterdrug program. “As Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I’m proud to have authored this important legislation, which will build on the historic increase in defense funding I helped secure earlier this year. There are so many defense interests in the Twelfth Congressional District of Texas including NAS Fort Worth JRB and companies whose employees build the outstanding equipment needed to keep this country safe.”
06.27.2018	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of her bill, H.R. 6157 – Department of Defense Appropriations Act: Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to bring the Defense Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2019 to the House floor for consideration. Congress' number one responsibility is to provide for the defense of this Nation. It is this bill that fulfills that most fundamental constitutional duty. Last year, General Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff said: “The U.S. military's competitive advantage against potential adversaries is eroding. Over the last decade, sustained operational commitments, budgetary instability, and advances by our adversaries have threatened our ability to project power and we have lost our advantage in key warfighting areas.” My approach to funding this bill is based on that statement. The priorities funded in this bill not only stop the erosion, but also enable our military to restore and increase the competitive advantage. This is all possible because of the bipartisan budget agreement which has allowed us to provide the necessary resources. The fiscal year 2018 Defense Appropriation Act took the first step in rebuilding our military by addressing the toll taken on readiness, and began to make investments to improve our competitive advantage. Building on the gains we made in 2018 and guided by the new National Defense Strategy, the bill before you is the next critical step to enable Secretary Mattis to build a more lethal, resilient, and rapidly innovating joint force that can defeat the adversaries we face today and those we will face in the future. The bill also supports the Secretary's efforts to work by, with, and through our allies and partners to help share the burden while protecting America's interests around the world. This bill reflects the advice the subcommittee received in hearings, briefings, and meetings with Secretary Mattis, Chairman Dunford, the leadership of the military services, the Intelligence Committee, and other national security experts. The bill provides a total of $675 billion to the Department for fiscal year 2019. This is $19 billion above the fiscal year 2018 level and is consistent with total funding level in the House-passed authorization bill. The bill provides full funding to address military personnel needs, including: full funding for an additional 16,400 active, guard and reserve soldiers, sailors and airmen. And full funding for the 2.6 percent pay raise for our troops. The bill provides critical funding to repair and improve our military readiness, including $1 billion over the request for training and equipping our troops, including the National Guard and Reserve, and for training, equipment, maintenance and spare parts, and base operations. It includes $21 billion for depot maintenance to get our planes and ships back in working order. For procurement, the bill provides adequate funding to modernize the force. Major investments include: increased funds for Strykers, Abrams tanks, Humvees, and other ground mobility vehicles. And to maintain air superiority, we provide increases for key platforms such as the Joint Strike Fighter, Apaches, Lakotas, Ospreys, Black Hawks, and C-130s. We maintain our commitment to the National Guard and Reserve components, providing $1.3 billion over the request, specifically for their equipment needs. For shipbuilding, we fund 12 Navy ships, 2 more than requested. To ensure our technological edge against our adversaries, $95 billion is included for research and development. We keep our commitment to take care of our service members and their families by providing over $34 billion for defense health programs, including $752 million over the request for medical research. To address growing concerns on and around our military bases, we include over $1.2 billion to address environmental remediation and restoration. For ongoing global war on terrorism operations, the bill provides funding for additional intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance for the warfighter, and $250 million for Ukraine. Given the serious challenges and significant resources at stake, the committee continues to exercise strong oversight over the Department to ensure that our constituents' tax dollars are being spent wisely. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank my ranking member and partner, Mr. Visclosky. His input has been invaluable. The bill before us is better because of his involvement. I also want to thank our full committee ranking member, Mrs. Lowey, for her support for this important work done in this bill. Most importantly, I want to thank my full committee chairman and the previous subcommittee chairman, the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Frelinghuysen), for his leadership and his support. Sadly, this is the last Defense Appropriation bill that the chairman will manage in Congress. Throughout his service, he has shown an unwavering commitment to the needs of our military and intelligence communities. I will miss his wise counsel and steadfast commitment to the members of our military services. I want to thank all Members for their participation and input as we put together this bill. The subcommittee received over 6,600 requests from Members. The bill incorporates their ideas and recommendations, and I thank them for their continued support. I would like to personally thank our hardworking staff for helping make this bill possible. On our majority staff: Jennifer Miller, Walter Hearne, Brooke Boyer, B. G. Wright, Allison Deters, Collin Lee, Matt Bower, Jackie Ripke, Hayden Milberg, Bill Adkins, Sherry Young, and Barry Walker. On our minority staff: Becky Leggieri, Jennifer Chartrand, and Chris Bigelow. On my personal staff: Johnnie Kaberle, Jon Fay, and Spencer Freebairn. In closing, Mr. Chairman, the Defense Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2019 is a great bill that takes the next critical step in rebuilding our military. Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the balance of my time.
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement regarding family separations at the United States/Mexico border: “People in my District are very concerned about this issue and so am I. There needs to be a better way to secure our borders that doesn’t tear apart families. These children did not make the choice to cross the border and shouldn’t be punished for it. “In 2014, I led a Border Crisis Working Group to understand the facts of the situation at the southern border. After my personal experience of traveling to the border and to the countries where most of the immigrants were originating, it was clear to me that we had a humanitarian crisis on our hands. I will say again what I said then, this urgent crisis must be dealt with immediately. “I have been working with House Republican leadership to resolve this in a way that protects our borders and our values. I, along with my colleagues, met with President Trump and he said he is 1000% with us and agrees these children must be protected. “Rest assured I will continue to work on this crisis. I am hopeful that this week the House will pass a bill that keeps families together, strengthens our borders, and reforms our broken immigration system.”
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement regarding family separations at the United States/Mexico border: “People in my District are very concerned about this issue. There needs to be a better way to secure our borders. These children did not make the choice to cross the border and shouldn’t be punished for it. “I have been working with House Republican leadership to resolve this in a way that protects our borders and our values. I am also looking forward to meeting with President Trump tonight and hearing the administration’s perspective. “I am hopeful that this week the House will pass a bill that keeps families together, strengthens our borders, and reforms our broken immigration system.
06.07.2018	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this afternoon in support of H.R. 3, President Trump’s $15 billion rescissions package: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3, The Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act. We must always be careful stewards of the taxpayer’s hard-earned money. That’s why I was proud to sign on as an original co-sponsor of President Trump’s rescissions package. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, I understand more than most that President Trump’s proposal rescinding nearly $15 billion is necessary. It’s common sense that money sitting in federal coffers and not being spent should be returned to the treasury. This bill is a welcome step to cut wasteful spending and restore fiscal sanity to Washington. Importantly, the rescissions package on the floor today no longer rescinds Ebola funding. Sadly, that horrible virus has recently returned to the Democratic Republic of Congo. It also no longer rescinds funding for Hurricane Sandy victims. I hope the Senate will pass this bill as soon as possible so that the president can sign these historic spending cuts into law. I urge all members to support this common sense proposal. Thank you and I yield the balance of my time.
05.15.2018	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement applauding the opening of the United States Embassy in Jerusalem: “I would like to commend President Trump for moving our embassy to Jerusalem. Every nation should have the right to choose its own capital, and the president’s decision simply recognized this reality. It’s also fitting that this historic action took place 70 years to the day that President Truman recognized Israel as an independent country. I urge other countries to follow the Unites States’ lead and locate their embassies in Israel’s eternal capital.”
05.09.2018	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement on President Trump’s historic $15 billion rescissions package: “As a senior appropriator, I understand more than most in Congress that this rescissions package is necessary. President Trump’s proposal rescinding $15 billion – the largest rescissions package in history – is a welcome step to cut wasteful spending and restore good government to Washington. “We must always be careful stewards of the taxpayer’s hard-earned money. As a proud cosponsor of President Trump’s rescissions package, I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this proposal as soon as possible.”
05.09.2018	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement today regarding President Trump’s decision to withdraw the U.S. from the Obama Administration’s failed nuclear deal: “I applaud President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). This was a terrible deal that we should never have agreed to. The Iranian regime continues to show they cannot be trusted. Iran has not been honest about its nuclear weapons activity, and it continues to fund terrorist proxies, including Hezbollah and Hamas. President Trump is showing the world the strength of the U.S. and the importance of this to our allies in the region.”
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement upon receiving the American Conservative Union’s (ACU) Award for Conservative Achievement: “Earlier this month, I accepted the American Conservative Union’s Award for Conservative Achievement. This award recognizes those who uphold conservative principles. I would like to thank the American Conservative Union for this great honor.” KG ACU 4.10.18 Now in its 47th year, the ACU Award for Conservative Achievement is bestowed on lawmakers who adhere to President Reagan’s philosophy of the “three-legged stool.” According to the ACU, the votes selected for the recipients of the award reflect how Members of Congress best defend the principles of a free society.
04.17.2018	Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement on the passing of former First Lady Barbara Bush: “I offer my condolences to the Bush family and to the nation in the loss of First Lady and First Mother Barbara Bush. Her graciousness, humor, and love of family were evident to everyone and that is shown in the outpouring of tributes to her family from all who knew her. She had such dignity and such a caring nature. We could all learn much from the way she lived her life.”
04.12.2018	Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after H. J. RES. 2, proposing a balanced budget amendment to the constitution, failed in the U.S. House of Representatives: “We have to get serious about changing the way money is spent in Washington. I have voted for a Balanced Budget Amendment in the past and was proud to support it again today. Unfortunately, the Balanced Budget Amendment failed to get the two-thirds majority vote needed for passage. Even though it did not pass today, that doesn’t mean I will give up on the fight to control wasteful spending. I will continue working with my colleagues to get our country’s debt under control without raising taxes.
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement following the passage of H.R. 1625, Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018: “We have achieved a historic increase in defense spending. This is the largest increase in 15 years -- an increase of $61.1 billion over the 2017 enacted level -- and will enable our military to rebuild after years of reckless budget cuts. When President Trump signs this bill into law, our military will finally have the funding that they have told us they need. “In order to fight and win wars, we must make sure that the U.S. maintains military superiority. That is why this agreement makes significant investments into air, sea and land forces. In total, it appropriates $654.6 billion for the Department of Defense. “With the additional funding provided by the budget agreement came significant responsibility to ensure that the funds are spent strategically and with vigorous Congressional oversight. I take this oversight responsibility very seriously and have had many conversations with Secretary Mattis and General Dunford, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. By the time this agreement is enacted, the Pentagon will have around five months to spend the money. I was very concerned that this short time frame could lead to poor spending decisions. As a result, this agreement includes new flexibility for the Department of Defense to ensure that these funds will be spent in the smartest way possible while still maintaining stringent oversight. “As Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I’m proud to have played a key role in writing this important legislation, which will finally provide the funding needed for our national security.” Thanks to Chairwoman Granger’s leadership, the agreement makes investments into: · Joint Strike fighters · Super hornets · Apaches · Chinooks · Lakotas · V-22 ospreys · Black hawks, and · C-130s. We must fund the ships needed to protect and defend the U.S. and our allies. That is why this agreement funds 14 Navy ships including : · One carrier replacement, · 3 littoral combat ships, · 2 guided missile destroyers, · Two attack submarines, and · Full funding to continue the Ohio replacement submarine program. The National Guard is critical to our national security. This agreement provides: · 6 C-130 aircraft · Increased funding for the Army Guard humvee program · 20 blackhawk helicopters · Funding for the army national guard for support on the southwest border · Additional funding for the National Guard Counterdrug program · Additional funding for army National Guard Cyber protection teams · $1.3 billion for the National Guard and Reserve Equipment account. To ensure that the U.S. has the most capable military in the world, this agreement funds needed modernization initiatives including: · Long-range precision fires · Soldier lethality · Ground mobility upgrades for Bradleys, Strykers, and Abrams vehicles · Improved command, control, communications and intelligence systems · The B-21 bomber · Long overdue upgrades for our nuclear forces · The next generation amphibious ship · And unmanned carrier aviation platforms. We also included important funding to help protect and defend Israel including: · Anti-tunneling initiatives; and · The Israeli cooperative missile defense programs.
03.22.2018	Mr. Speaker, congress' number one responsibility is to provide for the defense of this nation. And this agreement enables us to it fulfill the most fundamental constitutional duty. This bill reflects the needs of our defense and intelligence experts so they have the resources needed to combat the threats of today and in the future. This bill focused on readiness, modernization, and innovation. Without these funds our military can begin to rebuild after 16 years of war. The needs are great. We also include a 2.4% pay raise authorized for our troops for our appreciation for what they do. For procurement, the bill increases investment in ground vehicles, aircraft, ships, munitions, and/or equipment. Secretary Mattis said he never wants our enemies to face a fair fight. This bill ensures our enemies will face a strong and ready U.S. Military. It makes investments in vital aircraft, including joint strike fighters, fair fight. This Chinooks, Lakotas, Blackhawks, and c-130's. For the Navy it funds 14 Navy ships, including one carrier replacement, three combat ships, two guided missile destroyers, two attack guided m destroyers, two attack submarines, and funding to continue the Ohio replacement submarine program. The National Guard is critical to our national security, and this agreement provides 60130 aircraft. And funding for the National Guard for support of the southwest border. Additional funding for Army National Guard, cyber protection teams, and $1.3 billion for the National Guard and reserve equipment account. Our military must be ready for future threats. The Department of Defense must look five, 10, and 20 years ahead make sure we have the weapons systems we need. That's why this agreement also prioritizes research and development, including next generation space systems and future ballistic missile defense programs. Last, after talking with secretary Mattis, we included new flexibility for D.O.D. To ensure that funds were able to be spent in the smartest way possible while still maintaining stringent oversight. I yield back the balance of my time.
03.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement on news regarding North Korea: “This could be the breakthrough we have all hoped for. Establishing communication with North Korea while continuing to ensure that our defense is the strongest in the world is in our best interest. We stand behind President Trump this endeavor and pray for his success.”
02.26.2018	U.S. Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) today announced plans to introduce legislation that will encourage local school districts to buy and install metal detectors at all local schools. “When we decided to make airports safe from armed terrorists, we installed metal detectors and dramatically increased safety,” Granger said. “It’s time we did the same thing for our schools. By helping local schools purchase metal detectors we can stop the scourge of violence in our schools.” Granger said she will introduce legislation in Congress that will: Provide federal aid to local school districts who want to install metal detectors. Encourage schools receiving the money to limit entrances. By limiting the number of entry/exit points, schools can secure their perimeter and enhance safety. Allow any school applying for federal money to work with local law enforcement to implement security measures that best suit each school’s needs. “This is a simple step that will have a profound impact,” Granger said. “This is also a common-sense solution that goes beyond the debates over mental health and guns. Let’s focus on stopping criminals with guns from entering our schools. This plan will do just that.” For more information, please contact the Congresswoman’s Washington, DC office at 202-225-5071.
01.31.2018	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement following the State of the Union Address: “As Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I Iook forward to working with the president to give our military leaders the sufficient, sustainable, and stable funding they have told us – over and over again – that they need. I share the president’s determination to rebuild our military forces. All federal dollars are not the same. We need to prioritize our national security in an increasingly dangerous world.”
01.29.2018	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement: “Today, I am announcing that I’m running to be chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee. Since Chairman Frelinghuysen announced his retirement, people have been encouraging me to seek the Appropriations Committee gavel. “This is a very challenging time for our country, and Chairman Frelinghuysen will leave tough shoes to fill. I will work hard to earn the support of my colleagues, and I look forward to a spirited race.”
01.29.2018	Today, Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement upon learning that Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen plans to retire at the end of this Congress: “I’ve worked with Chairman Frelinghuysen for many years. He is a dear friend and colleague, and a tireless advocate for rebuilding our nation’s military. I have valued working alongside him on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, where he preceded me as chairman. I wish Rodney and his family all the best in his retirement. He is leaving a legacy of honesty and commitment to the nation.”
12.20.2017	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) today issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Today, the House passed the most sweeping, pro-growth tax reform since President Reagan. These tax cuts will ensure Texans keep more of their hard earned money. In addition, this legislation not only protects current American jobs but also encourages companies who have moved overseas to come home and bring jobs back to Texas. “The bill nearly doubles the standard tax deduction and reduces loopholes, while preserving important tax breaks such as the teacher tax deduction for classroom expenses. With this bill, the typical family of four earning the median family income of $73,000 will receive a tax cut of $2,059. The bill also expands the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000 for single filers and married couples to help parents with the cost of raising children. It also allows Texans to write off up to $10,000 of their property taxes. “This legislation delivers real relief to businesses by lowering the corporate tax rate to 21 percent, down from 35 percent. In fact, it reduces taxes on small businesses to the lowest they’ve been in 40 years. Businesses will be able to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers. “There has been a lot of mischaracterization of what this bill does, but the American people will know the truth when they start to see more money in their paychecks as early as February of next year. “Congress has finally delivered on the promise of tax reform, and I am proud to have supported this historic tax bill.”
12.07.2017	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this afternoon in support of the Continuing Appropriations Act (H.J.Res 123) providing funding through December 22, 2017: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this Continuing Resolution. Our most solemn responsibility as Members of Congress is to provide for our nation’s security. The world is more dangerous and unstable than any time in recent history. The threat from North Korea grows each day. Russia continues to create instability in the Ukraine, the Baltics, and the Balkans. China is militarizing the South China Sea and modernizing their military at an alarming pace. Meanwhile, ISIS and al-Qaeda terrorists continue to spread their perverted version of Islam across Europe, Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. All of our adversaries are acting in an aggressive manner. We must send a clear message to our adversaries that our military is prepared to confront anyone who threatens us at any time. A shutdown of the Department of Defense will only embolden our adversaries and threaten our national security. Our military needs stable, predictable, and timely funding to ensure they are prepared to meet the threats we face now and in the future. Members demonstrated their commitment to rebuilding our military this past summer by passing the Make America Secure Appropriations Act, which included the defense appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2018. Only a budget agreement that gives our men and women in uniform the funding they need and removes the threat of sequester will provide them that certainty. The House must pass this Continuing Resolution to allow time for an agreement to be reached that will fully fund our nation’s defense. Shutting down the government is not an option. I urge all members to their support this very important legislation. Thank you and I yield the balance of my time.
12.06.2017	Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after the bipartisan Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017 (H.R. 38) and Fix NICS Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives: “The Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017 ensures that law-abiding citizens’ Second Amendment rights do not end when they cross state lines. This legislation, which I was proud to cosponsor, allows residents with a state-issued concealed carry license or permit to travel freely between states without worrying about conflicting concealed carry reciprocity laws or onerous civil suits. “I was also pleased to support the bipartisan Fix NICS Act which passed the House today. Following the horrific acts of violence in Sutherland Springs, Texas we must do all we can to prevent these tragedies from happening again. This legislation would require federal and state authorities to enforce existing law and accurately report relevant criminal history records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). Had our existing background check laws been enforced, the tragedy in Sutherland Springs could have been avoided all together.”
11.16.2017	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) today issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Our current tax code is too long, too complicated and is a drag on the economy. With the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we have a historic opportunity to simplify the tax code and lower the overall tax rate for both individuals and businesses, creating new jobs and new opportunities for Texans. “Right now, businesses are suffering under some of the highest taxes in the world, forcing them to move jobs overseas to be able to stay in business. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act reduces tax rates so that businesses will stay in the U.S. and encourages those that have moved to come back. This will increase jobs, while reforms like increasing the standard deduction and removing special interest loopholes will make the tax filing process easier and simpler for all Texans. “By doubling the standard deduction for individuals and families, and lowering the overall tax rate, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will result in more money in the pockets of average Texans, more than making up for the elimination of any one particular deduction. In fact, the Tax Foundation estimates that the House Republican tax plan will create 81,108 jobs for Texans and increase the median Texan household income by $2,558. The bill passed by the House today will cut taxes, create jobs, energize the economy, and result in more money in the average worker’s paycheck.”
11.15.2017	Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Rep. Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement after the Senate voted to confirm Mark Esper as the Secretary of the Army: “I congratulate Mark Esper on his confirmation as Secretary of the Army by the U.S. Senate. I’ve had the pleasure of knowing Mark for many years. His dedication and distinguished service in uniform and in the private sector will serve him well in his new post. Mark will be a good steward and advocate for the men and women of the United States Army. I look forward to working with him in this important position.”
11.14.2017	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) today issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the FY18 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “I congratulate the authorizers on the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act which will establish policies for the Department of Defense. “As Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I look forward to quickly completing the hard work necessary to fund our nation’s military and will carefully consider the funding recommendations contained in the authorization Act. “Along with my colleagues on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, we will ensure that the United States military has the resources it needs to assure our allies, deter aggression, and overpower any potential adversaries.”
10.26.2017	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) today issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a final budget resolution: “The vote by the House on this budget resolution puts us one step closer to passing historic tax reform, which will overhaul our broken tax code, increase paychecks for Texans, and create jobs here in America. As Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, it was also vital we passed a budget to lay the groundwork to rebuild our military. “This budget delivers on my commitment to the people of the twelfth district to grow our economy and deliver real tax relief for individuals, families, and businesses. I am looking forward to working with my colleagues over the coming weeks to make taxes lower, simpler, and fairer.”
10.13.2017	Congresswoman Kay Granger issued the following statement on on the Trump Administration’s Iran strategy: “Without a doubt, the so-called Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action was a bad agreement, and I am pleased that President Trump is taking action to reevaluate this dangerous deal. It has given Iran the green light on their nuclear program, as well as billions of dollars to prop up their crippled economy and fund terrorist organizations. As I said at the time, President Obama’s nuclear agreement with Iran jeopardized the safety and security of Americans and our allies throughout the world. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House to do everything possible to ensure that Iran never has the ability to use nuclear weapons against the U.S., Israel or our allies.”
10.12.2017	After a late night meeting with leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives, and consulting with Governor Abbott, members of the Texas delegation have identified nearly $15 billion of emergency funding for Texas to be included in the emergency disaster funding bill expected to be voted on later today in the House. In a telephone call with members of the Texas Delegation, Governor Abbott expressed his commitment to continuing to work with the Texas Congressional Delegation and Congressional Leadership to ensure that Texas has the resources needed to recover and rebuild. The measure includes $11 billion to pay anticipated claims for flood insurance for Texans who are victims of Hurricane Harvey, and an estimated $4 billion for the FEMA disaster relief fund for Texas. The new FEMA funding for Texas will provide direct housing assistance, home repairs, debris removal and public assistance grants to eligible communities to begin repairs of roads, utility work, schools and public buildings. The flood insurance program is expected to run out of money within weeks – meaning Texas claims would not be paid – and FEMA funding will be exhausted soon due to the faster than expected drawdown to address Hurricane Maria claims. In addition to the $15 billion, Texas cities will also have access to a $4.9 billion pool for grants for Community Disaster Loans. These loans help communities with revenue losses due to disasters, so the communities can pay for police and fire protection and other critical local needs during their recovery. “Our top priority is to make sure money doesn’t run out in the next few weeks for Texas homeowners eager to rebuild their homes, as well as communities counting on FEMA funding for temporary housing, debris removal and infrastructure repairs for roads and schools,” said Representatives John Culberson of Houston, John Carter of Round Rock, and Kay Granger of Fort Worth, chairmen of key Appropriations Committee panels in Congress. “These emergency needs require action right now or a lot of Texans will be hurt. We are keeping our eyes focused on the long term recovery needs for Texas, which could exceed $100 billion and we will continue to work closely with Governor Abbott and our community leaders to secure that funding in the weeks ahead.”
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The establishment of DACA under President Obama was a clear example of the Executive Branch going around Congress to create a law. Now is the time for Congress to work together to find consensus on a permanent legislative solution. For more information about Congresswoman Granger and her work as chair of the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, please visit: https://kaygranger.house.gov/.
09.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Harvey caused unprecedented devastation and hundreds of thousands of people are suffering. That is why today we are announcing that the House Appropriations Committee released an assistance package to provide disaster relief and recovery funding urgently needed by the individuals, families and communities who were in Harvey’s path. This is the initial assistance package needed to address the massive destruction. Congress will act swiftly to ensure this assistance gets to those in need. It is vital that those affected by this extraordinary disaster receive the federal resources required to begin to recover and rebuild. I have been awed by the response of the State of Texas, first responders and volunteers over the past week. Texans are strong and resilient; we will recover from this devastation. For more information about Congresswoman Granger and her work as chair of the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, please visit: https://kaygranger.house.gov/. ###
08.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Kay Granger (R-Texas), chairwoman of the House Defense Appropriations panel, today released the following statement on the Trump administration’s plans for the war in Afghanistan: “I wholeheartedly support the President’s decision to follow Defense Secretary James Mattis’ recommendation to increase troop levels in Afghanistan. This modest increase will allow us to provide better support to the Afghan security forces and ensure we continue to have a strong ally in the fight against terrorism. In addition, it is important that Pakistan is working with us to deny terrorists a safe haven.”
08.17.2017	"The recent events in Charlottesville are abhorrent and are not representative of the core values and morals of the United States. As a nation, we can have a civil debate over the differences in our beliefs, but we must condemn white supremacist groups like the KKK and neo-Nazis that promote bigotry, antisemitism, racism, and violence. Freedom and liberty are the foundations of this country, and therefore it is incumbent upon us as Americans to take a stand against such despicable acts of hatred." - Congresswoman Kay Granger, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Anti-Semitism Caucus in the U.S. House of Representatives.
08.07.2017	BY KAY GRANGER Originally published in the Star-Telegram on Aug. 4, 2017 Human trafficking isn't something we think of as being a major problem in America, but the truth is that adults and youth are being forced into prostitution and unpaid labor in our own backyard at an alarming rate. No community in America is immune to the scourge of human trafficking, including our corner of North Texas. The trafficking of people for the purpose of enriching the traffickers — whether the victims are brought across our borders illegally or recruited from our most vulnerable neighbors — is the fastest-growing criminal industry in the world. More than 20 million victims are affected worldwide, according to the International Labor Organization. The majority of those victims are forced to work for little or no wages, many of them in the commercial sex trade. More than a quarter are children. Every night across America, human traffickers prey on lost boys and girls, selling them through force or coercion for sex in big cities and small towns from coast to coast. Human trafficking has become a major human rights crisis that is overwhelming the limited resources of our local law enforcement agencies and destroying the lives of a generation of victims. Incidents of human trafficking in the United States saw a 35.7 percent increase in 2016, compared with the previous year, according to the National Human Trafficking Hotline, which received 7,572 reports of trafficking last year. As a senior member of the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee and co-chair of the House Human Trafficking Caucus, I have met with the victims of trafficking and witnessed the emotional devastation caused by being forced into slavery. The trafficking of men, women and children for the purpose of exploitation is a horrendous crime that has no place in our society. The average age of girls who are sold into prostitution for the first time is between 8 and 13, and hundreds of teenagers are trafficked every night in the Fort Worth-Dallas area. Texas is among of the top two states in the nation, after California, for reported incidents of human trafficking, and the Dallas-Fort Worth area has the second-highest number of cases in the state after Houston. A recent University of Texas report estimates there are more than 300,000 victims of human trafficking across the state, including almost 79,000 children forced into the commercial sex trade by traffickers and nearly 234,000 adult victims of labor trafficking. North Texas is a favorite target for modern-day slavers because of its relative proximity to the border and the convenient access to major highways and airports that make transporting victims to the rest of the country easy. The increasing number of human trafficking cases in Tarrant County — 26 cases between January and April alone, compared with 62 in all of 2016 — has spurred a grassroots effort led by former and current elected officials and civic leaders to better protect victims and more aggressively prosecutes those who prey on them. Part of that initiative is the Fort Worth Police Department’s Tarrant County Five-Stones Human Trafficking Taskforce, which includes federal and local law enforcement agencies working in partnership with community organizations, nonprofits, concerned citizens, and elected officials from all levels of government to end human trafficking. Another worthy effort in the fight to end human trafficking is the Blue Lightning Initiative, a partnership between U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Department of Transportation, and the aviation industry, including Fort Worth-based American Airlines. The initiative trains flight crews and other airline personnel to identify and report possible instances of human trafficking. Traffickers often use fear and coercion to manipulate youth into engaging in the commercial sex trade and then keep most, if not all, of the profits. The Internet plays a significant role in sex trafficking and is often the way traffickers first find and connect with victims. In response to this growing epidemic, the House has this year passed 16 anti-trafficking and exploitation bills to provide greater support for victims and make available additional resources for law enforcement to track down and punish traffickers. No single piece of legislation will end human trafficking, but every bill brings greater attention to this problem hiding in plain sight and further empowers victims to regain control of their lives. Together with the efforts of community leaders and organizations in and around Fort Worth, we can curb the horrific damage caused by human trafficking and child exploitation. We can all play a part in combating human trafficking and protecting the most vulnerable among us. I encourage you to learn the warning signs that may indicate that someone is being trafficked, volunteer to do victim outreach, and teach your children to identify dangerous situations and how to avoid potential traffickers. If you suspect someone is being trafficked, please call the National Human Trafficking Hotline at (888) 373-7888.Kay Granger serves North Texas in the U.S. House.
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Kay Granger (R-Texas) today applauded the passage of the $658 billion Defense Appropriations bill as a major step toward the rebuilding and modernization of the military. “Our highest priority is the security of the American people, which is why I congratulate my colleagues today for passing the ‘Make America Secure Appropriations Act,’ which includes the defense spending bill,” said Granger, chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. “The bill will increase end strength, improve military readiness, modernization and investment in future technology. The bill, which was approved by the House as part of a 'minibus' package of four appropriation bills, establishes a $28.6 billion National Defense Restoration Fund that will enable Defense Secretary James Mattis to recommend to Congress investments to modernize the armed forces based on a new defense strategy expected in September. Since becoming chair of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Granger has made it a priority to listen first and foremost to U.S. defense and intelligence experts so that Congress ensures our armed forces have what they need to face both current and future threats. “After years of cuts, it’s time to rebuild our military and restore combat readiness. The defense spending bill we passed today provides funding for more troops, more equipment, and more training,” Granger said. “It provides Secretary Mattis with the resources he needs to address military readiness and also begin critical investments in increasing capabilities, lethality, and modernization.” Granger believes there should be no uncertainty when it comes to our national defense. Increased funding for defense is urgent because the world is increasingly dangerous and unstable. “Our adversaries are emboldened. We must ensure that our military is prepared to confront anyone who threatens us. This can only be done by reversing the years of budget instability, defense spending caps, and continuous cuts that have undermined our military readiness,” Granger said. “I am proud to say that the defense appropriations bill we advanced today begins the process of putting our country’s security on the right path and I urge the Senate to take it up and pass it quickly.”
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Texas), chairwoman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, today delivered the following statement on the House floor in support of the Fiscal Year 2018 defense appropriations bill: "Today we consider the 'Make America Secure Appropriations Act,' which includes the defense appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2018. I ask all members for their support on this very important legislation. "Congress’s number one responsibility is to provide for the defense of this nation. It is this bill that fulfills that most fundamental constitutional duty. "This is urgent because the world is more dangerous and unstable than any time in recent history. "North Korea is increasing the frequency of their missile tests, threatening American soil and our allies. On the Fourth of July, they launched an intercontinental ballistic missile. "Russia continues to create instability in the Ukraine, the Baltics, and the Balkans. They recklessly support and protect President Assad, the tyrant who has murdered thousands of Syrian men, women, and children. These actions hinder our fight against ISIS. "China is militarizing the South China Sea and modernizing their military at an alarming pace. Just this week, Chinese fighter jets flew close to a U.S. Navy reconnaissance aircraft in an aggressive and dangerous manner. "Iran is increasing their influence in Iraq, Syria, and Yemen and they remain hostile. Just yesterday, an Iranian vessel pursued a U.S. Navy ship at high speed in the Persian Gulf forcing our ship to fire warning shots to halt the aggression. "Meanwhile, ISIS and al-Qaeda terrorists continue to spread their perverted version of Islam across Europe, Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. "All of our adversaries are acting in an aggressive and emboldened manner. We must ensure that the U.S. military is prepared to confront anyone who threatens us. This can only be done by reversing the years of budget instability, sequestration, and continuous cuts. "Since becoming chair, I have made it my priority to listen first and foremost to our defense and intelligence experts, and this bill before you reflects their expert advice. "This bill provides Secretary of Defense Mattis the resources he needs to rebuild our military and form a new national defense strategy. "It has been an honor to work with my ranking member, Mr. Visclosky, who has played a valuable role in this process. "I want to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen, Ranking Member Lowey, and all the members of the Defense Subcommittee for their involvement and contributions. "I would like to thank the staff of the Defense Subcommittee: Jennifer Miller, Sherry Young, Walter Hearne, Brooke Boyer, B.G. Wright, Adrienne Ramsay, Allison Deters, Cornell Teague, Collin Lee, and Matt Bower. As well as Rebecca Leggieri, Jennifer Chartrand, and Chris Bigelow on the minority staff. "From the personal staff: Johnnie Kaberle, Jason Schenck, Joe DeVooght, Adam Kahnke. "In closing, I must remind the House that Secretary Mattis told us that, 'Without sustained, sufficient, and predictable funding, I assess that within five years we will lose our ability to project power, the basis of how we defend the homeland, advance U.S. interests, and meet our alliance commitments.' "To ensure this does not happen, the bill includes $28.6 billion, above the president’s request, for a national defense restoration fund. We must keep this funding intact. "We need to heed Secretary Mattis’s warning and give our military what it needs – no less. This is not a partisan issue. Again, I ask all my colleagues for their support." Video of Congresswoman Granger's floor speech is available here. For more information about Congresswoman Granger and her work as Chair of the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee please visit kaygranger.house.gov.
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Texas), chairwoman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, on Tuesday issued the following statement on House passage of legislation to impose new sanctions on Russia, Iran, and North Korea: “The legislation we passed today will increase economic and political pressure on Russia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and North Korea. It sends a strong message to our adversaries that aggression against our interests will not be tolerated. I urge the Senate to take up and pass this important legislation quickly so that the president can sign it into law.”
07.21.2017	Fort Worth, Texas – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fl.) toured a flood-control project on Friday at the invitation of Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Texas). Diaz-Balart, Chairman of the House Appropriations Transportation Subcommittee, issued the following statement after visiting the headquarters of the Trinity River Vision (TRV) project: “The Trinity River flows through the heart of Fort Worth and is an important part of the culture and economy of the city. For over 25 years, Congresswoman Granger has strongly advocated for the rehabilitation of the Trinity River, and it is clear why it remains one of her top priorities,” Diaz-Balart said. “Continued revitalization projects to the river and surrounding area will not only improve infrastructure, but will also make way for added recreation and entertainment spaces. Thanks to the Congresswoman’s tenacious leadership, the project received $526 million in federal funding in last year’s Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act. I thank Congresswoman Granger for inviting me to join her on this tour, and look forward learning about the positive impact the completed project will have on Fort Worth.” Granger has been a staunch proponent of the project, which will provide badly needed flood protection along the Trinity River, while also adding infrastructure improvements, environmental restoration, new housing, and recreation to the area. “I am a strong supporter of the Trinity River Vision project. The project will restore the river’s surrounding environment, increase Fort Worth’s quality of life, and help sustain the economic health of the central city, which has been constrained by the levee system,” Granger said. “This project presents an opportunity for Fort Worth and Tarrant County to restore the river as a focal point for all citizens rather than being separated from the city by high levees.” The TRV project is a global approach to addressing local flood risks and is a model partnership with all levels of government participating, including the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Texas Department of Transportation, Fort Worth, Tarrant County, and the Tarrant Regional Water District. “I want to thank Chairman Diaz-Balart for taking the time to come to Fort Worth with me and see firsthand how important the Trinity River Vision project is to the district,” Granger said. “I am confident that this experience will lead to broader support for this important infrastructure project in Congress.”
07.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Texas) issued the following statement on Sen. John McCain: “John McCain is one of the toughest men I know. He’s never been one to shy away from a fight and I don’t expect him to do so this time. My thoughts and prayers are with John and his family.”
07.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Texas) was honored yesterday at a Sunset Parade at the Marine Corps War Memorial in Arlington, Virginia. Granger, who serves as chairwoman of the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, was recognized Tuesday evening at the traditional summer parade for her sustained commitment to America’s servicemen and women. “During my time in Congress, I have always sought to serve in positions where I could help the military and strengthen our national security,” said Granger, who has served in the House since 1997. “We live in a dangerous world, and we depend on the Marines Corps and all of our service members to keep us safe and maintain stability around the globe. Now is the time to invest in the modernization of our military to ensure it is stronger than ever.” Deputy Commandant for Aviation Lt. Gen. Steve Rudder said Granger is known for being “hard-working, honest, and fair” and thanked her for her support of the military. “It was a great honor to be recognized by the Marine Corps with a traditional Sunset Parade,” Granger said after the evening parade. “I want to thank Lt. Gen. Rudder and the Commander of the Marine Barracks Washington, Col. Tyler Zagurski for inviting me to be a part of this wonderful tradition.” Since September 1956, marching and musical units from Marine Barracks, Washington, D.C., have presented Sunset Parades in front of the U.S. Marine Corps War Memorial from May to August.
07.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Texas) today released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee approved a balanced and responsible energy and water spending bill. The bipartisan bill provides badly needed investments in Army Corps of Engineers’ water infrastructure and flood-control projects like the Trinity River Vision project in Fort Worth. “The Trinity River Vision project will improve the quality of life and livability of Fort Worth by addressing the area’s chronic flooding problems,” said Granger, who voted for the energy and water bill as a member of the full Appropriations Committee. “I have long been a supporter of the Trinity River project and I am proud that this bill will help advance it.” The transformational Trinity River Vision project will improve flood protection along 88 miles of the river and eliminate the need for the existing levee system in the center of Fort Worth, opening up the riverbank area for recreation and urban revitalization. The bill provides the Army Corps of Engineers nearly $6.2 billion for fiscal year 2018, an increase of $120 million above the current funding level and $1.2 billion above the President’s budget request. “This bill is good for Fort Worth and good for the country,” Granger said. “We need to improve flood control along our river area and open up the area to recreation and economic development for the benefit of the whole community.” The bill is now ready for consideration by the full House.
07.12.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger on Wednesday joined her House colleagues in standing up for victims of human trafficking and providing law enforcement additional resources to better protect vulnerable women and children from exploitation and slavery. “The enslavement of humans for the purpose of prostitution or forced labor is not something we think about as happening here in America, but the truth is that human trafficking affects every region of our country. North Texas is not immune,” Granger said. “The legislation we passed today will help crack down on human traffickers and strengthen protections for at-risk youth.” A recent University of Texas report estimates there are more than 300,000 victims of human trafficking in Texas, including almost 79,000 children victims of sex trafficking and nearly 234,000 adult victims of labor trafficking. The House on Wednesday passed three bills targeting human traffickers: Enhancing Detection of Human Trafficking Act (HR 2664) would ensure the U.S. Department of Labor effectively trains its employees to recognize and respond to the illegal trade of people for exploitation or commercial gain; Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act (HR 2480) would enable states and local governments to use Justice Department Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grants to combat human trafficking; Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act (HR 2200) would reauthorize $130 million for the prevention of human trafficking, protection of victims, and prosecution of traffickers. Nationwide, incidents of human trafficking rose 35.7 percent in 2016 over the previous year, according to the National Human Trafficking Hotline. The hotline received 7,572 reports of trafficking in America last year. Texas was the state with the second highest number of cases with 670. Since its founding in 2007, the hotline has received 145,764 reports of human trafficking across the United States. The International Labor Organization estimates that 20.9 million people are trafficked globally. Of those, 68 percent are subjected to forced labor, 26 percent are children and 55 percent are women and girls. “We must do better to protect the most vulnerable among us,” Granger said. “While legislation alone will not solve human trafficking, these bills reflect our continued commitment as a caucus to eradicating this scourge and giving victims a chance at a brighter future.”
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – House Defense Appropriations Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-Texas) today delivered the following opening statement at the full House Appropriations Committee’s markup of the defense spending bill: “Today we are marking up the defense appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2018. “Congress’s number one responsibility is to provide for the defense of this nation. It is this bill that fulfills that most fundamental constitutional duty. “The world is more dangerous and unstable than any time in recent history. Our adversaries – North Korea, Russia, China, and Iran – continue to become more aggressive. Terrorist threats from ISIS, al Qaeda and their affiliates continue. Technological advances are creating new and more lethal threats. “Since becoming chair, I have made it my priority to listen first and foremost to our defense and intelligence experts so that we can ensure they have what they need to face both current and future threats. “The bill before you reflects the advice we received from them. It provides Secretary Mattis with the resources he needs to implement his plan to restore our military. “The subcommittee held numerous briefings, hearings, and hot spots meetings to ensure we had the most accurate and current information needed to write this bill. “It has been an honor to work with my ranking member, Mr. Visclosky. His knowledge and passion for our national security have been extremely valuable. “I want to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Lowey. Your strong leadership enables this subcommittee to do what is necessary to provide for our national security. I also want to thank all members of the committee and subcommittee for your ideas on how we can best address the needs of our military. This bill incorporates your ideas and priorities. The bill also takes into account the over 5,000 requests submitted by our committee and House colleagues. “Today we are taking the next step to help Secretary Mattis’ plan by continuing to address military readiness but also beginning critical investments in increasing capabilities, lethality, and modernization. “The bill provides a total of $658 billion for Fiscal Year 2018. This is $28 billion above the president’s request, and $60 billion over last year. The levels in the bill match the levels of the authorization committee. “General Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said, ‘The U.S. military’s competitive advantage against potential adversaries is eroding. Over the last decade, sustained operational commitments, budgetary instability, and advances by our adversaries have threatened our ability to project power, and we have lost our advantage in key warfighting areas.’” This bill addresses his concerns regarding readiness and modernization requirements by: Fully funding end-strength growth requested in the budget; Fully funding the 2.4 percent pay; $1 billion above the request for key programs to prepare our troops, including the national guard and reserve, for training, equipment, maintenance, spare parts and base operations. Depot maintenance is funded at $16.6 billion to get our planes and ships back in working order. $1.1 billion above the request for army ground mobility, including $855 million to ensure our Army brigade combat teams are fully equipped; $4.3 billion above the request to maintain our air superiority. The bill increases quantities of key platforms such as Joint Strike Fighters, Super Hornets, Chinooks, Lakotas, Ospreys, Black Hawks, and C-130s; $1.6 billion added above the request to provide for 11 Navy ships, including one carrier replacement, three littoral combat ships, two guided missile destroyers, two attack submarines, and one expeditionary sea-base; Full funding to continue the Ohio replacement submarine program; $84 billion, an increase of $10 billion over the current year, for research, development, test, and evaluation to ensure we can maintain our technological edge against our adversaries; $37 billion for defense health programs, including $644 million for critical research programs. “Secretary Mattis said, ‘Without sustained, sufficient, and predictable funding, I assess that within five years we will lose our ability to project power; the basis of how we defend the homeland, advance U.S. interests and meet our alliance commitments.’ To ensure this does not happen the bill includes $28.6 billion, above the president’s request, for a National Defense Restoration Fund. This fund is available to the Secretary to increase end strength, improve military readiness, modernize equipment, and invest in future technology, subject to appropriate congressional oversight. “The secretary and the Joint Staff are expected to deliver a new defense strategy in September, a much-needed update to the last review conducted in 2014. The results of that review will inform the investments we need to make to rebuild our military. “The Defense Restoration Fund will enable the Secretary to make necessary investments resulting from that review now, instead of having to wait until 2019. “We have had an incredibly compressed timeline to put this bill together, and we have produced a bill we can all be proud of. Both majority and minority staff have done an incredible job to put this bill together, and we all owe them our sincere gratitude. Without their commitment and ability to work without sleep, we could not have put this bill together. I thank the majority and minority staff for really wonderful work. “Our military has made it very clear that must provide predictable funding. Secretary Mattis told the subcommittee that ‘continuing resolutions -- coupled with sequestration -- blocked new programs, prevented service growth, stalled industries' initiatives and placed troops at greater risk.’ “We must listen to our military leaders and pass the FY18 Defense Appropriations bill out of committee today.”
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Kay Granger (R-Texas) today issued the following statement on the Trump administration’s decision to rescind the expanded definition of “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) under the Clean Water Act: “Today’s decision from the Environmental Protection Agency to withdraw the WOTUS rule and restore some commonsense to our national regulatory system is good news for Texans,” Rep. Granger said. “The rule as expanded under the previous administration was a dramatic example of federal overreach and would have had devastating effects on our state.”
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Kay Granger, R-Texas, joined her colleagues from the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combatting Anti-Semitism today in sending a letter to the European Parliament congratulating it for adopting a working definition of anti­Semitism. “The frequency and scale of anti-Semitic incidents in both the United States and Europe over the past few years have been deeply alarming. From large-scale attacks, such as the 2012 assault on a Jewish school in Toulouse, to smaller but all too common incidents of harassment and vandalism, European Jewish communities often fear for their safety and deserve a strong message of support from their governments,” the letter from the co-chairs of the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combatting Anti-Semitism states. The European Parliament’s resolution, which includes a working definition of anti-Semitism adopted from the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, encourages European Union member states to monitor and prevent anti-Semitic violence and prosecute perpetrators. The signers of today’s letter encouraged individual European Union member states to adopt the definition as well. Of the states participating in the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, only Austria, Romania, and the United Kingdom have formally adopted the definition. “Following the recent passage of the working definition of anti-Semitism, we strongly encourage all EU­member national parliaments to formally adopt the definition and commit to greater action against anti-Semitism. Anti-Semites must understand that there is no place for anti-Jewish bigotry, and European Jewish communities must be assured that their governments will do all they can to keep them safe,” the letter states. A copy of the full letter is attached. In addition to Rep. Granger, the letter was signed by Reps. Lowey (D-NY), C. Smith (R-NJ), Engel (D-NY), Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Veasey (D-TX), and Roskam (R-IL), Reps. Meng (D-NY), Rosen (D-NV), Cohen (D-TN), Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Meeks (D-NY), Frankel (D-FL), Nadler (D-NY), Quigley (D-IL), Green (D-TX), Sires (D-NJ), Schiff (D-CA), Schneider (D-IL), Lieu (D-CA), Napolitano (D-CA), Sherman (D-CA), Norcross (D-NJ), Bilirakis (R-FL), Raskin (D-MD), P. King (R-NY), Gottheimer (D-NJ), Rice (D-NY), Lowenthal (D-CA), Boyle (D-PA), and Schakowsky (D-IL).
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Kay Granger (R-Texas), chairwoman of the House Defense Appropriations panel, today said President Trump's budget request for the Pentagon falls short of what's needed to ensure military readiness and said mandatory spending caps imposed by the Budget Control Act of 2011 must be removed. "After extensive conversations with our military leaders, I am concerned that the FY18 defense budget request is not enough to address the shortfalls and damage caused by years of underfunding," Granger said in opening remarks at the subcommittee's hearing on the Department of Defense’s fiscal year 2018 budget request. "The budget caps have exacerbated the problem and must be repealed." The president's budget proposal calls for spending $603 billion on national defense over the next decade. Granger has said that number is probably where the appropriations committee would end up given divisions over defense vs. non-defense spending. on Thursday, though, she made clear that she does not think the president's request is equal to the need. “For many years, the military leadership has said they would get the mission done no matter the level of funding they received. This is no longer possible and it is our job to make sure our military has what it needs to face the many threats to our nation," Granger said. "While the president's proposal represents a down payment on our national security, we must do better." Granger said it will take several years of increased funding to undo the cumulative effect of sequestration, budget uncertainty, and continuing resolutions have had on the military, and she urged her colleagues on the appropriations committee to take the challenge seriously. “All federal dollars are not the same," she said. "During a time when we face threats from Russia, China, North Korea, ISIS, and other terrorist groups, we must prioritize our defense funding first." “It is my hope that we can find a bipartisan common ground to give our military the robust support that our service chiefs and combatant commanders tell us they desperately need." Granger said. "But as chair of defense appropriations, I will base my budget decisions on our national security needs – not the other way around." "Our adversaries are rapidly advancing their tactics and their capabilities. The defense appropriations bill must ensure our capabilities remain more advanced and more lethal than our adversaries. The last thing we want to give our enemies is a 'fair' fight."
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Kay Granger, R-Texas, chairwoman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following opening statement at this morning’s hearing on the Department of Defense’s fiscal year 2018 budget request: “Since becoming chair of the Defense Subcommittee, I have said the defense bill would be based on the needs of the military and the best military advice from our leaders in uniform. Unfortunately, after extensive conversations with our military leaders, I am concerned that the FY18 defense budget request is not enough to address the shortfalls and damage caused by years of underfunding. The budget caps have exacerbated the problem and must be repealed. “For many years, military leadership has said they would get the mission done no matter the level of funding they received. This is no longer possible and it is our job to make sure our military has what it needs to face the many threats to our nation. “All federal dollars are not the same. During a time when we face threats from Russia, China, North Korea, ISIS, and other terrorist groups, we must prioritize our defense funding first. Our adversaries are rapidly advancing their tactics and their capabilities. “The FY18 appropriations bill must ensure our capabilities remain more advanced and more lethal than our adversaries. The last thing we want to give our enemies is a “fair” fight. “Gen. Dunford, in 2012, your predecessor Gen. Dempsey testified that we were living in the most dangerous era in his lifetime. That was true when he made the statement and the world is so much more dangerous today. “Unfortunately, I am concerned that the FY18 budget request does not go far enough. Our senior military leaders tell us this is the minimum level needed to stop the deterioration of our military readiness. as you have said, Sec. Mattis, it will take years of increased funding to get us to where we need to be, and this budget request should be viewed as the first step for what is truly needed to rebuild our national defense. “This FY18 budget process is especially complicated and we have a big job in front of us, and little time to complete it. The world is not standing still and the threats of today and tomorrow are not waiting on our budget cycle. “It is my hope that we can find a bipartisan common ground to give our military the robust support that our service chiefs and combatant commanders tell us they desperately need. This is where our witnesses come in, to help us clarify what we need to do.” For more information about Chairman Granger and her commitment as chair of the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, please visit: https://kaygranger.house.gov/.
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Kay Granger, R-Texas, today issued the following statement on the shooting of Rep. Steve Scalise, R-La, a congressional staffer, and two Capitol Police officers this morning at a congressional baseball practice in Alexandria, Virginia: “My prayers this morning are with my colleague, Rep. Scalise, and the other victims of this senseless and cowardly act of violence,” Granger said. “I want to thank the Capitol Police who were at the park this morning for their quick response and selfless dedication. We are all Americans, and we must stand together against any attempt to divide us.”
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Texas) welcomed House passage of legislation to assist religious minorities in Iraq and Syria that have been victims of genocide by Islamic State forces. The Iraq and Syria Genocide Emergency Relief and Accountability Act of 2017 (H.R. 390) passed the U.S. House of Representatives on Tuesday evening by unanimous consent. The bipartisan legislation was authored by Rep. Chris Smith (R-N.J.), and Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA). “The horrific slaughter of men, women, and children that has occurred in Iraq and Syria because they refused to convert to Islam is a crime against humanity,” said Rep. Granger, who is a cosponsor of the legislation. “We must make every effort to protect the tens of thousands of Christians and other minorities who remain in the region. The legislation approved by my colleagues in the House last night will help religious charities and other humanitarian groups that are providing badly needed aid to survivors and help hold those responsible for these crimes to justice.” The bill directs the U.S. State Department to provide assistance to entities taking specified criminal and judicial actions against individuals who suspected of committing genocide, crimes against humanity, or war crimes in Iraq since January 2014 and in Syria since March 2011. This legislation would help Christians, Yazidis, and other religious and ethnic minorities targeted by Islamic extremists. In 2000, there were nearly 1.5 million Christians living in Iraq. Today there are fewer than 250,000. Those who remain face constant persecution. Among the provisions, the bill would direct the administration to: Support entities that are effectively serving genocide survivors in-country, including faith-based entities; Support entities that are conducting criminal investigations into perpetrators of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes in Iraq and Syria; Create a designation that Christians and other genocide survivors from religious and ethnic minority communities are of “special humanitarian concern to the United States” and therefore able to access an overseas application interview for the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program without needing a referral from the UN; Vet refugee applicants like any other Iraqi or Syrian refugee applicant and not admit them to the U.S. unless they have cleared this vetting; Assess and address the humanitarian vulnerabilities, needs, and triggers that might force survivors to flee their homes; Identify warning signs of deadly violence and other forms of persecution against genocide survivors from vulnerable religious and ethnic minority communities, or against other members of these communities, in Iraq or Syria. The legislation, which has the support of the Family Research Council, Aid to Church in Need USA, Christian Solidarity Worldwide, In Defense of Christians, International Christian Concern, Iraqi Christian Human Rights Council, and U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, now heads to the Senate. ### For further information, please contact Robert Dillon at (202) 285 6783 or visit our website at kaygranger.house.gov.
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) today released the following statement on the White House budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2018: "Our military leaders have all emphatically told me that they urgently need more personnel, funding for maintenance, modernization, training, and equipment. The President’s budget is a start,” Rep. Granger said. “As the defense appropriations chairwoman, it’s my job to make sure our leaders in uniform have the resources they need to protect the nation. To that end, we will look closely at the defense budget to make sure our priorities are where they should be. In my opinion, there is no higher duty than making sure our joint forces have what they need to keep America safe.” For more information about Congresswoman Granger and her work as chair of the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, please visit: https://kaygranger.house.gov/.
05.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Kay Granger (Texas) and Brenda Lawrence (Mich.) along with Senators Roy Blunt (Mo.) and Amy Klobuchar (Minn.) yesterday introduced the Vulnerable Children and Families Act. The measure would help more children living without families or in institutional care find permanent homes by enhancing U.S. diplomatic efforts around international child welfare and ensuring that intercountry adoption to the United States becomes a more viable and fully-developed option. “The future of the world rests on the shoulders of today’s children. We owe it to them to do everything we can to make sure they grow up in safe and loving homes,” Granger said. “This legislation will make it easier for families looking at international adoption to provide a permanent home for some of the world’s most vulnerable children and help ensure they grow up to be productive adults.” “Millions of children across the world are in need of a permanent, loving family,” Lawrence said. “There is a clear need for permanency in this country and abroad. This bill helps ensure that the child welfare systems in the United States and abroad are working efficiently and effectively to provide permanent and safe homes to all children.” “Every child deserves a permanent, safe, loving home no matter where they are born,” Blunt said. “Unfortunately, there are millions of children across the world who are growing up without the security and stability that comes with family-based care. This bill will help connect more children in need of permanent homes with families in the United States and around the world that are eager to adopt.” “As the co-chair of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption and a senator from Minnesota, a state with one of the highest rates of international adoption in the country, I have seen firsthand the power of adoption,” Klobuchar said. “We can and must do more to help countries abroad develop their own domestic adoption programs while also strengthening opportunities for international adoption. That’s why Senator Blunt and I introduced this bipartisan legislation to ensure that our government is working in partnership with other countries to help ensure that children grow up in safe and nurturing families.” The United Nations Children’s Fund estimates that 13 million children across the globe have lost both parents, and as many as eight million children are living in institutional care. Despite the clear need for more permanent homes for these children, the number of international adoptions into the United States has decreased by 72 percent since 2004. The legislation is supported by the National Council for Adoption, American Academy of Adoption Attorneys, Saddleback Church, Harvard Law School Child Advocacy Program, Bethany Christian Services, Nourished Hearts, Center for Adoption Policy, and Gladney Center for Adoption. Blunt, Klobuchar, and Lawrence serve as co-chairs of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption. The Vulnerable Children and Families Act: · Ensures that international child welfare and efforts to provide permanent and safe homes for vulnerable children are a central part of international diplomacy and U.S. foreign policy within the State Department; · Replaces the current U.S. Department of State Office of Children’s Issues with an Office of Vulnerable Children and Family Security. This office would build international capacity to implement effective child welfare systems, with particular focus on family preservation and reunification, domestic adoption, and intercountry adoption; · Creates a new annual report to Congress on the technical assistance being provided to foreign countries to promote family-based permanence under the act; and · Strengthens coordination between the Office of Vulnerable Children and Family Security and the Special Advisor for Children in Adversity at the United States Agency for International Development, and ensures the two offices are working together to implement the objectives outlined in the 2012 Action Plan on Children in Adversity.
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after voting for passage of the American Health Care Act, which repeals some of the most burdensome taxes and penalties affecting families in the 12th District. “For the last seven years, Republicans have promised to repeal Obamacare,” Congresswoman Granger said. “Today we took the first step towards keeping that commitment. This legislation eliminates burdensome taxes and the harmful individual and employer mandates. It also nearly doubles the amount of money that Americans can save for medical expenses and empowers states to design programs to provide assistance to the most vulnerable. While the American Health Care Act is not perfect, passage in the House of Representatives is an important first step. The bill will now go to the Senate where there will be opportunities for improvement. “Many of my constituents have expressed their serious concerns about coverage of pre-existing conditions. I share their concerns and think it is vital that Congress guarantees that people with these conditions are protected. That is why the American Health Care Act prohibits insurance companies from denying coverage to our most vulnerable and provides states the flexibility to do what works best for their citizen’s unique needs. “Before Obamacare, many states had high-risk pools for individuals with pre-existing conditions and Texas had one of the most successful pools in the nation. It is clear that states are better equipped than the federal government to provide adequate care for its most at risk citizens and it is no surprise that many of my constituents have asked for the return of high-risk pools. That is exactly what this bill does.” # # #
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, released the following statement after the United States conducted a targeted military strike in Syria. “Tonight, the White House made me aware that the United States would no longer stand idly by as President Assad slaughters his own people. I cannot more strongly applaud President Trump's decisive actions against the Government of Syria. For years we have watched as the Syrian people endured unimaginable atrocities at the hand of their own government. The world cannot allow this type of evil to go unchecked. Tonight the United States has shown we are ready to lead the fight.”
03.09.2017	Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1301, the FY17 Department of Defense Appropriations Act. The world is more dangerous and unstable than any time is recent history. The U.S. and our allies face constant threats from countries including Iran, Russia, China, and North Korea. ISIS and other global terrorists threaten our very way of life. Our number one responsibility as Members of Congress is to provide for the defense of this nation. I commend Chairman Frelinghuysen for the outstanding job he did drafting the FY17 bill. He deserves our thanks for producing such a significant and meaningful bill. Since becoming the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman, I have spent a lot of time talking to senior defense leadership to find out what they need to combat these threats. They have unanimously stated that the only thing our adversaries respect is strength and they need this bill passed to ensure our military is as strong and effective as possible. Sequestration and reduced budget requests have caused the military to be underfunded for too long. This bill begins the process of rebuilding our military and giving our warfighters the resources they need to counter the numerous, complex threats around the world. This bill reverses the drawdown of end strength and instead increases it by 36,000 troops above the FY17 budget request. This bill reverses steep cuts to procurement by funding additional ships and aircraft to modernize our weapons systems and address shortfalls. This is important because we have the smallest number of ships in the Navy since 1916 and the average age of an air force aircraft is 27 years old. Marine aviation squadrons have been forced to salvage parts from museums in order to keep planes flying. In every meeting I have had with defense leadership, they emphasize the devastating impact both sequestration and operating under a continuing resolution have on our security. When asked about the impact of a full year C.R. General Goldfein, Chief of Staff of the Air Force said, “there is no enemy on the planet that can do more damage to the United States Air Force than us not getting a budget.” Our military is counting on us to pass this bill now. It is the only way to ensure the United States will be strong and able to lead in this very dangerous world. I strongly urge a yes vote. Mr. Chairman, I yield back my time. # # # The video of this statement can be viewed here.
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX), Chair of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced the hiring of a retired Navy Captain with years of experience at the Pentagon as her new Chief of Staff. “Captain Eric Wiese brings more than 20 years of leadership as a Navy officer including serving as the Deputy Director of the Navy Appropriations Liaison Office at the Pentagon,” Granger said. “He has vast experience in forming legislative strategy and in appropriations work. He will be invaluable to my work as we look to increase our investment in defense after years of decline during the Obama administration.” Prior to serving as Deputy Director of the Navy Appropriations Liaison Office, Captain Wiese served as Commodore of the Patrol and Reconnaissance Wing ELEVEN in Jacksonville, Florida. He has also served as an action officer at the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Pentagon where he helped create the annual blueprint for worldwide deployment of U.S. military forces. Captain Wiese graduated from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1990 and holds graduate degrees from the U.S. Naval War College and the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School. Johnnie Kaberle will remain the Chairwoman’s Deputy Chief of Staff and lead on defense appropriations issues. Kaberle has served on Capitol Hill since 1994 and has spent two decades working on National Security and Appropriations issues, including six years on the leadership team of then House Majority Whip Roy Blunt (R-MO). “As I take over the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I am thrilled to have in place a very experienced team ready to take the lead at Defense Appropriations and begin the vital work of restoring our military strength,” Granger added. For more information about Congresswoman Granger and her work as Chair of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, please visit: https://kaygranger.house.gov/.
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) and Congressman Lee Zeldin (R-NY) today introduced the Safeguard Israel Act. Last month, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution that unfairly targeted our longtime U.S. ally Israel and undermined direct peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. The Safeguard Israel Act will cut off funding to the United Nations until the President certifies to Congress that United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 has been repealed. “I meant it when I said that the United States should seriously reexamine our financial support of the United Nations,” Congresswoman Granger said. “The recent one-sided, anti-Israel resolution that passed the U.N. Security Council was only the latest example of the U.N.’s warped priorities and hostility toward our friend and democratic ally. I am proud to introduce this legislation with Congressman Zeldin which shows the American people, Israel and our allies around the world that we stand with them against attempts to undermine and delegitimize them.” Congressman Zeldin said, “United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 is an anti-Israel, anti-Jewish attempt on behalf of Pro-Palestinian nations to delegitimize Israel and ethnically cleanse East Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria of the Jewish people. I am proud to join with Congresswoman Granger to introduce the Safeguard Israel Act. It is disgraceful that the United Nations Security Council passed this resolution at the start of Hanukkah; a celebration of the Macabees' fight for freedom on this same very land that this resolution seeks to remove the Jewish people from. The United Nations is becoming a force for everything it was created to fight against. This resolution shamefully crosses a red line and the United States should suspend any more funding to the United Nations until this resolution is repealed.” Senators Ted Cruz (R-TX) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) introduced the Senate companion bill on January 12, 2017. The Safeguard Israel Act provides the reasons why Resolution 2334 should be repealed, including: It attempts to interfere and set conditions on direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, which contradicts the long-standing policy of the U.S. and previous commitments made to Israel. It claims that the Old City of Jerusalem, the Western Wall and the Temple Mount, the holiest site for the Jewish people, are “occupied Palestinian territory.” It paves the way for further boycott, divestment and sanction campaigns targeting Israel. It could enable the International Criminal Court to open an illegitimate formal investigation against Israel. The United States funds 22 percent of the United Nations regular budget and is the largest contributor of any member state. The United States must ensure that the United Nations does not become a venue to target our allies and undermine our national security.
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX), Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the Obama Administration, in its final hours, defied a Congressional hold she placed on $221 million for the Palestinian territories. “I am deeply disappointed that President Obama defied congressional oversight and released $221 million to the Palestinian territories,” Congresswoman Granger said. “This was the first time the Obama Administration chose to ignore the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee and released funds without approval. “As Chairwoman, I worked to make sure that no American taxpayer dollars would fund the Palestinian Authority unless very strict conditions were met. While none of these funds will go to the Palestinian Authority because of those conditions, they will go to programs in the Palestinian territories that were still under review by Congress. The Obama Administration’s decision to release these funds was inappropriate.” Congresswoman Granger represents the 12th Congressional District of Texas and was selected to serve as Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee for the 115th Congress. Previously, Granger served six years as Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, where she oversaw the State Department foreign aid programs. As Chairwoman, Granger insisted on transparency and accountability to make sure American taxpayer dollars were spent wisely.
01.10.2017	Washington, DC—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) announced today that she has been named Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee for the 115th Congress. This subcommittee oversees more than 50 percent of total House Appropriations Committee funding. “I am honored to be asked to serve as Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee,” Granger said. “Much of my work in Congress has focused on national security and foreign policy. So I am ready to go to work on Day One. The challenges facing our nation are serious—terrorism remains a global threat and our military has been reduced during the Obama years. To be safe, we must be strong. I will work with my colleagues to rebuild America’s military. Now is the time to invest in our military and ensure it is stronger than ever.” Granger has long been recognized for her leadership on national security and foreign policy. As a Freshman from 1997-1999, Granger served on the House Armed Services Committee and the House Budget Committee. In 1999, she was selected to serve on the Appropriations Committee. During her time on the committee she has served as Vice Chair of the Military Construction Subcommittee, and most recently as Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Committee. She has also served on the Defense Subcommittee including four years as Vice Chair. In 2001 in the aftermath of 9-11, she was chosen to serve on the newly created House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee. Granger brings a wealth of experience to her new job. In her role as State and Foreign Operations Chairwoman, she oversaw the State Department where she insisted on transparency and accountability including in the probe on the attack on the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi. As Vice Chair of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, she worked closely with Chairman Frelinghuysen to provide for our national security under the current budget constraints. And in 2014, she was asked by House Leadership to chair the Congressional task force that dealt with the border refugee crisis. As a result of her work in national security and foreign policy, Granger has been the recipient of numerous national security awards over the years, including: • The Navy Distinguished Public Service Award awarded by the Secretary of the Navy; • The Decoration for Distinguished Civilian Service awarded by the Secretary of the Army; • The Semper Fidelis Award presented by the Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation; • The US Global Leadership Coalition Award presented by the US Global Leadership Coalition; • The Henry M. Scoop Jackson Distinguished Service Award presented by the Jewish Institute of National Security Affairs; • And she was chosen by then-Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld to receive the first “Global War on Terrorism” coin.
01.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – In recognition of her leadership on national security and foreign policy issues, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) today was presented the Navy Distinguished Public Service Award. This award, established in 1951, is the highest recognition presented to civilians by the Secretary of the Navy for “specific courageous or heroic acts or exceptionally outstanding service of substantial and long-term benefit to the Navy, Marine Corps, or Department of the Navy as a whole.” “I am humbled by this incredible honor,” Congresswoman Granger said. “In my work in Congress, nothing is more important than national defense. I have worked hard to ensure that we have the military we need and the security we deserve. It has been the honor of my lifetime to help fund and support the men and women in uniform and their families. They sacrifice so much to keep us safe in these dangerous times. It is me who is grateful for their outstanding service. I thank the Navy for this award and pledge to continue fighting for our war-fighters in Congress.” Congresswoman Granger represents the 12th Congressional District of Texas – where the Navy oversees Naval Air Station Fort Worth–Joint Reserve Base – and serves as Vice Chair of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. In this role, she has worked to provide for our critical national security needs under the current budget constraints. Additionally, Congresswoman Granger is the Sponsor of the Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship USS Fort Worth (LCS 3).
12.23.2016	Fort Worth, TX – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the House Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the Administration did not veto the one-sided United Nations anti-Israel resolution. “I never thought I would see the day when the United States of America would not stand with our longtime ally Israel. President Obama could have and should have stopped this from happening. This hurts the efforts toward peace in the region. I agree with Donald Trump that we should seriously reexamine our financial support of the U.N. and the countries that supported this treacherous action.”
12.22.2016	Fort Worth, TX – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the House Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, issued the following statement in advance of the vote on the one-sided United Nations anti-Israel resolution. “This resolution highlights the U.N.’s warped priorities and hostility toward Israel. Passing this resolution will accomplish only one thing – undermining the prospect of direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. The U.N. is not and will never be a legitimate venue for this matter. The Administration must stand with Israel and veto this resolution.”
12.12.2016	Fort Worth, TX – Congresswoman Kay Granger released the following statement after Israel took delivery of its first pair of F-35I Adir fighters. “Israel is a critical ally and it is fitting that Israel will be the first country in the Middle East to operate the F-35,” Granger said. “This fifth-generation stealth fighter is what we need to keep our two countries safe in these dangerous times. I want to congratulate the Israeli Air Force and the talented workers of Lockheed Martin in Fort Worth, Texas, on this historic occasion. Today’s delivery is an important step in maintaining Israel’s qualitative military edge and air superiority in the Middle East and gives further proof of the strong, unbreakable bond our two countries share.” A leading advocate for Israel and strengthening the U.S. – Israel relationship, Granger was recognized for her role in helping get the 10-year, $38 billion memorandum of understanding (MOU) that was signed on September 14th completed. This agreement enables Israel to purchase key U.S. systems, including the F-35. Granger was also recently presented the Henry M. Scoop Jackson Distinguished Service Award by the Jewish Institute of National Security Affairs, and was invited to join the Presidential Delegation to Jerusalem for the funeral service of former President of Israel, Shimon Peres.
12.10.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger released the following statement after Congress passed the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, which will now go to the President to be signed into law. Among other critical water infrastructure projects, this bill authorizes the transformational Trinity River Vision (TRV) project. “I have been a staunch advocate for TRV since its beginning, and have worked every step of the way to make this vitally important flood and economic development project a reality,” Granger said. “The benefits of TRV to the people throughout the region simply cannot be overstated. That is why so many citizens, groups and community leaders have worked tirelessly to see it through. “With an estimated economic impact of over $1 billion to the area, TRV will bring jobs and opportunities to people throughout our region and make necessary improvements to outdated flood protection infrastructure along 88 miles of the Trinity River. New economic development will transform the river into the heart of our community – adding 800 acres to our dynamic downtown, and connecting it to our world-class Cultural District and Stockyards. “The passage of this important legislation is a dream come true for Fort Worth. After many years, the Trinity River will finally be treated like the prized possession it is.”
09.30.2016	Congresswoman Kay Granger was invited to join the Presidential delegation as the President and his guests travel to Jerusalem for the funeral service of former President of Israel, Shimon Peres. Congresswoman Granger released the following statement on her way to the funeral service, which will be held Friday. “I first met Shimon Peres when he was Prime Minister of Israel and I was Mayor of Fort Worth, and I count myself fortunate to have met, known and worked with him in his role as the President of Israel. I last met with Peres when I had the honor to introduce him at the Tarrant County College Foundation Lunch in Fort Worth in March of 2015. “He lived a long life of service and distinction, marked by such recognition as the Nobel Peace Prize, Congressional Gold Medal and Presidential Medal of Freedom. His strides for world peace were unparalleled; his efforts, tireless. “The world mourns the loss of one of the great statesmen of our time.”
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger released the following statement after the passage of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (H.R. 5303), which includes full funding authorization for the Trinity River Vision project. “The Trinity River Vision is a transformational project that will improve the quality of life and livability of Fort Worth and the surrounding communities. “I have advocated and supported the Trinity River Vision project for years, and have worked in Congress to make it a reality. We need to bring our river area up to standards to prevent flooding and prepare for development – which would create jobs and over $1 billion in economic benefits to our community. “I believe that as the Trinity River has been revitalized and preserved, so has Fort Worth. I am very pleased that, after years of hard work, full funding authorization for this critical flood control and economic development project is included in the Water Resources Development Act of 2016.”
09.14.2016	Congresswoman Kay Granger was one of a select group of people invited to attend the signing ceremony for the new U.S. defense aid package for Israel known as a memorandum of understanding (MOU). Congresswoman Granger has been a staunch advocate for Israel and strengthening the U.S. – Israel relationship. During the signing ceremony, Congresswoman Granger was recognized for her role in helping get the 10-year, $38 billion agreement completed. “Today is a historic day in the United States - Israel partnership. Keeping the U.S. - Israel relationship strong is a top priority of mine and as Chairwoman of State-Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee and Vice Chair of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I’ve worked tirelessly to ensure that the relationship is strong and Israel has what it needs from the U.S. to defend and protect itself. “I am pleased that after a lot of hard work, our countries have agreed to an unprecedented 10-year military assistance package. This agreement is absolutely critical for Israel’s security. “Israel faces constant threats, including Iran, and the thousands of missiles Hezbollah has aimed at them. That is why I have been a champion for the Israeli missile defense systems. For the first time ever, this MOU includes funding for missile defense. This level of commitment to Israel’s security and her future will send a message to our adversaries in the region. “Our countries share an enduring friendship and democratic values. We also face common adversaries. With this agreement, Israel’s enemies are again reminded the bond between our two countries is strong and unbreakable.”
07.14.2016	House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, along with Senate Appropriations Chairman Thad Cochran and other senior members of the House and Senate committees, today sent a joint letter to President Obama urging White House action on Zika funding. Senate Democrats today again blocked legislation that would immediately fund efforts to prevent and fight the spread of the Zika virus. Chairmen Rogers and Cochran wrote that given the critical need for these funds and absent the funding that was blocked today, the White House should “aggressively use funds already available to mount a strong defense against the virus.” The full text of the letter is below:July 14, 2016 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: Your Administration has asked Congress to provide additional resources to prepare for, and prevent, the spread of the Zika virus. We have responded by both supporting the reprioritization of existing resources and passing through our respective chambers legislation that would provide additional Zika response funding. On February 18, 2016, we called upon your Administration to repurpose available funds to be spent immediately to fight the disease. On April 6, 2016, you did so through the use of existing authorities, repurposing $589 million for Zika response activities. Given the urgency of your request, we were surprised last week when Politico reported the following based on information shared by Administration officials: “The Obama administration has so far distributed only about one-sixth of the unspent Ebola funding that it diverted to combat the Zika virus.” This money is available immediately to prepare for and combat Zika, yet is seemingly not being spent. The House passed a conference report that would provide an additional $1.1 billion in emergency supplemental funding to continue to prepare for, and prevent, Zika both domestically and internationally. It is unfortunate that Democrats have blocked action on this legislation in the Senate. The conference report provides the same amount of funding that every Senate Democrat previously supported. It fully funds vaccine research, and increases funding for mosquito spraying and eradication, Zika surveillance, and advanced development of treatments and diagnostics. The conference agreement provides the same access to health services as your supplemental request, contains no new prohibition on any health service, and expands access to health services in Puerto Rico beyond your initial request. If Senate Democrats continue to block consideration of Zika legislation, we urge you to aggressively use funds already available to mount a strong defense against the virus. We also note that the fiscal year 2016 appropriations bills allow the Administration access to additional funds. The Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services has transfer authority that can be used as an additional source for Zika preparedness. The previous Secretary did not hesitate to use this authority to support the failing Affordable Care Act Exchanges. The Secretary of State also has authority to reprogram funding to provide additional foreign assistance to address the Zika virus outside the United States. We urge you to use available funding now to ensure our nation is prepared. Sincerely, Rep. Hal Rogers, Chairman, House Appropriations Committee Sen. Thad Cochran, Chairman, Senate Appropriations Committee Rep. Tom Cole, Chairman, House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services Sen. Roy Blunt, Chairman, Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services Rep. Kay Granger, Chairwoman, House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations Sen. Lindsey Graham, Chairman, Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations A pdf version of the letter is available here.
07.12.2016	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to begin by noting your continued support for the State-Foreign Operations bill. Our allocation of $52 billion has allowed us to produce a good bill that addresses many bipartisan priorities. I also want to thank my friend, Mrs. Lowey, for her dedication to this Subcommittee. We have a great group of members on both sides of the aisle. I especially want to note the work of my friend Ander Crenshaw, who will be leaving us at the end of this Congress. He has played an important role in making foreign assistance programs more accountable, transparent and effective. The bill before us today supports U.S. national security priorities. It fully funds the request for embassy security and maintains our commitment to the security of our allies and partners, such as Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Tunisia and Ukraine, as well as our neighbors in Colombia, Mexico and countries in Central America. The bill also provides strong support to Iraq, with a particular focus on helping the Kurds, who are fully engaged in the fight against ISIS. We also increase funding for programs that stop terrorism around the world by improving border and aviation security and dismantling networks that finance terrorists. During this time of unprecedented political change, the bill strongly supports democracy programs and international broadcasting. The bill rejects deep cuts proposed by the President for life-saving humanitarian relief overseas, and it provides strong support for bipartisan health priorities. As we saw with Ebola and now with the Zika virus, diseases that are spreading in other countries can quickly become concerns here at home. That is why we provide $200 million for global health security and to address health threats as they emerge. This funding will help countries better prepare for the next crisis. It also ensures funds will be on-hand for the next health emergency. The bill provides funds above the request for maternal and child health. It fully funds the request for UNICEF. These funds can also be used to address the Zika virus, if needed. In addition, we provide new funds to address malaria, without redirecting Ebola funds that the Administration proposed. The commitment in this bill to address global health and humanitarian priorities is clear, and I thank my colleagues for their commitment to these issues. The bill also supports many other bipartisan areas of interest, such as addressing human trafficking and wildlife poaching, by providing resources above the requested level. In order to address all of these priorities within our allocation, the bill reduces funds for the United Nations, international organizations, and financial institutions. The bill strengthens oversight, transparency and accountability to ensure that taxpayer dollars are protected. We fully fund the agencies’ Inspectors General, and we address deficiencies in agency processes and financial accounting systems. One area of focus is improving foreign military financing and sales programs. We cannot ask our partners to take on an increased role in the fight against ISIS and other threats and then sit on their requests for U.S. equipment. This does significant harm to our relationships around the world; drives our partners to purchase weapons from other countries; and risks U.S. jobs. This bill takes the first step to change the way we provide aid to our partners. I hope that all of us can continue to find common ground and work together as this bill moves through the process.
07.08.2016	Congresswoman Kay Granger issued the following statement on the shooting of police officers in Dallas yesterday. "It is with shock and deep sorrow that I join all Americans in praying for the families and friends of the slain and injured officers of the Dallas Police Department and DART Police. Like so often happens, our men and women in blue ran toward gunfire to protect their fellow citizens. I want to thank them and all law enforcement officers across the country, for their bravery and sacrifice in continuously risking their lives to confront danger and save lives. We will learn more about the details of this horrific ambush in the coming days. In the meantime, let us pause for reflection and healing - recognizing violence is never the answer, and the common humanity that unites us all."
07.06.2016	Chairwoman Kay Granger presented the following opening statement at the Subcommittee markup of the Fiscal Year 2017 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill. The bill was reported without opposition to the full Appropriations Committee: I would like to welcome everyone to today’s markup of the Fiscal Year 2017 Appropriations bill for the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs. I want to begin by recognizing Chairman Rogers and his work to move bills quickly through the Committee. This is the 11th subcommittee markup, and our allocation of $52 billion has allowed us to produce a good bill that addresses many bipartisan priorities. I also want to thank my friend, Mrs. Lowey, for her continued dedication to this Subcommittee. We have a great group of members on both sides of the aisle who care deeply about the programs in the Subcommittee’s jurisdiction. The Fiscal Year 2017 bill that we are marking up today supports U.S. national security priorities. It fully funds the request for embassy security and maintains our commitment to the security of our allies and partners, such as Israel, Egypt, Jordan, and Ukraine. The bill also provides strong support to Iraq with a particular focus on helping the Kurds, who are fully engaged in the fight against ISIS. We also increase programs that stop terrorism around the world by improving border and aviation security and dismantling networks that finance terrorists. During this time of unprecedented political change, the bill strongly supports democracy programs and international broadcasting. The bill rejects deep cuts proposed by the President for life-saving humanitarian relief overseas, and it provides strong support for bipartisan health priorities. As we saw with Ebola and now with the Zika virus, diseases that are spreading in other countries can quickly become concerns here at home. That is why we provide $200 million for global health security efforts and to address health threats as they emerge. This funding will help countries to be better prepared for the next crisis and funds will be on-hand to address the next health emergency. In order to address all of these priorities within our allocation, the bill reduces funds for the United Nations, international organizations, and financial institutions. The bill strengthens oversight, transparency, and accountability to ensure that taxpayer dollars are protected. We fully fund the agencies’ inspectors general, and we address deficiencies in agency processes and financial accounting systems. One area of focus is improving foreign military financing and sales programs. We cannot ask our partners to take on an increased role in the fight against ISIS and then sit on their requests for U.S. equipment. This does significant harm to our relationships around the world; drives our partners to purchase weapons from other countries; and risks U.S. jobs. This bill takes the first step forward in changing the way we do business. I hope that all members can support reporting the bill out of Subcommittee today, and we can continue to work together as the bill moves through the full committee. ### Details of the Fiscal Year 2017 State and Foreign Operations Approriations bill as marked up by the Subcommittee are available here: https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394623
06.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger issued the following statement on Senate Democrats’ voting against the House measure to provide $1.1 billion to stop the spread of the Zika virus and improve mosquito control measures to protect Americans. “The American people are fed up with the dysfunction in Washington and Senate Democrats’ decision to block critical Zika funding is yet another example of why. This Democrat filibuster is about blatant politics instead of what the House is focused on – protecting young women and their babies susceptible to the severe consequences of Zika. “Zika poses a major threat to the U.S. and the world. There are already cases of Zika in the U.S. During my most recent meeting with Dr. Freiden, head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), he said that this virus is moving so fast that days really matter in controlling this virus. Yet Senate Democrats have cynically invented excuses to further their political agenda at the expense of the health and safety of Americans. “The critical Zika response funding passed by the House ensures that there will be no shortage of funds to address this devastating virus. In fact, just last month Senate Democrats unanimously supported the exact same $1.1 billion level of funding they blocked this week. Every day that partisan politics delays this funding is a day lost that we could be addressing this crisis. “As chair of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, I have worked closely with Dr. Freiden to respond to the Ebola outbreak in 2014 and save lives. The Zika response legislation incorporates some of the best lessons learned from our response to Ebola, including the importance of acting quickly with a clear plan to confront the crisis and of using targeted and focused funding. “As we now work to address the public health crisis posed by Zika, we must remember that time is of the essence and that lives hang in the balance – especially those of our most vulnerable, unborn babies.” ###
06.27.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger Friday joined Governor Greg Abbott (R-TX), and 23 members of the Texas delegation, in sending a letter to President Obama regarding the Syrian Refugee crisis. “It has become clear that this Administration is not serious about confronting the threats made by ISIS and radical Islamic terrorists to the safety and security of the United States,” Granger said. “Just last week, CIA Director John Brennan warned that ISIS is sending Western fighters among refugee flows and smuggling routes to enter our country and kill Americans. Texas must have a say in protecting against these dangerous individuals infiltrating the refugee program.” The letter questions the handling of the Syrian refugee crisis by the Administration, given the stated intention by ISIS to infiltrate the program and exploit it in order to carry out attacks on the West. It states “we believe your Administration has manifestly failed to reassure and adequately engage State and local governments on these resettlements” and insists “that you work with the State of Texas to reform your Administration’s refugee resettlement policies and procedures immediately.” The full letter can be viewed below. In November 2015, Congresswoman Granger supported the SAFE Act, which requires comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria, and certification that each does not pose a threat before they can be admitted into the United States. ###
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger issued the following statement on House passage of the House-Senate Conference Report providing $1.1 billion in funding for the response to the Zika virus. “I am pleased that the House has voted to provide substantial funding for the fight against Zika. I urge the Senate to approve this bill without delay to ensure we move forward quickly to combat this dangerous virus. “As chair of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, I want to emphasize that there are substantial funds in the bill for international response efforts to stop the virus at its source. This includes mosquito control activities to prevent the spread of the virus, public information campaigns to get the message out about Zika and evacuations of Americans if needed. “These efforts have already begun with $589 million redirected by the Administration to respond to the Zika virus. The funds approved by the House will provide the next step. We have made sure they are targeted and focused, and will receive strong oversight.” ###
06.17.2016	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) today released the following statement after CIA Director John Brennan’s prepared remarks to the Senate Intelligence Committee this week regarding the threat from ISIS. “In a week that began with the worst terrorist attack on U.S. soil since September 11th and included President Obama defending the ‘significant progress’ made under his antiterror strategy, CIA Director Brennan offered a sobering picture of the formidable threat ISIS and its affiliates still pose. The CIA Director’s prepared remarks before the Senate Intelligence Committee are so remarkable because he laid out a much darker view of the challenges we face - only two days after the President spoke. “He underscored the danger of Western fighters using ‘refugee flows, smuggling routes and legitimate means of travel’ in order to enter our country and kill Americans. Two years into President Obama’s strategy to defeat ISIS, the terrorist group has been able to maintain its strength and capability to wreak havoc in the Middle East while inspiring troubled individuals to radicalize and do the same within their communities. “It was also reported this week that 51 State Department diplomats signed an internal memo critical of the Obama Administration’s policy in Syria. The gulf between President Obama, his CIA Director and career diplomats in the State Department, highlights the pressing need for the Administration to take this threat seriously. There is no better way to respond to the horrific terrorist attack than with a clear strategy to defeat them. “I have long advocated taking the fight to ISIS. We must also fully support our allies and partners around the world to take the fight to the terrorists abroad, rather than have it fought at home.”
06.16.2016	The Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations bill was approved by the House Thursday, providing important support for our troops and the nation’s defense, Congresswoman Kay Granger said. As the vice chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, Granger played a lead role in putting together the annual defense spending bill. The bill includes funds for key defense programs that are produced in Fort Worth. “The United States and our allies continue to face threats from countries such as Iran, Russia, China, and North Korea. Radical Islamic terrorists, such as ISIS, continue to threaten everything we stand for,” Granger told her colleagues in a speech on the House floor. “As chair of State and Foreign Operations appropriations and vice chair of Defense Appropriations, I am very proud of what this bill does to ensure resources are available to counter all of these threats.” Granger praised the bill’s inclusion of funding for 74 new F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, which are manufactured at the Lockheed-Martin Corp. plant in Fort Worth. “The Joint Strike Fighter is the top fighter in the world, providing air superiority for our pilots and those of our international partners,” Granger said. “I am proud that this incredible plane is manufactured in Fort Worth.” The Joint Strike Fighter is estimated to provide 129,000 jobs statewide in Texas. The bill also funds 21 new V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft for the Marine Corps and the Air Force Special Operations Command. The V-22 is produced by Fort Worth-based Bell Helicopter. “The House vote shows the national support for the Joint Strike Fighter, the V-22 Osprey and other programs vital to our national security, and our allies, that are produced in North Texas,” said Granger. “These defense programs employ thousands of North Texans, and they are a critical part of the defense industry hub that thrives here.” Also included in the bill are funds for four new C-40 military transport planes. The Marine Corps Reserve is planning to base some of these new planes at Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth, replacing some of their aging aircraft there, Granger said. Link to Congresswoman Granger's floor speech supporting Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations bill. Link to Appropriations Committee release with full details of Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations bill.
06.14.2016	Award named after Granger mentor Bob Bolen The Business and Commerce Political Action Committee, the political arm of the Texas Association of Business, has honored Congresswoman Kay Granger with the Bob Bolen Champion of Free Enterprise Lifetime Achievement Award. “I am incredibly honored to receive the Bob Bolen Champion of Free Enterprise Lifetime Achievement Award – the first year this award is named after him. Mayor Bolen was a mentor of mine and a dear friend. He was successful at everything he set his mind to – whether in his businesses or in public service - because of his personal philosophy of ‘leaving a place better than you found it.’ In this spirit, I will continue to be a strong advocate for free enterprise, and am grateful to the Texas Association of Business for this award.” “Congresswoman Granger has been a long-time champion of business,” said Texas Association of Business CEO Bill Hammond. “She has made it her mission to ensure we have a strong economy in Texas and across our nation. I want to personally thank her for the work she has done to support the creation of thousands of jobs. I can’t think of anyone more deserving of this award than Congresswoman Granger.” Granger is proud to represent Texas’ 12th Congressional District, serving a community she has been an integral part of her entire life. Elected to her 10th term in 2014 by an overwhelming margin, Kay has a reputation as a hard-working, tough and principled leader on the issues that matter to her constituents. Her legislative prowess and ability to get things done led to her recognition by CQ’s Roll Call as one of the 25 Most Influential Women in Congress. The first and only Republican woman to represent Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives, Granger serves as vice-chair of the powerful Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and chair of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, which has direct oversight of the Department of State and national security programs abroad. Born in Greenville and raised in Fort Worth, Kay graduated from Texas Wesleyan University and became a high school journalism and English teacher. In 1978, she opened and successfully operated her own insurance agency before becoming involved in the political process because of some local issues impacting her and her community. # # # As the state chamber of commerce, the Texas Association of Business is the most influential and dominant voice for public policy issues affecting business in Texas. Through proven results-oriented advocacy and member services, TAB develops a climate in Texas, which enables more than 4,000 business members and their 600,000+ employees to operate efficiently and profitably, thus creating new jobs. TAB is proud to be the official state partner of the National Association of Manufacturers.
06.14.2016	Congresswoman Kay Granger delivered the following speech in the House of Representatives in support of the Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations bill: Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the FY17 Defense Appropriations bill. This very important bill provides for our national security by supporting our soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines, who we rely on to provide that security. During very dangerous times, we must ensure that the United States remains not only the greatest country in the world, but also the strongest. Chairman Frelinghuysen takes the Constitutional responsibility to provide for the common defense very seriously and he deserves all of our thanks for drafting such a significant and meaningful bill. This is not an easy bill to draft. With increased threats and reduced budgets, the Department of Defense is being forced to make decisions they should never have to make. They are making decisions to align with a budget crisis instead of making decisions to protect the homeland and defeat our enemies. The military readiness accounts are an example of the shocking consequences of this budget environment. Already stretched thin by more than a decade of war, Marine aviation squadrons actually have to salvage aircraft parts from museums in order to keep planes flying. This is unconscionable. Our national security needs more. Our troops deserve better. The bill Chairman Frelinghuysen drafted takes a responsible approach to address these and other pressing issues. Rather than just “throw money” at these crises, he exercises the Subcommittee’s oversight responsibilities by reducing funding for programs with unjustified cost increases or subpar performance. This allowed the Chairman to redirect those critical dollars to increase the number of troops, increase funding for training and address many of the Service Chiefs’ priorities. The U.S. and our allies continue to face threats from countries such as Iran, Russia, China, and North Korea. Radical Islamic terrorists, such as ISIS, continue to threaten everything we stand for. As Chair of State and Foreign Operations Appropriations and Vice Chair of Defense Appropriations, I am very proud of what this bill does to ensure resources are available to counter all of these threats. Passage of this bill ensures the United States will lead in this very dangerous world. I urge a yes vote. Video of Congresswoman Granger's House floor speech.
06.13.2016	Congresswoman Kay Granger released the following statement regarding the mass shooting at an Orlando nightclub: “My thoughts and prayers go out to the people of Orlando, and the victims and families of those who were murdered or injured. With 49 people dead and many more injured, this is the worst terrorist attack on American soil since September 11, 2001. It is a painful reminder that we are not immune at home to the radical Islamic terrorism we see around the world. The threat from radicalized individuals is very real, and we must remain vigilant in our fight against terror. We must also support our troops and international partners as they fight against terrorism abroad, and provide our First Responders with the tools and training to prevent it in our nation.”
05.13.2016	(Washington, DC) – Today, U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, Rep. Ted Deutch (D-FL), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, Rep. Kay Granger (R-TX), Chairwoman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, and Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, introduced H. Res. 729, expressing support for the expeditious consideration and finalization of a new, robust and long-term Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on military assistance to Israel between the United States Government and the Government of Israel. Statement by Ros-Lehtinen: “The United States has no greater friend and ally than the democratic Jewish State of Israel. But our major strategic partner is under constant threat in a region marred with terror, violence and instability – all of which are ever present on Israel’s borders. Ensuring Israel maintains its QME is not only U.S. policy, but it is our law. A new MoU between the United States and Israel is needed to help guarantee Israel’s safety and security in the face of these new threats and challenges. That is why it is incumbent upon the Obama administration to conclude a new, robust and long-term MoU with Israel that will increase the amount of assistance over the current agreement, expand its scope, and to do so expeditiously. We stand ready and willing to work with the administration to make sure that this priority is addressed in a manner that is mutually beneficial for the U.S. and our ally, Israel.” Statement by Deutch: “The Memorandum of Understanding between our countries forms the backbone of the U.S.-Israel security relationship. Prompt completion of a new agreement will significantly enhance Israel’s ability to defend herself against all threats and deepen our cooperation to ensure Israel’s safety and security for years to come. This bipartisan resolution reaffirms the long-standing Congressional commitment to strengthening the U.S. – Israel relationship.” Statement by Granger: “It is vital that the U.S finalize a new, strong Memorandum of Understanding with Israel as soon as possible. Israel faces constant threats that are increasing due to instability in the Middle East and we must provide our closest ally with the support they need to defend themselves. Completion of a long-term MoU will ensure that Israel has that support.” Statement by Lowey: “This bipartisan resolution reaffirms the unshakable commitment of the United States to Israel’s security and sends a strong message of support for finalizing a new Memorandum of Understanding between our governments. Without a doubt, the political, security, and economic interests of the United States and Israel are fundamentally enhanced by continued cooperation that strengthens stability and security in the region and bolsters the longstanding, bilateral relationship that exists between our two countries.” #####
05.05.2016	WASHINGTON— The co-chairs of the House of Representatives Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism issued the following statement on Holocaust Remembrance Day, or Yom HaShoah: “On Holocaust Remembrance Day, we stand together in commemoration of the darkest chapter of human history—the Holocaust—which claimed 11 million lives, including 6 million Jews, and we rededicate ourselves to fulfilling the promise of ‘never again.’ “Recently, anti-Semitism has fueled attacks on Jewish museums, markets, and synagogues in Brussels, Paris, Copenhagen, and here in the United States. We reassert our commitment to denouncing all anti-Semitic incidents, evaluating current law enforcement efforts to protect Jewish communities, and educating other Members on how we can—and must—respond to anti-Semitism at home and abroad. “As co-Chairs of the Taskforce for Combating anti-Semitism, we frequently speak out against this ugly scourge as well as efforts to deny the Holocaust or rewrite history. On this Yom HaShoah, we rededicate ourselves to reinforcing our words with action. It is our duty to carry the mantle forward, educate our youth and keep the stories alive, ensuring that history will never repeat itself again—whether against Jews or any other people.” The Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism is co-chaired by U.S. Reps. Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Steve Israel (D-NY), Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Ted Deutch (D-FL).
04.20.2016	38% Increase in Anti-Israel Programs & 21% increase in BDS Movements in ‘14-‘15 Require Attention to Prevent Anti-Semitic Harassment and Intimidation Washington, DC—Members of the House of Representatives Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism sounded the alarm about a troubling surge in anti-Semitism on American college campuses. In a letter to the Secretary of Education, the Taskforce asked the Secretary about the Department’s planned response to the issue. Additionally, the co-chairs made the following statement: “An alarming rise of anti-Israel programs on American college campuses contribute to increasing harassment, intimidation, and discrimination against Jewish students. While we believe that students’ freedoms of speech and assembly should be respected, there are increasing reports that activity advertised as anti-Israel or anti-Zionist is devolving into displays of subtle, but sometimes outright anti-Semitism. Attacks on students because of their actual or perceived religion, ancestry, or ethnicity are unacceptable. We believe strongly that no student should ever face discrimination and that school activities must be structured in a respectful manner to ensure academic integrity and a nondiscriminatory environment throughout the entire campus. For these reasons, we ask the Department of Education to assess its ability to monitor and respond to anti-Semitic incidents and to take additional steps to combat intimidation and harassment against minority students on college campuses.” The Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism is co-chaired by U.S. Reps. Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Steve Israel (D-NY), Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Ted Deutch (D-FL). In 2004, the U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights (OCR) clarified its interpretation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, including protections for groups of students on the basis of their actual or perceived shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics, regardless of whether they are members of a faith community, as in the case for Jewish, Sikh, and Muslim students. The Department reiterated this policy again in 2010 and 2015. However, as the number of reported Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement campaigns and other anti-Israel initiatives rise on college campuses, Members of Congress believe the Department must proactively implement its anti-discrimination policy to mitigate anti-Semitism on college campuses. The following organizations expressed their support for the letter: the Anti-Defamation League, Jewish Federation of North America, B’nai Brith International, Jewish United Fund/Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Chicago, the Louis D. Brandeis Center for Human Rights Under Law, the World Jewish Congress, and the Zionist Organization of America. Text of the letter can be found here.
04.15.2016	WASHINGTON – 394 members of the U.S. House of Representatives signed a letter urging President Obama to veto possible upcoming one-sided initiatives in the United Nations concerning the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The letter was precipitated by reports that one-sided initiatives – which dangerously hinder the prospects for resuming direct negotiations – may arise at the United Nations in the coming months concerning the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The letter is an unambiguous statement that the view of the U.S. House of Representatives is that only at the negotiating table – and not at the UN – can the parties resolve their complicated differences. The letter was led by: Rep. Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Member, Appropriations Subcommittee and State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Rep. Kay Granger, Chair, Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations Rep. Karen Bass, Ranking Member, Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, & International Organizations Rep. Christopher H. Smith, Chair, Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, & International Organizations Rep. Ted Deutch, Ranking Member, Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Middle East & North Africa Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Chair, Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Middle East & North Africa Full letter is attached.
04.06.2016	Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers, along with State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Chairwoman Kay Granger and Labor, Health and Human Services Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole responded today to the Administration’s announcement that federal agencies will use existing funding for efforts to address the Zika epidemic. In February, the Chairs called on the Administration to tap into these existing funds to provide the quickest and most efficient response to the Zika outbreak. The statement follows: “Recent outbreaks – including the devastating Ebola virus – have highlighted the necessity of a rapid, direct, and strategic response to global health crises. It is clear that Zika poses a real threat to public health, and the United States must respond quickly to address the current situation and be prepared for the potential spread of this disease within our borders. “That is why more than a month ago we called on the Administration to use existing funding and legal authorities to provide the most immediate and effective response to the Zika outbreak. We are pleased to hear today that federal agencies are heeding our call. These resources – which the agencies already have on hand – will help stop the growth of this devastating disease around the world, and prepare for and protect against outbreaks within our borders. “We will look carefully at the details of today’s proposal by the Administration to ensure the best and most effective use of these funds, and to provide proper oversight. As we move forward, the Appropriations Committee will continue to monitor the changing needs resulting from this unpredictable crisis to assure the resources necessary for the response are available.”
04.01.2016	SAN DIEGO – Congresswoman Kay Granger (Rep) for Texas’ 12th congressional district, along with three congressional delegation staff members toured the amphibious assault ship USS America (LHA 6) and met with Sailors from the Texas area March 30. On her first visit to an amphibious ship, Capt. Michael W. Baze, the ship’s commanding officer, guided Granger, on a tour of the ship’s hangar bay, flight deck, mess decks, medical facilities and brief her about the ship’s capabilities. As the first woman to ever serve on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Granger was very impressed with the Navy’s newest amphibious-class assault ship. “Oh, it’s wonderful,” said Granger. “This is exactly what we wanted it (the ship) to be.” Granger also got the chance to sit down with some of the Sailors from Texas for lunch and conversation. Chief Boatswain’s Mate Christopher Tunal, a Midland, Texas native, was very appreciative that she took time out of her schedule to meet with Sailors. “She was really nice and very, very interested in the ship,” said Tunal. “ She asked about the various things that I am in charge of, stated that she is very supportive what we do, and if there is anything she can do to help, not hesitate to contact her.” Granger was thoroughly impressed with the personnel on board and the spirit that they displayed throughout her visit. “The Sailors I’ve met here are the best in the world,” said Granger. “What great attitudes. That is what I’ve been so impressed with. They have such optimism and really like what they’re doing … no, they love what they’re doing. That makes all the difference in the world.” USS America is the first in her class of aviation-centric amphibious assault ships the Navy is unveiling. America provides forward presence and power projection as an integral part of Joint Interagency and Multinational Maritime Expeditionary Forces.
03.22.2016	Congresswoman Kay Granger made the following statement in response to the attacks in Brussels: The terrorist attacks on the Brussels airport and metro are a reminder that we must remain vigilant against the radicals supported by the Islamic State, who have declared war on innocent people in Europe and around the world. The reports that Americans were injured in the attacks emphasize that we will not be safe until we eradicate ISIS. This is a stark warning that we must attack ISIS where it is based if we are to win this war against extremists. The House voted unanimously to declare that ISIS is committing genocide, and that declaration was made official by the State Department. Congress must provide our military and intelligence agencies with funding and equipment necessary to protect our national security abroad, where these threats develop. I will support robust funding for our national defense, and for the programs overseen by the State Department that aid in the fight against ISIS, other terrorist groups, and other radical extremists. My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Brussels and all of our allies in Europe. Our response to these atrocities must be to unite with our friends and allies around the world with a renewed commitment to the annihilation of the Islamic State.
03.21.2016	Congresswoman Kay Granger has announced the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition, an annual high school art competition coordinated by Members of Congress and funded through the support of community businesses and individuals. This year’s competition featured 134 entrants from twelve different schools in the 12th District of Texas. The First Place winner of the 2016 Congressional Arts Competition for the 12th District of Texas is “Transition,” by Moriah Gonzalez of Lake County Christian School. Her artwork will featured in the Capitol gallery in Washington, D.C. for a year. She will attend the Washington DC reception that recognizes all first place winners in 435 Congressional Districts around the United States. The other winners in the contest were: Second Place: “Big Mama” by Cori Greenfield of All Saints Episcopal School Third Place: “Dog Days” by Krystian Fairchild of Chisholm Trail High School Fourth Place. “Teapot Study #13” by Alejandra Lopez of Arlington Heights High School Fifth Place: “Shells” by Amy Hibbitts of Weatherford High School The Congresswoman Granger Award winner was “Swift Meat Packing Plant, Fort Worth” by Natalie Edwards of Boswell High School.
03.15.2016	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I would like to welcome Secretary Lew to discuss the Fiscal Year 2017 budget request for the Treasury Department’s International Affairs Programs. The funding under review today supports contributions to international financial institutions, such as the World Bank and regional banks, other contributions to multilateral funds, and technical assistance programs. The budget request totals $2.3 billion, a $5 million increase above Fiscal Year 2016. While this may seem like the budget is virtually straight-lined from last year, the budget includes a number of new requests. Turning to the World Bank and the regional development banks, I remain concerned about the funds this Subcommittee provides. I would like to hear from you today about the efforts these institutions are making to publicly track funds and provide independent evaluations of program effectiveness. Additionally, I have been following the growth in contributions by U.S.A.I.D. and the Department of State to trust funds managed by the World Bank and other financial institutions. I am concerned about the lack of oversight of these taxpayer dollars. The 2016 Omnibus included a shift in U.S. resources at the I.M.F. from the emergency fund to the general quota, and required a number of reforms. I hope you can discuss any recent developments. Also included in the Administration’s request is $250 million for The Green Climate Fund. Mr. Secretary, I do not have to remind you of the strong opposition by many Members of Congress to any funding for this purpose. Finally, the United States government is providing an increasing number of loan guarantees to foreign governments. I will ask you about loans and loan guarantees later. I know you have taken a personal interest in boosting the economies of our allies and partners. Secretary Lew, thank you for being here today. We have many important topics to discuss.
02.25.2016	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. Mr. Secretary, I want to welcome you back to the Subcommittee. We look forward to your testimony. You recently noted that while funding for international programs represents just one percent of the total federal budget, it may well define the majority of the history written about our era. Members of this Subcommittee certainly understand the importance of these programs. The United States continues to show leadership in areas such as reducing poverty, fighting the AIDS virus, and stopping preventable deaths of mothers and children. However, there are countless security challenges around the world that grab the headlines every day. At the top of the list is the crisis in Syria and the surrounding region, which is being fueled by the Assad regime, ISIL, and other terrorist groups. This situation has grown more complicated due to Russia’s increased involvement. We want to hear your thoughts about the situation on the ground. We are also concerned that our allies and partners in the fight against terrorism - such as Egypt, Jordan, and the Kurds in Iraq - are not receiving the assistance they need. While there has been some improvement since I raised this issue with you last year, I want to reiterate that there is no excuse for bureaucratic delays. It is also critical that our policies promote our national security interests and not undermine them. I question why the Administration plans to phase out the cash-flow financing arrangement for military sales with Egypt, which is one of our most reliable partners in the Middle East. We also must demonstrate our steadfast support to help Israel address the threats posed by Iran and its proxies. Now that a nuclear agreement is in place, we are all closely watching Iran’s actions. You have said that some of the funds freed up from sanctions relief could end up in the hands of terrorists. The threat to Israel is very serious. As you negotiate another long-term memorandum of understanding, it must be made clear that U.S. support for Israel’s security is unequivocal. Another troubling development is the increased violence in Israel and the Palestinian territories over the last several months. We want to hear your thoughts about the prospects for getting the parties back to the negotiating table. We also want to hear what the United States can do to help stop harmful rhetoric and incitement. I want to turn next to Russia’s aggressive actions against its neighbors. Many of us do not understand why Ukraine has not received lethal military aid or why the state department budget proposes to reduce assistance to Ukraine by 55 percent from last year’s level. We also see China asserting itself against the United States and our friends and allies in the Asia-Pacific region. We want to hear how this budget supports countries willing to stand up to China when their territory is threatened. We also watch with great concern as North Korea continues to defy international sanctions. We want to hear your thoughts on what more can be done to stop this rogue nation from its nuclear pursuits. In Afghanistan, a resurgent Taliban and a growing number of foreign fighters continue to threaten the country’s security. We question how the $1.2 billion of foreign assistance requested can be effectively programmed in this environment. In the Americas, we see drug and gang violence, human trafficking, and lack of economic opportunity continuing to drive migration to the United States. The Subcommittee held a hearing two weeks ago on assistance to Central America where we looked at these issues. We must see results before new funds will be considered. We are also monitoring the new public health threat from the Zika virus spreading in this hemisphere and received the supplemental request on Monday. This Committee has provided significant funding and the flexibility to address global health threats, and we want to hear how the administration will immediately address the Zika outbreak. We have additional questions about the Administration’s budget request for the State Department and Foreign Assistance Programs. The total funding requested is roughly last year’s level, but you propose to cut programs that have bipartisan support, such as security assistance and humanitarian programs. At the same time, we see an increase is requested for Administration priorities, such as funding to combat climate change. One area that we all agree is a priority is preserving the safety and security of our nation’s diplomats and development officers. This Subcommittee must be sure that funds provided will keep our people safe. In closing, I want to thank you and the men and women of the State Department and USAID for your work to promote American interests abroad. We may not always agree on the policy or the means to achieve our goals, but the members of this Subcommittee understand the need to engage with all of the tools we have available.
02.23.2016	U.S. Rep. Kay Granger, a 1965 graduate of Texas Wesleyan University, received the Law Sone Medal at the University’s 125th Anniversary Gala at the Worthington Renaissance Hotel in Downtown Fort Worth. “This award is considered the most prestigious honor bestowed by the University and has been given out only two times before,” Frederick G. Slabach, Texas Wesleyan University President, said at the event. “[Kay’s] desire to render the utmost service to her fellow man is why we celebrate her tonight." President Slabach and Orlando Carvalho, Executive Vice President of Lockheed Martin Aeronautics, presented the award to Granger, who was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters in 1992 from the University. Granger shared her personal memories of attending Texas Wesleyan University and retraced her steps from business owner to Congress. She cited her commitment to safety as Mayor of Fort Worth, and National Security work in Congress as essential to successful cities and a strong nation. In addition to the award, Granger led a discussion with U.S. Marine Corps Gen. John Kelly, who recently retired from service. General Kelly served over four decades in the United States Marine Corps. He spent three years leading combat troops in Iraq and was a central figure in engineering what has become known as The Awakening Movement, one of the war’s key successes. During this period, his unit helped bring an unprecedented reduction in the sectarian bloodshed that had gripped Iraq following the takedown of Saddam Hussein. He has served as the Senior Military Adviser to Defense Secretaries Robert Gates and Leon Panetta. Previous recipients of the Law Sone Medal are Nick and Lou Martin HON ’03, and Kenneth H. Jones, Jr., the Immediate Past President of the Board of Trustees. The Law Sone Medal honors Former Texas Wesleyan President Law Sone. He was the longest tenured president in our history, serving in that role from 1935 until 1969. Dr. Sone, along with long-time board chair Edward Baker, brought Texas Wesleyan into the modern era. Dr. Sone’s tenure included such firsts as the establishment of the college’s group life insurance and hospitalization benefits, accreditation by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, establishment of an employee retirement program and the construction of a large portion of the current campus. Texas Wesleyan is a private, coeducational university in Fort Worth. The university has seen significant growth in recent years as the result of the revitalization of East Fort Worth and its award-winning marketing program. Founded in 1890, the university is currently celebrating its 125th anniversary, making it the longest-serving educational institution in Fort Worth.
02.13.2016	Congresswoman Kay Granger issued the following statement on the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia: “Justice Antonin Scalia was a vibrant and principled voice for conservative values on the Supreme Court. He based his opinions and dissents on adherence to the Constitution, and he fought to ensure that the Court did not set its own will above the Congress or the American people. He will be sorely missed, and will be remembered as one of the most influential Supreme Court Justices.” ###
02.11.2016	The House of Representatives on Wednesday approved final passage of the United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015. The bill now goes to the President's desk. Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) and Ranking Member Ted Deutch (D-FL) of the Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee and Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-TX) and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-FL) of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, made the following statements after Congress passed H.R. 907, the United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015 – a bill they authored. This legislation seeks to strengthen military and economic ties between the United States and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa: “I’d like to thank my congressional colleagues Ted, Kay, Nita, Marco and Ben for working together in a bipartisan and bicameral manner to strengthen our relationship with the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. By passing this legislation and sending it to the President’s desk, Congress is sending an important message to our ally Jordan that we will continue to support the Kingdom as it faces potential threats by ISIL and a serious strain on its resources and its economy as a result of the challenges stemming from an influx of Syrian refugees. Jordan has been on the front lines in the coalition fight against ISIL and in the response to the Syrian humanitarian crisis, but we must ensure that Jordan has the resources and support it needs to remain stable and secure.” Congressman Ted Deutch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa: “Jordan has been a steadfast ally of the U.S. and a critical partner in the fight against ISIS. The U.S. must continue to support those in the region who are committed to fighting terrorism and who seek to provide refuge for those fleeing violence. This bipartisan legislation will ensure that Jordan can continue to play an important role in the international coalition to counter ISIS and to defends its borders from external threats.” Congresswoman Kay Granger, Chairman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee: "Jordan is a very important partner to the U.S. and we must do everything possible to support King Abdullah II and the Kingdom. The United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015 is key to that support and ensuring Jordan will have the resources they need to protect the Kingdom and to fight ISIS and other extremist organizations. Jordan continues to provide stability in a turbulent region. It is vital that the United States maintain the closest possible relations with Jordan, and I believe this legislation is a strong step forward.” Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Ranking Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee: “During such a tumultuous time in the region, with the rise of ISIL and the unprecedented humanitarian needs of millions of refugees, stability and security in Jordan remain vital to U.S. national security interests. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I remain committed to our strategic partnership with Jordan, and I will continue to work as hard as possible to promote stability, economic growth, and prosperity for the Jordanian people.” H.R. 907 - the United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015 would: · Amend the Arms Export Control Act to include Jordan on a list of trusted allies for which Congress may expedite the process so that we sell Jordan much needed military equipment it needs to defend against and fight ISIL; · Support a Memorandum of Understanding to increase military cooperation between our two countries, including joint military exercises and personnel exchanges; · Support Jordan in its response to the Syria and Iraq refugee crisis. NOTE: Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Ranking Member Deutch, Chairman Granger, and Ranking Member Lowey are the authors of H.R. 907, the United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015. Senators Marco Rubio and Ben Cardin were the Senate authors of S. 1789, which passed February 3, 2016. The final version of the bill passed the House of Representatives on February 10, 2016.
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger issued the following statement in support of the House vote Wednesday to defund Planned Parenthood and repeal Obamacare mandates: “We kept our promise to the American people by eliminating funding for Planned Parenthood within the first week of the New Year. I was disgusted by the videos revealed last year about Planned Parenthood’s practices, and I have consistently supported cutting federal funding for this abortion provider. The funding will instead go to community health centers. “At the same time, we voted to repeal many burdensome provisions of Obamacare. Most importantly, individuals and small businesses will no longer face IRS penalties for not complying with Obamacare mandates. Furthermore, by passing these reforms, we will cut the deficit by $516 billion over the next 10 years.” ###
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) Monday issued the following statement strongly opposing the president’s proposed executive action restricting firearm sales and impinging on Second Amendment rights: “President Obama sees himself as a Constitutional lawyer, but he has never recognized that it is Congress that makes laws. It is particularly important when we are dealing with something as heated and emotional as gun control. He needs to make some attempt at getting people to come together when he is dealing with the Second Amendment, which is one of the most important freedoms we have. I believe the enforcement of existing laws and rigorous prosecution of criminals is the best way to protect Americans – not more gun control.” ###
01.04.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) traveled last week to the Costa Rica - Nicaragua border area to gain an understanding of the difficulties faced in Central America by a large influx of Cuban migrants headed for the U.S. southern border. Granger is the chairman of the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, and headed the House Speaker’s Working Group on national security and the humanitarian crisis on the southern border last year. “We have seen thousands of Cubans migrating to Ecuador and then traveling through Central American countries, and we need to know what is going on there,” Granger said. “The Costa Ricans are one of our most stable partners in Latin America. Helping Costa Rica maintain its security will help the United States maintain national security.” Granger pledged to work to ensure that U.S. aid will help Costa Rica deal with problems such as the Cuban migration issue, as well as drugs and other trafficking concerns. Over the past year, tens of thousands of Cubans have crossed to Latin America and migrated overland to the U.S. border, according to U.S. Customs and Border Patrol officials. Thousands have crossed into Texas. Under a 1996 federal law, Cubans who are admitted or paroled into the U.S. can qualify for expedited proceedings to become a legal immigrant. Nicaragua, Guatemala and Belize closed their borders to Cubans on November 15. The result is that 6,000-8,000 migrants have been stranded in Costa Rica. Granger toured Cuban migrant centers along the border, and found that they were well-maintained by the Costa Ricans. She was joined by Congressman Henry Cuellar, (TX28). The group received briefings from U.S. Ambassador to Costa Rica S. Fitzgerald Haney, as well as the Costa Rican ambassador to the United States, the U.S. Coast Guard and a number of Costa Rican officials. She also met with Costa Rican President Guillermo Solis, and he and other officials urged greater attention from the United States on the problems caused by the movement of drugs and human trafficking in Central America. “Costa Rica, like other Central American countries, faces the problems of drug trafficking, human trafficking, and weapons trafficking all mixed together,” she said. “In my opinion, the U.S. must help Costa Rica improve its security, which will help us provide more security at our own borders.” ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. energy industry will be able to create thousands of new jobs in America and provide a stable oil market to our allies around the world once it is freed from the outdated federal prohibition against exporting crude oil, Congresswoman Kay Granger said Friday. Granger said she was proud to cast a vote to end the 40-year-old crude oil export prohibition, which was included in the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus Appropriations bill. “Getting rid of the policy blocking U.S. crude oil exports is one of the most important decisions Congress has made this year,” Granger said. “We need to take away control of the world oil policy from the OPEC oil ministers and put it in the hands of American innovators and workers.” Granger co-sponsored legislation passed by the House which was authored by Congressman Joe Barton of Texas to eliminate the prohibition. The provisions in the omnibus Appropriations bill were based on that legislation. Ukraine and many of the nations of Europe receive much of their energy supply from Russia, and other nations are dependent on supplies from unstable nations in the Middle East like Libya. U.S. oil producers can provide a stable supply that will reduce the possibility of blackmail policies, Granger said. “Creating global security is more than just providing military support – giving our allies an energy supply they can depend on is extremely important,” Granger said. “We have the best energy technology, the most creative business minds and the most reliable source of crude oil. Releasing America’s crude exports into the global oil market will bring rewards to us and our allies.” Providing US oil producers access to the global market will have tremendous benefits for the U.S. economy, Granger said. The added business will bring as many as 300,000 new jobs nationwide – 35,000 just in Texas, where the energy industry has suffered recent job losses. The Brookings Institute estimates that allowing crude oil exports could increase U.S. gross domestic product by as much as $1.9 trillion by 2039. Stability and free market competition will also benefit U.S. consumers with lower prices at the pump, and help avoid the price spikes seen in the past decade. “We have an abundance of crude oil production, our refineries are running at near capacity, our storage is at record highs, and this will help our producers move forward into the world market,” Granger said. “The elimination of this out-of-date policy is a win-win for the American economy and our global allies.” The Government Accountability Office report on allowing U.S. oil exports is available here: https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-15-745T ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger issued the following statement on the passage of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015, which extends many of the most popular federal tax deductions: “Americans will save billions of dollars on their federal taxes with the passage of this ‘tax extender’ bill. This legislation makes many important tax deductions and provisions permanent, including the ability to deduct state and local sales taxes on your IRS return, which is especially important for Texans. Additionally, the research & development tax credit is made permanent, which will encourage our innovators to invest and develop cutting edge technologies here in the US. Finally, the bill supports American businesses by making permanent the increased small-business expensing deduction on equipment and property, allowing them to plan ahead and grow their businesses and the economy.” More information on the legislation is available at https://waysandmeans.house.gov/brady-highlights-how-the-path-act-helps-american-taxpayers/
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations and vice-chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, made the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives Thursday highlighting the national security provisions in the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus federal funding bill: Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this omnibus Appropriations bill. My top priority is to ensure we provide for our national security. This omnibus does precisely that. This is one of the most dangerous times in history. We must ensure that the United States remains not only the greatest country in the world, but also the strongest. The United States and our allies face threats from countries such as Iran, Russia, China, and North Korea. Additionally, radical Islamic terrorists, such as ISIS, continue to threaten everything we stand for. As chair of state and foreign operations appropriations and vice chair of defense appropriations, I am very proud of what this bill does to ensure resources are available to counter all of these threats. We have worked hard to ensure that our military has the tools it needs. We fund the equipment required to confront our enemies head on, and we take care of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines and their loved ones. Not only does the bill provide funds needed for training and readiness, it also funds critical family services. Assistance is provided for our allies, including Israel, Jordan, Egypt, and Ukraine, who are our vital partners in this fight. To address security issues closer to home, we prioritize funds for counter-narcotics and law enforcement assistance in Mexico, Colombia, the Caribbean and Central America, including funds to stem the flow of unaccompanied children to our borders. There are increased funds in the bill for embassy security and to prevent and protect against future terrorist attacks, unrest, and other acts of violence at home and abroad. The bill also includes provisions that will make our foreign visitor visa system more secure. Passage of this omnibus is critical to ensuring America can continue to lead from the front in this very dangerous world. I want to thank Chairman Rogers, Chairman Frelinghuysen, and Ranking Members Lowey and Visclosky for their tireless work on this bill. I urge a yes vote. ___________________________ A video clip of the Congresswoman’s statement can be viewed here: https://kaygranger.house.gov/video/congresswoman-kay-granger-statement-house-floor-fy-2016-omnibus-spending-bill Details of the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus spending bill are available at https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394337 ###
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – A federal spending bill set for a Congressional vote Friday includes important support for our troops and the nation’s defense, Congresswoman Kay Granger said Wednesday. The bill includes major support for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the keystone to air superiority for the United States and its allies. The Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus Appropriations bill allocates $514.1 billion for national defense, as well as $58.6 billion to continue funding of operations against terrorists around the world. It increases defense spending by $23 billion over Fiscal Year 2015. As the vice chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, Granger was a lead supporter of the increase in defense spending. “One of the top priorities of my time in Congress has been to ensure we provide support for our troops as they defend our nation around the world,” Granger said. “We are facing a terrible new enemy in the Middle East, and we must ensure our defenders have the resources to defeat ISIS at its roots.” Granger praised the bill’s inclusion of funding for 68 new F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, which are manufactured at the Lockheed-Martin Corp. plant in Fort Worth. “This is the top fighter in the world, which is why I have fought so hard to get as many as possible in the hands of our Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force pilots, as well as our allies around the world,” Granger said. “The Fort Worth workers who manufacture the F-35 with such excellence can be proud of their contribution to our national security.” The project is estimated to provide 129,000 jobs statewide in Texas. A summary breakdown of defense spending in the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus bill is available at https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/12.15.15_fy_2016_omnibus_-_defense_-_summary.pdf ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Malaria No More has honored administration and congressional leaders in the fight against malaria at its annual Champions Breakfast, held at the Newseum. Rear Admiral Tim Ziemer, U.S. global malaria coordinator for the President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI); Chairwoman Kay Granger of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations; and Congresswoman Nita Lowey, ranking member of the Appropriations Committee and Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, were honored for their leadership on malaria and commitment to the key global health programs that have been instrumental in saving millions of lives. “I am pleased to accept this honor on behalf of the President's Malaria Initiative team," said Rear Admiral Tim Ziemer. "The story of U.S. leadership in the fight against malaria is one of immense progress. The result is a shared success with countless champions from partner countries, donors, the private sector, non-governmental and faith-based organizations, philanthropists, and health workers.” The United States is the top global funder of anti-malaria efforts, through the President’s Malaria Initiative and contributions to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Launched by President George W. Bush in 2005, PMI aims to reduce the malaria burden and relieve poverty in Africa. President Obama expanded PMI, which is now operating in 19 high-burden countries and the Greater Mekong Subregion. It has been a major catalyst in saving children’s lives and building countries’ capacity to fight malaria. Strong global partnerships and smart investments have helped cut malaria deaths by 60 percent over the last 15 years. However, as many as 1 billion people remain infected with the malaria parasite, and nearly 500,000 people still die from malaria each year. Congressman Ander Crenshaw, co-chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases, co-founder of the Congressional Caucus for Effective Foreign Assistance, and a 2013 recipient of the Malaria Vision Award from Malaria No More, commended the work of his colleagues: “Enormous advances have been made against malaria, which is a 100 percent treatable and preventable disease. Since 2000, more than 4.3 million lives have been saved and 670 million malaria cases have been averted. Fifty-two countries are now on track to reduce malaria cases by 75 percent by the end of the year. Through the hard work of those honored by Malaria No More and all who wage the battle against this disease, we have shown that we can defeat malaria and must continue to move forward in that mission together.” “I am proud to have supported America’s initiatives to fight and eliminate malaria around the world,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger, who was awarded the 2015 Malaria Vision Award along with Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “Children today are surviving with the help of anti-malarial treatments, when just a decade ago their chances of dying after being bitten by a malaria-infected mosquito were tragically high.” “It’s an honor to receive this year’s Malaria Vision Award,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “As ranking member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I’m proud to support U.S. programs focused on ending malaria-related deaths around the world, including the President’s Malaria Initiative. We’ve made remarkable progress distributing millions of life-saving bed nets and medicines, but we still have much more work to eliminate malaria once and for all. I thank Malaria No More for being tremendous partners and champions helping prioritize this critically important goal.” The annual breakfast was attended by leaders who are committed to ending malaria, including members of Congress, private-sector leaders, congressional staff, diplomatic leaders from malaria endemic countries and donor countries, as well as members of the global health and development community. ### Malaria No More Malaria No More envisions a world where no child dies of a mosquito bite. We mobilize the political will and global resources required to achieve malaria eradication within our generation. We use a highly targeted, proven advocacy model to elevate malaria on the global agenda and translate political support into funding.
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) Wednesday co-sponsored legislation that would provide stringent protection for America against terrorists who attempt to slip into the country under any program involving refugees from Syria or Iraq. Granger warned on Sunday that current safeguards are inadequate and said the administration should suspend the admission of Syrian refugees into the United States. Evidence has shown that one or more of the terrorists involved in the Paris attacks had entered Europe in the wave of refugees. “I have urged the Administration to stop admitting any more Syrian refugees in this dangerous environment,” Granger said. “It is clear that we need much better safeguards before we can accept any refugees from that area.” Granger on Wednesday co-sponsored the “American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015,” which was introduced by Congressman Michael McCaul of Texas, the Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee. Under this legislation, no Syrian or Iraqi refugee can enter the United States until the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI and the Director of National Intelligence unanimously agree that the individual does not pose a security threat and provide that certification to Congress. Granger, who is chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, told her colleagues at a meeting this week that the United States has been extremely generous in providing relief to refugees from the Syrian conflict. The United States has provided $4.5 billion in aid to people affected by the Syrian conflict, and supports millions of people in Syria and the surrounding nations, according to the U.S. Agency for International Development. “We have provided the largest proportion of aid for refugees in the countries surrounding Syria, and we will continue to provide that support,” Granger said. “The United States will not turn its back on this crisis.” The full text of the legislation can be found here. ###
11.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement regarding the terrorist attacks in Paris: The terrorist attacks on the people of Paris – with the apparent guidance and support from the Islamic State – are a heinous crime that reminds us all that we are at war with the radicals who want to control the world through tyranny and terror. These attacks are a warning that the United States response to the Islamic State has been inadequate. The Administration must understand that this terrorist group is a threat to the entire world, and we need a response that will help us defeat this threat. Seeing these terrorists strike in the heart of Europe is a dire warning that Congress must provide our military and intelligence agencies with all the funding and equipment necessary to protect our national security abroad, where these threats develop. I will continue to push for strong funding for our national defense, and for the programs overseen by the State Department that aid in the fight against ISIS, other terrorist groups, and other radical extremists. The news that at least one of the attackers may have entered Europe as a "refugee" reinforces my concern about the Administration’s policy to increase Syrian refugees coming into the United States. We cannot allow Syrian refugees in the United States in the current dangerous environment. We have provided significant assistance to the refugees and nations in the region to address the crisis, and that should continue to be our response. Also, this renewed threat of terrorism plots should be a warning that we must keep terrorist detainees in the maximum security of Guantanamo Bay. We cannot allow them to be brought to the United States, or to be set free to rejoin ISIL or Al Qaeda in their war against the world. My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Paris and those whose loved ones have been murdered or injured. Our response to these atrocities must be to unite with our friends and allies around the world with a renewed commitment to the annihilation of the Islamic State. ###
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) released the following statement congratulating Congressman Paul Ryan on his election as the Speaker of the House of Representatives Thursday: “I was pleased to support Congressman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin as the next Speaker of the House. Congressman Ryan has been a thoughtful and impassioned leader as Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. He is liked and respected by members of all political persuasions in and out of Congress. He has shown an ability to work with all members, and to bring together coalitions to move forward on creative conservative solutions to the challenges faced by our nation. I am hopeful that our strong Republican majority will rally behind Speaker Ryan to show the American people that WE are the responsible governing party.”
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) released the following statement on the comprehensive budget agreement approved by the House of Representatives Wednesday: “The budget agreement approved by the House of Representatives Wednesday ensures that Congress provides funding needed to support our nation’s national defense. It will stabilize the budget process, allowing our military to plan and conduct exercises and operations, procure vital warfighting equipment and pay our service members. “I strongly support the budget agreement provision that lifts the fiscal cap on defense spending by $25 billion – although this falls short of the $30 billion in the defense authorization bill passed by Congress but vetoed by the President. Because the agreement carries through the next fiscal year, both the Department of Defense and Congress can plan for an orderly budget process into 2017, rather than struggle through never-ending fiscal emergencies that have confronted us recently. “I am also pleased that the agreement prevents a drastic 50 percent increase in Medicare premiums for more than 15 million senior citizens. The agreement also repeals the employer healthcare mandate and offers relief to businesses forced to navigate the inefficient system created by the current healthcare law.” ###
10.21.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement about this Thursday’s ceremony to award the Congressional Gold Medal to the surviving members of the special military unit tasked with protecting cultural treasures stolen by the Nazis during World War II: "This Thursday, the Congressional Gold Medal will be awarded in honor of the Monuments Men as a result of my bill in the 113th Congress. Amidst the death and destruction of World War II, The Monuments Men and Women were able to locate, preserve and return almost five million cultural items confiscated by the Nazis, including many of the world’s greatest works of art. The veterans who participated in these daring missions are certainly worthy and deserving of the recognition of Congress’ highest expression of appreciation. “I have been looking forward to this ceremony ever since I first learned about the greatest untold story of World War II. My journey with The Monuments Men began at the Kimbell Art Museum in 2006 when I met Robert Edsel after he had published his first book about their daring missions. I want to thank him for uncovering this story and sharing it with the world. I am pleased he will join us at the Capitol for this special ceremony, because it would not have been possible without him.” ###
10.02.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement regarding the Texas Delegation letter she recently co-led with Congressman Marc Veasey (TX-33) that supports the extension of the Positive Train Control (PTC) implementation deadline. “I am pleased to join with Congressman Marc Veasey and 29 other Members of the Texas Delegation in demonstrating our support for extending the implementation deadline of Positive Train Control (PTC) technology on our nation’s railroads. As of 2012, Texas alone had 49 freight railroads, employing nearly 17,000 employees. Texas also has the most freight railroad miles in the country, which move hundreds of millions of tons of commodities each year across our state. “If the PTC implementation deadline is not extended, we are concerned that railroads in Texas and across the country will be forced to close. This would have a crippling effect on our nation’s transportation network and severely damage our economy. “I recognize the importance of PTC and support its implementation as soon as possible; however, it is clear that the current December 31, 2015 deadline is not realistic. Despite investing billions of dollars into PTC, unanticipated technological and regulatory delays have left railroads unable to comply with the deadline. We must prevent a shutdown of our rail network. “I am proud the Texas Delegation is taking the lead to ensure that our nation’s railroads can continue their important role in our economy, while working to fully implement Positive Train Control technology.” ###
10.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) and Congressman Steve Womack (AR-3) yesterday sent National Commission on the Future of the Army (NCFA) Chairman Carter Ham, USA Ret., and Vice Chairman Thomas R. Lamont a letter expressing concerns over recent Army force structure decisions and their hope that the NCFA will take into account the value and capability of the National Guard as they prepare recommendations for Army force structure decisions. The letter says, in part: “The National Guard must be recognized as a legitimate combat reserve of the Army. To relegate them to the sidelines by stripping them of assets, reducing their readiness levels, and removing combat capability is simply unacceptable. In addition, we urge you to reexamine the Department of Defense dwell time guidelines: some adjustments would make the Guard a cost-effective and viable choice for maintaining combat power. As proven over the last 14 years, the National Guard provides a significant cost-savings in dwell while providing an equal capability when deployed. The National Guard is always accessible and has never been better equipped, better led and more ready than it is right now. It is essential to build a force that embraces this unprecedented capability.” The letter goes on to express specific concern over the Army’s Aviation Restructure Initiative (ARI), which would remove attack aviation capability from the National Guard in order to provide the active Army with additional capability, and reiterate the need for an operational reserve in attack aviation. The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
09.05.2015	Washington, DC-Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement regarding the four members of the Texas Army National Guard who were injured this week in an IED attack in the Sinai: “I would like to extend my thoughts and prayers to all of the Texas Army National Guard soldiers of the 1-112th Cavalry Squadron, especially the four Soldiers recently injured in an IED attack in the Sinai. “The National Guard is vitally important to our security both at home and overseas. They protect our nation and borders, respond to our communities and serve as citizen-soldiers, working throughout every state. “These Guardsmen, along with those in France that prevented a terrorist attack, have again highlighted the tremendous value and importance of the National Guard. “We stand ready to welcome these warriors of the 1-112th Cavalry home, where they will continue to serve in our communities and rise to the Texas Guard motto, ‘Texans serving Texas.’" ###
07.31.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement regarding the Marine Corps announcement that the F-35B has reached initial operational capability: “The Marine Corps announcement that the F-35B is ready to be deployed is a milestone for the defense of our country. With this plane now in their arsenal, Marine fighter pilots will have access to the most up to date equipment. I am confident that with the F-35B, Marine fighter pilots will be able to meet any challenge that they face. Today’s landmark announcement is the culmination of nearly 15 years of hard work by men and women at Lockheed Martin. Congratulations on a job well done.” ###
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement regarding the Department of State’s plan to modify the U.S. diplomatic presence in Cuba: “I am opposed to the Administration’s planned re-designation of the U.S. Interests Section as a U.S. Embassy in Cuba, which would give the Cuban regime full diplomatic recognition despite the fact that they continue to repress the Cuban people. As Chairwoman of the Appropriations Committee’s State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Appropriations Subcommittee, it is my responsibility to weigh in on how the State Department uses American taxpayer dollars, and I object to funds being used to expand U.S. diplomatic operations and facilities in Cuba.” ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement regarding an agreement reached on Iran’s nuclear program: “I will not support an agreement that jeopardizes the safety and security of Americans and our allies throughout the world. The goal of these negotiations was for Iran to give up the ability to produce nuclear weapons in exchange for sanctions relief. This agreement would simply delay Iran’s ability to produce a nuclear weapon, while also giving them access to conventional weapons. Furthermore, with sanctions lifted, the Iranian government will have the resources to continue to pursue its anti-American and anti-Israel agenda. This Administration was so concerned about building a legacy that it was incapable of walking away from what appears to be a bad deal.” ###
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Congressman Steve Womack (AR-3), and Congressman Keith Rothfus (PA-12) are leading the effort to protect national security by keeping Apache helicopters with the National Guard and preventing the reduction of Army Guard End Strength. The three lawmakers spearheaded a letter signed by more than 200 House members urging that National Guard Apaches not be transferred to the Active Army and that no decision on the transfer be made until the Commission on the Future of the Army issues its report. In the letter to the Chairman and Ranking Members of both the House Armed Services Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, the members highlighted the fact that the National Guard is “battle-tested and combat proven.” They also noted the vital role that the National Guard plays in responding to domestic disasters and emergencies while also fighting overseas. The lawmakers said any changes before the Commission completes the report “defeats the entire purpose of the Commission.” “America’s security is our top priority,” the House members wrote in the letter. “Protecting the capabilities of the National Guard is vitally important to that security. As the FY16 National Defense Authorization and Appropriations bills are conferenced, we ask you to halt the transfer of Apaches from the Army National Guard and stop reductions in Army Guard end-strength and Full-Time Support until FY 17. This will ensure Congress has sufficient time to review all recommendations and to thoughtfully deliberate the issues before making a final decision on matters critical to national security.” The full letter can be found here. ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement on the United Nations Human Rights Council report on the Gaza conflict: “The UN Human Rights Council’s report on last summer’s conflict in the Gaza Strip continues the Council’s blatant bias against Israel. The report was unfairly critical of Israel while at the same time it fails to condemn Hamas’ terrorist tactics. The report said nothing about Hamas’ indiscriminate firing of rockets into Israel, their use of underground tunnels to launch attacks against Israel and their storage of missiles at hospitals and schools. The report also recommends the International Criminal Court, which has a clear bias against Israel, conduct an investigation into Israel’s actions in the Gaza Strip. “I have been very vocal with my concerns regarding the UN Human Rights Council and the International Criminal Court. I included language in the Fiscal Year 2016 State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs bill to address these concerns. The bill prohibits the UN Human Rights Council from receiving taxpayer dollars unless the Secretary of State determines and reports that participation in the Council is in the national security interest of the United States and that the Council is taking significant steps to remove Israel as a permanent agenda item. In addition, the bill prohibits economic assistance to the Palestinian Authority if they initiate or actively support an International Criminal Court investigation that subjects Israeli nationals to an investigation for alleged crimes against Palestinians. “I urge the Administration to adamantly oppose this biased account against Israel and support Israel’s right to defend itself. Should this come up for a vote, members of the UN Human Rights Council must also stand up against such blatant bias and vote against this report.” ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision that ObamaCare subsidies for 34 states that use the federal insurance exchange are legal: “Regardless of the Supreme Court’s decision, ObamaCare has had a deeply negative impact on my constituents’ personal health care and our nation’s health care system. The law raised taxes, forced many Americans to change their insurance, reduced coverage options and imposed new government mandates on the American people. I remain committed to working to make high quality healthcare affordable and accessible to my constituents.” ###
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Last night, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) met with Malala Yousafzai, who earned a Nobel Peace Prize for her advocacy of education for young women. Congresswoman Granger released the following statement about the meeting: “Malala Yousafzai’s accomplishments are a source of inspiration for me and many others. As the daughter of a teacher and principal, and a former educator myself, I know firsthand the profound impact that an education can have on a young adult. “The work that Malala does improves the lives of young men and women throughout the world. “Malala has managed to accomplish so much good without a title or a position of power. She has earned recognition because of the importance of her message and her willingness to stand up to those who deny young women an education. In doing this work she has placed her life in jeopardy. “We often mistake those who are physically imposing or in a position of power for the strongest individuals in our society. But as Abraham Lincoln said, ‘There is nothing stronger than gentleness.’ Malala is one of the strongest individuals whom I have ever had the honor of meeting. “Through my past work as Co-Chairwoman of the Iraqi Women’s Caucus and Co-Chairwoman of Women's Caucus Task Force on Afghan Women, and through my work as Chairwoman of the State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Subcommittee, I have led several efforts to make sure that young women have access to an education and opportunities to participate in the political process. “I wish Malala the best as she continues her vital work and I am committed to doing whatever possible to ensure that an education is a right rather than a privilege.” ###
06.11.2015	I thank the Chairman for yielding and for his exceptional leadership of the Committee this year. I also want to acknowledge the work of my friend, Mrs. Lowey, as Ranking Member of the Full Committee and the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Even in a year when total spending in the bill is reduced by 11% below the request, we have tried to work together to find solutions our members can support. We have many amendments to consider this morning, so I will give just a few brief highlights of the bill. All of our Committee members know that we live in a dangerous world where terrorists threaten the United States, our allies and partners, and our way of life. We see Russia and China continuing to assert territorial claims against their neighbors, and the threat of a nuclear Iran is real. That is why this bill at $47.8 billion, 3% below last year’s level, must prioritize programs that are in our national security interest, including o embassy security; o assistance to key countries - such as Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Ukraine; o preventing terrorist safe havens and stopping the flow of foreign terrorist fighters, and; o democracy programs and international broadcasting. The bill provides robust funding for security initiatives to help our neighbors in Mexico, Colombia, the Caribbean, and Central America. The funding provided for Central America continues to address the tens of thousands of unaccompanied children that have come to the United States over the last year. As I said when we marked up this bill last summer, changes will not happen overnight in these countries. While there is now a joint plan to address shared challenges in the region, more needs to be done by the Central American countries. Security must come first before there can be prosperity. The bill continues our bipartisan commitment to address human trafficking. We must do our part to put an end to what equates to modern day slavery. The bill also devotes funds to combat wildlife poaching and trafficking. Many members of this committee are concerned that criminal organizations are getting rich off of this illegal activity, and we want to protect some of the world’s most unique wildlife from extinction. The bill also focuses on critical humanitarian aid and health programs by rejecting the cuts proposed for these accounts in the President’s budget. To address all of these needs, the bill excludes funding for many of the international banks, reduces the United Nations and international organizations by a billion dollars below the request, and rescinds accounts where balances have accumulated due to slow spending. This bill addresses key policy issues, including aid to Egypt. At a time of unrest in the Middle East, the U.S. needs Egypt as our stable ally. Funds in the bill, and the conditions placed on those funds, reflect our commitment to maintaining our relationship with Egypt. The bill makes clear statements about the Palestinian Authority (P.A.). The P.A. will not receive economic aid as long as they continue to pursue unilateral efforts at the U.N. and other international organizations, outside of a negotiated peace agreement with Israel. The bill also stops the Palestinians from having representation in Washington, D.C., if their hostile actions continue. In closing, I hope that we can work quickly to report the bill out of Committee today. I yield back to the Chairman.
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement on her decision to vote for Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation that would establish the rules for how the President can negotiate trade agreements. “American companies and workers depend on a global economy and it is essential that they are in a position to take full advantage of global markets,” Congresswoman Granger said. “The worst thing that can happen is for America to be shut out of these markets. In Texas alone, more than 40,000 companies export $325 million in goods annually. Ways & Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (WI-1) has written the TPA bill in such a way that the President is required to negotiate in a manner that is both accountable and transparent. Congress will have the ability to weigh in as the agreements are being negotiated and would retain the authority to veto an agreement that they determine is not in America’s best interest. I will vote for Trade Promotion Authority because it gives the United States the leverage needed to negotiate favorable trade agreements that open foreign markets to American exports, grow our economy, and create American jobs.”
05.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after former Speaker of the House Jim Wright passed away earlier today. “Speaker Jim Wright’s footprint in Fort Worth and North Texas is large. He was instrumental in projects that helped build this state and particularly North Texas to the prominent place it holds today. He helped save the Historic Stockyards District and authored the Wright Amendment which settled a bitter fight over DFW International Airport, allowing Fort Worth and Dallas to work together and share the economic growth largely credited to the success of the airport.” “My thoughts and prayers go out to his family and I join with so many others in mourning the loss of a true giant who worked tirelessly on behalf of the people of Texas and the United States of America.”
04.20.2015	Dallas – President George W. Bush was honored at a gala last night in Dallas for his unprecedented commitment in the fight against malaria. President Bush was given the Global Leadership Award by Malaria No More in recognition of the pioneering role that he played in founding the President’s Malaria Initiative and supporting the Global Fund, which together have contributed to more than 4.3 million lives saved and 670 million malaria cases averted since 2000. “I am honored to receive this award from Malaria No More tonight and I thank the American people for their generosity and leadership which has saved millions of lives and set us on the path toward achieving a world without malaria,” said President Bush in Freedom Hall of the George W. Bush Presidential Center. “I am confident that with renewed focus and determination, we can finish the job, and ensure that no child dies from a mosquito bite.” The event also honored ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson and Kimberly-Clark CEO Tom Falk for their contributions to the global malaria effort. ExxonMobil has been involved for more than a decade in the fight against malaria, through its employees and operations in Africa, committing over $120 million to the cause. Malaria No More’s partnership with Kimberly-Clark, and its Huggies diaper brand, began in Kenya last year delivering 400,000 live-saving malaria treatments and reaching millions of Kenyan mothers with health education. Admiral Tim Ziemer, who leads the President’s Malaria Initiative and serves as the U.S. Global Malaria Coordinator, attended the gala and presented on the progress to date. Texas Congresswoman Kay Granger, who has been instrumental in preserving funding for critical U.S. foreign aid global-health programs, also spoke at the gala. As Chairwoman of the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, she emphasized the importance of continuing to effectively fund these important programs. The event, held in advance of World Malaria Day on April 25, also acknowledged the work that remains. “President Bush was a man of action during his presidency. The initiatives he championed were groundbreaking at the time and the results today are undeniable,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. “The President’s Malaria Initiative has been extraordinary successful. The Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Presidents Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief have changed the way the U.S. invests in worldwide challenges like Malaria and other diseases that can be prevented and cured.” The President’s Malaria Initiative, founded a decade ago under the leadership of President Bush, has distributed over 140 million mosquito nets, procured 318 million antimalarial treatments and over 174 million rapid diagnostic tests. This and other efforts have helped decrease malaria deaths by nearly 50 percent since 2000. Malaria, one of the world’s oldest, deadliest and costliest diseases, still takes the life of a child nearly every minute. “The strides that have been made in fighting malaria would not have been possible without the leadership and vision of President Bush,” said Martin Edlund, CEO of Malaria No More. “We are thrilled to have continued that progress under President Obama and we are excited to see that people from both sides of the aisle are committed to the cause.” For more information about Malaria No More and efforts to eradicate the disease, visit www.malarianomore.org/. ###The gala was closed to the press but photos and other assets are available at www.malarianomore.org/ Contact: Dena GudaitisDena.Gudaitis@malarianomore.org (202) 999-2034
04.15.2015	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs will come to order. Ambassador Power, thank you for being here to testify. We have many important policy and budget issues to discuss with you today. First, I would like to address the recent announcement of a framework agreement on Iran’s nuclear program. With each passing day, conflicting reports emerge about the parameters of this deal. I have serious concerns about promises that may have been made to lift sanctions on Iran and I hope you can address this issue today. The International Atomic Energy Agency has a critical role to play in implementing any agreement. Yet we all know Iran’s record of cooperating with the I.A.E.A. is not good. I hope you can help the committee understand why we should have confidence that Iran will live up to its commitments this time and allow the I.A.E.A. the access required. I am also deeply disappointed by the hostile actions taken by the Palestinian Authority to join international bodies over the last year. Their steps at the International Criminal Court have put U.S assistance to the Palestinians in jeopardy. I am also very concerned about recent statements from Administration officials that suggest the United States is re-evaluating its approach to the peace process and reports that the U.S. may support a U.N. Security Council resolution laying out conditions and establishing deadlines. The Administration must send a clear message to the Palestinians that the only path to statehood is through a negotiated settlement with Israel. Concerns also remain about the U.N. Human Rights Council. I fear that the Council’s upcoming report on last year’s hostilities in Gaza will unfairly criticize Israel’s right to defend itself. There are Members of Congress who question why we should support the Council at all, and I welcome your comments on this issue. Regarding budget issues, the request includes a significant increase for accounts that fund the United Nations and other international organizations – approximately 25% higher than last year. Like many increases in the President’s request, this one is difficult for me to justify. The United States is by far the largest contributor to the U.N. and more work needs to be done to ensure that the U.N. has its budget under control. For example, U.N. peacekeeping costs have skyrocketed. The Administration should work with the U.N. to phase out peacekeeping missions when possible and lower the rate the United States pays for them. Madam Ambassador, you have committed to reform the U.N. and as you know, our appropriations bill contains strong transparency and accountability requirements. Some progress has been made, but many international organizations continue to fall short. After all of these years, there is simply no excuse for this. I look forward to your thoughts on all of these important issues. In closing, I want to thank you and the American delegations in New York and around the world for the work you do to advance U.S. interests.
04.13.2015	By Kristen Tribe Longtime Congresswoman Kay Granger spoke to a luncheon crowd of more than 100 Wednesday at the Decatur Civic Center. Granger, first elected to represent the 12th Congressional District in 1997, is the only female Republican in the Texas delegation. She recalled being asked at another event what it was like to be the only woman and “what do the men think?” “They’re scared to death of me!” she said with a laugh. Granger was once mayor of Fort Worth, and she’s a former teacher and small business owner. She represents the east side of Wise County, western Tarrant County and all of Parker County in Congress. Her counterpart, Mac Thornberry, represents the western side of Wise. Granger is chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee and vice chair of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. Wednesday’s program was a Q&A with Messenger publisher Roy Eaton and questions submitted by the audience. Topics included immigration, ISIS, veterans and water, among others. Here is a sample of the questions she answered. One of the major issues is the threat of ISIS. Give us your thoughts and where’s the end game in this battle? “The Islamic extremists, their guiding message is to fight to the end of the world and destroy all infidels; an infidel is anyone who doesn’t believe the way they believe, and also to reestablish a caliphate, which is their land and property. “If you follow that and watch what they’re doing with these individual terrorist organizations, they’re demanding they join ISIS.” Granger went on to say that she’s been traveling in recent months and with a contingent visited with other countries to see what they will do to help in the battle against the terrorist organization. What progress is being made to improve medical care, both mental and physical, for veterans today? “In some cases we’re doing good work and in some we’re not at all doing what we should do for those who risked their lives, and their futures, to keep us safe.” Granger said there was an issue with veterans not receiving care because some of their issues were considered pre-existing conditions, issues they had before war. “We have to give care to those people, to men and women who served, and give the best care we can.” Wise County has a significant Hispanic population. Tell us about the committee you chaired that visited the border to look into the children being brought across it. Granger organized trips to see what was happening, and at that time there were about 50,000 children who had recently crossed with no family and no where to go. She said one place had 1,200 children – 600 boys and 600 girls – and they had 72 hours to determine the status of their health before finding them a place to go. Granger said they were doing nothing to determine where their families were located. Her committee recommended these children be kept in facilities at the border instead of being shipped across the U.S. She visited Honduras, Guatamala and El Salvador, the countries with the most children here, and their government officials assure her that they wanted their children back. They also visited with leaders about the problems in their countries that led to the children being sent to the U.S. alone. She said so far, only 2,000 children have been returned to their home countries. What do you see in the future of Wise County for water needs? “Water is the new oil and what oil used to be. Communities really depend on a strong water supply, and every town, city and state is looking at that. I’m very confident about what’s happening here.” Granger said she worked with the Oklahoma governor on an agreement between the two states to buy water not being used in our neighbor to the north, but in the end, it didn’t work out. “The Oklahoma governor said, ‘I know it makes sense, but in this day and age you try to explain to citizens that you’re selling their water, even if you’re not using it, and it’s not going very far.” You’re known for being accountable to your constituents. Can you elaborate on the importance of accountability of elected officials? “I’ve always said that we all owe back to the community. There are people in this room that could do exactly what I’m doing, and I know this. You have allowed me to do it. You’ve supported me, you’ve given me that responsibility and that trust, so I owe you 100 percent on everything – no less. I do try to do the very best job in everything I do.”
04.13.2015	
04.13.2015	
04.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after it was announced that an initial framework agreement has been reached by the P5+1 negotiating countries regarding Iran’s nuclear program. “The ultimate goal is to ensure Iran does not become a nuclear power in the Middle East. I am not convinced at this time that the initial agreement that has been reached will meet this goal. There are too many details that have not been clarified to ensure that Iran will not have the capability to develop a nuclear weapon. I remain firmly opposed to scaling back or removing bipartisan sanctions that have been placed on Iran before the international community is able to verify that Iran is dismantling its nuclear program. In addition, long-term monitoring of Iran’s future activities is essential to ensure full compliance. “It is imperative that Congress is fully consulted before any final agreement with Iran is reached. The security of the United States is at stake as well as our key allies in the region; specifically Israel. Any agreement that threatens the security of the State of Israel is not an agreement I can support and I know most of my colleagues in Congress agree. Israel should not have to live under threat from a regime that has openly advocated for its destruction. “Iran has proven itself an untrustworthy member of the international community in the past. The Administration must be prepared to enact serious consequences should negotiations fail and Iran moves forward with their nuclear program.”
03.31.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after President Obama announced the United States would lift the hold on military assistance to Egypt. “Today, the Administration decided to release its hold on military assistance to Egypt; a decision that is long overdue. Egypt is a critical ally and partner, and Egypt is on the front lines fighting extremists in their own country in the Sinai Peninsula. Now they are actively engaged in a broader military effort in the Middle East to prevent the advances of Islamic State militants. I have been a tough critic of the Administration’s choice to delay military assistance to Egypt because I don’t believe it has been in the best interest of U.S. national security or regional stability and security in the Middle East to withhold vital military equipment to such an important ally in the region. Now that the decision has been made, I am hopefully the Egyptian military will be able to quickly receive the assistance the U.S. has promised them.” On February 19th, Congresswoman Granger sent a letter to President Obama calling on him to release the military assistance to Egypt that was being withheld by the Administration. To read Granger’s letter to President Obama, click here.
03.26.2015	By Leigh Munsil Lockheed Martin took to Capitol Hill on Wednesday with an F-35 flight simulator and footage of the advanced fighter jet in flight to tout the economic benefits of the massive weapons project for companies supplying key components. The midday event was a chance for staffers to see the plane and the company to maintain support for the controversial project as they prepare to vote on the Pentagon’s budget for next fiscal year. Rep. Kay Granger (R-Texas), who represents Forth Worth, where the aircraft is built, spoke at an event in the Rayburn House Office Building’s foyer. “Even though it’s made in my hometown,” she told Politico, “it’s not just a Fort Worth plane. All these people are involved. It means jobs for everyone all over the United States.” Lockheed officials also touted the Pentagon’s latest Selected Acquisition Reports published last week, which found that F-35 program costs decreased by $7.5 billion in the most recent reporting period, from $398.6 billion to $391.1 billion. But Granger warned that if lawmakers want to see continued savings, they can’t adjust the fighter’s production and delivery schedule. “I’m thrilled. I’m absolutely thrilled,” Granger said of the SAR findings. “The thing that Congress has to be aware of is, Lockheed can do everything they can do to lower the cost, but if Congress then steps in like they’ve done and says, ‘Well, OK we’re going to buy that many but we’re going to slow it down’ — slowing it down raises the price. Congress really needs to be aware of that and understand that if we’re doing that, then don’t come around later and say, 'Oh, we’ve got a price overrun.’” Granger was joined by Rep. John Larson of Connecticut, whose district includes F-35 engine-maker Pratt & Whitney and Lockheed executive vice president and F-35 program manager Lorraine Martin. Larson encouraged fellow lawmakers to restore automatic cuts to the Pentagon budget known as sequestration and “get over this notion” that the F-35 program needs to be downsized. “This is not the time to pull back; this is the time to push forward,” he said. Martin said the supplier day was a chance to remind members of Congress how important smaller suppliers are to building an affordable jet. “There are a lot of pressures on this nation and other nations that are a part of this program,” she said. “But quantity matters. Eighty percent of all cost savings going forward are going to come from increased quantity. … Now it’s about buying in bulk throughout the supply chain, and enabling that to bring the cost down. And that is a message that we’re bringing to all of the representatives here." "Even though we understand that it is really challenging times, we need this aircraft, we need it to be cost-effective, and it means we have to buy it on the profile that’s in the program of record.” Yet the warnings about the impact of cutting the buy contradict comments from the Air Force’s program manager on Tuesday, who said that now that the company is producing more aircraft each year, it would have minimal impact on unit cost if next year’s buy was modestly reduced.
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, March 25, 2015 – Lockheed Martin [NYSE: LMT] today showcased its F-35 Lightning II mobile cockpit demonstrator to Members of Congress at the Rayburn House Office Building. “We owe our future generations the strongest, most advanced national defense possible. The F-35 is a critical piece in our defense arsenal that will allow us to continue our dominance in the skies into the next generation,” said Rep. Kay Granger, co-chair and founder of the Congressional Joint Strike Fighter Caucus. “The F-35 is being recognized around the world as a game changer in defense. Powered by Pratt & Whitney engines produced in East Hartford, Connecticut, this aircraft plays a critical role in maintaining our nation's military superiority," said Rep. John Larson, co-chair of the Congressional Joint Strike Fighter Caucus. “We’re pleased to be able to demonstrate the capabilities of the F-35 Lightning II here in the nation’s capital,” said Lorraine Martin, executive vice president and general manager of the F-35 Lightning II Program for Lockheed Martin. “With more than 1,200 domestic suppliers in 49 states and Puerto Rico, the F-35 program supports more than 129,000 direct and indirect jobs and provides $380 billion in economic impact across the country.” In additional to American economic impact, thousands more are employed in the F-35 program’s partner countries, which include the United Kingdom, Italy, the Netherlands, Turkey, Canada, Australia, Denmark and Norway. During today’s event, attendees received an update on the status of the program as well as the opportunity to “fly” the F-35 cockpit demonstrator to experience stealth capability, fighter agility and integrated information through the eyes of a pilot. The cockpit is visually and audibly interactive and provides a realistic look at the F-35’s performance, air-to-air and air-to-ground capabilities, sophisticated sensor fusion and advanced computational capabilities. The F-35 Lightning II is a 5th Generation fighter, combining advanced stealth with fighter speed and agility, fully-fused sensor information and network-enabled operations.
03.25.2015	The hearing will come to order. I want to welcome everyone to today’s hearing for the Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs. I also want to thank all of the witnesses for being here today. I want to note for the record that all written testimony received by the subcommittee will be given the same consideration. Each witness will be given four minutes to provide remarks and Members will have one minute to ask questions. Witnesses are reminded that the Members have your full testimony, and you are encouraged to summarize.
03.24.2015	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I would like to welcome our witnesses to today’s hearing: Roberta Jacobson, Assistant Secretary of State for the Western Hemisphere William Brownfield, Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement Elizabeth Hogan, Acting Assistant Administrator of U.S.A.I.D. for Latin America and the Caribbean Last summer, our country experienced a national security and humanitarian crisis of historic proportions as tens of thousands of unaccompanied minors were sent through criminal smuggling networks from Central America, across Mexico, and to our southern border. Although the number of unaccompanied children has dropped since then, thousands more are expected to cross this year. This is unacceptable. At the Speaker’s request, I led a working group to examine this issue and provide recommendations. I visited the Texas-Mexico border several times. I also led a delegation to Guatemala and Honduras to see where the children were coming from and why. There are many reasons why so many families and children have made, and continue to make, this dangerous journey. Some of this can be explained by the Administration’s slow pace of deportations and insufficient focus on law enforcement at the border. The harsh conditions and lack of security in Central America also play a role. In addition, the lack of economic opportunity and high unemployment is causing people to look for other ways to survive. The purpose of today’s hearing is to discuss what the United States and other countries in the region can do to put an end to this illegal migration at its source. The United States has provided assistance to Central America for many years. We need to take a hard look at what has worked, what has not, and what changes need to be made going forward. Last year’s appropriations act increased assistance for Central America and also included support for programs to combat human trafficking and help countries repatriate and reintegrate their citizens. The Administration’s budget request includes $1 billion for Central America, more than double the amount provided last year. The committee needs an explanation from our witnesses of how such a large investment will change the situation on our border. While the United States has a role to play in helping Central America, we cannot and should not do this alone. Other countries in the region have a stake in Central America’s failure or success. Our neighbor, Mexico is on the front lines of combating the illegal migration issue and we must do all we can to help Mexico strengthen its borders. In addition, we should also support and use the capabilities of partners in the region, such as Colombia. There are a number of lessons we can learn from ‘Plan Colombia’ that can help guide us. One of those lessons is that for lasting change to occur, we need a solid commitment from the partner countries themselves. These governments must be willing to make hard choices and address the needs of their own citizens. I have met with the Presidents of some of these countries and have already seen progress. For the first time, the Central American governments have come together to develop a joint plan to address shared problems in the region. Just as I believe the United States should assist these countries, so too should we hold the governments accountable for following through on their commitments. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses today on how we can best address these important issues.
03.24.2015	(Washington, DC) - Today, U.S. Reps. Chris Smith (NJ-04), Nita Lowey (NY-17), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Kay Granger (TX-12), Steve Israel (NY-03), Peter Roskam (IL-06), and Ted Deutch (FL-21) announced the launch of the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism in the House of Representatives. Together, these Members will serve as co-Chairs of the Taskforce in the 114th Congress and spearhead initiatives aimed at addressing the alarming rise of anti-Semitism around the world. The Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism was formed in order to ensure that Congress plays an integral role in condemning anti-Semitism and promoting tolerance worldwide. The Taskforce will serve as a forum for educating Members on this distinct form of intolerance and to engage with the Executive Branch, foreign leaders, and civil society organizations for the sharing of best practices and cooperating on solutions to rebuff this disturbing trend. It will also promote Holocaust Remembrance in concert with exploring innovative ways to teach tolerance and confront hate. The co-Chairs issued the following joint statement: “Around the world, we are witnessing an alarming rise of anti-Semitism that is dangerous and complex. Over the past few years, Jewish schools, synagogues, and even homes and property have been targets of anti-Semitic violence. Jewish populations are facing increased levels of hatred, frequently under the guise of political differences or other alibis, but in reality it is solely because of their faith. It is the responsibility of everyone who believes in basic universal liberties and freedoms to condemn this trend and work together to root out the hatred which underlies anti-Semitism. We look forward to working with our colleagues in Congress to find innovative solutions that match the 21st century face of this age-old bigotry.”
03.18.2015	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I would like to welcome Secretary Lew before the subcommittee to discuss the fiscal year 2016 budget request for the Treasury Department’s International Affairs Programs. The funding under review today supports contributions to international financial institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, global climate change programs, debt relief, and technical assistance programs. The budget request totals $3.1 billion, a 28% increase above fiscal year 2015. This funding level reflects the Congressional Budget Office higher scoring of the IMF proposal than the Administration. This is the third year that the Administration has requested authority and funding for the IMF. In the past, there has not been sufficient Congressional support for the IMF proposal, and frankly, I do not expect much to change this year. Turning to the World Bank and the regional development banks, I have continued to express concerns about multi-year funding commitments made to these institutions. The Administration argues that these organizations give us more “bang for the buck,” but I question whether these multilateral institutions are being held to the same standards as our bilateral programs. The Banks’ lack of transparency in allocating funds and decision-making hurts their support in Congress. Increasingly, it seems that the United States is one of the only voices demanding responsiveness and accountability. I would like to hear from you today about the efforts these institutions are making to publicly track funding and provide independent evaluations of program effectiveness. Last year the Administration made a multi-billion dollar pledge to the new Green Climate Fund. When you commit the United States to controversial programs that are unlikely to be fully funded by Congress, the Administration puts the credibility of the United States on the line. Mr. Secretary, I hope you can discuss this more with the subcommittee today. Finally, while the Treasury Department’s role in U.S. policy toward Cuba lies more in the jurisdiction of the Financial Services Subcommittee, this subcommittee is also closely following the Administration's move to normalize relations with Cuba and I have deep concerns. Secretary Lew, thank you for being here today. We have many important topics to discuss.
03.17.2015	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I want to welcome the acting Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, Ambassador Al Lenhardt. Ambassador, we look forward to hearing your testimony today. U.S.A.I.D. responds to some of the most challenging problems in the world - from tackling emergency situations such as the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and the humanitarian crisis in Syria, to addressing long-term development needs in some of the poorest, most conflict-stricken places around the globe. I am proud of our men and women serving overseas in our military, U.S.A.I.D. missions, the Peace Corps, and our embassies around the world. I want to ensure that the United States continues to lead on the world stage. Real leadership requires the willingness to review what is going well and what is not. I believe there are many areas of U.S.A.I.D. that need improvement, and I hope that we can work together to address them. My first concern is that there are many U.S. government agencies involved in health, development, and disaster response activities overseas. I am concerned that responsibilities may not always be clear, agencies may duplicate each other’s efforts, and coordination may not occur as it should. As you well know as a former Ambassador to Tanzania, an embassy that was attacked in the 1990’s, desk space at U.S. embassies comes with a high price because of the security required. Overseas positions for all agencies should be carefully considered to ensure that the work gets done effectively and efficiently by the agency with the most appropriate skills to address the problems at hand. There is no room in the federal budget for duplication. Another challenge is one former Administrator Shah tried to address with the feed the future initiative, and I hope you will continue to do so with other programs as well. In many countries, U.S.A.I.D. tries to do too much. The agency needs to continue focusing on reducing the number of programs you manage, and do those well. You should terminate the programs that do not work or that may be causing you to spread the agency’s people and resources too thin. My next concern is that it is difficult to get access to U.S.A.I.D. There are many American businesses, faith-based organizations, and universities that have development ideas to bring to the table, but we consistently hear complaints that they cannot find ways to partner with the agency. Ambassador Lenhardt, with your military background and your time spent as a diplomat, you bring a new perspective to this agency. I hope you can discuss some of these management challenges that are directly related to your budget, and we can work together to solve them. The budget request includes $22 billion that U.S.A.I.D. manages entirely or partially. This includes a $269 million increase for U.S.A.I.D.’s operating expenses. It is very unlikely that our subcommittee’s allocation will allow us to address all of the areas identified in the request, so we will have to work closely together to prioritize many competing demands in international development, health, and humanitarian programs. I want to close by thanking you and the men and women of U.S.A.I.D., as well as your implementing partners, who are committed to solving some of the most difficult global development issues around the world, often in very dangerous places. All of us on this subcommittee understand and appreciate that work. ###
03.16.2015	By Emma Dumain Posted at 5 a.m. March 16 Rep. Kay Granger doesn’t suffer fools. The Texas Republican has a story about a lawmaker who admitted he hadn’t read a bill he was trying to amend; She told him he had “no business being in Congress.” Nor does she hesitate to tell any of her more bombastic male colleagues in the Lone Star State delegation when they’re “misbehaving.” “I’m very plainspoken,” she said. “I don’t mince words. … If you talk to Texans, they’ll always say, ‘I’m scared to death of Kay Granger.’” She laughed and continued, “It is kind of funny. But there’s a seriousness to it. Absolutely.” The 72-year-old has built her political career on being serious and being taken seriously — both as a legislator looking out for her Fort Worth district and as a woman in a field dominated by men. “I want to be a person of substance, so I want to take on serious issues,” Granger told her first chief of staff, Ken Mehlman, in 1996. “I’ll work very hard, I’ll always be knowledgeable, and I want to be a go-to person. I want other members to respect me and say, ‘Ah, let’s ask Kay what her ideas are.’” “She had been an extraordinarily accomplished mayor,” Mehlman told CQ Roll Call. “Our question was, ‘How do you provide the same level of leadership and service as a member of Congress, where it’s much harder?’ Mayors solve problems; many in Congress [just] talk.” Mehlman, who would later become chairman of the Republican National Committee, urged Granger to pursue committee assignments relevant to her district — Defense, National Security, Transportation — and to be a “workhorse, not a show horse.” Fast-forward 18 years and Granger is considered one of the most effective policymakers in the House. She’s most visible as the chairwoman of the powerful Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, where she wields a “tough love” approach to allocating precious funding for the line items in her purview. “She’s smart, she’s tough and she gets things done,” said Rep. Kevin Brady, a fellow Texas Republican, of his close friend, whom he compares to Margaret Thatcher. “Pakistan learned this, when she withheld $8-plus billion until they began proving that they were a more reliable ally in the war on terror,” Brady said. “The White House has learned that, as she’s made clear that the U.S. will keep its promises to provide military support for our allies.” Members say Granger might have had an alternative political life as a member of House GOP leadership. A conference vice chairwoman in the 110th Congress, she told CQ Roll Call she still gets asked by colleagues to get back on the leadership track. But while her one-term stint in leadership was “interesting,” she said with a tight smile, it ultimately was “not for me.” For Granger, part of being serious is staying focused on legislating, and she’s always been more interested in earning respect in the policy world than being a national household name. “Everybody sort of determines what they want to be, and if it’s someone who wants to be seen and heard a lot, then you have to be on the floor a lot and speak,” Granger said. “I didn’t always want to fight for the cameras. That didn’t appeal to me at all.” Which doesn’t mean she’s lost her clout with party leaders, especially Speaker John A. Boehner. Last summer, the Ohio Republican did more than just take Granger’s unsolicited advice to pursue a congressional response to the surge of child migrants at the U.S.-Mexico border: He established a task force and appointed Granger the leader. And in the fall, with Granger due to be term-limited out of her subcommittee chairmanship this session, she implored Boehner, with Appropriations Chairman Harold Rogers’ blessing, to grant her a rare waiver to serve another two years. Granger tells the story with a good-natured impression of a gruff Boehner feigning ignorance of his own rule and scoffing at her concerns that he wouldn’t let her keep the post. “It was quite funny,” she said with a chuckle. “I value her counsel and guidance,” Boehner said in a statement to CQ Roll Call. “She is always ready, willing and able to do what’s right for her district and her country, and I especially appreciate that she is one of the most experienced women in our team — which always lends to a valuable perspective.” Granger prefers to be known for her work, but she recognizes there’s a certain weight to her legacy: She is the first — and still the only — Republican woman to represent Texas in the House. “Of course, you want to do it really well if you’re the first,” she acknowledged. “I was the first woman mayor of Fort Worth, and it was important for me to do a really good job there, too, for the next woman, so they’d never say, ‘Can she do it because she’s a woman?’ They would just say, ‘Ah, Kay did a good job, so this works.’” People who have watched her over the years attribute much of her success in Washington to the reputation she brought from Fort Worth. When she arrived in 1996, she went to leadership and ticked off the reasons she needed to be on this committee or work on that project. There was a sense senior lawmakers were eager to give her whatever she wanted, which continues to be the case. “There was a lot of excitement about her,” recalled Ron Bonjean, who was Granger’s first spokesman on Capitol Hill and is now a political strategist. “She was a fresh face in the Republican Party.” But she’s had trying moments. When she ran for mayor, a local organization weighing an endorsement asked her (but not the male candidates) to submit a “white paper” on her religious beliefs and her values as a single mother (pre-politics, Granger’s divorce left her to support three young children and necessitated a career change from teaching to the insurance industry). “I was in a business where there were very few women in it, so I was used to working with men,” Granger said of the incident. “I was used to that, but it was peculiar.” She refused to submit the memo and won anyway. Matt Leffingwell, Granger’s chief of staff for more than two years until leaving Capitol Hill in January, said one of his favorite stories about his old boss goes back to Fort Worth. He said early in her political career, Granger was known to carry around a stack of résumés of impressive young women, handing them to anyone who asked her to take on yet another responsibility to fulfill a gender-diversity quota. Today, Granger still makes it a priority to help other women, particularly Republican women. She said she is particularly hopeful freshman Rep. Martha McSally, R-Ariz., a retired Air Force colonel, will have a bright future in the House. She also hosts an annual luncheon in Fort Worth for women who follow her work or have helped her in her professional life. She calls it her “woman’s summit,” but said the event is actually more like an opportunity to update constituents. “I’m answerable to them,” she said. Granger swears she never intended to get into politics, but it’s where she ended up and it’s where she’s been able to make a difference. As long as she can be effective, she said, she’ll stick around. “I’ll never retire,” she said with a twinkle in her eye, a vow that came across as part cheery promise, part fair warning. https://blogs.rollcall.com/218/outside-the-frame-of-the-camera-granger-makes-her-mark/
03.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) and Congresswoman Karen Bass (D-CA) introduced legislation this week to combat the criminal enterprise of human trafficking. Their bipartisan legislation, the Combat Human Trafficking Act of 2015, H.R. 1201, would strengthen legal and law enforcement efforts to investigate and prosecute individuals involved in sex trafficking crimes, including the buyers of sex acts from trafficking victims. In many cases, the buyers of sex trafficking crimes can be more difficult to prosecute. H.R. 1201 would bolster efforts to prosecute the buyers of sex trafficking crimes to help put an end to this criminal marketplace. An estimated 100,000 to 300,000 American children are at risk of becoming child sex trafficking victims every year, according to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. The trafficking of children in the United States is a $9.8 billion industry. “Human trafficking is a multi-billion dollar criminal enterprise that stretches to every corner of the world, including right here in the United States. This is not an easy topic to discuss, but it is critical that more is done to raise awareness of these crimes as well as to prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law,” Rep. Kay Granger. “While men, women and children are all victims of these crimes, women and girls are predominately targeted by sex traffickers putting them at increased risk. Our bill ensures that both buyers and sellers of this heinous criminal activity are held accountable for their actions.” “This legislation is critically important, especially as it relates to helping children. Girls who are victims of human trafficking and not prostitutes, they are victims. And the men who prey on them are not Johns; they are child molesters,” said Rep. Karen Bass. “When it comes to combatting sex trafficking we are neither Republican nor Democrat, we are mothers and fathers, sisters and brothers, and we are working together to make sure the people who prey on young children are punished for their despicable actions.” The Combat Human Trafficking Act does the following:Reduces demand for human trafficking by: --Clarifying that a buyer of a sex act from a trafficking victim can be prosecuted under the commercial sex trafficking statute. --Makes a seller or buyer of a sex act strictly liable, with respect to the victim’s age, if the victim is under the age of 18, thereby sparing the child victims from having to testify and be re-traumatized. --Establishes a minimum period of five years of supervised release for a person who conspires to violate the commercial sex trafficking statute Encourages the prosecution of buyers of sex acts involving trafficking victims Strengthens crime victims’ rights by: --Amending the Crime Victims’ Rights Act to provide victims with the right to be informed in a timely manner of any plea agreement or deferred prosecution agreement --Clarifying that, when a victim is denied his or her rights in the lower court and appeals that denial, the appellate court shall apply ordinary standards of appellate review. This would codify the more victim-protecting rule, followed by the Second, Third, Ninth and Eleventh Circuits. Companion legislation, S. 140, has been introduced in the Senate by Senator Dianne Feinstein of California and Senator Rob Portman of Ohio.
03.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – A bipartisan group of House leaders and committee chairs has sent a letter to President Obama urging him to approve lethal aid for Ukraine. “In the wake of a cease-fire agreement that appears only to have consolidated Russian and separatist gains since the first Minsk agreement,” the lawmakers write, “we urge you to quickly approve additional efforts to support Ukraine’s efforts to defend its sovereign territory, including through the transfer of lethal, defensive weapons systems to the Ukrainian military.” Signed by eight Republicans and three Democrats, the letter notes that “Congress has already, with overwhelming bipartisan support, provided you with the authorities, resources, and political support to provide assistance, including lethal, to the government and people of Ukraine.” The bipartisan letter is signed by Speaker Boehner, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY), Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX), Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA), Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes (R-CA), Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-TX), Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), ranking member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA), ranking member of the House Armed Services Committee. Read a signed copy of the letter here, and the full text below: Dear Mr. President: From the very beginning of the crisis in Ukraine, a bipartisan majority in Congress has indicated it understands the crisis in Ukraine to be about more than a Russian assault on the independence and sovereignty of Ukraine. It is even more than simply a component of a revisionist Russian strategy to redraw international borders and impose its will on its neighbors. It is a grotesque violation of international law, a challenge to the west, and an assault on the international order established at such great cost in the wake of World War II. On September 18, 2014, President Petro Poroshenko addressed a Joint Meeting of the United States Congress. He made a passionate plea for the United States and other nations to put action behind their commitment to freedom, democracy, and human dignity. He thanked the Congress for its steadfast, bipartisan support for the people in Ukraine struggling to recapture the freedom and territorial integrity of Ukraine, but he also reminded us and the world that words alone do not beat back aggression and violence. He, like so many friends and allies in Eastern Europe, the Baltic States, and the South Caucasus, remind us daily that the cost of freedom is high, and like any virtue, it is compromised by a lack of vigilance. The Congress responded to his call to action, and we sent you the Ukraine Freedom Support Act in December. To date, the administration has not utilized the authorities provided in the Ukraine Freedom Support Act to provide defensive military systems to the Ukrainian government. This week, shortly after the one-year anniversary of the Revolution of Dignity, Members of the Ukrainian Rada visiting Washington reiterated President Poroshenko’s long-standing plea for assistance to the Ukrainian military. We understand these officials discussed a list of military equipment at the Pentagon and with National Security Council staff, and we understand these long-standing requests await a political decision from you. In the wake of a cease-fire agreement that appears only to have consolidated Russian and separatist gains since the first Minsk agreement, and in anticipation of the near certainty that Russia and its separatist proxies continue their efforts to destabilize Ukraine and seize additional territory, we urge you to quickly approve additional efforts to support Ukraine’s efforts to defend its sovereign territory, including through the transfer of lethal, defensive weapons systems to the Ukrainian military. We should not wait until Russian troops and their separatist proxies take Mariupol or Kharkiv before we act to bolster the Ukrainian government’s ability to deter and defend against further aggression. We understand your desire to prioritize unity of effort with Europe, and we believe our European and NATO allies should make clear that Russian aggression in the heart of Europe is unacceptable with deeds as well as words. But we urge you to lead Europe in challenging this assault on international order, lest our foreign policy be held hostage by the lowest common denominator of European consensus. In the face of Russian aggression, the lack of clarity on our overall strategy thus far has done little to reassure our friends and allies in the region who, understandably, feel vulnerable. This needs to change. The Congress has already, with overwhelming bipartisan support, provided you with the authorities, resources, and political support to provide assistance, including lethal, to the government and people of Ukraine. We urge you in the strongest possible terms to use those authorities and resources to meet the specific and direct requests the government of Ukraine has made of your administration. Speaker Boehner’s Press Office | H-232 The Capitol | 202-225-0600
03.05.2015	Dear Friend, Earlier this week Congress acted to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through the end of the current fiscal year. Under no circumstances was I going to let DHS shut down. The threats facing the United States today are as serious as they were immediately before September 11th, 2001. I do not believe that shutting down the department that oversees transportation security, border security and critical counterterrorism efforts would be in the best interest of our country. Unfortunately, there is some misinformation about the bill in terms of what was actually funded. The bill that was signed into law did not provide any funding for President Obama’s illegal executive actions on immigration. The funding for implementation of his executive actions is not appropriated by Congress. The funding for the President’s actions would come from fees paid by immigrants who are seeking legal status. Therefore, the office in DHS tasked with carrying out his actions would remain open whether or not DHS was shut down. President Obama would have to voluntarily rescind his executive actions or he would have to sign legislation into law doing so and he is not going to take either course of action. A few weeks ago a Texas court issued an order blocking the President’s unconstitutional executive actions from being carried out. This ruling proves that the President’s actions were illegal. I believe the legal system is the best chance to permanently stop the executive actions from being implemented. I have never agreed with the President’s illegal executive actions on immigration. I continue to believe that more should be done to stop his unconstitutional overreach of presidential authority, but I do not believe shutting down a vital part of homeland security accomplishes that goal; especially when it would not hold the President accountable or stop his executive actions from being implemented. Sincerely, Kay Granger Member of Congress
03.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – In a bipartisan letter led by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), 239 Members of Congress express strong concern to Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Director B. Todd Jones about the Obama Administration’s plan to ban a popular bullet used for the AR-15. Americans own more than five million AR-15s, which are the most commonly used rifles for sports shooting as well as home protection. Although the ammunition used for the AR-15 has been exempted under federal law for sporting purposes for over 30 years – which allows it to be lawfully manufactured, imported, and sold on the civilian market in the United States – the ATF recently announced a “Framework” with the intention to ban the manufacture and importation of the second-most common ammunition used for the AR-15, the M855 or “green tip.” In the letter, the Members of Congress write that the ATF’s “Framework” “establishes an unduly restrictive standard, does not comport with the letter or spirit of the law, and will interfere with Second Amendment rights by disrupting the market for ammunition that law abiding Americans use for sporting and other legitimate purposes.” They also express concern that the agency’s “Framework” was not published in the federal register, which is required when the Executive Branch creates a new rule. The letter and list of Members who signed it can be found here.
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after His Excellency Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime Minister of Israel, addressed a Joint Meeting of Congress today. “I want to thank Prime Minister Netanyahu for appearing before a Joint Meeting of Congress. It is important for Members of Congress to hear directly from world leaders regarding issues that involve both our nations. The U.S. and Israel have an unbreakable relationship and Israel remains one of our most vital strategic partners in the Middle East. While partisan politics have tested the strength of our partnership from time to time, what will never change is the strong commitment of the United States to the State of Israel and the security of the Israeli people. “One of the most important issues facing both the U.S. and Israel is the ongoing P5+1 negotiations with Iran regarding its nuclear program. I am watching the elements of any agreement closely, and I know many of my colleagues in Congress share my concerns. I remain firmly opposed to scaling back or removing bipartisan sanctions that have been placed on Iran before the international community is able to verify that Iran is dismantling its nuclear program. The security of the United States and our steadfast ally, Israel, is at stake and it is imperative that Congress is fully consulted before any final agreement with Iran is reached.”
02.25.2015	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. Mr. Secretary, I want to welcome you back to the subcommittee. There are many serious foreign policy matters and budget issues that Members will want to address during our time with you. We look forward to your testimony today. At the top of the list is addressing the threat of the Islamic State and terrorists affiliated with ISIL. As Egypt, Jordan, and the Kurds in Iraq are retaliating and defending themselves against the group’s heinous acts, security assistance is being delayed by bureaucratic processes across many agencies and poor policy decisions by this Administration. As a result, our most trusted and capable partners in the region are not getting the help they need. Mr. Secretary, there are no excuses for this delay. I know that this delay is not your responsibility alone and I have voiced my concerns directly to the President. Our allies and partners in the Middle East must get the help they need now to combat ISIL – not next week, not next month, and not next year. In Ukraine, violence continues despite a ceasefire that was reached almost two weeks ago. We want to hear your thoughts on steps being taken to resolve the situation and what assistance is needed to support the people of Ukraine and the region to combat Russian aggression. In Afghanistan, even with a new government in office and a signed Bilateral Security Agreement, there are continued challenges, and in fact, the security environment remains so unstable that our diplomatic and development personnel are pulling back to Kabul. In Africa, Boko Haram has not backed down. They are still on the offensive committing unspeakable acts of brutality. And while there has been progress in ending the violence caused by the Lord’s Resistance Army, the leader of that group, Joseph Kony, remains at large. For nearly a year and a half, you have worked with our international partners to put in place an agreement with Iran, and the United States must keep the pressure on as a final deal is negotiated. I am closely watching the elements of an agreement, and I know many of my colleagues share my concerns. The security of the United States and our steadfast ally, Israel, is at stake. I hope you will address each of these policy issues today. In addition, we have questions about the budget request for your department’s operations and foreign assistance programs. The total funding level requested for the State Department and U.S.A.I.D. is six percent above last year. But even at that level you have sacrificed some of the priorities of the Members of this committee to make room for the Administration’s initiatives. It is difficult for me to justify a new $500 million program at the United Nations to fight global climate change and additional funds for an embassy in Cuba, when once again many programs that have bipartisan support have been reduced below last year’s level, such as democracy assistance and humanitarian programs. Another issue we will continue to address together is ensuring the safety of our nation’s diplomats. We need assurance that funding is being used effectively to address the most urgent security needs. Next, I want to mention an issue that I know is a priority for you -- Middle East Peace. Negotiating a peace deal requires trusted partners, and the recent actions by President Abbas at the International Criminal Court have jeopardized the trust that has been built over the years. We want to hear how you plan to respond to the Palestinians’ move to join the I.C.C., and we question why the Administration’s budget request includes another $440 million for the West Bank and Gaza in light of these very troubling actions by the Palestinian leadership. Finally, I want to mention an issue that is a priority for me -- a foreign policy issue in our own back yard. The Administration’s budget request includes $1 billion for the Central American countries - more than double the amount provided last year. Many Members of this subcommittee understand the need for an increased investment in these countries to stop the flow of illegal immigration into the United States. I have myself visited these countries, and the U.S.-Mexico border, several times and have seen this crisis first-hand. We need your help today to understand how such a large investment would change the situation on our border. Our neighbor, Mexico, is on the front lines of combating these troubling patterns of immigration from Central America. We must do all we can to help Mexico strengthen its borders and turn away those traveling illegally from Central American countries. We must also support and use the capabilities of partners in the region, such as Colombia, to continue to develop and implement a comprehensive security strategy. In closing, I want to thank you and the thousands of diplomats, development officers, and implementing partners for what you do every day to promote U.S. interests abroad. You have a very difficult job and all of the Members of the subcommittee recognize that, but we also know that the United States must lead in these troubling times. It is our responsibility to hold you to account for managing the funds this committee provides to address these challenges.
02.23.2015	By Maria Recio - Star-Telegram Washington Bureau One of North Texas’ most powerful members of Congress is taking on the Obama administration over delays in providing military assistance to nations on the front lines of combat against the Islamic State. Rep. Kay Granger, R-Fort Worth, is pushing the White House to release weapons systems, especially F-16 fighter jets, to Egypt as well as aid to Jordan and the Iraqi Kurds, as the region warily eyes the military intentions of the Islamic State. In a letter to President Barack Obama last week, Granger, chairwoman of a key funding subcommittee, sharply criticized the administration for failing to provide arms that have been withheld from Egypt since 2013. “As Egypt, Jordan and the Kurds retaliate and defend themselves against ISIL’s heinous acts,” Granger wrote, using one of the common acronyms for the Islamic State, “U.S. security assistance is being held or delayed by bureaucratic processes and ill-advised policy decisions by your administration.” She pointed out that Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi retaliated against the Islamic State with F-16 strikes after the militants beheaded 21 Coptic Christians in neighboring Libya. “However, it is more of the same F-16s that your administration continues to prevent from being delivered to Egypt,” said Granger. The U.S. withheld arms to Egypt, including 20 F-16 fighter jets, 20 Harpoon missiles and 125 M1A1 battle tank kits, in 2013 after the military overthrew the elected leadership. The Pentagon is paying the F-16 builders, Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Corp. of Fort Worth, to store the aircraft there. Granger represents Fort Worth. “We cannot, and need not, do this alone,” Granger said of the fight against the Islamic State, in her letter to the president. “We have partners willing and eager to fight with us, to be the ‘pointy end of the spear.’” The Obama administration has said that it will not commit U.S. troops to fight the Islamic State. White House reacts Asked about Granger’s concerns, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Friday, “We’ve obviously worked through and, in some cases, are even still working through some of the differences that we have with that government. But there is an important counterterrorism relationship between the United States and Egypt, and we continue to believe that the interests of the United States are well served by continuing to have a strong counterterrorism relationship with them.” He added that “we certainly welcome her interest in this issue” and said the administration was also supportive of “a strong security relationship” with Jordan and the Kurds. Granger is the chairwoman of the subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee that oversees funding for the State Department and foreign operations, and is threatening to hold up funding unless the administration acts. One defense expert thinks the pressure will work. “Rep. Granger is likely to get what she wants,” said Loren Thompson, defense analyst at the Lexington Institute, a Virginia-based conservative think tank, “because the Obama administration has a renewed appreciation for the value of Egypt’s military. The Egyptians have demonstrated a willingness to get involved in fighting” the Islamic State. https://www.star-telegram.com/news/nation-world/article11037614.html
02.20.2015	By Patricia Zengerle (Reuters) - A senior Republican lawmaker has told President Barack Obama she was prepared to block foreign aid money if the administration did not provide fighter jets and tanks to Egypt and arms to other regional allies fighting Islamic State militants. In a letter to Obama, Kay Granger, chairwoman of the House of Representatives State and Foreign Operations Appropriations subcommittee, said Egypt needs F-16 aircraft, M1A1 Abrams tanks and other weapons that have been held up since 2013. Granger has the power to place holds on foreign aid, including general assistance and weapons shipments. Granger urged the administration to give Iraqi Kurds tools and training to fight Islamic State and to make providing weapons to Jordan a priority, according to the letter, seen by Reuters on Friday. Dated Thursday, the letter criticized the administration as Congress is about to consider Obama's request for formal authority for a military campaign against Islamic State. Republicans, who took control of the U.S. Congress in January, have pressed for more robust U.S. military involvement in fighting the militants, who have killed thousands of civilians while seizing territory in Iraq and Syria. "As Egypt, Jordan, and the Kurds retaliate and defend themselves against ISIL's heinous acts, U.S. security assistance is being held or delayed by bureaucratic processes and ill-advised policy decisions by your administration," Granger wrote, using an acronym for Islamic State. The U.S. State Department referred requests for comment to the White House, where officials did not immediately respond. AID TO JORDAN Granger said she was calling on the White House to "immediately release" remaining weapons and funds to Egypt, provide Jordan with weapons it had requested and ensure the Kurdish Peshmerga have equipment they need. "I am prepared to do everything within my power to make sure this occurs, including placing holds on Congressional Notifications (spending plans) and drafting legislation to hold your Administration accountable," Granger wrote. Egyptian warplanes bombed sites in Libya on Monday in response to the beheading of 21 Egyptian Christians by Islamic State militants there. Lockheed Martin Corp (LMT.N), which makes the F-16, said the aircraft built for Egypt were part of a foreign military sales agreement between the United States and Egypt. The Abrams tanks are made by General Dynamics Corp. (GD.N) Twelve of 20 F-16s built by Lockheed under its last contract with Egypt are in storage at Lockheed’s Fort Worth, Texas, facility. They have been formally transferred to the U.S. government, which is paying Lockheed to store and maintain them. The current U.S. policy on Egypt is to hold up many shipments of big-ticket weapons until Washington can certify that Cairo has made progress on human rights. Granger represents the district where Lockheed’s facility is based, but the company would not necessarily profit from a move to release the planes since the U.S. government has already paid Lockheed for them. U.S. officials said last week that planning was well under way to help replenish Jordan's supplies of ordnance. Jordan's King Abdullah visited Congress earlier this month, the same day Islamic State released a video of the murder of a Jordanian pilot. The administration has said it is supplying guns and ammunition to the Kurds, who are fighting Islamic State in northern Iraq, but it is channeling them through Baghdad. Some Republicans have said the supplies should go directly to the Kurds.(Additional reporting by Andrea Shalal and Roberta Rampton; Editing by David Storey, Toni Reinhold) ###
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and 169 other House Republicans today sent a letter to Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) demanding him to stop censoring debate on a critical bill that would fund the Department of Homeland Security’s operations for Fiscal Year 2015 and defund unconstitutional programs created unilaterally by President Obama. These signatures were gathered in about 24 hours. In their letter, the Republican Members of Congress note that Senate Democrats have repeatedly obstructed even debating this bill in order to protect President Obama’s unconstitutional acts and shield Senate Democrats – many of whom have publicly stated that they oppose the President’s unilateral actions – from voting on the substance of the House-passed bill. Chairman Goodlatte said the following about the Senate Democrats’ obstructionism: “Why are they so afraid to debate this bill? Senate Democrats would rather stifle free speech on the Senate floor than debate a bill they know is supported by the American people.”Below is the text of the letter to Senator Reid. Dear Minority Leader Reid, We write to express our strong concern that Senate Democrats are blocking debate on a critical bill that would fund the Department of Homeland Security’s operations for Fiscal Year 2015 and defund unconstitutional programs created unilaterally by President Obama. Three times, you and other members of your caucus have prevented even a debate of the House-passed Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill. While we understand that you and many of your Democrat colleagues are opposed to the provisions in the House-passed bill that would defund President Obama’s effective rewriting of our immigration laws, you should at least support debating the merits of such an important funding bill and offer amendments to the provisions you wish to change. However, you have repeatedly obstructed even debating this bill in order to protect President Obama’s unconstitutional acts and shield Senators of your party – many of whom have publicly stated that they oppose the President’s unilateral actions – from voting on the substance of the House-passed bill. It is utterly appalling that you and other Senate Democrats believe that protecting the President’s unconstitutional actions is more important than funding a Department tasked with keeping Americans safe. By preventing the Senate from taking up the House-passed bill, you are also denying the American people a fair debate on this issue. And a fair debate is what the American people want – they fundamentally disagree with President Obama’s actions and believe that he has unlawfully acted alone. For example, a Washington Post/ABC News poll last month found that 57% of registered voters believe that President Obama’s grant of deferred action should be blocked. President Obama’s actions are tilting the scales of our government in the executive’s favor, threatening to unravel our system of checks and balances and imperiling all our liberties. The House of Representatives has acted decisively to defend the Constitution from this clear and present danger by voting to defund the president’s executive actions. For the sake of our nation, our two bodies must stand together on a bipartisan basis. But in order to do this, the Senate Democrat caucus must cease to play politics with the Constitution. You must end your filibuster of the House-passed bill and allow it to proceed to the floor for consideration. History will record our actions and how we honor the trust placed in all of us by the American people. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte (VA-06) Luke Messer (IN-06) Ann Wagner (MO-02) Blake Farenthold (TX-27) Tom Rice (SC-07) Kevin Yoder (KS-03) Andy Harris (MD-01) Mike Bishop (MI-08) Ken Calvert (CA-42) Scott Garrett (NJ-05) Doug Collins (GA-09) Robert Wittman (VA-01) Lamar Smith (TX-21) Mark Amodei (NV-02) Steve Chabot (OH-01) Todd Young (IN-09) J. Randy Forbes (VA-04) Renee Ellmers (NC-02) Trent Franks (AZ-08) Cresent Hardy (NV-04) Richard Nugent (FL-11) Bill Posey (FL-08) Brett Guthrie (KY-02) Greg Harper (MS-03) Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) Thomas MacArthur (NJ-03) Jason Smith (MO-08) John Shimkus (IL-05) Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-03) Mo Brooks (AL-05) Steve King (IA-04) Cathy McMorris Rogers (WA-05) Daniel Webster (FL-10) John Mica (FL-07) Darrell Issa (CA-49) Tim Huelskamp (KS-01) Brad Wenstrup (OH-02) Tom Emmer (MN-06) Lynn Westmoreland (GA-03) Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) Markwayne Mullin (OK-02) David Joyce (OH-14) David Young (IA-03) Fred Upton (MI-06) Tom McClintock (CA-04) Louie Gohmert (TX-01) Marlin Stuzman (IN-03) Peter King (NY-02) Joe Pitts (PA-16) Pete Sessions (TX-32) Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) Jim Jordan (OH- 04) Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) Dan Benishek (MI-01) H. Morgan Griffith (VA-09) Daniel Webster (FL-10) Roger Williams (TX-25) Tom Graves (GA-14) Dave Reichert (WA-08) George Holding (NC-13) Mark Meadows (NC-11) Patrick McHenry (NC-10) Don Young (AK at large) Susan Brooks (IN-05) Tom Marino (PA-10) John Ratcliffe (TX-04) Ryan Costello (PA-06) Mike Kelly (PA-03) Robert Dold (IL-10) Robert Hurt (VA-05) Barbara Comstock (VA-10) John Culberson (TX-07) John Carter (TX-31) Sam Johnson (TX-03) Kay Granger (TX-12) Ted Poe (TX-02) Bill Flores (TX-19) Richard Hudson (NC-08) Randy Neugebauer (TX-19) Brian Babin (TX-31) Randy Weber (TX-14) Candace Miller (MI-10) Pat Tiberi (OH-12) David Brat (VA-07) Robert Latta (OH-05) Vicky Hartzler (MO-04) Bill Shuster (PA-09) Keith Rothfus (PA-12) Ed Whitfield (KY-01) Tim Murphy (PA-18) Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02) Larry Bucshon (IN-08) Ander Crenshaw (FL-04) John Duncan, Jr. (TN-02) Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-08) Jeff Miller (FL-01) Dennis Ross (FL-15) Joe Wilson (SC-02) Rick Allen (GA-12) David Jolly (FL-13) Gary Palmer (AL-06) Joe Barton (TX-06) Bob Gibbs (OH-07) Michael Burgess (TX-26) Frank Guinta (NH-01) Rob Woodall (GA-07) Greg Walden (OR-02) Jeff Duncan (SC-03) Michael Conaway (TX-11) Bradley Byrne (AL-01) David Rouzer (NC-07) Todd Rokita (IN-04) Mark Walker (NC-06) Rodney Davis (IL-13) Steve Stivers (OH-15) Paul Gosar (AZ-04) Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) John Kline (MN-02) Glenn Thompson (PA-05) Steven Palazzo (MS-04) Scott Tipton (CO-03) Michael McCaul (TX-10) Charles W. Boustany, Jr. (LA-03) Kevin Brady (TX-08) Thomas Massie (KY-04) Peter Roskam (IL-06) Alex Mooney (WV-02) Tom Price (GA-06) Evan Jenkins (WV-03) Matt Salmon (AZ-05) Mimi Walters (CA-45) Stephen Knight (CA-25) Mark Sanford (SC-01) Gus Bilirakis (FL-12) Curt Clawson (FL-19) Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) Trey Gowdy (SC-04) David Roe (TN-01) Raul Labrador (ID-01) Doug LaMalfa (CA-09) Pete Olson (TX-22) Rick Crawford ( (AR-01) Andy Barr (KY-06) Kevin Cramer (ND at large) Ryan Zinke (MT at large) Lou Barletta (PA-11) Jim Bridenstine (OK-01) Curt Clawson (FL-19) Ron DeSantis (FL-06) Ted Yoho (FL-03) Ken Buck (CO-04) Jody Hice (GA-10) Cynthia Lummis (WY at large) John Fleming (LA-04) Walter B. Jones (NC-03) Aaron Schock (IL-18) Charles W. Dent (PA-15) Stephen Lee Fincher (TN-08) Doug Lamborn (CO-05) Martha Roby (AL-02) Barry LouderMilk (GA-11) Robert Pittenger (NC-09) Robert Hurt (VA-05) Mike Bost (IL-12) Reid Ribble (WI-08) Paul Cook (CA-08) Sean Duffy (WI-07) Steve Womack (AR-03) ###
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Family Research Council (FRC) Action honored Members of Congress with their “True Blue” award for the Member’s unwavering commitment and consistent support of faith, family and freedom. In all, 114 representatives were honored with the award for the 113th Congress, scoring a perfect 100 percent on this year’s scorecard.Votes in the U.S. House included: 2013 Ban on abortion on pain-capable unborn children Preventing the appointment of non-religious, atheist military chaplains Delaying Obamacare and protecting conscience rights Blocking federal funds from paying for elective abortion Votes to prevent the relaxation of marijuana laws Family Research Council Action President Tony Perkins made the following comments: “We thank these Members of Congress for consistently voting to defend and advance faith, family and freedom. These ‘True Blue Members’ have voted to delay Obamacare, protect the unborn, and stand for religious liberty. “FRC and the thousands of families that we represent applaud these Members for their unwavering commitment to faith, family and freedom,” concluded Perkins. American Family Association Action President Tim Wildmon made the following comments: “Our country so desperately needs lawmakers and elected officials who will stand up for the moral issues that are shaping our society. These leaders have helped preserve life, protect religious liberties and promote families, and for this, we thank them.” To view a copy of the Vote Scorecard, visit https://www.frcaction.org/scorecard
02.12.2015	Washington, DC – Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) and Ranking Member Ted Deutch (D-FL) of the Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee and Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-TX) and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-FL) of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, made the following joint statement today after introducing H.R. 907, the United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015 which seeks to strengthen military and economic ties between the United States and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Joint statement by Ros-Lehtinen, Granger, Deutch, and Lowey: “As Jordan ramps up its attacks against ISIL terrorists, it is critical that the United States does everything it can to support the Kingdom in our joint effort to combat radical Islamist terrorists. Jordan has been a key partner in the region for years and is on the front lines of the fight against ISIL, sharing a border with both Syria and Iraq. In order to ensure Jordan has the capabilities to defend itself and fight to eradicate this terrorist threat, we must increase our bilateral military cooperation and expedite military sales to the Kingdom.” H.R. 907 - the United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015 would: Amend the Arms Export Control Act to include Jordan on a list of trusted allies for which Congress may expedite the process so that we sell Jordan much needed military equipment it needs to defend against and fight ISIL Support a Memorandum of Understanding to increase military cooperation between our two countries, including joint military exercises and personnel exchanges Support Jordan in its response to the Syria and Iraq refugee crisis.
02.11.2015	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I want to welcome all the Members to the first subcommittee hearing for the 114th Congress. The purpose of today’s hearing is to oversee funding within the State-Foreign Operations Subcommittee’s jurisdiction to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the Ebola outbreak. I would like to welcome our three witnesses: Ambassador Steve Browning, Special Coordinator for Ebola at the Department of State Mr. Dirk Dijkerman, U.S.A.I.D. Executive Coordinator for the Ebola Task Force Mr. Jeremy Konyndyk, Director of U.S.A.I.D’s Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance Thank you all for being here. Although the international response was slow at the beginning of the Ebola crisis, the level of effort by the United States has been unprecedented. More than a thousand American troops are currently deployed. The C.D.C. has public health professionals in the affected countries. Our diplomats continue to work with governments to contain the outbreak, and U.S.A.I.D. leads the response on the ground. There are also hundreds of brave health care workers, many of them Americans, who have been mobilized by non-governmental organizations to respond to the disease. The results of the response effort are staggering and much different than expected. In September, scientific models predicted that by January of this year, there would be 550,000 Ebola cases in Sierra Leone and Liberia. Those of us who watched the progression of this disease from the beginning and witnessed its devastating effects, are all thankful that the actual caseload was nowhere near what was predicted. Over the weekend, the press reported 124 confirmed cases in West Africa last week, one of the lowest levels since the outbreak began, and the total cases reported in those countries is approximately 22,000. This is a fraction of what was predicted. But the fight is not over. As our troops come home, the difficult work of eliminating the disease will fall even more on the shoulders of aid workers on the ground. Effectively addressing this next phase of the epidemic is critical. As we all saw last year when the disease came to our own shores, just one case can have devastating effects. Last fall, my home state of Texas experienced the disease directly. The Fiscal Year 2015 Appropriations Act included $2.5 billion of emergency funding in this subcommittee’s jurisdiction, representing a clear commitment by Congress, on behalf of all Americans, to fight the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and prevent the further spread of the disease. It is this subcommittee’s responsibility to oversee funds provided to fight the disease, to ensure there is a sound plan for spending resources, and guarantee that any lessons learned from this crisis can be applied to future global health emergencies. I hope the witnesses can give us an update on how funds have been spent, and how remaining funds will be prioritized to eliminate the threat of Ebola. We would also appreciate your thoughts on how we can respond more quickly and efficiently in the event of another international health emergency. We commend the U.S. military and government agencies who have responded to this crisis, but we must ensure there has not been unnecessary duplication of effort. If so, we need to change course now and not wait for the next crisis to get it right. I want to close by expressing our sincere appreciation for the health care workers who have fought the Ebola outbreak and cared for those in need. They take risks every day that many of us never have to face. They are heroes, and some of the stories I have heard are truly remarkable.
02.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement in support of King Abdullah II’s military campaign against the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). “King Abdullah II has shown remarkable courage and unbending determination in the fight against ISIS. I commend his decisive action following the murder of Jordanian pilot Lt. Moaz al-Kassasbeh. I fully support King Abdullah II as he and the Jordanian Armed Forces increase their efforts to defeat ISIS. Now is the time for the United States to fully support the Jordanian Armed Forces with the weapons and resources that they need. It makes me very proud that weapons made in the U.S. are being used by the Jordanian Armed Forces in their attacks against ISIS. “ISIS is a plague that has threatened civilized society. There is no place in the modern world for ISIS’s ideology and brutal tactics. This is not just an American and Jordanian problem, this is a global threat that must be met with the full force of our collective resolve. “King Abdullah II, didn’t choose this fight, but he is determined to win it and now is the time for the United States to display the same type of courage that King Abdullah II has shown in the last week. Jordan is a critical partner in this fight to defeat evil and I am determined to make sure the U.S. does all it can to eliminate ISIS as a threat to the U.S. and our allies.”
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after President Obama delivered the annual State of the Union address this evening. “The tone for the year ahead should be one that enables the country to move forward. The American people have chosen divided government, but not a stalemate between the White House and Congress. The focus should be on continued economic recovery and job creation, providing for our national security, taking care of our veterans, and reestablishing strong American leadership abroad. “There needs to be a renewed emphasis on how Washington can create a vibrant economic environment. This should include eliminating excessive regulations, putting the federal budget on a path toward balance, and establishing new trade partners so American products can be sold to more marketplaces abroad. Reforming the burdensome tax code for both individuals and small businesses is vital to growing the economy. I adamantly oppose tax increases to pay for more government spending as the president has outlined. We need real tax reform that lowers rates, creates jobs, and rewards hard work and success. We have started to see new life in the U.S. economy, but there is still a long road ahead to full recovery and Washington should take this opportunity to expand growth, not restrict it. “I continue to oppose the president’s approach to the use of executive authority. President Obama understands well the frustration Congress has with his decision to govern almost exclusively by executive action. The president should work with the new Congress, not circumvent the legislative process. “Fighting and stopping terrorism, both domestically and abroad, must be a top priority for the U.S. for the year ahead to ensure our citizens remain safe. I believe reestablishing strong leadership abroad is critical to counterterrorism efforts around the world. This means standing firm when the U.S. makes a commitment. This also includes standing with our allies and standing up to our aggressors. In turn, it is the responsibility of the federal government to fulfill the promise made to all our veterans that we will take care of them once they return home. The federal government hasn’t lived up to that promise very well lately and more needs to be done to ensure this is a promise our country never breaks again.” ###
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to defund in its entirety President Obama’s recent immigration executive orders and fund the Department of Homeland Security for the remainder of fiscal year 2015. “Today, the House responded to the unprecedented and unconstitutional actions President Obama took in November to change our country’s immigration laws without the consent of Congress. By fully defunding the executive orders the House has taken an important step in stopping President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration from being implemented. The president’s egregious executive orders on immigration have only created more loopholes in an already complicated immigration system, which is why the president shouldn’t be legislating via executive action. “In addition to taking steps to stop President Obama’s immigration executive actions, the House fully funded the Department of Homeland Security for the remainder of the fiscal year. This bipartisan bill includes critical funding for Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement as well as agencies dedicated to counterterrorism. The recent terrorist attacks in Paris are a reminder that we must remain vigilant against the threat of terrorist acts on American soil, which is why this bill makes important investments to keep our country safe. “The bill provides for the largest operational force in history with 21,370 Border Patrol agents and 23,775 Customs and Border Protection officers to fully support efforts to protect our borders. It is the fundamental responsibility of the federal government to protect the homeland and that includes a robust effort to secure our borders.”
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations subcommittee, issued the following statement condemning the decision by the Palestinian Authority to join the International Criminal Court (ICC). “I condemn the Palestinian Authority’s move to join the International Criminal Court. This is hostile to the peace process with Israel and puts U.S. assistance to the PA in jeopardy. The PA knows the firm position of the U.S. because Congress made it law that if the Palestinian Authority initiates or actively supports any judicially authorized investigation against Israel for alleged crimes against Palestinians, our economic assistance to the PA would end. “The Palestinian Authority is heading down a dangerous path. Israel cannot be expected to negotiate in good-faith with a government who is derailing future attempts to find a peaceful solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The PA needs to reverse the course they are on and become a partner for peace."
12.22.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) today announced the hiring of Randi Mitchell to serve as District Director. Randi will be based in Fort Worth and will oversee the daily operations of the district office of the 12th Congressional district. “I am proud to have Randi join my office as district director,” said Granger. “Her strong background and connection to our community will be a great addition to our already great team. I place a high value on the constituent services we provide from our district office and Randi will build on our record of success.” “It’s great to be a part of such a dedicated team,” said Mitchell. “I have a passion for giving back to my community and I look forward to working alongside Congresswoman Granger to support the constituent services that are provided by our district office.” Randi brings with her over 15 years of experience with a specialty in marketing management. A lifelong resident of the Fort Worth area, Randi is active in the community and has been recognized for her achievements. In 2009, she was honored as a 40 Under 40 recipient by the Fort Worth Business Press as a woman who has helped shape the future of Tarrant County. Randi is a graduate of Tarleton State University in Stephenville, Texas and a 2012 Leadership Fort Worth graduate. She is an incoming board member of Camp Fire First Texas and serves as a Marketing Task Force member. Additionally, she is a member of The Ladder Alliance Marketing Committee and is a Breakfast Club member with Lena Pope.
12.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding the Obama Administration’s announcement to shift U.S.-Cuban diplomatic relations and the release of a U.S. humanitarian aid worker from Cuba. “I am relieved that American aid worker Alan Gross is safely back in the U.S. after being unjustly imprisoned for years, but the policy changes announced today by the Obama Administration are deeply concerning. “The Cuban people remain under the iron grip of a regime that has for decades repressed their freedoms. The Cuban regime should not be rewarded until the Cuban people are given the freedoms they are seeking. The regime has had a sordid history of human rights abuses in addition to working with some of America’s worst enemies around the world. These actions cannot be erased overnight or forgotten as the Administration seeks to shift the U.S. relationship with the government of Cuba. “Changing the U.S. diplomatic relationship with Cuba should not be a unilateral decision made solely by this Administration. Congress has a vital role to play in our country’s foreign policy and how American taxpayer dollars are used.”
11.21.2014	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, Congressman Harold Rogers (R-KY), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, and Kay Granger (R-TX), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today wrote Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to urge decisive and constructive actions to stop incitement of terrorist attacks against Israel. Full text: November 20, 2014 His Excellency Mahmoud Abbas Chairman of the PLO Executive Committee President of the Palestinian National Authority Al Muqata'a, Ramallah West Bank Dear Mr. President: We write regarding the recent series of deplorable terrorist attacks against innocent Israelis. We are profoundly concerned that the cycle of violent behavior threatens to spiral even further out of control. The situation clearly demands leadership, and we implore you to take decisive steps to stop the incitement and spread of violence. For more than two decades, the U.S. Congress has been a strong partner in building the institutions that will someday govern an independent Palestinian state, existing side-by-side, in peace and security, with Israel. That is why we have supported billions of dollars in assistance for technical training on security matters, economic development, and humanitarian needs of the Palestinians. However, this aid is predicated on the Palestinian Authority’s commitment to countering terrorism and pursuing a comprehensive peace with Israel. U.S. law also clearly stipulates that the Palestinian Authority must act to counter the incitement of violence against Israelis in order to continue receiving U.S. assistance. The recent attacks against Israelis raise serious concerns that the Palestinians are not prepared to coexist peacefully with their neighbor Israel. In addition, the use of degrading images in Fatah or PA produced media as well as inflammatory language used by you and other Palestinian leaders undermine the objectives of our support and threaten to further destabilize an already highly volatile situation. As the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and the Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, we remain resolute in our commitment to these conditions. That is why we urge you to take constructive actions and return to direct negotiations with Israel, which will provide the only path to a viable and durable two-state agreement resulting in security, prosperity, and peace for both sides. Thank you for your attention to this critical matter, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Nita Lowey Ranking Member, Committee on Appropriations Harold Rogers Chairman, Committee on Appropriations Kay Granger Chairwoman, Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations & Related Programs
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s planned immigration executive actions that he outlined in a speech this evening. “I am disappointed and deeply concerned with President Obama’s decision to take executive action to change our nation’s immigration laws. This is an unprecedented abuse of the executive authority for which there is no basis in the rule of law. President Obama has even stated in the past that such actions would not be an appropriate use of constitutional authority. “A decision to affect immigration reform via executive action circumvents the legislative process and ignores the framework our founders setup. By taking the actions that he outlined tonight, President Obama has already placed in jeopardy his relationship with the newly elected Congress before it has been sworn-in and just weeks after the November elections. “It is absolutely necessary for President Obama to work with the new Congress to address the issue of immigration reform. We need real solutions, not a quick fix. The president’s plan to take unilateral action is not an effective long-term solution to our broken system. I believe any discussion about immigration reform has to begin with border security and enforcement of current immigration law. One of the fundamental responsibilities of the federal government is to protect the homeland and that begins with knowing exactly who is coming in and out of the country.” On Wednesday, November 19th, Granger signed a letter to President Obama urging him to work with the newly elected Congress on immigration reform instead of taking executive action. To read the full letter, click here.
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) will remain the Chairwoman of the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations subcommittee. Today, the House Republican Steering Committee released the names of the Members who will lead the Appropriations subcommittees for the 114th Congress. Granger will also remain vice-chair of the Defense subcommittee. In January, when the new Congress convenes, she will become the 4th highest ranking Republican on the committee and the highest ranking Republican woman on the committee. “I am honored to have the trust and support of Chairman Rogers and of my colleagues. I look forward to continuing the vital work of overseeing all U.S. foreign investments and working to ensure we maintain a robust national defense to meet the needs of the United States and our allies. Over the last four years as the chair of the subcommittee, I am proud of our efforts to prioritize the programs that have worked efficiently, while making cuts to inefficient or redundant programs. In the process, we have made the State and Foreign Operations budget leaner, but more effective. “The world is a very complicated place today and the U.S. faces some of the most difficult foreign policy and national security challenges in our history. Our investments in our defense and foreign policy must reflect the seriousness of these challenges and exhibit strong U.S. leadership aboard. We must continue to have aggressive oversight and constantly assess the success of our foreign assistance. Additionally, we must continue to make smart investments and be responsible stewards of taxpayer funds.” The State and Foreign Operations subcommittee plays a critical role in U.S. national security policy. From supporting key allies like Israel, funding embassy security, addressing the spread of Ebola, and stopping the spread of global terrorism, Granger oversees many of the key programs that invest in the protection of the homeland. As the Chairwoman, she has cut spending while prioritizing programs that have proven results. The Defense subcommittee ensures the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force has the resources they need to provide all the resources our service members need and to ensure our defense supremacy in the world. With the Naval Air Station-Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth, the development of Lockheed Martin’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the building of Bell Helicopter’s V-22 Osprey, and many other important defense companies based in the 12th District and throughout North Texas, the communities Granger represents makes enormous contributions to America’s security at home and abroad.
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswomen Kay Granger (R-TX) and Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman and Ranking Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, issued a joint statement on the status of the P5+1 negotiations with Iran regarding its nuclear program. “Congress imposed tough sanctions on Iran which resulted in severe economic consequences. The sanctions are what brought Iran to the negotiating table. This is the most significant progress the U.S. has ever made in confronting Iran on its nuclear program. “As the Chairwoman and Ranking Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, we remain firmly opposed to scaling back or removing the bipartisan sanctions placed on Iran before the international community is able to verify that Iran is dismantling its nuclear program. In addition, long-term monitoring of Iran’s future activities is essential to ensure full compliance. Iran has not proven itself to be a trustworthy member of the international community in the past, and there must be serious consequences for failure to meet the terms of any agreement. “Ultimately, we believe that Congress has an indispensable role to play in this matter, and we expect continued full consultation from the Administration as the deadline for these talks approaches.”
10.31.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry denouncing the Obama Administration’s reprehensible statements towards Israel. Granger’s strongly-worded letter to Secretary Kerry follows the reports of disparaging comments made by senior Administration officials aimed directly at Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the State of Israel. Attached is a copy of the letter Congresswoman Granger sent to Secretary Kerry today.
10.15.2014	Washington Post - Fact Checker The absurd claim that only Republicans are to blame for cuts to Ebola research By Glenn Kessler, October 15, 2014 “Republican cuts kill” – new Web ad by the Agenda Project Action Fund This ad is simply a more extreme version of a new Democratic talking point — that GOP budget cuts have harmed the nation’s ability to handle the Ebola outbreak. It mixes statistics — the budget for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) “cut” $585 million (the ad offers no date range) — with disturbing images of the outbreak and various Republican leaders saying variations of the word “cut.” A slightly more nuanced version of this theme was launched by the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which in online advertising began to equate a congressional budget vote in 2011 with a vote for the House GOP budget in 2014 that supposedly protected special interests. This line of attack was prompted by remarks by National Institutes of Health (NIH) Director Francis Collins, who told the Huffington Post that the agency has been working on an Ebola vaccine for more than a decade but was hampered by shrinking budgets. “Frankly, if we had not gone through our 10-year slide in research support, we probably would have had a vaccine in time for this that would’ve gone through clinical trials and would have been ready,” Collins said. So what’s actually going on here? The Facts Budget numbers are especially susceptible to manipulation in political rhetoric because they are often confusing. A presidential administration will propose a budget number for an agency, and then the House and Senate will haggle over the numbers. So politicians can pick and choose the numbers they want to highlight. The big boost in spending under the 2009 stimulus law and then the automatic “sequester” budget cuts in the 2011 budget agreement have further juggled the statistics. For the purposes of this fact check, we are going to rely on the historical numbers in official budget documents submitted to Congress by the NIH and the CDC. We double-checked a couple of years with NIH, and the differences amounted to rounding errors. This way, readers can examine the documents themselves. For NIH (see page 11), since 2006, there has been relatively little change in the size of the budget, going from about $28.5 billion in 2006 to $30.14 billion in 2014. That’s a slight increase, but in real terms that’s a cut given the impact of inflation. (The agency also received a $10 billion windfall in 2009 from the stimulus law.) Here’s an illustration of the budget in real terms by our colleague Josh Hicks. Generally, Congress gave the NIH about what the president requested — sometimes more, sometimes less. In 2013, for instance, Congress gave the NIH more than what the White House had requested, but then $1.5 billion was taken away by sequestration. Whose idea was sequestration? It was originally a White House proposal, designed to force Congress to either swallow painful cuts or boost taxes. The law mandating sequestration passed on a bipartisan vote — and then Republicans embraced it even more strongly when they could not reach a grand budget deal with President Obama. For fiscal year 2015, the documents show, it was the Obama White House that proposed to cut the NIH’s budget from the previous year. Moreover, we should note that President George W. Bush, a Republican, is responsible for significantly boosting NIH’s funding in the early years of his presidency. The high point for the Obama administration’s request for NIH funding was in 2011, when the White House was seeking a budget fight with Republicans who had just taken control of the House. (No surprise that’s also the year that the DCCC chooses to highlight a budget vote.) In the specific case of the NIH branch that deals with infectious diseases, funding jumped from $1.8 billion in 2000 to $4.3 billion in 2004 — but funding has been flat since then. Funding in 2014 was again $4.3 billion. So that’s effectively a cut over time. As for the CDC, you will see (page 46) a similar pattern. The numbers have bounced around $6.5 billion in recent years. (CDC receives both an appropriation from Congress and, since 2010, hundreds of millions of dollars from the Prevention and Public Health Fund established by the Affordable Care Act.) Before 2008, the agency received less than $6 billion a year. In fiscal year 2013, the White House proposed a cut in CDC’s funding, but Congress added about $700 million. In 2014, the administration again proposed reducing the budget, but Congress boosted it to $6.9 billion, (Note, as this Congressional Research Service report documents, CDC also is funded by nearly $4 billion in mandatory fees. The numbers above refer only to congressional appropriations.) The Pinocchio Test On many levels, this line of attack is absurd. Obama’s Republican predecessor oversaw big increases in public-health sector spending, and both Democrats and Republicans in recent years have broadly supported efforts to rein in federal spending. Sequestration resulted from a bipartisan agreement. In some years, Congress has allocated more money for NIH and CDC than the Obama administration requested. Meanwhile, contrary to the suggestion of the DCCC ad, there never was a specific vote on funding to prevent Ebola. There’s no doubt that spending has been cut, or at least failed to keep pace with inflation, but the fingerprints of both parties are on the knives. This blame game earns Four Pinocchios. Click here to read this article in the Washington Post
10.13.2014	Washington, D.C. – The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) has awarded Rep. Kay Granger (TX-12) the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. The award is based on her votes in the 113th Congress on issues that are critical to manufacturing in the United States. “Manufacturers in Texas and throughout the United States are making a comeback, creating jobs, making more products and making them better than ever before,” said NAM Senior Vice President of Policy and Government Relations Aric Newhouse. “However, manufacturers are often disproportionately impacted by decisions made by policymakers in Washington. The NAM is proud to stand with lawmakers like Rep. Granger who understand what is at stake and seek to implement policies that will foster innovation, growth and competitiveness.” Key Votes included in the Voting Record are selected by small, medium and large manufacturing executives who serve on the NAM’s Key Vote Advisory Committee. Additional information on the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence can be found here.
10.13.2014	Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, sent letters to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr. Tom Frieden urging the Administration to consider adding Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) and George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston (IAH) to the additional Ebola airport screening list. In her letter, Granger cites that DFW airport serves over six million travelers and IAH serves over eight million travelers. In addition, there is daily nonstop service between Lagos, Nigeria – in West Africa – and Bush Intercontinental Airport. Dallas, Texas is also the site of the first Ebola case in the United States. Mr. Duncan arrived in Dallas on a flight that landed at the DFW International Airport. Attached are the letters to Director Frieden and Secretary Johnson.
10.01.2014	Ebola Fact Sheet from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Ebola transmission Fact Sheet Information from the Texas Department of State Health Services regarding the Texas patient who tested positive for Ebola. Texas hospital patient tested positive for Ebola, making the patient the first case diagnosed in the United States. Ebola is a severe and often fatal disease caused by the Ebola virus. Ebola is spread through direct contact with blood, secretions or other bodily fluids or exposure to contaminated objects, such as needles. It cannot be spread simply by being near someone who is infected. People only become contagious after they begin to have symptoms. Symptoms of Ebola include sudden fever, sometimes with a headache and joint and muscle aches. Other symptoms may include: Nausea Weakness Diarrhea Vomiting Stomach pain Lack of appetite Some patients may also experience rash, red eyes, hiccups, cough, sore throat, chest pain, problems breathing, problems swallowing, or bleeding inside and outside the body. Symptoms usually appear 8 to 10 days after exposure, but may appear anywhere from 2 to 21 days after exposure. The severity of the disease varies, but more than 50% of patients with Ebola have died during past outbreaks. There is no cure or vaccine; however, some people can recover with intensive treatment in a hospital setting. Following are some resources on Ebola: Questions & Answers (CDC)Advice for Travelers (WHO)Guidance for Airlines (CDC)Guidance for Hospitals (CDC)Guidance for Health Care Workers (CDC) To visit the Texas Department of State Health Services website, click here.
09.19.2014	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed a resolution, authored by Representatives Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Peter Roskam (R-IL), Nita Lowey (D-NY), and Kay Granger (R-TX), condemning the rising tide of anti-Semitism abroad. “Today’s unanimous passage of our resolution sends a clear and strong message that we condemn the rising tide of anti-Semitism throughout the world and that we will do all we can to prevent its spread. In 2014 alone, we have seen increased incidents of murder at Jewish sites, violent attacks and death threats against Jews, as well as violence, arson, graffiti, and other instances of vandalism at Jewish places of worship,” the lawmakers said. “We must ensure the world views such actions for what they are, the vile and hate-fueled persecution of an entire people, rather than an acceptable expression of frustration with political events in the Middle East or anywhere else. The United States must continue to play an essential role in shining a spotlight on the ugly resurgence of anti-Semitism, as well as all forms of religious discrimination.” “Tonight, Congress sent a resounding message to the world about America's resolve to confront this ugly and dangerous hatred. We commend Reps. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Peter Roskam (R-IL), Nita Lowey (D-NY), and Kay Granger (R-TX) for their leadership mobilizing action against the upsurge in anti-Semitic attacks in Europe, Latin America, and even in the United States,” said Abraham H. Foxman, National Director of the Anti-Defamation League. “We hope world leaders will echo Congress’s call and will demonstrate the will to ensure that anti-Semitism has no place in their country and that Jews have the right to live in security and free of harassment and the fear of violence solely because they are Jewish.” The resolution was cosponsored by 174 House Members, including House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) and Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY), and Middle East Subcommittee Chairwoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) and Ranking Member Ted Deutch (D-FL); and House Appropriations Subcommittee on State & Foreign Operations Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-TX) and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY). The following groups supported the resolution: AJC, Anti-Defamation League, American Israel Public Affairs Committee, Association of Jewish Family & Children’s Agencies, Christians United for Israel, J Street, Jewish Council for Public Affairs, Jewish Federations of North America, Jewish United Fund to Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Chicago (JFMC), Lantos Foundation for Human Rights & Justice, National Coalition Supporting Eurasian Jewry, and the Zionist Organization of America (ZOA).
09.18.2014	Today, U.S. Representatives Kay Granger and Nita Lowey were honored for their strong support for U.S. programs that help solve the global safe drinking water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) crisis. The WASH Advocate award was given today to recognize the Congresswomen for their strong leadership in improving U.S. efforts to efficiently provide safe and affordable WASH to impoverished regions around the world. “As Chair of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, I am acutely aware of the positive impact these programs have had on the poorest in Africa, Asia, and Latin America, noted Rep. Granger. “I am not alone, however: across Texas, thousands of church groups, Rotary Club members and schoolchildren are working as I speak to help solve this global crisis once and for all.” Rep. Lowey, who is Ranking member of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee and full Appropriations Committee, added, “WASH is important in its own right but in particular for its enormous positive impact on women throughout each stage of their life – from empowering girls to get an education, to providing wider job opportunities for women. This issue cuts across health, gender, and economics and its benefits cannot be overstated.” Former Congressman Jim Walsh and president and CEO of InterAction Sam Worthington presented the WASH Advocate award. Both credited the bipartisan effort in supporting increases in water and sanitation funding year after year, helping drive the effort that led to FY14’s historic funding levels. John Oldfield, CEO of WASH Advocates, noted, “We are honored to present these well-deserved awards. Our awardees work hard to save and improve the lives of millions of people through the provision of safe drinking water, sanitation, and hygiene across Africa, Asia, and Latin America. The 2014 WASH Advocate Awards honor their current leadership, and the WASH community looks forward to continuing to work together to save and improve millions more lives over the coming years.” Every year, U.S. WASH programs bring better WASH access to millions of people across Africa, Asia, and Latin America. In FY11 and FY12, USAID provided almost 7 million people with improved access to drinking water supply, and almost 3 million with improved access to sanitation. This work is now supported and reinforced by USAID’s first-ever Water and Development Strategy, launched in October 2013.
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Federation of Independent Business, the nation’s leading small business association, today named U.S. Rep. Kay Granger (TX-12) a Guardian of Small Business for her outstanding voting record on behalf of America’s small-business owners in the 113th Congress. NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner praised Rep. Granger for “standing up for small business.” In presenting the group’s coveted Guardian of Small Business Award, Danner said, “Small-business owners are very politically active – paying close attention to how their lawmakers vote on key business issues and stand by those who stand for them.” “The record shows that Rep. Granger is a true champion of small business, supporting the votes that matter in the 113th Congress,” said Danner. “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business.” NFIB’s “How Congress Voted,” which serves as a report card for members of Congress, was also unveiled this week. The report presents key small-business votes and voting percentages for each lawmaker. Those voting favorably on key small-business issues at least 70 percent of the time during the 113th Congress are eligible for the Guardian award. In all, NFIB will present Guardian awards to 232 Representatives who stood up for small business. ### NFIB is the nation’s leading small business advocacy association, with offices in Washington, D.C. and all 50 state capitals. Founded in 1943 to give small-business owners a voice in public policy-making, NFIB’s policy positions are set by its 350,000 business-owner members, who send their views directly to state and federal lawmakers through NFIB’s unique member-only ballot. NFIB’s mission is to promote and protect the right of our members to own, operate and grow their businesses. More information is available online at www.NFIB.com/news.
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the House Working Group to address the national security and humanitarian crisis at the southern border, spoke on the House floor today in the support of the House Republican Border Crisis Supplemental legislation.Remarks as Prepared for Delivery Thank you Mr. Chairman for yielding. Mr. Speaker, As we speak, unaccompanied minors continue to be sent from Central America through drug cartel smuggling networks across Mexico and through our southern border. Families are being lied to and manipulated by the coyotes. The $6,000 their families spend to send their children to the United States goes into the bank accounts of the most powerful drug cartels in the world. Since October, over 58,000 unaccompanied children have made the dangerous journey to the United States, and many more will continue to come unless we send a clear message that they will not be allowed to stay in the United States. I have seen firsthand the crisis that has unfolded at the southern border in places like the Rio Grande Valley and South Texas. I have seen the women and children sleeping on the floor of a bus station in Laredo. I have seen motherless infants being cared for by any stranger who is around. I have seen the children who are alone in detention facilities in McAllen, Texas and I have seen the 1,200 kids who are being sheltered at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio. And, most disturbing of all, I have heard the stories about the most god-awful journey no one should ever have to experience. We are here today because we have a responsibility to stop this crisis. The president has failed to lead, so I firmly believe this chamber must act. Doing nothing is not an option. Since June when the speaker asked me to lead a working group to provide policy recommendations on what we can do to address the crisis, I have been to the Texas-Mexico border twice and led a CODEL to Guatemala and Honduras to see where the children are coming from and why. I will be returning to the border tomorrow for a third time. The members of the working group dove head-first into this issue to understand this crisis and provide recommendations for a short-term, immediate response. The policies we recommended are not an attempt at immigration reform. They are serious solutions to address this crisis. I want to take a moment to recognize the hard work of the members of the working group who made policy recommendations to the conference and the expertise they all brought to the table. I want to thank: Chairman of the Judiciary Committee Bob Goodlatte Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee Michael McCaul Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee John Carter Chairman of the Western Hemisphere Foreign Affairs Subcommittee Matt Salmon Congressman Steve Pearce from the Financial Services Committee Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart from the Appropriations Committee One of our conclusions from the last several weeks is that Congress should not provide more resources to the administration without changing the policies that have led us to the situation we are in today. Administration officials, and officials in the Central American countries, have all said that we have to make changes to the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008. A month ago it appeared there was a bipartisan consensus forming on the issue. White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest said from the White House podium just three weeks ago, when discussing changes to the 2008 law that it is: “A priority of this administration, and if you listen to the public comments of Democrats and Republicans, it sounds like it’s a bipartisan priority.” I agree. And it is disappointing that the White House has backed down from their original statements on how we could immediately address this issue. We are not asking for a repeal of this law. We are saying we need to tweak the 2008 law so that all unaccompanied minors are treated the same as Mexican and Canadian children for removal purposes. The policy changes included in this bill ensure that children receive a prompt hearing within seven days after they are detained, and require that a judge rules no later than 72 hours after a hearing. Accelerating the hearing times requires more judges. I thank the chairman for including the necessary funding to hire 40 temporary judges until this crisis is under control. For repatriations, we are prioritizing “last in, first out.” This means that the last child to go into U.S. government custody will be the first one we send home. After families have spent between $6,000 and $9,000 to send their children here, this will send a strong message to the families in the countries of origin that their children will not be permitted to stay. This is a message of deterrence. I also note that Chairman Rogers has prioritized funding for Central American countries to safely and humanely return these children. With the surge of children there has been increased pressure on our Customs and Border Protection officials. This supplemental deploys the National Guard to assist high traffic states. This will free up the Border Patrol to focus on their mission. To fully support Customs and Border Protection’s mission, we include a provision to allow Border Patrol unfettered access to federal lands. Right now through a memorandum of understanding, Border Patrol officials are only permitted to pursue suspects onto federal lands. They cannot do regular patrols. Finally, the supplemental includes a sense of Congress that children should not be detained at military bases. While this will not change the law, this provision addresses a serious and growing concern from members of congress. Not least of the concerns is that children should not be stored on military bases. The Congressional Budget Office has given its assessment of the policy changes in this bill. They have said that because the legislation allows for the children to self-deport, it will lead to immediate savings. This is a smart, targeted bill that addresses the crisis immediately. I urge my colleagues to vote yes on the supplemental and show the American people that we are going to end this crisis. Thank you, Chairman Rogers, and I yield back the balance of my time.
07.31.2014	House Republican Border Crisis Supplemental LegislationMyths and FactsMyth: The bill would abolish voluntary return for unaccompanied minors.Fact: The bill would make all unaccompanied minors eligible for voluntary return immediately, speeding the return of many unaccompanied minors to their home countries. Current law only allows UACs from contiguous countries to be eligible for voluntary return.Myth: This bill will result in more people getting asylum.Fact: This bill will reduce the number of migrant children granted asylum. Under the House Republican bill, unaccompanied children from countries other than Mexico would be treated the same as unaccompanied children from Mexico and made eligible for immediate return to their home countries, reducing the number of those who may claim asylum. This prioritization is expected to further reduce the number of applications for asylum given the fact that 95 percent of unaccompanied children who applied for asylum in FY 2014 did so after being in the U.S. for more than 100 days. Through the 3rd quarter of fiscal year 2014, only two percent of unaccompanied minors have claimed asylum and only a portion of those claims were approved. Myth: The bill appears to put the majority of unaccompanied minors in the new court proceedings, where they are permitted to withdraw their application for admission at any time.Fact: This is false. The bill would only put unaccompanied minors who do not consent to voluntary return into court proceedings, and these court proceedings would be expedited to hasten the return of these children to their home countries.Myth: The bill creates a new seven-day court proceeding for all unaccompanied minors in which an immigration judge determines whether a UAC has a claim for immigration relief.Fact: The court removal proceedings are not seven-days long, but must occur within seven days. At this expedited removal proceeding, the child will be required to prove to the judge that they are eligible for relief from removal under current law and standards. If not, they will be ordered removed and detained until they are sent back home. This new expedited procedure allows the unaccompanied child no opportunity to appeal or delay proceedingsMyth: Unaccompanied children are screened for credible fear by the Border PatrolFact: Under both current law and the bill, border patrol agents cannot make a credible fear determination, they can merely refer an unaccompanied child for a credible fear interview. Even then, a credible fear screening is only the first step in the asylum process.Myth: The majority of these UACs will claim a fear of persecution or state their intent to apply for asylum.Fact: Through the 3rd quarter of FY 2014, only two percent of UACs have claimed asylum and only a portion of those claims were approved. Under current law, the first step in the asylum process is the credible fear interview at USCIS. If UACs succeed at this interview, they must be detained pending a final adjudication of the asylum claim. If they fail to prove their full claim, they will be ordered removed from the country.Myth: The House bill states that the DHS Secretary “shall permit” UACs who have received Notices to Appear (issued since Jan. 1, 2013) to appear before an immigration judge in the new proceeding created by the bill, move to have the Notice to Appear “replaced,” and apply for admission to the U.S.Fact: The bill does not allow for the re-opening of orders of removal. The bill would merely allow children who have received Notices to Appear, but not had a court date, to come into court, submit to government detention and either be voluntarily removed or immediately placed in a non-appealable removal hearing.Myth: The House bill does not use the word “detention” but rather “custody.” This is an important distinction because “custody” can be satisfied by transferring a UAC to HHS, which places the UAC in a non-secure setting.Fact: There is no evidence that children are absconding from or escaping from HHS facilities. HHS does maintain secure facilities for children who are a danger or flight risk. If a child does escape and abscond from their court proceedings, they will be ordered removed in absentia and become an immigration fugitive. Keeping all children in secure detention facilities is dangerous, excessive and unnecessary.Myth: The changes to the 2008 law in this bill would achieve the reverse of the bill’s intention- that this bill would result in all unaccompanied child minors, from all countries, going through a longer process - the same process given to minors who have been victims of trafficking, has a credible fear of persecution, or is unable to make a decision about withdrawing their applicationFact: This is false. Other similar bills that amend the 2008 included drafting errors which created this unintentional consequence. The terminology in the bill requires that unaccompanied children meet certain requirements to be eligible for removal, including the fact that they were not a victim of sex trafficking. Some bills had drafted their text to say “does not meet” which would have created a double negative and in fact had the result of excluding all unaccompanied children from voluntary removal. This bill does not result in treating Mexican children like non-contiguous countries and uses the proper phrasing to ensure that all UACs are treated the same, thus speeding the return of these children to their home countries.
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the House Working Group to address the national security and humanitarian crisis at the southern border, testified today during the House Rules Committee hearing on H.R. 5230, the House border crisis supplemental legislation. Granger discussed the Working Group recommendations included in the supplemental legislation.Granger’s Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery Thank you Chairman Sessions and Ranking Member Slaughter. I am proud to sit with Chairman Rogers today and testify on a bill that provides an immediate and targeted response to address the humanitarian crisis that is happening right now on our southern border. As we speak, unaccompanied minors are being sent from Central America through drug cartel smuggling networks across Mexico and through our southern border. Since October, over 58,000 unaccompanied children have made this journey, and many more will continue to come unless we send a clear message that they will not be allowed to stay in the United States. Congress cannot provide more resources to address this crisis without changing the policies that have led to the situation we are in today. Since Speaker Boehner asked me to lead a working group to provide policy recommendations on what we can do to address the crisis, I have been to the Texas-Mexico border twice and led a CODEL to Guatemala and Honduras to see where the children are coming from and why. From meetings with State Department officials in Guatemala, to meetings with Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, those who are closest to the problem all say that we have to make changes to the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008. The policy recommendations the Working Group presented to the conference makes a tweak to the 2008 law so that all unaccompanied minors are treated the same as Mexican and Canadian children for removal purposes. The policy changes included in the supplemental also ensure that children receive a prompt hearing within seven days after they are detained, and with a requirement that a judge rules no later than 72 hours after a hearing. Accelerating the hearing times will require more judges. Our recommendation is that there are 40 temporary judges brought online until this crisis is under control. For repatriations we are prioritizing last in, first out. This will send a strong message to the families in the countries of origin that their children will not be permitted to stay. With the surge of children, there has been increased pressure on our Customs and Border Protection officials. This supplemental deploys the National Guard to assist high traffic states. This will free up the Border Patrol to focus on their mission. To fully support Customs and Border Protection’s mission, we include a provision to allow CBP unfettered access to federal lands. Right now through a memorandum of understanding, CBP officials are only permitted to pursue suspects onto federal lands. They cannot do regular patrols. This has created high traffic areas for migrants who are doing far more damage to these protected lands than regular CBP patrols would. Finally, the supplemental includes a sense of Congress that children should not be detained at military bases. While this will not change the law, this provision addresses a serious and growing concern from members of Congress. Not least of the concerns is that housing children on military installations are the least cost-effective facilities to house children. The Congressional Budget Office has given some initial feedback on the policy recommendations in the bill. They have said that because the legislation allows for the children to self deport it will lead to immediate savings. Thank you for your time and I look forward to answering your questions.
07.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the House Working Group to address the national security and humanitarian crisis at the southern border, issued the following statement regarding the policy recommendations included in the House border crisis supplemental package. “This is a crisis that deserves decisive leadership from President Obama, but his Administration has failed to lead, so the House will take action this week to resolve the urgent situation at the southern border. It would be irresponsible to allow this crisis to continue unabated for another month without immediate action to secure the border and deter more unaccompanied minors from making the journey and crossing the border illegally. “The working group recommendations that have been included are the options I believe represent the most urgent actions that need to be taken to curb the flow of unaccompanied minors, along with women with children, from making the perilous journey to the U.S. border. Additionally, this plan provides the tools necessary to process and humanely return unaccompanied children and family units home as quickly as possible as well as to secure our southern border. “The working group has diligently worked to provide recommendations for the conference to consider that were derived from meetings with interested parties and visits to the Texas-Mexico border and Central America, so I am pleased that many of the most essential aspects of the group’s recommendations have been included in the supplemental.”Policy Recommendations Included in the House Border Crisis Supplemental Package • Amend the Trafficking Victims Protection and Reauthorization Act of 2008 to require that all unaccompanied minors are treated the same as unaccompanied minors from Canada and Mexico for the purpose of removals. Additionally, this would require unaccompanied children who do not wish to be voluntarily returned to their home country to remain in Health and Human Services custody while they await an expedited immigration court hearing that must occur not more than 7 days after they are screened by child welfare officials. Priority removal will be given to the children who have most recently arrived in the United States. • Deploy additional temporary judges to expedite the hearing of asylum and credible fear claims. • Change the Immigration and Nationality act to strengthen the law prohibiting criminals with serious drug related convictions from applying for asylum. • Prohibits the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) from denying or restricting U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) activities on federal land under their respective jurisdictions within 100 miles of the US-Mexico border. • Deploy the National Guard to the Southern border to assist Border Patrol. Text of the legislation, H.R. 5230: https://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/07.29.14_FY_2014_Supplemental_Appropriations_Bill.pdf
07.23.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the House Working Group to address the national security and humanitarian crisis at the southern border, issued the following statement announcing the group’s recommendations and solutions. “This morning, I presented to the House GOP Conference the recommendations of Speaker Boehner’s working group. I am proud of the set of recommendations and solutions that the working group has crafted over the last few weeks. These recommendations reflect the immediate crisis this country faces by providing common-sense, compassionate, but tough solutions. “Our focus has been to ensure the safety of the children and it has remained a top priority throughout this process. In our personal meetings with the Presidents of Honduras and Guatemala they both stated that they wanted their children back, and we believe that is in the best interest of all the countries involved in this crisis. We look forward to working with these countries as they prepare to receive their children back. “Anyone who has been to South Texas and the Rio Grande Valley knows that the men and women of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection are doing a remarkable job, but they are stretched thin with the massive surge of children crossing the border, and the quickest way to provide relief is by deploying the National Guard. The National Guard would also assist with the humanitarian care and needs of the unaccompanied minors, which will free up the Border Patrol to focus on their primary mission. “The recommendation to amend the Trafficking Victims Protection and Reauthorization Act of 2008 is something both parties agree on and modifications to the law can be done to expedite the process while ensuring proper protections are in place for the children who need them. We recommend amending the 2008 law, so that all unaccompanied minors are treated the same for the purpose of removal. This would be done by requiring unaccompanied minors who do not wish to be voluntarily returned to their home country to remain in Health and Human Services’ custody while they await an expedited immigration court hearing that must promptly occur after they are screened by child welfare officials. “I appreciate the hard work the members of the working group have given to this process. Their insight and passion has been a crucial part of developing the recommendations we have set forth today.”Recommendations and Solutions Increase Border Security • Deploy the National Guard to the Southern border to assist Border Patrol in the humanitarian care and needs of the unaccompanied minors. This will free up the Border Patrol to focus on their primary mission. • Prohibit the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) from denying or restricting U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) activities on federal land under their respective jurisdictions. • Require a DHS strategy and implementation plan to gain operational control of the Southwest border. • Establish independent third party commission to develop border security metrics as a means to accurately gauge progress on border security. • Establish border security in Central American countries and Mexico. Return the Children • Establish repatriation centers in originating countries in order to facilitate the return of family units and unaccompanied minors. • Deploy aggressive messaging campaigns in originating countries and the U.S. to dispel immigration myths, clarify that individuals will be deported on arrival and advise on the dangers and legal penalties of traveling through Mexico to enter the United States illegally. • Mandate the detention of all Family Units apprehended at the border with the ultimate goal of processing family units 5-7 days. Congress must continue stringent oversight to ensure this mandate is being met. Tweaking the 2008 Human Trafficking Law • Amend the Trafficking Victims Protection and Reauthorization Act of 2008 so all unaccompanied minors are treated the same as Mexicans for the purpose of removals. This would require unaccompanied children who do not wish to be voluntarily returned to their home country to remain in HHS custody while they await an expedited immigration court hearing that must occur not more than 7 days after they are screened by child welfare officials. • Deploy additional judge teams and temporary judges to expedite the hearing of asylum and credible fear claims. Congress must address the occurrences of fraud in our asylum system. Baseless claims crowd the immigration court system and delay processing for those with legitimate claims. The standard under current law that allows an alien to show a "credible fear of persecution" needs to be examined and addressed to ensure a fraud-free system moving forward. In addition, criminal aliens and criminal gang members should not receive asylum. • Establish tough penalties for those engaged in human smuggling, including the smuggling of unaccompanied minors by strengthening penalties for human smugglers and those who assist them. • Increase law enforcement operations domestically and in originating countries to disrupt and dismantle transnational criminal organizations and encourage originating countries to pass strict laws against human smuggling.
07.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the House Working Group to address the crisis at the southern border, issued the following statement regarding the working group. “The working group, appointed by Speaker Boehner to address the ongoing crisis at the southern border, has made extraordinary progress in a short amount of time to understand the facts of the situation at the border, and develop sensible, humane, but tough recommendations on a course of action for Congress and the President to act on immediately. “After personally visiting the Texas-Mexico border twice, traveling to Central America to meet with the Presidents of Honduras and Guatemala, and hearing directly from those involved in this crisis, there is no mistaking that the United States has a national security and humanitarian crisis at its southern border. This is not a political problem. This is an urgent crisis that must be dealt with immediately. “The working group believes there are steps that can be taken to stop individuals, mostly women and children, from making the horrific trip from Central America to our southern border. Additionally, we must ensure that our border is secure and that unaccompanied minors are repatriated back to their home country in a swift and humane way, while ensuring proper protections are in place for the children who need them. I appreciate the legislative solutions being introduced by members of the working group and look forward to incorporating many of their ideas in our recommendations. It is my intention to provide the working group’s final report to the House GOP conference early next week when the House returns for legislative business.”
07.09.2014	After meeting today, the Speaker’s working group issued the following statement regarding the humanitarian and national security crisis at the southern border. The working group will provide the first update to the House GOP Conference on Tuesday, July 15. The Members of the working group include: Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX), chairwoman of the working group, Chairman Bob Goodlatte (VA), Chairman Michael McCaul (TX), Chairman John Carter (TX), Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL), Congressman Steve Pearce (NM), and Congressman Matt Salmon (AZ). “As the Speaker’s working group to address the crisis at the southern border we are extremely concerned over the well-being of children who cross our borders alone, as well as the integrity of our immigration laws. That is why the President must act to deter parents from encouraging their children to make this horrific and perilous journey based on the hope that they will be able to stay in the United States. The policies of the current Administration have created the crisis we are currently facing at our southern border and it will take Presidential action to solve it. “We agree with the President that they must be returned to their home countries in the most humane way possible and that will require a revision of the 2008 Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act. In addition, the FY 2015 appropriations process is already under way in the House which addresses resources related to the current crisis. The substantial increase of family units and unaccompanied children crossing the border has created an enormous strain on Customs and Border Protection as well as the border states and communities. It is critical we ensure that the Border Patrol is able to focus on protecting the borders of the United States. “Over the next several days we will review the facts and continue to gather on-the-ground information in order to develop a series of recommendations regarding actions the Administration can take within its authority as well as legislative solutions for the Congress to consider to address this crisis.”
07.08.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the House Working Group to address the humanitarian crisis at the southern border, issued the following statement regarding the White House emergency funding request for the southern border. “I, along with the members of the Appropriations Committee and working group, look forward to reviewing the White House supplemental request to address the humanitarian and national security crisis at the southern border. After two visits to the Texas-Mexico border and detention facilities around Texas last week, I saw firsthand how dire the situation is for the thousands of unaccompanied minors who are making the dangerous journey from Central American to the U.S. border. The huge increase of unaccompanied children crossing the border has created an enormous strain on the Border Patrol as well as the Texas Department of Public Safety and its vital to their missions that they are provided with the resources they need to protect the southern border. “The Speaker's working group will meet again tomorrow to discuss the humanitarian, security, and immigration issues surrounding the situation at the southern border, as well as the policy steps we believe Congress and the Administration should take provide solutions to this immediate crisis." Over the last week, Granger has visited a bus station in Laredo, TX that is providing shelter and aid for dozens of family units every day while they await transportation to take them to locations across the country to appear before an immigration court; the Customs and Border Patrol facility in McAllen, TX where hundreds of unaccompanied minors and family units are apprehended while they await to be processed through the system; and Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, TX that is serving as a temporary shelter and processing center for thousands of unaccompanied minors. Granger also participated in Chairman Michael McCaul’s Homeland Security Committee field hearing that was held in McAllen, TX last week. On Monday, Granger toured and met with officials at Catholic Charities Fort Worth who have provided shelter and aid for approximately 200 unaccompanied children to date. The Working Group will provide the first update to the House GOP Conference on July 15, 2014.
07.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the House Working Group to address the humanitarian crisis at the southern border, issued the following statement regarding the ongoing crisis at the Texas-Mexico border. Over the weekend, Granger visited a bus station in Laredo, TX that is providing shelter and aid for dozens of family units every day while they await transportation to take them to locations across the country to appear before an immigration court; the Customs and Border Patrol facility in McAllen, TX where hundreds of unaccompanied minors and family units are apprehended while they await to be processed through the system; and Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, TX that is serving as a temporary shelter and processing center for thousands of unaccompanied minors. The Working Group will provide the first update to the House GOP Conference on July 15, 2014. “The humanitarian crisis at the southern border demands to be treated with the seriousness that it deserves. Despite the President’s claims, this is not about immigration reform, this is about managing the immediate humanitarian crisis that this country faces at the Texas-Mexico border. This is about making a priority the thousands of children who have made a horrific journey based on false hope that they will be able to stay in the United States. “I just returned from a trip to South Texas and the Rio Grande Valley. I saw firsthand the humanitarian efforts that are underway by Customs and Border Patrol agents, local officials and community non-profits who are all overwhelmed by the daily volume of unaccompanied minors and family units who have been apprehended at the border. Throughout my visit one message was clear - please don’t call this an immigration reform issue, this is a humanitarian crisis and we need help now. “The House Working Group that was created by Speaker Boehner has heeded this call to action and is working to provide immediate recommendations to help those on the ground who are facing this crisis every hour of the day. I will be returning to the Rio Grande Valley on Thursday to continue to meet with officials to hear directly from them on what solutions can be developed to end this crisis.”
06.24.2014	On Tuesday, Speaker John Boehner announced the formation of a Member-level working group to address the national security and humanitarian crisis occurring at the southern border. The Speaker has asked Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) to lead this effort. Granger issued the following statement regarding the announcement of the working group. “I want to thank Speaker Boehner for recognizing the urgency of the national security and humanitarian crisis that has developed at the southern border. Every day, between 250 and 500 unaccompanied children are crossing the U.S.-Mexico border, which has overwhelmed and strained the resources of the Border Patrol, local officials and the states. The Border Patrol cannot do their primary job of securing the border, and there are not enough adequate facilities to house, feed, or treat the health care concerns because of the increasing number of unaccompanied children being apprehended at the border on a daily basis. The border states, including my home state of Texas, deserve solutions and the resources necessary to alleviate the serious issues they are currently having to manage. “This dire situation along the border requires that immediate solutions be developed and implemented. This is a crisis that cannot be allowed to continue to grow. I look forward to getting to work to develop meaningful solutions that will immediately begin to address this crisis.”
06.24.2014	Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations subcommittee, offered an amendment during the full committee markup of the FY 2015 State and Foreign Operations bill to provide a significant boost in the resources available to the United States to help stop the flow of unaccompanied alien children (UAC) crossing the southern border of the U.S., which has turned into a humanitarian and national security crisis. The FY 15 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations amendment, which the full committee approved, provides $120 million for assistance to Mexico and Central American countries to enhance border security, combat human trafficking and smuggling, for repatriation and reintegration programs, and to support a regional dialogue on related issues to UAC being apprehended along the U.S. border. “This commitment signals the serious and immediate efforts that must be made to fully address the crisis that has developed along our southern border, including my home state of Texas,” said Granger. “We know the majority of the unaccompanied children are traveling from only a handful of countries, so it’s vital that we focus our efforts on Mexico and Central America to resolve this crisis.” Granger’s amendment includes $120 million to support the following initiatives for Mexico and Central American countries: $88,000,000 for enhanced border security initiatives, with a focus on the southern border of Mexico; $20,000,000 to combat human trafficking and smuggling; $10,000,000 to support the repatriation and reintegration of citizens from such countries; and $2,000,000 to support a regional dialogue on such issues. The majority of the UAC being apprehended in the United States are originating from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and traveling through Mexico to the U.S.
06.24.2014	I thank the Chairman for yielding and for his leadership on so many issues in the State and Foreign Operations bill. I also want to thank Mrs. Lowey for her dedication to the subcommittee. We work closely together to try to find solutions our Members can support. We have many amendments to consider today, so I will just give a few brief highlights of this year’s bill. The funding provided is $48 billion, which is $708 million below the enacted fiscal year 2014 level and $277 million less than the President’s fiscal year 2015 request. To make room for many priorities within this allocation, the bill excludes funding for 11 accounts and reduces funding in other areas. A top priority this year is global health, and the bill increases funds above the request for polio and HIV/AIDS programs. The bill also maintains last year’s level of funding for embassy security and construction to keep U.S. diplomats safe while they represent the United States abroad. We continue our strong commitment to Israel and Jordan, and increase funding for countries in the former Soviet Union and Central and Eastern Europe. This bill rejects the poorly timed cuts proposed by the President for programs in Mexico and Central America. The bill also increases funds to combat human trafficking, with a specific focus on Guatemala and supports technologies that can assist Central American countries in identifying trafficking victims. Each of these investments will help address the thousands of unaccompanied children flooding our borders by improving economic opportunities and security in Latin America. However, we know that these changes will not happen overnight, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on the committee on a comprehensive solution to the problem. The bill continues funding to combat wildlife poaching and trafficking. Many Members have expressed their support for these efforts because we do not want to see unique wildlife become extinct on our watch and we know that funds from the illegal wildlife trade fuel criminal organizations. The bill continues aid for Egypt with the expectation that the government will continue the relationship with the United States and uphold the peace treaty with Israel. Aid is tied to these requirements as well as other conditions related to Egypt’s democratic transition. We also expect the new President to overturn the June 2013 convictions of many American and international democracy workers. The bill has tough conditions on aid to the Palestinian Authority. The bill includes a new condition - no funds can go to a Palestinian government that results from an agreement with Hamas. Since the current government was put in place because of such agreement, the committee defers assistance for the Palestinian Authority. Aid is off-the-table until it is clear that this government is committed to peace and security. The bill continues to reduce assistance for Afghanistan. Funds are only provided for projects that can be sustained by the Afghan people, and the bill does not allow funds to be provided for new reconstruction, such as the large infrastructure projects that have been built over the last decade. We also do not know yet if the new government will cooperate with the United States, and have conditioned funds on whether a Bilateral Security Agreement is signed. In Iraq today we see a real crisis unfolding, only a few short years since our troops withdrew. This bill continues the fiscal year 2014 levels for security assistance and humanitarian aid to help address these challenges. I hope that all Members can support moving this bill through committee today. I yield back to the Chairman.
06.17.2014	I would like to welcome all of the Subcommittee Members to the markup of the fiscal year 2015 bill and report for the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs. I want to start by thanking Mrs. Lowey for her dedication to this Subcommittee. It is a pleasure to have her as my partner and friend. We have been able to accomplish many great things working together. I also want to highlight the work of Congressman Wolf, not just as a Member of this Subcommittee, but also the Ranking Member in 2007 and 2008 and the Chairman of the Subcommittee that handled State Operations for six years before that. Frank Wolf has been able to maintain a passion for what he does almost unequalled in this Congress. Frank, you will be missed. I will begin by pointing out some of the highlights in this year’s legislation. The allocation allows us to produce a balanced bill that addresses many priorities and strengthens oversight of taxpayer dollars. The bill totals $48 billion, which is $708 million below the enacted fiscal year 2014 level, and $277 million less than the President’s fiscal year 2015 request. OCO spending continues to go down, totaling $6 billion, about a nine percent reduction from last year. The bill excludes funding for 11 accounts and reduces funding in other lower-priority areas, such as assistance to International Financial Institutions. A top priority for this Subcommittee is funding global health programs. The President proposed cuts to maternal and child health as well as HIV/AIDS. This bill prioritizes these efforts and reinforces this Subcommittee's commitment to eradicating polio, saving the lives of children, and continuing treatment for those living with HIV. We prioritize funding for programs directly related to our national security, including maintaining the level of funding for embassy security and construction and to keep U.S. diplomats safe while they represent the United States abroad. We continue our strong commitment for our key allies in the Middle East – Israel and Jordan, and the bill also increases funding for countries in the former Soviet Union and Central and Eastern Europe by providing resources above the request for countries facing territorial pressures and challenges to their security. This bill rejects the cuts proposed by the President for security and economic development programs in Mexico, Colombia, Central America, and the Caribbean. With this funding, the bill aims to address the tragic issue we have discussed in the last two full committee mark-ups -- the large number of unaccompanied children flooding our borders. By improving economic opportunities and security in Latin America, we can help solve problems like this before they reach the United States. Another urgent crisis that the bill prioritizes is human trafficking. We have a moral obligation to do everything we can to put an end to what equates to modern day slavery. The demand for U.S. assistance far exceeds the funding that the United States has previously made available. So this bill includes $58 million to help meet this need, which is $10 million above the current fiscal year. This bill includes a special focus on Guatemala, where I believe we can make a significant difference. We also increase funding for the State Department’s Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons. The State Department should help other governments use advancements in technology to identify trafficking victims and prevent more children from being lost to the dark world of human trafficking. The bill continues to address and prioritize efforts to combat wildlife poaching and trafficking, which threatens stability and security throughout much of sub-Saharan Africa and contributes to the revenues of some of the most dangerous criminal organizations. Many Members of the Committee have expressed their support to me on this issue because we do not want to see the world’s most unique wildlife become extinct on our watch. Therefore the bill provides additional resources using expertise from across our government to tackle this crisis. Over the last three years, we have continued to watch the situation in Egypt. We expect the government to continue the relationship with the United States and uphold the peace treaty with Israel. Therefore this bill continues to tie aid to these requirements and updates conditions related to elections and a democratic transition. One issue we hope the new President will address quickly is overturning the June 2013 convictions of many American and international democracy groups who were working in Egypt. The United States has been very generous with assistance for the Palestinian Authority as part of a good-faith effort to bring about peace and security between Israelis and the Palestinians. The fate of the peace negotiations and future aid from the Congress is now in question because of the actions of President Abbas on June 2nd, when he swore in a new Palestinian unity government based on an agreement with Hamas. Israel cannot be expected to negotiate with a terrorist organization. Funding for the Palestinians is off-the-table until it is clear that the unity government is committed to peace and security. I continue to be concerned about the situation in Afghanistan. There are many unknowns, including how the government of Afghanistan will handle security and their ability to fight terrorism, how U.S. personnel will remain safe without the presence of our troops, and how oversight of assistance will be conducted. At the same time, we want to ensure the gains made from U.S. investments in health, education, and women’s empowerment are not lost. Therefore, this bill continues to reduce the civilian presence and assistance programs, while enhancing requirements on oversight, accountability, and advancing the rights of Afghan women and girls. The bill prohibits assistance to the government of Afghanistan until there is a Bilateral Security Agreement. In Iraq today we see a real crisis unfolding only a few short years since our troops withdrew. This bill continues security assistance to help address these challenges. I hope that all Members can support moving this bill forward to Committee. It is a product that reflects many of the priorities facing the subcommittee in today’s challenging and unpredictable world. Finally, I want to express my appreciation for the work of the staff. From the majority staff, I want to thank the clerk, Anne Marie Chotvacs, and her team -- Craig Higgins, Alice Hogans, Susan Adams, Celia Alvarado, Jamie Guinn and David Bortnick. From my personal office staff, I want to thank Johnnie Kaberle. From the minority staff, I want to give a special thank you to Steve Marchese. Steve is always willing to work with us, and it is appreciated. We also thank Erin Kolodjeski, Siobhan Hullihan and Marin Stein. I will now turn to my friend Ranking Member Lowey for her opening statement.
06.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, the House Committee on Appropriations voted to approve the FY 15 Defense Appropriations Bill, clearing the way for the full House of Representatives to vote on the defense measure in the coming weeks. Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Vice Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations subcommittee, voted in favor of the appropriations bill, which includes support for vital defense and aerospace programs built in Tarrant County. “The vote this week is a strong showing of national support for the Joint Strike Fighter, the V-22 Osprey and other programs vital to our national security, and our allies, that are produced in North Texas,” said Granger. “These defense programs employ thousands of North Texans, and they are a critical part of the defense industry hub that thrives here.” The House committee voted to support funding for 38 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters for FY 15, an increase of four jets above the Administration’s FY 15 request. Due to sequestration, the Administration reduced the number of planes they proposed to purchase in FY15. However, Granger fought to add in the four additional aircraft. In order to reduce costs, it is a priority to get the Joint Strike Fighter line to full rate production as soon as possible. The bill also funds 19 Bell Helicopter V-22 Ospreys. Additionally, the bill provides funding to modernize the C-130 fleet; a program that is important to the modernization of the 136th Airlift Wing based at the Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth. The Defense funding bill includes a pay raise of 1.8 percent for military personnel and fully funds cancer research, medical facility upgrades and traumatic brain injury researching as well as adds funding for suicide prevention programs for defense health and military family programs. “The defense bill makes modernizing our military a priority as well as ensuring our men and women in uniform are receiving the best health care possible while serving our country. I believe this bill meets those needs and will ensure our service members receive the support and resources they need whether it’s on the battlefield or at home,” continued Granger. In April, Granger traveled to Asia, which included a stop in Tokyo where she personally discussed the importance of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and the V-22 Osprey aircraft with Japanese Prime Minster Shinzo Abe and Minister of Defense Itsunori Onodera. In December 2011, Japan officially committed to purchasing 42 Joint Strike Fighters. The first four Air Force version F-35 JSF aircraft will be delivered in late 2016. Bell Helicopter is the largest supplier of helicopters operating in Japan today with approximately 350 sold to date as well as providing for a majority of the helicopters used by the Japanese Coast Guard. Additionally, Japan is considering the purchase of the V-22 Osprey for use later this decade. The Osprey would expand the Japanese capabilities for both military and humanitarian assistance operations.
06.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – On Monday evening, President Barack Obama signed Congresswoman Kay Granger’s (TX-12) Monuments Men Recognition Act into law officially awarding the Monuments Men of World War II with the Congressional Gold Medal; Congress’ highest recognition for distinguished achievements and contributions. “I am profoundly grateful that the legacy of the Monuments Men will now forever be honored and recognized by the United States. What started out as one of the greatest untold stories from World War II has become a celebrated chapter in our nation’s history,” said Granger. “We were reminded this past weekend how special the men and women are who make up the Greatest Generation and all the extraordinary sacrifices they made on our behalf. This generation of heroes is more than deserving of all the honors they have received and I am proud this gold medal can now be added to the list of recognitions of their distinguished service.” "It is fitting that President Obama has signed legislation awarding the Monuments Men with the Congressional Gold Medal just days after the 70th anniversary of the historic D-Day landings. The Monuments Men serving alongside troops fighting in Italy, and followed the brave men that fought their way onto the Normandy beaches during that epic battle. These scholar-soldiers were a new kind of warrior, tasked by Supreme Allied Commander General Dwight D. Eisenhower with preserving as much of the artistic and cultural beauty of western civilization as war allowed. Two would eventually lose their lives in this effort. Today we recognize their service to mankind, a model that should guide us in all future conflicts," said Robert Edsel. Edsel is the Founder and President of the Monuments Men Foundation for the Preservation of Art, and author of three non-fiction books on the topic including, Rescuing Da Vinci, The Monuments Men and Saving Italy: The Race to Rescue a Nation’s Treasures from the Nazis. Honoring the work of the Monument Men has been a long-term effort for Congresswoman Granger. In 2006, Granger introduced a resolution to honor the contributions of these men and women. During the Armed Services Committee markup in May 2007, then-Congressman Robin Hayes offered the resolution as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. The amendment was approved by the Armed Services Committee and was included as part of the Defense Authorization Act that passed the House. President Franklin D. Roosevelt approved the concept of cultural preservation officers in 1943. The Monuments Men and women were a group of World War II soldiers from 13 nations, most of whom were American, who were able to locate, preserve, and return almost five million cultural items, including many of the world’s greatest works of art, to their rightful owners. The Monuments Men served in the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives section of the Civil Affairs and Military Government Sections of the Western Allied Armies. Some of the world’s most famous pieces of art were saved and recovered by this special military effort including Michelangelo’s Bruges Madonna, Vermeer’s The Astronomer, and Jan van Eyck’s Ghent Altarpiece as well as works by Vincent van Gogh, Rembrandt and Leonardo da Vinci. In addition to preserving countless churches and other historic structures from the destruction of war, the Monuments Men and women oversaw the restitution of millions of stolen library books, church bells, Torah scrolls, and other priceless cultural objects to their rightful owners. There are currently only six surviving members – five men and one woman – of the Monuments Men.
06.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairman of the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the announcement that President Mahmoud Abbas swore in a new Palestinian government on Monday. "Israelis and Palestinians worked for months to come to a peace agreement. The announcement of a new Palestinian government is a major set-back and a roadblock to peace. Israel cannot be expected to negotiate with a terrorist organization. Hamas, not just members of the new government, must acknowledge Israel’s right to exist, renounce violence, and adhere to previous international agreements. Funding for the Palestinians is off-the-table until it is clear that the unity government is committed to peace and security.”
05.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement after the release of the interim Inspector General Report regarding the Phoenix Veterans Affairs Health Care System. “The findings of the IG report are inexcusable. This report backs up the allegations of a systematic failure at the VA and shows criminal type behavior took place to conceal wait times and deny veterans the health care they are owed and deserve. All those involved must be held accountable for these reprehensible actions of mismanagement and neglect that have put too many lives at risk. “I have lost faith in the current leadership at the VA. At this point, I don’t see how Secretary Shinseki can continue to serve as the head of this vast and what has become a dysfunctional bureaucracy. The activities that have been allowed to take place are disgraceful, and I believe Secretary Shinseki should resign immediately. “Our veterans deserve to have a capable manager who can restore trust and begin to repair the VA from top to bottom. Our veterans were promised a health care system that would provide them with the best care in the world, it is clear the current leadership has failed to live up to that standard.”
05.22.2014	A bipartisan amendment, led by Congresswomen Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) and Kay Granger (R-TX), that strengthens the ban on Defense Department (DOD) contracts with Rosoboronexport, was included in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) passed by Congress today. DeLauro and Granger have led congressional opposition to DOD’s relationship with Rosoboronexport, the Russian state arms dealer. Last year’s NDAA included an amendment by DeLauro and Granger that banned U.S. defense contracts with Rosoboronexport. That amendment was adopted by an overwhelming 423-0 vote. “Russia has been fueling the war in Syria through Rosoboronexport, illegally annexed Crimea and continues to destabilize Ukraine,” DeLauro said. “Yet, the Pentagon has awarded Rosoboronexport more than $1 billion in contracts for Russian helicopters for the Afghan military. This continued even after the Inspector General for Afghanistan said the Afghan forces cannot operate or maintain the aircraft. We must stop supporting Russian jobs and the Russian interest and start acting in America’s interest and on behalf of America’s workers.” “The United States Government should not be entering into contracts with Russia’s state-arms dealer when Russia is intentionally arming the Syrian regime and actively working to destabilize the sovereign country of Ukraine,” said Granger. “Russian’s actions have consequences, and the Defense Department should not spend a penny of American tax dollars to benefit Russia’s Rosoboronexport.” The amendment, which can be viewed here, would prevent the Pentagon from contracting with Rosoboronexport for helicopter purchases, operations and maintenance, and other weapons. If the Secretary of Defense waives the ban, the Pentagon’s Inspector General would be required to investigate why. DeLauro and Granger were denied the chance to offer a second amendment, which would have sanctioned Rosoboronexport and canceled the Pentagon’s current contract with the company. There are still 18 helicopters to be delivered to the Afghan military under that contract. DeLauro, Granger, and dozens of other representatives have urged Secretaries Hagel, Kerry and Lew to cancel that contract.
05.19.2014	Today, the House of Representatives voted to approve Congresswoman Kay Granger’s (TX-12) Monuments Men Recognition Act, H.R. 3658. The bipartisan legislation will award the World War II unit known as the Monuments Men with the Congressional Gold Medal, Congress’ highest recognition for distinguished achievements and contributions. “I have been looking forward to this day since I first learned the story of the Monuments Men. What started out as an untold story from World War II to now being recognized with Congress’ highest honor has been a remarkable journey,” said Granger. “I appreciate the overwhelming show of support from my colleagues, especially Congressmen Michael Capuano and Steve Cohen, throughout this process. I am grateful to Robert Edsel who uncovered the story behind this unique World War II unit and brought it to life for all of us to recognize the significant contributions of these brave men and women.” “I am pleased to have been a part of bringing this long overdue recognition to the men and women who made up the Monuments Men and want to especially thank Representative Kay Granger for her leadership and tireless efforts on behalf of the bill,” said Congressman Michael Capuano (D-MA), the lead Democrat original co-sponsor. “As we prepare to remember those who fought and died for our great nation this upcoming Memorial Day, this legislation is a fitting tribute to a group of brave and selfless individuals who went to war, not to fight or to kill, but to preserve our connection to our greatest human endeavor - our culture.” “I have long been an advocate for the arts as well as for our brave men and women in uniform, so I did not hesitate to support the first-of-its-kind 2007 Congressional bill to recognize the work that the Monuments Men did to protect and preserve artistically and culturally important artifacts during World War II,” said Congressman Cohen (D-TN), who has been involved in the effort to recognize the Monuments Men since 2007 and played a vital role in securing support for the gold medal legislation. “I am proud of the work that Congresswoman Kay Granger and I have done to see that the Monuments Men receive the Congressional Gold Medal they deserve, and I am glad that our colleagues in the House overwhelmingly agreed to pass it today.” “Memorial Day reminds us to pause and give thanks to the men and women who died in military service fighting for our freedom, including two Monuments Men killed in combat, Capt. Walter Huchthausen and Major Ronald Balfour. It is appropriate that as we approach this special day, the House of Representatives has passed legislation honoring the Monuments Men with the Congressional Gold Medal. I hope and believe their Senate colleagues will soon act in concert. The Monuments Men Foundation is grateful to the supporters of this House bill, in particular its lead sponsor, Rep. Kay Granger, as well as Rep. Michael Capuano and Rep. Steve Cohen, for their tireless efforts to recognize the contributions of the scholar-soldiers who protected and preserved so much of our shared cultural heritage,” said Robert Edsel. Edsel is the Founder and President of the Monuments Men Foundation for the Preservation of Art, and author of three non-fiction books on the topic including, Rescuing Da Vinci, The Monuments Men and Saving Italy: The Race to Rescue a Nation’s Treasures from the Nazis. The companion legislation, S. 1862, has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ) is expected to be taken up by the Senate later this week. Honoring the work of the Monument Men has been a long-term effort for Congresswoman Granger. In 2006, Granger introduced a resolution to honor the contributions of these men and women. During the Armed Services Committee markup in May 2007, then-Congressman Robin Hayes offered the resolution as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. The amendment was approved by the Armed Services Committee and was included as part of the Defense Authorization Act that passed the House.Background Information President Franklin D. Roosevelt approved the concept of cultural preservation officers in 1943. The Monuments Men and women were a group of World War II soldiers from 13 nations, most of whom were American, who were able to locate, preserve, and return almost five million cultural items, including many of the world’s greatest works of art, to their rightful owners. The Monuments Men served in the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives section of the Civil Affairs and Military Government Sections of the Western Allied Armies. In February 2014, the movie The Monuments Men, directed by George Clooney, was released. The movie follows “an unlikely World War II platoon…tasked to rescue art masterpieces from Nazi thieves…”. Matt Damon, George Clooney, Cate Blanchett, John Goodman, and Bill Murray among many others are starring in the upcoming movie. Some of the world’s most famous pieces of art were saved and recovered by this special military effort including Michelangelo’s Bruges Madonna, Vermeer’s The Astronomer, and Jan van Eyck’s Ghent Altarpiece as well as works by Vincent van Gogh, Rembrandt and Leonardo da Vinci. In addition to preserving countless churches and other historic structures from the destruction of war, the Monuments Men and women oversaw the restitution of millions of stolen library books, church bells, Torah scrolls, and other priceless cultural objects to their rightful owners. There are currently only six surviving members – five men and one woman – of the Monuments Men.
05.07.2014	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. Today’s hearing is on U.S. assistance to combat transnational crime. I would like to welcome our two witnesses from the Department of State: • Ambassador Brownfield, Assistant Secretary of the Bureau for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs • Ambassador CdeBaca, U.S. Ambassador-at-Large to Combat Trafficking in Persons Today’s hearing will address many of the subcommittee’s priorities, such as combatting human trafficking, countering the flow of illegal drugs, addressing the wildlife poaching crisis, and stopping the funding that supports terrorist activities. Many of us follow these issues for humanitarian reasons, public safety, or for the cause of conservation, but these issues are also directly related to the security and stability in the countries we provide assistance to, as well as our own national security. The outrageous actions of Boko Haram abducting hundreds of girls and claiming to sell them as slaves should remind us all how very real these threats are. This case is also an example of how these issues are linked. Boko Haram is a terrorist organization and there are reports in the press that some of its members have profited from poaching elephants for their ivory. Boko Haram has been terrorizing the Nigerian people for years and now they are involved in this horrific case of human trafficking. We want to hear about how the funding this subcommittee provides is being used to confront these types of issues and what is needed for the next fiscal year. Transnational crimes share common traits -- The sex and slave trade, as well as the demand for animal parts and drugs, drives the trafficking problem; Weak government institutions and corruption facilitate the criminal networks; And current laws and law enforcement are not effectively deterring the perpetrators. We would like to hear how these criminal enterprises are related and whether resources can be used to solve more than just one problem. We hope the agencies we fund are coordinating and are applying the lessons learned from decades of counter-narcotics and anti-trafficking work to other areas of transnational crime. We also want to be sure the funding we provide around the world to improve governance and reduce corruption is focused on addressing transnational crime. This subcommittee included funding in the fiscal year 2014 Appropriations Act for programs to combat human trafficking, and also, for the first time, directed funds to address wildlife trafficking. I would like to know more about how those funds will be used and what has been accomplished to date. In addition to the funding, I would like to hear what new technologies, partnerships, and diplomatic efforts are being used to address these challenges. I was pleased to see the budget request for fiscal year 2015 increased funding to combat trafficking in persons – we know the need is tremendous. The most recent human trafficking report concludes that 40,000 trafficking victims were identified in the last year, and there are some estimates that as many as 27 million men, women, and children are trafficking victims at any given time. Turning to wildlife trafficking, I was disappointed to see the request is down more than 50 percent from what we included in last year’s bill. I should also note that I had to ask for that funding level to be provided because it was not included in any of the budget materials. Secretary Kerry has said this issue is a priority, but that is not reflected in this budget. In 2013, over 1,000 rhinos were poached in South Africa. This was an all-time high. Cutting the funding in half does not seem like an appropriate response. I would like you both to discuss your plans for fiscal year 2015, including how the funding this subcommittee provides will address the most urgent needs. I’ll now turn to my Ranking Member, Mrs. Lowey, for her opening remarks.
04.29.2014	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. Today, we will hear from the panel before us on United States assistance to Africa. I would like to welcome our witnesses: Assistant Secretary of State for Africa, Linda Thomas-Greenfield Assistant Administrator for Africa, Earl Gast Acting Chief Executive Officer for the Millennium Challenge Corporation, Sheila Herrling Thank you all for being with us today. Today’s hearing is very important given the significant funding provided and the challenges facing the continent. There are also many achievements from our investments over the last several years, and I hope we can hear about those successes and learn from them. $6.9 billion of the fiscal year 2015 budget request for State and USAID is for Sub-Saharan Africa. That represents 35% of the funds and is more than any other region except the Middle East. Additionally, all four countries proposed for Millennium Challenge Corporation funding in FY15 are in Africa, and three of those are in Sub-Saharan Africa. Africa also receives the majority of funds requested for the President’s three major foreign aid initiatives and last year the Administration announced three new initiatives for Africa focused on power, trade, and youth leadership. We have seen proven results from some of the investments already made - such as life-saving programs in HIV/AIDS, malaria, and maternal and child health – and conservation programs that have helped countries manage and protect Africa’s unique natural resources. Our investments pay dividends in public diplomacy. In Africa, opinions of the United States rank among the highest in the world. With respect to security, our assistance supports activities ranging from peacekeeping missions, counter-terrorism initiatives, and programs to reform and professionalize police and military throughout the continent. The needs have never been greater. New and troubling conflicts have broken out in South Sudan and the Central African Republic. Long-standing violence continues in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Terrorism remains a significant threat not only to stability in Africa, but to our own national security. I want to hear from our witnesses how the programs we fund address these challenges. Finally, the United States is responding to some of the most devastating humanitarian crises in years. In Africa alone, conflict, disease, and the threat of famine have put millions at risk, but the cuts to humanitarian assistance in the fiscal year 2015 request do not reflect this reality. I hope our panel can address this discrepancy. There are a wide range of topics we could discuss today and I expect this will be a very productive hearing. I look forward to hearing about some of the issues I raised and I’ll now turn to my Ranking Member, Mrs. Lowey, for her opening remarks.
04.23.2014	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the State Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding the reported announcement today that the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) and Hamas have reached an agreement to form a unity government. “I am deeply concerned by the reports of an agreement reached between the Palestinian Liberation Organization and Hamas, a terrorist organization, to form a unity government. This is an unwelcomed development and is not constructive. Not only does this action potentially derail any hope of a peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians, it puts in jeopardy future U.S. assistance to the Palestinian Authority. This is an irresponsible path forward and this agreement should be abandoned immediately if the Palestinian Authority is serious about the peace process.”
04.22.2014	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the Chairwoman of the State Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee and Vice Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, is traveling through the Asia-Pacific as part of a bipartisan Congressional delegation visiting the region this week. On Monday, Granger met personally with high-level Japanese government officials in Tokyo, including Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Minister of Defense Itsunori Onodera. During the meetings, Granger discussed the importance of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and the V-22 Osprey aircraft, both of which are built in Tarrant County and North Texas. “This trip is an opportunity to strengthen the relationships that the U.S. has with our allies and partners in Asia. One of our closest and most important partners in this region is Japan,” said Granger. “While meeting with Prime Minister Abe and Minister of Defense Onodera we discussed the significance of the Joint Strike Fighter and the Osprey.” In December 2011, Japan officially committed to purchasing 42 Joint Strike Fighters. The first four Air Force version F-35 JSF aircraft will be delivered in late 2016. Bell Helicopter is the largest supplier of helicopters operating in Japan today with approximately 350 sold to date as well as providing for a majority of the helicopters used by the Japanese Coast Guard. Additionally, Japan is considering the purchase of the V-22 Osprey for use later this decade. The Osprey would expand the Japanese capabilities for both military and humanitarian assistance operations. “These two vital defense programs employ thousands of North Texans, and they are critical parts of the defense industry hub that thrives in North Texas, so I am honored that the Government of Japan has chosen the F-35 to modernize their Air Force and that they are considering the purchase of the V-22 Osprey. I know both the U.S. government and aerospace industry are looking forward to extending their successful long-term partnerships with Japan well into the future. It’s international partnerships like the one with Japan that provides the potential for long-term economic growth and job creation for our area within the defense industry,” continued Granger. Members of the delegation will meet with key leaders in Japan, South Korea, and China to discuss economic growth and trade, regional security challenges, and strengthening U.S. alliances in the region as part of the delegations visit to the region this week.
04.10.2014	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), the chief sponsor of the Monuments Men Recognition Act, H.R. 3658, announced today that the bipartisan legislation has surpassed the critical threshold necessary for consideration in the House. As of today H.R. 3658 has received 293 co-sponsors. H.R. 3658 would honor the “Monuments Men” of World War II with the Congressional Gold Medal, Congress’ highest recognition for distinguished achievements and contributions. Congressional Gold Medal bills must be co-sponsored by at least two-thirds (290) of the Members of the House of Representatives. “It has been amazing to see the overwhelming show of support. In a matter of only four months, I am proud to say that our legislation has gained the necessary co-sponsors to be considered in the House,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX). “Today, there are only six surviving members of the Monuments Men, which makes the urgency to honor their unit with the Congressional Gold Medal all the more important. Now is the time to recognize the extraordinary efforts of these men and women.” “Support continues to grow for legislation honoring the role that the Monuments Men played to preserve many of the world’s precious artifacts,” said Congressman Michael Capuano (D-MA), the lead Democrat original co-sponsor. “Without thought for their own safety, these brave men and women helped ensure that cathedrals, sculptures and other works of art were saved from destruction. Let’s honor their service by passing this legislation." “The Monuments Men who put life and limb at risk to save priceless art and preserve important cultural artifacts deserve to be recognized by the American people for their service,” said Congressman Cohen (D-TN), who has been involved in the effort to recognize the Monuments Men since 2007 and played a vital role in securing support for the gold medal legislation. “Their quiet dedication ensured that generations to come will be able to enjoy and be uplifted by the great art that would have otherwise been lost forever. I am proud to cosponsor this legislation to award their unit with a Congressional Gold Medal, and I am delighted that it finally has the support necessary to be considered in the House. I applaud Congresswoman Granger’s leadership on this important effort.” “It is a tribute to Kay Granger and her staff that a two-thirds majority of the House of Representatives have indicated their support to recognize these heroes of civilization, known as the Monuments Men, with the Congressional Gold Medal,” said Robert Edsel. “On behalf of the Monuments Men Foundation, we will be redoubling our efforts to encourage members of the Senate to act in concert to honor these great patriots while six are still alive.” Edsel is the Founder and President of the Monuments Men Foundation for the Preservation of Art, and author of three non-fiction books on the topic including, Rescuing Da Vinci, The Monuments Men: Allied Heroes, Nazi Thieves and the Greatest Treasure Hunt in History and Saving Italy: The Race to Rescue a Nation’s Treasures from the Nazis.Background Information President Franklin D. Roosevelt approved the concept of cultural preservation officers in 1943. The Monuments Men and women were a group of World War II soldiers from 13 nations, most of whom were American, who were able to locate, preserve, and return almost five million cultural items, including many of the world’s greatest works of art, to their rightful owners. The Monuments Men served in the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives section of the Civil Affairs and Military Government Sections of the Western Allied Armies. In February 2014, the movie The Monuments Men, directed by George Clooney, was released. The movie follows “an unlikely World War II platoon…tasked to rescue art masterpieces from Nazi thieves…”. Matt Damon, George Clooney, Cate Blanchett, John Goodman, and Bill Murray among many others are starring in the upcoming movie. Some of the world’s most famous pieces of art were saved and recovered by this special military effort including Michelangelo’s Bruges Madonna, Vermeer’s The Astronomer, and Jan van Eyck’s Ghent Altarpiece as well as works by Vincent van Gogh, Rembrandt and Leonardo da Vinci. In addition to preserving countless churches and other historic structures from the destruction of war, the Monuments Men and women oversaw the restitution of millions of stolen library books, church bells, Torah scrolls, and other priceless cultural objects to their rightful owners. Honoring the work of the Monument Men has been a long-term effort for Congresswoman Granger. In 2007, Granger introduced H. Con. Res 48 a resolution to honor the contributions of these men and women. During the Armed Services Committee markup in May 2007, then Congressman Robin Hayes offered the resolution as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. The amendment was approved by the Armed Services Committee and was included as part of the Defense Authorization Act that passed the House. There are currently only six surviving members – five men and one woman – of the Monuments Men. Companion legislation, S. 1862, has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ).
04.08.2014	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I want to welcome the Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, Dr. Shah. We look forward to hearing your testimony on the fiscal year 2015 budget request for U.S.A.I.D. The details of the Administration’s proposals are slowly coming in, but I already see a few troubling issues from the information I have. The Administration prioritizes its initiatives at the expense of Congressional priorities. For example, it is difficult to justify the proposal to reduce humanitarian accounts by 25 percent at a time when significant needs remain, particularly in Syria and Africa. U.S.A.I.D. is doing good work to improve the health of millions of people around the world, yet there is a decrease overall for many of the life-saving global health programs. You also propose a dramatic reduction in biodiversity programs that support important conservation activities and critical efforts to combat wildlife poaching and trafficking. I hope we can work together on these and many other budget issues. Next, I want to raise some concerns about how U.S.A.I.D. does business. Since I joined this subcommittee five years ago, I have heard that the United States must do more to address “aid effectiveness”. Of course, this is an important goal. But not when “aid effectiveness” is translated as providing more assistance directly to developing countries and organizations that may not have the capacity to program the funds. In many of these places, corruption is also a serious concern. I have concerns about this and other elements of your “U.S.A.I.D. Forward” initiative. I question the assumption that foreign governments and local organizations are more effective implementers than U.S. organizations. I am also cautious about their ability to manage U.S. taxpayer dollars. That is why the fiscal year 2014 State Foreign Operation bill strengthened standards and requirements to ensure proper oversight. I appreciate the work we have done together to increase oversight of direct assistance to foreign governments since I began including conditions in the fiscal year 2012 bill, and I hope we can do the same for local organizations. Dr. Shah, these are just a few of the issues I hope we will get to discuss today. I want to close by thanking you and the men and women of U.S.A.I.D. who are committed to solving some of the most difficult global development issues around the world. All of us on this subcommittee understand and appreciate that work. I’ll now turn to my Ranking Member, Mrs. Lowey, for her opening remarks.
04.07.2014	Today in Trinity Park, Federal, City and Rotary Club officials welcomed Fort Worth residents at a dedication ceremony and family picnic at the new Rotary Plaza, located at the banks of the Trinity River just below Lancaster Avenue, next to the Phyllis Tilley Bridge. Spearheaded by The Rotary Club of Fort Worth, Rotary Plaza was created to be a new riverfront destination for Fort Worth’s residents and families to enjoy. It features a shaded pavilion, drinking fountain, benches, and bike racks for park visitors. “When the Rotary Club of Fort Worth was founded in 1913, it was with the ‘Service Above Self’ vision toward community cooperation, civic pride, and a willingness to pitch in for the common good,” said Tim Plocica, president of the club. “The original Rotary Park was developed in 1916 to promote each of these ideas in a tangible way residents could enjoy with their families. The new Rotary Plaza, conceived in celebration of our club’s Centennial, is a symbol of our ongoing commitment to serving the community we all love, and the perfect new permanent home for the 1916 Rotary Monument from the original park.” “You can learn a lot about the type of city people desire to live in by the value placed on parks and open spaces,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. “In Fort Worth, it’s an important part of our quality of life to have parks to visit and the Trinity River to enjoy. The new Rotary Plaza is the latest example of the priority we have placed on these public spaces throughout our community.” Fort Worth Mayor Betsy Price and Councilman Joel Burns, who were unable to attend due to commitments out of state, each sent their well wishes to those gathered for the celebration. “Securing abundant green space that inspires and encourages outdoor activity is an integral part of ensuring a Fit City for our residents,” shared Mayor Price. “The Rotary Club members have exercised phenomenal commitment to this project. I hope their commitment will encourage other local organizations and businesses to participate in preserving and developing the parks and trails in our beautiful hometown.” Councilmember Burns added, “The partnership between the Rotary Club of Fort Worth and the City of Fort Worth represents our combined commitment to benefitting all residents through service. Fort Worth’s parks play a vital role in our community—not just for appeal, but for quality of life improvements, as well. Our partners at the Rotary Club join us in recognizing the importance of healthy living, and this project is a fine example of our combined commitment to keeping Fort Worth great.” "A century of service to the community is being perpetuated by this contribution,” said Richard Zavala, Director of Parks & Community Service. “The new Rotary Trailhead in Trinity Park ensures that the legacy of the Rotary Club of Fort Worth will continue to enhance the quality of life for our citizens into the future." "Our celebration of Rotary Plaza, and it's relationship to the trail system, is a most fitting tribute to an organization long committed to service to our community. There could be no more appropriate site than along the Trinity River, the heart of Fort Worth," said Randy Gideon, Chair, Streams & Valleys, Inc. “No program we administer is more enjoyable for the Department and Commission to oversee than our urban parks grants program,” said Ralph Duggins, Vice Chairman, Parks & Wildlife Commission. “Fort Worth should be grateful for Mayor Price’s and Richard Zavala's commitment to a quality of life that includes parks for Fort Worth residents to enjoy. The Commission congratulates the Rotary Club for its leadership on this project and thanks it, the other donors and the City for working together to complete Rotary Plaza. We hope we will see other civic organizations partner with the City to build more park facilities along the Trinity River corridor, and encourage voters to let our Senators and Representatives know how important the parks grants programs are.” Today’s event, which was open to the public, was capped off with a picnic of hamburgers, hot dogs, chicken and ice cream to inaugurate the new public park space. “We hope today’s picnic was just the beginning of the many happy events to take place at this location,” said Plocica.
04.02.2014	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. Ambassador Power, thank you for being here today to testify on the fiscal year 2015 budget request for the United Nations and other international organizations. The direct appropriation requested goes up significantly - by more than 25%. We need to hear why this is justified, especially in light of the fiscal challenges we face here at home. In the short time you have been Ambassador to the U.N., many important issues have come before you that impact U.S. national security. On Iran -- the U.N., and the I.A.E.A. in particular, have an important role to play, both in terms of making sure Iran follows through on its commitments, and in keeping up the pressure as a final deal is negotiated. In Syria -- the U.N.’s role is critical, both in eliminating the chemical weapons stockpile and in getting humanitarian aid to people in dire need. On Ukraine -- the U.N. General Assembly adopted a resolution last week that affirms its commitment to Ukraine’s sovereignty. However, the U.N. has not been able to send a more powerful message because of Russia’s veto in the Security Council. On the Israeli-Palestinian peace process -- just yesterday, President Abbas announced that the Palestinians intend to become a party to 15 international conventions. This is very concerning and could jeopardize the peace process, and possibly U.S. assistance. The Administration must send a clear message to the Palestinians that the only path to statehood is through a negotiated agreement with Israel, not through unilateral attempts at the U.N. I hope you will update the subcommittee on these and other policy challenges you face. There are a few other issues that I want to mention. The first is U.N. reform. During your confirmation hearing, you said that you would aggressively pursue efforts at the U.N. to eliminate waste, improve accounting and management, strengthen whistleblower protections, and end any tolerance for corruption. I would like to know what progress you have made in these areas. As you know, the fiscal year 2014 appropriations bill strengthens the transparency and accountability requirements. After all of these years, there is simply no excuse for the U.N. not making these common sense changes. The other issue is the significant fiscal year 2015 budget proposed for the U.N. and its agencies. In addition to the funding requested, the subcommittee has learned that the U.S. intends to vote for a new peacekeeping mission in the Central African Republic. The humanitarian situation is troubling, and there is a clear need to protect civilians and ease the suffering. Yet, the cost of such a mission would be significant and the subcommittee will need to know what you plan to reduce to offset the commitment and whether you intend to submit a budget amendment to congress. The United States is by far the largest contributor to U.N. organizations and peacekeeping activities. More work needs to be done to ensure that the U.N. is making serious trade-offs and is getting its budget under control. In closing, I want to thank you and the U.S. delegations to the U.N. in New York and around the world for the work you do to promote our national interests. And now I’ll now turn to Ranking Member Lowey for her opening remarks.
04.01.2014	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding the renewed bid by Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to petition the United Nations for limited statehood status. “Today’s surprise decision by President Abbas to resume efforts to seek limited statehood status at the United Nations is an extremely disappointing development. This is not a legitimate alternative to the peace talks that the United States has been working to facilitate between the Palestinians and Israel, and is only an impediment to future discussions. The only legitimate way of achieving statehood is through direct negotiations between the Palestinians and Israel.”
03.19.2014	A bipartisan group of leading members of Congress today strongly urged Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel to cut off taxpayer dollars to the Russian state-arms dealer, Rosoboronexport. The representatives on the letter, led by Congresswomen Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) and Kay Granger (R-TX) have worked to end future contracts with the company, but the Defense Department continues to implement an existing contract to purchase helicopters from the firm. Under an Executive Order signed by President Obama Monday, those that operate in the Russian arms sector may be subject to sanction. In their letter, the representatives make the case that Executive Order, combined with the Defense Department’s ability to terminate contracts when doing so is in the U.S.’s interest, allows Secretary Hagel to end any current contracts. “Given Russia’s recent actions that violate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, including its support of the illegal referendum for Crimean separation, we strongly urge you to terminate these contracts,” they wrote. “As noted by President Obama in his Executive Order, Russia’s recent actions ‘undermine democratic processes and institutions in Ukraine; threaten its peace, security, stability, sovereignty, and territorial integrity; and contribute to the misappropriation of its assets, and thereby constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States.’ We agree and accordingly strongly urge you to cancel contracts with Rosoboronexport for the delivery of Mi-17s to the Afghan National Security Forces, for supplying spare parts or for the sustained maintenance of these helicopters.”
03.12.2014	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. Mr. Secretary, I want to welcome you back to the subcommittee. We look forward to your testimony. During our time with you today, there are many new issues that Members will want to address. In Ukraine, the situation continues with no resolution in sight in spite of your personal engagement to try to bring this crisis to an end. In Afghanistan, even after intense negotiations, the government refuses to sign a bilateral security agreement with the United States, putting our troop presence and diplomatic footprint in doubt and increasing the risk that extremists will return. In Africa, new conflicts have broken out, deepening human suffering in areas that have struggled for so many years. All of these troubling developments must be addressed, yet most of the topics we discussed last year are still relevant today. The Members of this subcommittee, like you, continue to watch the situation in Egypt. Even while the country is tackling significant security and economic challenges, we know Egypt is moving toward elections later this year. During this critical time, the United States must continue to work with the government of Egypt and support the Egyptian people. The Syria crisis continues, even though, through your intense efforts last year, there was hope that the regime would give up its chemical weapons. In spite of all the work of the U.S. government and our international partners, the effort to remove chemical weapons has stalled, extremists are taking the upper-hand, and more lives are lost every day because of the violence and blocking of humanitarian aid. The Syria crisis is affecting the whole region. Its neighbors are now bearing the burden of two-and-a-half million refugees. These neighboring countries continue to do all they can to help the Syrians pouring over their borders, and we must do all we can to help them. Because of the flow of refugees from Syria, Jordan’s population has increased by nearly 10 percent, and Lebanon’s population has increased by an estimated 20 percent. Over the last year, you have worked with your international partners to put in place an interim agreement with Iran that allows for some sanctions relief if Iran takes steps to dismantle its nuclear program. There is no doubt that sanctions brought Iran to the table, and the United States must keep the pressure on as a final deal is negotiated. We know all too well that the security of the United States and the security of our steadfast ally, Israel, is at stake here. In addition to these policy issues, we have questions about the Administration’s budget request. The base funding level requested for State and USAID is roughly the same as last year, but you have sacrificed some of the priorities of the Members of this committee to make room for the Administration’s initiatives. Many programs that we support in a bipartisan way have been reduced below last year’s level – such as global health and democracy funding. We will be seeking additional information so we understand your proposals. Another difficult budget issue we need to address together is embassy security. We need assurance that the proposed funding level is adequate to address the recommendations in the Benghazi accountability review board report. Next, I want to mention an issue that I know is a priority for you -- Middle East peace. You have made countless visits to the region to try to move the Israelis and Palestinians toward peace. I want to be clear – achieving peace is our priority too, and this Congress is unwavering in our bipartisan support for Israel. You and the President have recently made some strong statements about Israel’s role in the peace process. You raised the issue of boycotts if a peace agreement is not reached, and the President has said that Israel needs to “articulate an alternative approach” if an agreement is not possible. I hope you will give us an update on peace talks during your testimony today and explain those comments to the committee. I also want to mention an issue that is a priority for me -- in our own back yard. Mexico is our neighbor, and we want our neighbor to be prosperous and safe. But this can only be achieved if we have a true partnership. I hope you can comment on the current relationship between our countries so the subcommittee knows if the funding provided is making a difference. Finally, I want to raise a concern I know I share with you, Mr. Secretary. We must stop the international crisis of wildlife poaching and trafficking. Criminal networks are destroying species and using the funds for illegal activities around the world. I thank you for what you have done in this area since we talked about it last year, and I hope the funds in the fiscal year 2014 bill will be used to bring an end to this crisis. However, the budget materials the committee has received so far do not reflect fiscal year 2015 funding for wildlife poaching and trafficking, and the committee expects that level of detail as soon as possible. In closing, I want to thank you and the thousands of diplomats, development officers, and implementing partners for what you do every day to promote U.S. interests abroad. As you’ve said, “in an increasingly interconnected world, global leadership is not a favor we do for other countries, it’s a strategic imperative for the United States of America”. I agree with you on this point and want to continue to work with you. I’ll now turn to my ranking member, Mrs. Lowey, for her opening remarks.
03.06.2014	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement strongly supporting H.R. 4152, legislation to provide loan guarantees to the country of Ukraine. “I strongly support the bipartisan legislation to provide economic assistance to Ukraine during their hour of need,” said Congresswoman Granger. “Ukraine is an important partner to the United States, and this loan guarantee will help stabilize the Ukrainian economy during this period of political transition. Now more than ever the United States needs to demonstrate bold leadership and stand up for those who choose democracy over tyranny.”
02.26.2014	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related programs will come to order. Today we will hear from the panel before us about a topic that is a high priority for this subcommittee – democracy promotion. I would like to welcome our witnesses: acting Assistant Secretary Zeya, Deputy Assistant Administrator Mendelson, and Director Mendes. Thank you all for being with us today. This subcommittee provides more than a billion dollars a year to promote democracy and good governance around the world. This funding supports a broad range of activities – it strengthens civil society, improves electoral systems, develops political parties, increases access to news and information, and builds transparency within foreign governments. Today’s hearing will focus on some of the countries where democracy promotion is most challenging. In the past few years in countries such as Russia, Venezuela, and Ecuador, we have seen democracy under threat as those governments clamp down on fundamental freedoms. We remain concerned about countries that have oppressed their people for decades - such as North Korea, Iran, and Cuba. And there are many more countries that are reaching a crossroads as they decide how to govern. We want to hear more about the work of each of the agencies represented here today so we can understand how the United States can promote democracy and freedom in some of these very difficult places. We have also seen troubling trends that make the operating environment for democracy programs much more difficult. These include - but are not limited to - the N.G.O. laws that are pending or have passed in certain countries, as well as entire USAID missions being closed down because governments do not support U.S.-funded democracy promotion activities. We also know it is common practice for repressive governments to stay one step ahead of technology by blocking Internet connections and radio broadcasts, in an attempt to suppress dissent, free speech, and unbiased information on current events. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses on how the U.S. government is adjusting to these tactics, and I hope they will also address how we can ensure that the people carrying out these programs remain safe. As President Reagan said, “freedom is never more than a generation from extinction. We didn’t pass it to our children in our bloodstream. It must be fought for, protected, and handed on for them to do the same.” This subcommittee can play a role in advancing freedom through programs we fund in the bill. I hope today’s hearing will give us a chance to talk openly about the challenges the U.S. faces in countries that repress the rights and freedoms of their people.
02.20.2014	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) announced today that the Fort Worth Fire Department is the recipient of a Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) federal grant. The Fort Worth Fire Department will receive $3,389,040.00. The grant can be used to increase or maintain the number of trained “front line” firefighters available in local communities. “The Fort Worth Fire Department is a worthy recipient of this SAFER grant. This grant program assists communities across the country to ensure they have enough trained firefighters on duty to meet the many demands placed on our first responders,” said Granger. “This grant is an investment in the future of Fort Worth. As Fort Worth continues to grow, it’s of vital interest to make sure our increase in population is equally met with the appropriate number of fire and emergency response personnel on duty at any given time.” SAFER grants assist fire departments by increasing the number of frontline firefighters. The goal is for fire departments to increase their staffing and deployment capabilities and ultimately attain 24-hour staffing, thus ensuring their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. The SAFER program is managed and administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Grant Program Directorate and supports several critical specific activities including the rehiring of laid-off firefighters, the retention of firefighters facing layoff, the hiring of new firefighters, and recruitment and retention of volunteer firefighters. Grants are used to pay the salaries and benefits of firefighters hired with grant funds over the 2-year award performance period.
01.31.2014	This week, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) was appointed as the Vice Chairwoman of the Defense appropriations subcommittee. Her selection makes her the first woman ever appointed to this prestigious position. Granger currently serves as the Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations appropriations subcommittee and as a senior member of the Defense and Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development appropriations subcommittees. She will retain her current committee assignments while assuming her new responsibilities. “It’s an honor to be named the Vice Chair of the Defense appropriations subcommittee. As an active member on the subcommittee I understand and appreciate the critical role this subcommittee has within the defense and intelligence communities, and the responsibility to advocate for our men and women in uniform,” said Granger. “The world is a very dangerous place and we face serious international challenges. It is vital to our national security interest that we maintain a robust national defense to meet the needs of our country and that of our allies.” The new assignment means Granger will work closely, and make key decisions, with Defense subcommittee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen on crafting the near-half a billion dollar defense budget. With her other two committee assignment Granger will have oversight of nearly two-thirds of all federal discretionary spending. “Kay’s distinguished service on the Defense appropriations subcommittee makes her well-equipped to assume the responsibilities as Vice Chair,” said Chairman Hal Rogers, House Appropriations Committee. “I greatly value her leadership and expertise on foreign policy and national security issues, and I look forward to working with her in this new capacity.” “For many years, Kay Granger and I have literally worked side-by-side on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee on a range of matters critical to our military. I have personally witnessed her devotion to our troops, their families and the State of Texas,” said Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen, House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. “I would add that her experience as Chairman of the Foreign Operations Subcommittee contributes to our understanding of national security strategy. I am very pleased she will serve as Vice-Chair of the Defense Subcommittee for the 113th Congress!” The Defense appropriations subcommittee has jurisdiction over the Department of Defense including the Departments of Army, Navy (including Marine Corps), Air Force, Office of Secretary of Defense, Defense Agencies (Except Department of Defense-related accounts and programs under the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs; and the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works)). Additionally, the subcommittee has jurisdiction of the Central Intelligence Agency and Intelligence Community staff.
01.28.2014	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after President Obama delivered the State of the Union address. “The State of the Union address is an opportunity for the President to set the tone for the year ahead. This address sets the tone for how he is going to interact with Congress and what we can accomplish together as a nation. “I believe the number one priority has to be focused on job creation and growing our economy. This can’t be done by executive action. It has to be done by creating an environment for businesses to thrive. While the campaign style rhetoric of blaming Congress has been a go to message for President Obama, the results have always led to partisan gridlock. “My hope is that this year will be a ‘year of action’ that will show progress on the most important issues facing our country which includes reducing our national debt, developing solutions to fixing the problems with ObamaCare, providing an environment for economic growth, and finding ways to work together on legislation that will help put people back to work.”
01.12.2014	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement on the Implementation of the First Step Agreement on the Islamic Republic of Iran’s Nuclear Program. "I continue to have very serious reservations about both the implementation and the underlying plans and their failure to completely dismantle Iran's nuclear program and capabilities. "It's vital to the interest of the US and our allies to ensure Iran does not become a nuclear state. I am concerned that while negotiations have been ongoing it has allowed Iran to further develop key components of its nuclear program that will make it more difficult to reverse as discussions continue. "The tough sanctions placed on Iran have been working and until the international community can fully verify Iran is dismantling its nuclear program I firmly believe current sanctions must stay in effect and the threat of further sanctions should remain on the table. "I hope the Administration will brief Congress in the coming days on the implementation plan and the steps going forward."
12.13.2013	Last night, the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition (USGLC) recognized Vice President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. and Representatives Kay Granger (R-TX) and Nita M. Lowey (D-NY) for their long-standing commitment to America’s global leadership through strong U.S. development and diplomacy programs. Close to 1,000 people representing a who’s who of the U.S. foreign policy community were on hand to honor the three leaders for supporting a robust U.S. International Affairs Budget. “The world can be a messy and difficult place. But what we do beyond our borders matters more here at home than it ever has,” said Vice President Biden. “At just over one percent of our federal budget, American investment in diplomacy and development is one of the best bargains the American taxpayer gets.” Discussing the national security importance of the International Affairs Budget, the Vice President went on to say, “Our success against terrorism, extremism and pandemic disease depends upon development where it matters most. Without it, extremism grows, terrorism becomes a viable option, and pandemic disease increases the prospect of it flourishing.” Showing the important bipartisan support that exists for U.S. engagement in the world, Senator John McCain (R-AZ) led the tribute to his longtime colleague, Vice President Biden, saying, “Our military cannot address every one of the deep-rooted causes of violence and instability in the world. Diplomacy and global development are indispensable to our success. Don’t take my word for it. Ask anyone in the military in command or in the ranks. They’ll tell you how critically important foreign assistance is to preventing wars and winning the peace.” Representatives Granger and Lowey are two of the leading voices on Capitol Hill for strengthening America’s commitment to a smart power foreign policy in the world as Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee respectively. “The United States plays an important role on the world stage both in terms of our leadership and our responsibility to invest wisely in countries to help advance democratic principles, and enhance our security partnerships,” said Congresswoman Granger. “I’ve also witnessed firsthand the significance of U.S. engagement around the world; whether it’s through bolstering global education, HIV prevention or assistance to help our allies protect themselves from external threats, the benefits are real and tangible.” “It is a special honor to receive USGLC’s recognition alongside my friends Vice President Biden and Congresswoman Kay Granger, two great advocates for America’s global leadership and for strong and effective foreign assistance,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Democrats and Republicans must continue working together to ensure that we invest in the vital programs that strengthen our national security by promoting democracy, prosperity, and stability around the world.” The event was co-chaired by longtime USGLC members, Lockheed Martin Corporation and Sesame Workshop, further demonstrating the broad support America’s investments in the smart power tools of development and diplomacy has across the country. “For Lockheed Martin and the hundreds of businesses gathered here today, there is simply no choice about whether to be engaged in important global issues,” said Marillyn A. Hewson, CEO and President of Lockheed Martin Corporation. “Today, 95 percent of the world’s consumers live outside of the U.S., and over half of our exports already go to the developing world, a number that’s only going to grow. The International Affairs Budget is critical to our nation’s future.” “Helping others is part of our national identity,” said H. Melvin Ming, President and CEO of Sesame Workshop. “Investing in diplomacy, education and development opportunities across the world is the right thing to do both morally and for the stability and economic growth of all nations. Improving the educational outcomes of the world’s most vulnerable children is in all our interests.” Also on the program was Grover, the self-described “lovable, cute and furry” Sesame Workshop Muppet, who told USGLC Chairman Dan Glickman and Executive Director Liz Schrayer that “when I go on my trips around the world I will tell all my friends how you are working to build a better, safer, and more prosperous world.” “While many of us may disagree on some things, it’s clear tonight that Democrats, Republicans and Independents all come together around the importance of America’s engaged role in the world by eradicating diseases like HIV/AIDS, feeding the hungry, and fighting global poverty,” said Glickman. “The International Affairs Budget provides America with the tools and the resources we need to lead in the world, and this small one percent investment provides a tremendous return for our security, economy, and values as a nation. We are grateful for the leadership of Vice President Biden, Representatives Granger and Lowey, as well as Senator McCain, in calling for a strong and effective International Affairs Budget.” The U.S. Global Leadership Coalition (www.usglc.org) is a broad-based influential network of 400 businesses and NGOs; national security and foreign policy experts; and business, faith-based, academic and community leaders in all 50 states who support a smart power approach of elevating development and diplomacy alongside defense in order to build a better, safer world.
12.05.2013	Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) introduced bipartisan legislation, The Monuments Men Recognition Act of 2013, H.R. 3658, to honor the famed “Monuments Men” of World War II with the Congressional Gold Medal. The Monuments Men and women helped locate famous works of art confiscated by the Nazis, and return them to their rightful owners. “I don’t believe it can be overstated how significant the contributions of the Monuments Men are to the preservation of many of the world’s most remarkable pieces of art,” said Granger. “The story of the Monuments Men is one that has to be told, and should be shared as an instrumental part of US and world history. I believe the veterans who participated are certainly worthy and deserving of the recognition of Congress’ highest expression of appreciation, the Congressional Gold Medal.” President Franklin D. Roosevelt approved the concept of cultural preservation officers in 1943. The Monuments Men and women were a group of World War II soldiers from 13 nations, most of whom were American, who were able to locate, preserve, and return almost five million cultural items, including many of the world’s greatest works of art, to their rightful owners. The Monuments Men served in the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives section of the Civil Affairs and Military Government Sections of the Western Allied Armies. The story of the Monuments Men has been covered extensively by Robert Edsel. Edsel is the founder and president of the Monuments Men Foundation for the Preservation of Art and has written three non-fiction books on the topic including, Rescuing Da Vinci, The Monuments Men: Allied Heroes, Nazi Thieves and the Greatest Treasure Hunt in History and Saving Italy: The Race to Rescue a Nation’s Treasures from the Nazis. “The Monuments Men and women set the gold standard for the protection of cultural treasures during the most destructive conflict in history,” said Robert M. Edsel. “These heroes of civilization are worthy recipients of this great honor.” In February 2014, the movie The Monuments Men, directed by George Clooney, will be released. The movie will follow “an unlikely World War II platoon…tasked to rescue art masterpieces from Nazi thieves…”. Matt Damon, George Clooney, Cate Blanchett, John Goodman, and Bill Murray among many others are starring in the upcoming movie. Some of the world’s most famous pieces of art were saved and recovered by this special military effort including Michelangelo’s Bruges Madonna, Vermeer’s The Astronomer, and Jan van Eyck’s Ghent Altarpiece as well as works by Vincent van Gogh, Rembrandt and Leonardo da Vinci. In addition to preserving countless churches and other historic structures from the destruction of war, the Monuments Men and women oversaw the restitution of millions of stolen library books, church bells, Torah scrolls, and other priceless cultural objects to their rightful owners. Starting with the American Revolution, Congress has awarded gold medals as its highest expression of national appreciation for distinguished achievements and contributions. Congressional Gold Medal legislation must be co-sponsored by at least two-thirds of the Members of the House of Representatives. Honoring the work of the Monument Men has been a long-term effort for Congresswoman Granger. In 2007, Granger introduced H. Con. Res 48 a resolution to honor the contributions of these men and women. During the Armed Services Committee markup in May 2007, then Congressman Robin Hayes offered the resolution as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. The amendment was approved by the Armed Services Committee and was included as part of the Defense Authorization Act that passed the House. There are currently only five surviving members – four men and one woman – of the Monuments Men.
11.13.2013	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) released the initial Affordable Care Act enrollment numbers. Since October 1st, 2013, CMS announced that 106,185 Americans have enrolled. According to the numbers released today, the figures also include people who have selected a health plan, but may not have actually purchased the plan. “The announcement today that only 106,185 individuals have enrolled in the health insurance exchanges is not surprising. The rollout has been botched from day one and news reports have indicated that the health care website was not properly tested and was not ready for use on October 1st, even though the Administration repeatedly told Congress and the American people otherwise. “Sadly, over the last month millions of Americans have been told they cannot keep their health care plan even if they like it, have received letters in the mail that their health care costs will dramatically increase as a result of the new law, and have spent countless hours trying to enroll in an online system that just doesn’t work. “President Obama gave his word to the American people and until he can deliver on it, the only responsible course of action is to delay implementation and enforcement of the health care law.”
10.24.2013	Representatives Kay Granger (R-TX) and Karen Bass (D-CA) today introduced the Children in Families First (CHIFF) Act. Millions of children around the world are growing up in orphanages, on the streets, or in refugee camps while thousands of American families spend years navigating the bureaucratic adoption process in the U.S. CHIFF would simplify this process for families who want to adopt internationally and help foreign governments develop stronger child welfare systems that can find a caring family for every child in need. “Every child deserves a family,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Parents looking to adopt internationally are already at the mercy of complicated adoption bureaucracies abroad. They shouldn’t have to deal with similar costs and delays here at home. Without increasing spending, the Children in Families First Act helps loving families navigate the adoption process and welcome new additions into their homes.” Rep. Karen Bass said: “Sadly, millions of children around the world are living without the support of a safe and loving family. As we strive to improve the child welfare system here in the United States, it’s essential that we also help other countries establish and expand their child welfare programs so that every child has a chance to have a supportive family full of unconditional love. I proudly support the Children in Families First Act because it goes a long way to support nations around the world in their efforts to preserve, reunify, and create the safe, loving, and permanent families that children around the world so desperately need.” Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-LA) and Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) introduced the Senate companion bill on September 19. CHIFF HIGHLIGHTS Prioritizes family as a key element of U.S. foreign policy so that every child can have a permanent, safe and nurturing family through family preservation, family reunification, and family creation through kinship, domestic and international adoption. Realigns U.S. Government agencies to support the objectives of the 2012 International Action Plan on Children in Adversity, which includes as a central goal that all children grow up in families. Reallocates a portion of existing international assistance funding for children so that it will do more to support family preservation, reunification, and creation. Streamlines the roles of U.S. Government agencies in adoptions so that they will be better partners with states, the faith-based community, and accredited adoption agencies in their mission to unite children with families.
10.23.2013	Congresswoman Kay Granger received the Kay Bailey Hutchison Leadership Award from the Texas Federation of Republican Women (TFRW) on October 18. In recognition of her political leadership, the Congresswoman received the award at TFRW’s 29th biennial state convention last weekend. “It is an honor to be the first recipient of the Kay Bailey Hutchison Leadership Award,” said Granger. “Sen. Hutchison helped women in Congress gain a reputation for rising above the gridlock and focusing on getting the job done. For women like Sen. Hutchison and myself, when the legislative battles get tough and door after door closes in front of us, we open a window and find a solution. That’s the kind of leadership Washington needs right now.” Congresswoman Granger is the first woman to be honored with the Kay Bailey Hutchison Leadership Award. The award recognizes trailblazers in Texas Republican women’s politics, who have shown extraordinary abilities. The purpose of the award is to encourage Texas Republican women to seek political office, and in doing so, to honor former U.S. Senator Hutchison. “I am so pleased that the first recipient of the biennial Kay Bailey Hutchison Leadership Award chosen by the Texas Federation of Republican Women is Congresswoman Kay Granger,” said Sen. Hutchison. “She exhibits every aspect of the criteria for the award: the first Republican woman elected to the U.S. Congress from Texas, the first woman elected Mayor of Fort Worth and a true leader of character and conviction for our state and nation.”
10.09.2013	Congresswoman Kay Granger today released the following statement after the White House announced a decision to suspend some aid to Egypt: “I am very concerned that the Administration has announced the suspension of certain assistance for Egypt without consulting the Congress. Pulling away now may undermine the ability of the United States to work with a critical partner. Egypt is going through a difficult transition, and while it does, the United States must preserve this partnership that has been so important to our national security, Israel’s security and the stability of the entire Middle East.”
09.20.2013	Congresswoman Kay Granger today released the following statement after the passage of a continuing resolution to avert a government shutdown and defund the new health care law: “America needs a long-term budget solution that ends arbitrary spending reductions and goes after Obamacare. This resolution gives Congress and the Administration time to come together on a comprehensive budget agreement that reflects the country’s priorities and puts us on a track to a balanced budget. It is the responsibility of Congress to keep the government open and working on behalf of the people. We cannot afford a government shutdown that would weaken our national security, cut payments to our troops, and introduce more uncertainty into the economy. I urge the Senate to consider this legislation as quickly as possible to avoid the damaging consequences.”
09.20.2013	The Texas Republican delegation of the U.S. House of Representatives sent a letter today to every member of the United States Senate, urging senators to unite with them in the effort to defund the new health care law through the continuing resolution. Read the full letter at the link below.
09.16.2013	FORT WORTH, TEXAS – Congresswoman Kay Granger today released the following statement in the wake of the Washington Navy Yard shooting: “I am horrified by the shooting at the Washington Navy Yard today. Our men and women in uniform face dangers every day while serving overseas, but neither they nor civilians should have to face these threats here at home. We must determine how this happened, identify everyone responsible and ensure the proper measures are put in place to deter future tragedies. I join my constituents in praying for the victims and their families as well as the law enforcement officials who answered the call of duty today.”
09.06.2013	Congresswoman Kay Granger today will tour Healthpoint Biotherapeutics, a business of Smith & Nephew, to see the company’s newly expanded cell therapy research and manufacturing facility. “Biologics are a critical part of modern medicine and here in Fort Worth, Healthpoint Biotherapeutics is on the cutting edge,” said Rep. Granger. “The employees at Healthpoint are the best of the best, developing new, innovative products that help patients recover. I am dedicated to ensuring unnecessary regulations and misguided policies don’t interfere with the growth of companies like Healthpoint.” Today’s tour is one in a series of tours that Rep. Granger is participating in this month across the 12th district. Employing more than 150 individuals in Fort Worth, Healthpoint Biotherapeutics is a biopharmaceutical company that develops innovative solutions for wound care. With a recent expansion, the Healthpoint Biotherapeutics cell therapy research and manufacturing facility has over 80,000 square feet of space, which includes manufacturing infrastructure, research and testing labs, and ‘clean room’ space for the production of cell-based therapies. “We are excited to have Rep. Granger visit our facility today,” said Robert E. Bancroft, President of Healthpoint Biotherapeutics. “From research to manufacturing to sales and marketing, our business model, products, and, ultimately, patients, are heavily impacted by what happens in Washington. We are very pleased to have a leader in Congress, like Rep. Granger, who is committed to medical research, economic growth, and our community.”
08.22.2013	Congresswoman Kay Granger today issued the following statement in the wake of Attorney General Greg Abbott’s decision to pursue a lawsuit challenging the merger of American Airlines and US Airways: "I was surprised and disappointed in the decision. Having followed the merger for months, I believe it would protect thousands of jobs and be good for Fort Worth-based American Airlines and for Dallas Fort Worth International Airport."
07.25.2013	Today U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX) and Kay Granger (R-TX) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. Unfortunately, Texas has become a national hub for human trafficking. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers. “I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.” “Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.” “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” The End Sex Trafficking Act is supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking.
07.24.2013	I thank the Chairman for yielding. I want to thank Ranking Member Lowey for her dedication to this Subcommittee and her leadership as Ranking Member of the Full Committee. Mrs. Lowey and I have a strong working relationship and we are both invested in the important work of this Subcommittee. It is a pleasure to work with her and I respect her very much. I want to thank all the members of the Committee – from both sides of the aisle – for their participation and thoughtful contributions to this bill. As you know, this bill reduces funding by billions of dollars from current levels, reflecting the very real economic and financial problems that we face here at home. Given this challenge, the bill protects the most critical priorities first – spending directly related to our national security. This means we are not able to fund everything at the levels we have in previous years, including programs that I support. There are many security priorities in this bill, but first and foremost, we need to keep American diplomatic staff safe while they represent the United States abroad. This bill continues to recognize the security risks our diplomats face and fully funds the embassy security request at $4.8 billion. We recognize the instability and unpredictable environment in the Middle East and continue strong support for our key allies in the region, Israel and Jordan. At the same time, security challenges continue much closer to home, so the bill supports our partners in Latin America to strengthen law enforcement and fight drug-trafficking. The bill focuses on democracy promotion and international broadcasting to help promote American values abroad. Life-saving HIV/AIDS and humanitarian assistance programs are also prioritized. The bill supports efforts to address the wildlife poaching and trafficking crisis. This is more than just a conservation issue. This is a national security issue. In order to do all of this, the bill eliminates, reduces, or puts on “pause” many lower-priority programs. This bill also contains many important policy provisions. Around the world in places where the United States has security interests, we cannot predict how things will turn out, so we provide the Administration the ability to respond, but we strengthen conditions so that Congress can oversee the funds. Everyone is closely watching the situation in Egypt, and the relationship between the United States and Egypt has never been more critical. We see the Egyptian military continuing to uphold security arrangements, including the peace treaty with Israel, even while they address many competing priorities at home. We expect the strong military relationships that Egypt has with Israel and the United States will continue. We also make it clear in our conditions that we want Egypt to embrace democracy, not just democratic elections. We remain hopeful for the Egyptian people as they continue to go through this very difficult transition. For that reason, this bill continues funding if certain conditions are met. We hope negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority will begin soon. Peace is not possible through unilateral statehood efforts and this bill tightens conditions on aid for the Palestinian Authority in this regard. This bill includes funding in a separate Overseas Contingency Operations section called OCO. This spending allows critical programs to be funded in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, as well as in places where terrorism and instability threaten U.S. interests. OCO spending goes down 42% in this bill as missions in the front-line countries scale back. As U.S. forces draw down in Afghanistan, there are serious concerns about how security is being handled by the government of Afghanistan. This bill withholds a portion of the funding until we get a transition plan and more details on how we are going to keep our people safe on the ground. The bill continues conditions from the prior year for Pakistan by prohibiting funds unless the Government of Pakistan is cooperating with the United States on counterterrorism efforts and other issues. Moving to multilateral assistance, this bill supports contributions to the international financial institutions that benefit the poorest countries. It also imposes conditions on multilateral development banks and increases accountability for the money we provide to the United Nations and other international organizations. The bill includes language ensuring that funds do not support abortions. It also eliminates funds for the UN Population Fund – UNFPA. This bill makes tough funding choices and addresses many complex foreign policy problems, but these are the choices we have to make in this budget environment and in a rapidly changing world. I want to close by expressing my sincere gratitude for the hard work of the staff on both sides. I yield back to the Chairman and thank him as well for his support for the Subcommittee.
07.19.2013	Good morning and welcome to the Subcommittee markup of the Fiscal Year 2014 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill. I want to begin by thanking Ranking Member Lowey for her dedication to this Subcommittee and her leadership as Ranking Member of the Full Committee. Mrs. Lowey and I have a strong working relationship and we are both invested in the important work in the Subcommittee. It is a pleasure to work with her and I respect her very much. I want to thank all the members of our Subcommittee – from both sides of the aisle – for their participation and thoughtful contributions to this bill. We held seven hearings to address time-sensitive issues, such as embassy security and Syria, and we have had meetings to address global health, the situation in the Middle East and illegal wildlife trafficking. Thank you all for your continued engagement and support. As you know, the bill before us reduces funding by billions of dollars from current levels, reflecting the very real economic and financial problems that we face here at home. Given this challenge, the bill protects the most critical priorities first – spending directly related to our national security. This means we are not able to fund everything at the levels we have in previous years, including programs that I support. There are many security priorities in this bill, but first and foremost, we need to keep American diplomatic staff safe while they represent the United States abroad. The terrorist attack in Benghazi and protests at other diplomatic posts last fall were tragic and we hope they never happen again. This bill continues to recognize the security risks our diplomatic posts face and fully funds the embassy security request at $4.8 billion. We recognize the instability and unpredictable environment in the Middle East, and continue strong support for our key allies in the region, Israel and Jordan. At the same time, security challenges continue much closer to home, so the bill supports our partners in Latin America to strengthen law enforcement and fight drug-trafficking. The bill also focuses on democracy promotion and international broadcasting to help promote American values abroad. Life-saving HIV/AIDS and humanitarian assistance programs are also prioritized. The bill supports efforts to address the wildlife poaching and trafficking crisis. This is more than just a conservation issue. This is a national security issue. The illegal wildlife trade is a multi-billion dollar industry that threatens the stability of African countries and supports criminal and terrorist networks, both of which affect the security of the United States. We provide funds to strengthen anti-poaching law enforcement, reduce consumer demand, and enhance regional and diplomatic cooperation, in order to meet these urgent needs. In order to do all of this, the bill eliminates, reduces, or puts on “pause” many lower-priority programs. This bill also contains many important policy provisions. Around the world in places where the United States has security interests, we cannot predict how things will turn out, so we provide the Administration the ability to respond, but we strengthen conditions so that Congress can oversee the funds. Everyone is closely watching the situation in Egypt, and the relationship between the United States and Egypt has never been more critical. For that reason, this bill continues funding if certain conditions are met. First and foremost, we see the Egyptian military continuing to uphold security arrangements, including the peace treaty with Israel, even while they address many competing priorities at home. We expect the strong military-to-military relationship that Egypt has with Israel, and with the United States, to continue. We also make it clear in our conditions that we want Egypt to embrace democracy, not just democratic elections. We remain hopeful for the Egyptian people as they continue to go through this very difficult transition. We support efforts to restart negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority in the near future. Peace is not possible through unilateral statehood efforts and this bill tightens conditions on aid for the Palestinian Authority in this regard. Our economic assistance will stop if the Palestinian Authority achieves statehood or equivalent status at United Nations agencies, if they pursue actions at the International Criminal Court, or if they form a unity government with Hamas. As a result of the Palestinians being granted membership in UNESCO, the bill does not provide funding for that agency, consistent with the law that prohibits it. This bill continues to support our key strategic partner Israel by fully funding the Memorandum of Understanding. This Subcommittee understands just how critical it is to support Israel. Whether it is the ongoing threat from Iran trying to pursue a nuclear weapon – or the instability that continues in the region – Israel’s security faces serious threats and the support from Congress has never been stronger. This Subcommittee understands the risks, and we understand what is at stake for both Israel and the United States. This bill also supports our critical partner and ally, Jordan, by including the requested $660 million for economic and security assistance. Jordan’s economy is under tremendous strain because they are dealing with the spillover from the conflict in Syria. Jordan needs our support, and we include additional funding for the costs associated with the hundreds of thousands of refugees they have welcomed into the country. Our partners in Latin America remain a priority. This bill continues to support our neighbor Mexico. Mexico’s security has a direct impact on our national security. We want to work with the new government to address our shared concerns and build a lasting security and economic relationship that benefits both of our countries. We also commend the government of Colombia on their success against drug trafficking, and include funds to support the great work they are doing to train security forces from other countries. This bill includes funding in a separate Overseas Contingency Operations section called OCO. This spending allows critical programs to be funded in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, as well as in places where terrorism and instability threaten U.S. interests. OCO spending goes down 42 percent in this bill, as missions in the front-line countries scale back. As U.S. forces draw down in Afghanistan, we have to ensure that our State Department and USAID staff – those who are responsible for delivering assistance – are safe and secure. There are serious concerns about how security is being handled by the government of Afghanistan. This bill withholds a portion of funding until we get a transition plan and more details on how we are going to keep our people safe on the ground. In addition, this bill focuses on oversight, accountability, and the rights of Afghan women and girls – issues Mrs. Lowey first included while she was Chair. This bill continues conditions from the prior year for Pakistan by prohibiting funds unless the government of Pakistan is cooperating with the United States on counterterrorism efforts and other issues. Moving to multilateral assistance, this bill supports contributions to the international financial institutions that benefit the poorest countries. It also imposes conditions on multilateral development banks to ensure transparency and accountability. The bill increases accountability for the money we provide to the United Nations and other international organizations. Thanks to language we started in Fiscal Year 2012 to change how we do business with the UN, more UN agencies are putting their audits and reviews online for American taxpayers to see. This bill includes language ensuring that funds do not support abortions. It also eliminates funds for the UN Population Fund – UNFPA. Mrs. Lowey and I have clear differences on these issues, and as I have said before, we have agreed to disagree. In closing, this bill makes tough funding choices and addresses many complex foreign policy problems, but these are the choices we have to make in this budget environment and in a rapidly changing world. I know it is said often, but I want to express my most sincere gratitude for the hard work of the staff. They were given a difficult task and did an outstanding job. The staff’s loyalty and dedication is recognized. From the Majority Staff, I want to thank the Clerk Anne Marie Chotvacs, Craig Higgins, Alice Hogans, Susan Adams, Clelia Alvarado, and Jamie Guinn. From my personal staff, I want to thank Johnnie Kaberle and Joe Wang. From the Minority Staff, I want to recognize Steve Marchese and Erin Kolodjeski, and Talia Dubovi in Mrs. Lowey’s personal office. I will now turn to Ranking Member Lowey for her opening statement.
07.11.2013	Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) and Kay Granger (R-TX) led a bipartisan coalition today voicing their opposition to a Defense Department contract to purchase helicopters for the Afghan National Security Forces from Russian state-owned arms dealer Rosoboronexport. The latest contract came just days after the House of Representatives voted 423-0 on a DeLauro-Granger amendment to end the Department of Defense’s relationship with Rosoboronexport. The letter sent by DeLauro, Granger, and 80 other members requests Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel answer questions about the contract required in the amendment. “As you know, Russia serves as the main arms supplier to Syria providing weapons the regime is using to fuel a tragic war in that country that has thus far claimed at least 93,000 lives,” they wrote. “Even as Rosoboronexport was providing weapons to the Syrian regime last year, DoD entered into no-bid contracts to purchase Mi-17 helicopters for the ANSF from the firm. “In response, Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (P.L. 112-239) and the 2013 Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act (P.L. 113-6) prohibiting 2013 funds from being used to enter into contracts with Rosoboronexport. The Department of Defense is maneuvering around the law and using Fiscal Year 2012 Afghanistan Security Forces Funds to enter into this new contract. “That is why the House of Representatives passed an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2014 to strengthen the prohibition on DoD contracts with Rosoboronexport.” In addition to the strong bipartisan vote, the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction revealed last month that the Afghan Security Forces receiving Rosoboronexport’s helicopters are not trained--or even have enough people--to fly them, further calling into question the wisdom of this contract. Accordingly, the letter also asks Secretary Hagel to provide justification for buying these helicopters despite the inability of Afghans to use them. The full letter is as follows: July 11, 2013 The Honorable Chuck Hagel Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Hagel, We strongly oppose the Department of Defense’s (DoD) recently signed contract with the Russian state arms dealer Rosoboronexport to supply 30 additional Mi-17 helicopters for the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF). The signing of the contract blatantly ignores the intent of Congress which was reaffirmed with the bipartisan vote by the House of Representatives, 423-0, seeking to end DoD’s business relationship with Rosoboronexport. It also appears ill advised in light of a recent Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) report critical of the purchase. As you know, Russia serves as the main arms supplier to Syria providing weapons the regime is using to fuel a tragic war in that country that has thus far claimed at least 93,000 lives. Even as Rosoboronexport was providing weapons to the Syrian regime last year, DoD entered into no-bid contracts to purchase Mi-17 helicopters for the ANSF from the firm. In response, Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (P.L. 112-239) and the 2013 Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act (P.L. 113-6) prohibiting 2013 funds from being used to enter into contracts with Rosoboronexport. The Department of Defense is maneuvering around the law and using Fiscal Year 2012 Afghanistan Security Forces Funds to enter into this new contract. That is why the House of Representatives passed an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2014 to strengthen the prohibition on DoD contracts with Rosoboronexport. The amendment granted you a national security waiver allowing you to purchase equipment from the Russian arms dealer so long as you submit a report to Congress 30 days prior to any such purchase. That report requires you to provide Congress with information that we now respectfully request you provide by responding with the following: An explanation of why it is in the national security interest of the United States to purchase equipment from Rosoboronexport; An explanation why comparable equipment cannot be purchased from another corporation; An assessment of the cooperation of Rosoboronexport with the Defense Contract Audit Agency; An assessment of whether and how many S–300 advanced anti-aircraft missiles have been delivered to the Assad regime by Rosoboronexport; and A list of the contracts that Rosoboronexport has signed with the Assad regime since January 1, 2013. In addition, the SIGAR report, Afghan Special Mission Wing: DOD Plans to Spend $908 Million to Build Air Wing that the Afghans Cannot Operate and Maintain, questions “the wisdom of moving ahead with the provision of 30 new Mi-17s.” The report notes that DoD’s massive $908 million financial investment, including the Mi-17 purchases, in the Afghan Specialty Mission Wing (SMW) is moving forward even though the Afghans have not yet agreed to NATO’s concept for reorganization within the Afghan government to support the SMW and even with a lack of planning to transfer critical maintenance and logistics functions to the Afghans. Accordingly, we also respectfully request that you provide justification for procuring 30 additional Mi-17 helicopters despite the inability of the SMW to use them. We firmly believe that DoD should not purchase helicopters or any other equipment from Russia as it continues to arm Assad’s regime. Moreover, it is unconscionable that American taxpayers are subsidizing a company that is complicit in atrocities occurring in Syria. We look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Rosa L. DeLauro Kay Granger James P. Moran Jack Kingston Keith Ellison Frank R. Wolf James P. McGovern Walter B. Jones Gerald E. Connolly Michael H. Michaud Peter J. Roskam Jim Bridenstine Jon Runyan Tim Ryan Michael T. McCaul Barbara Lee John B. Larson Betty McCollum Alan Nunnelee Terri A. Sewell Marcy Kaptur John Conyers, Jr. Howard Coble Kenny Marchant David N. Cicilline Jim McDermott Mario Diaz-Balart Steve Stivers Janice D. Schakowsky Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Raul Grijalva William L. Owens Gary C. Peters Sam Farr Alcee L. Hastings Elizabeth H. Esty Peter Welch Tony Cardenas Tim Griffin William L. Enyart Tom Cole Ted Poe Bobby L. Rush Randy K. Weber, Sr. Austin Scott Niki Tsongas Louise M. Slaughter John Garamendi Charles B. Rangel Trey Radel Michael G. Fitzpatrick Steve Cohen Tom Rooney Stephen F. Lynch Tammy Duckworth Joe Courtney Adam B. Schiff James A. Himes Derek Kilmer Ann McLane Kuster Juan Vargas Mike Quigley Martha Roby Henry C. Johnson, Jr. George Miller Albio Sires Daniel T. Kildee Denny Heck Alan Grayson Joe Garcia Jackie Speier Colleen W. Hanabusa Bill Johnson Carol Shea-Porter Joseph Crowley Alan S. Lowenthal Brian Higgins Daniel B. Maffei Rob Andrews Andre Carson Karen Bass Ken Calvert
07.04.2013	Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17) today released the following statement concerning the recent events in Egypt: "Egypt has long been an important ally, and its stability is essential for regional and global security. "It is our sincere hope that Adli Mansour and the Egyptian military quickly move forward with democratic elections to establish a government that is inclusive of all of Egypt's vibrant and diverse population. A new government must address the concerns of the Egyptian people the Morsi government so flagrantly disregarded. "The United States will stand firm in support of human rights, a sound judiciary, freedom of expression, and a truly representative government for the people of Egypt." Rep. Granger serves as the Chair of the State, Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee. Rep. Lowey serves as Ranking Member for both the Subcommittee and full Appropriations Committee.
06.27.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) today issued the following statement after joining Rep. Kevin Brady (TX-8) as a co-sponsor on the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2013: “The American Dream has long promised that no matter how you got your start, you can build a future in America that can be passed from one generation to the next. Sadly, the death tax unnecessarily penalizes those who wish to pass on what they’ve worked so hard for and sends the IRS after hard-working families in their time of greatest grief. Already, more than 70 percent of family businesses and farms don’t survive a second generation. The death tax only makes it more difficult for these family legacies to succeed. It should be fully and permanently repealed.” Senator John Thune (R-S.D.) and Congressman Brady introduced the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2013 (S. 1183, H.R. 2429) on June 19 to end this punitive tax on family farms, ranches, and businesses upon the death of an owner. The bill is nearly identical to legislation introduced in the 112th Congress that garnered the bipartisan support of 223 Representatives and 38 Senators.
06.14.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives adopted a bipartisan amendment introduced by Representatives Connolly (VA), Granger (TX), Diaz-Balart (FL), Gingrey (GA), Sires (NJ) and Carter (TX) to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that directs the President to sell sixty-six F-16 C/D aircraft to Taiwan. Last Congress, 181 Members of the House of Representatives sent a letter to the Administration citing the “critical” need for the United States “to sell the government of Taiwan all the F-16 C/D [aircraft] it requires.” The letter urged the Administration to “move quickly” on this matter and cited the statutory basis for such a sale—the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 (TRA). The House further exerted its will last year when it passed this same amendment by voice vote to the FY13 National Defense Authorization Act. Unfortunately, the Administration has announced it will sell only a retrofit package for Taiwan’s older fight jets. “Our bipartisan amendment is critical to America’s strategic economic and defense partnerships with Taiwan, which is our 9th largest trading partner,” Rep. Connolly said. “It will ensure Taiwan has the necessary tools to defend itself from regional threats, consistent with the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979.” “Taiwan is a key strategic ally in the Pacific, and by selling this democratic nation 66 F-16s, we will ensure they have the defense capacity to protect their airspace. We must remain strong in our support for a democratic Taiwan and continually demonstrate that America will stand by our friends and allies – regardless of where the threat originates," said Rep. Granger. “The Taiwanese fighter fleet is over three decades old and is becoming more and more antiquated. With this amendment, we would be able to provide our allies with a better line of defense, while also creating American jobs building these fighter jets. As Co-chair of the Taiwan Caucus, I support the sale of the F-16 C/D aircraft that would not only allow them to better protect themselves, but will also boost our economy,” stated Rep. Diaz-Balart. “With the growing military gap and cyber security threat across the Taiwan Strait, it is of paramount importance that the United States sell Taiwan this aircraft. Unfortunately, the Obama administration has refused to do so, despite decades of previous U.S. support. This amendment embodies the spirit of the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 in providing assistance to Taiwan for its own defense,” said Rep. Gingrey. “This amendment is critical in ensuring the long-term security of the people of Taiwan. As Taiwan’s neighbors bolster their defense strategies, these aircrafts would be an important component for protecting the safety of the island,” stated Rep. Sires. “I applaud the House of Representatives for recognizing the need to pass this amendment in support of our partner, Taiwan. This amendment fulfills a promise we made to provide our democratic ally with F-16 aircrafts. These aircrafts are a critical tool for the protection of their democracy and defense from growing exterior threats,” said Rep. Carter.
06.13.2013	WASHINGTON, DC—Representatives Rosa DeLauro and Kay Granger announced today they are offering an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) being debated by the House of Representatives. The amendment would strengthen the current prohibition on U.S. defense contracts with the Russian arms dealer Rosoboronexport, which also supplies arms to the Syrian regime. “Russia’s weapons shipments to Syria are enabling the mass murder being perpetrated by the Assad regime,” DeLauro said. “Yet the Pentagon is subsidizing Russia’s arms dealer, Rosoboronexport, through no-bid contracts for new Mi-17 helicopters for the Afghan National Security Forces. Congress has made clear that the Department of Defense should no longer use taxpayer dollars to purchase equipment from Rosoboronexport, yet the Pentagon is skirting that law. This amendment will strengthen current law; I urge my colleagues to support it.” Granger said: “It is unconscionable that the Department of Defense purchases helicopters from Russia, the very country which continues to arm Assad’s regime. Russia is indirectly subsidizing the grave humanitarian crisis in Syria. Not only is the Assad regime murdering innocent Syrians, it is also a threat to our allies, including Israel and Jordan, and jeopardizes the entire region’s stability. We cannot allow American taxpayer dollars to go to any country that is complicit in atrocities like those being carried out by Assad.” The amendment seeks to ensure no funds are used by the Defense Department to purchase equipment from the Russian state arms dealer Rosoboronexport. It also requires any future contracts to purchase helicopters for the Afghan Security Forces be competitively bid. The current prohibition on contracts with Rosoboronexport was included in last year’s NDAA. In March, reports surfaced that Defense Secretary Hagel was purchasing 30 additional helicopters for the Afghan National Security Forces with funds that had already been authorized. A similar amendment to the one being offered by DeLauro and Granger was also included with the Defense funding bill that passed the Appropriations Committee yesterday.
06.04.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger, Chairwoman of the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the conviction and sentencing of 43 non-governmental organization workers in an Egyptian court: “The verdicts handed down to the NGO staff are outrageous because the sole purpose of these NGO’s was to help strengthen Egypt’s civil society and democracy. The United States has actively supported a secure and peaceful Egypt, but Egypt must live up to its end of the bargain and be committed to democracy and the rule of law. These verdicts directly contradict this goal.”
05.21.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) today released the following statement in the wake of the destructive tornado that struck Oklahoma yesterday: “Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, the first responders and the community impacted by the terrible tragedy that occurred in Oklahoma yesterday. We mourn with you and with a heavy heart, I send my deepest condolences. There are a number of organizations that have already put boots on the ground to help in the recovery effort. If you are interested in making a donation, the Red Cross, Salvation Army and other organizations are accepting contributions for emergency response and disaster relief.” OKLAHOMA TORNADO VICTIM RESOURCES Finding Loved Ones American Red Cross Safe and Well program (www.safeandwell.org). You may search for residents who have listed themselves as “safe and well.” Officials are encouraging people to text, because most phone lines are at capacity or still down. Reunification site: St. Andrews Church (SW 119th & S May, Oklahoma City) Triage center: Warren Theater, Moore, OK. Donation Centers News 9 Headquarters Text FOOD to 32333 to donate $10 in storm relief Accepting gloves, masks, toiletries, clothes & blankets (and other items) via mail to 7401 N. Kelley Ave., Oklahoma City, OK 73111 Red Cross Text REDCROSS to 90999 to donate $10 To donate via phone, call 1-800-RED-CROS (1-800-733-2767). Please make sure to donate to “Disaster Relief.” To donate online, visit www.RedCross.org. Please make sure to donate to “Disaster Relief.” Salvation Army Text STORM to 80888 to donate $10 To donate online, visit www.salvationarmyokcac.org Feed the Children To donate online, visit www.feedthechildren.org/disaster Oklahoma Southern Baptist Disaster Help To donate online, visit www.okdisasterhelp.com
04.24.2013	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I want to welcome the administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, Dr. Shah. Thank you for appearing before the Subcommittee today to provide testimony about the fiscal year 2014 budget request for USAID. Unfortunately, the Subcommittee has not yet received the Administration’s detailed budget documents so we do not have a lot of information to help us make funding decisions. For example, your written testimony says global health program areas have been phased out of 23 countries. We also understand that in December you approved an overseas reorganization plan. However, since we do not have any spend plans for fiscal year 2013, let alone a congressional budget justification for fiscal year 2014, we have no way of assessing your plans or understanding the full budget impact. We need additional information after this hearing, and I hope you will get responses back to us quickly. There are several topics I would like to discuss today. First, I will start with some concerns I have about the procurement policies that are part of your “USAID Forward” initiative. I continue to think that these changes are being pushed too fast, before many local organizations and countries have the capacity to properly manage the funds. I am also concerned about how often the U.S. organizations are being excluded from competing for funds. If local organizations and governments are qualified to compete for U.S. dollars, they should, but I question why they should get such special treatment. Next, I want to discuss Afghanistan where USAID already faces enormous challenges as you implement the Agency’s largest development program in the world in a very difficult security environment. And now as U.S. troops continue to withdraw from the country, your fiscal year 2014 request includes another $1.6 billion of assistance. Proper oversight of existing programs is critical, and before any new funds are appropriated, the Subcommittee must know that funds will be monitored and that USAID employees and contractors will be safe as Afghan forces take the lead for security in the country. I am particularly concerned about direct assistance to the government of Afghanistan, when it is still not clear they are committed to addressing corruption and budget transparency. USAID is required by law to assess government ministries before funds are provided directly to them, but that is not enough. Any weaknesses that are uncovered must be corrected. USAID should not just send an advisor into a ministry to work on the problems while the funds continue to flow. Next, I want to raise an issue that came up earlier this year. USAID just started a program to guarantee funding pledges of other donors. This is a very unusual use of foreign assistance, and we need to know if the Administration plans to continue these funding guarantees in the future. We are having a difficult time living up to our own commitments at home and around the world, and it is risky to start guaranteeing what other donors have promised. I hope you can explain more fully today. Now, I would like to turn to the Administration’s request for what you are calling “Food Aid Reform.” I know this is very important to you, and this Subcommittee will listen to all sides and think carefully about this proposal. It’s possible there could be unintended consequences should the idea go forward. For example, if you look at funding levels over the last several years, this Subcommittee’s allocation has come in below the request. It could be very difficult to incorporate such a significant shift of funds within a lower allocation without jeopardizing other important programs. Dr. Shah, these are just a few of the issues I hope we will get to discuss today. We look forward to hearing your testimony and your answers to our questions. I want to close by thanking the men and women of the USAID who are committed to solving some of the most difficult problems in the world. All of us on this Subcommittee understand and appreciate the work they do. I’ll now turn to my Ranking Member, Mrs. Lowey, for her opening remarks.
04.24.2013	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related programs will come to order. I would like to welcome Secretary Lew to his first hearing before this Subcommittee. Mr. Secretary, we thank you for appearing today to discuss the budget request for fiscal year 2014 for the Department of Treasury’s international affairs programs. The funding the Subcommittee will review today is for contributions to international financial institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank as well as for debt relief and technical assistance programs. The budget request totals $2.9 billion, almost 15 percent above the fiscal year 2013 enacted level with sequestration factored in. Since I became Chair of the Subcommittee and even before that as Ranking Member, I have noted my concern about the rate of growth for these programs, which have more than doubled during this Administration. I also continue to be concerned that the Administration makes large multi-year commitments and then turns to the Congress to fund them. We lose our credibility in the world when we cannot live up to our promises. I ask that while you are Secretary, you take a very hard look at these multi-year commitments. I have heard the argument that sending funds through multilateral institutions gives the United States more “bang for the buck,” but I would ask you today to look at this the way I do. If these institutions were being held to the same standards as our bilateral programs, the “bang for the buck” argument might be credible, but they are not. In fact, the funds are more difficult to track when they go through multilateral institutions rather than through bilateral assistance programs. Now I’d like to turn to the International Monetary Fund – the IMF. We need a better explanation of the President’s fiscal year 2014 request. There is no appropriations language included in the budget documents and we do not yet have enough information. All we know is that the Administration wants $63 billion to increase the U.S. share in the IMF and to decrease by an equal amount the U.S. share in the IMF’s emergency lending arm. Mr. Secretary, you are probably aware that Congressional scoring rules do not allow us to use the emergency lending – called the New Arrangements to Borrow – as an offset since it was funded as an emergency appropriation in 2009. Additionally, since the IMF change is requested as a mandatory program, it is not clear who is being asked to address this issue – the authorizing committee or this Committee. We would also appreciate more information about the need for IMF resources. In 2010, the U.S. agreed to allow emerging market countries such as Brazil, India, and China to have a larger share of the IMF vote. I hope you can tell us today the impact of this change and what is planned for the future. Mr. Secretary, the IMF is controversial within the Congress. It was not created to bail out industrialized nations that cannot control their spending, and I cannot speak for other Members, but it will be difficult for me to support increased resources if this is what is envisioned for the IMF for the future. Secretary Lew, thank you for being here today. I will now turn to my Ranking Member, Mrs. Lowey, for her opening statement.
04.17.2013	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. Mr. Secretary, I want to start by welcoming you for your first appearance before this committee. We look forward to working with you to address some very difficult issues. We now realize that what was first called the Arab Spring may last for a very long time. We continue to watch the conflict in Syria with tremendous concern and sadness as the humanitarian crisis continues. And Iran appears focused on developing its own nuclear capability, while they interfere in other countries and create instability. We must recognize that what happens in the Middle East and North Africa can and does impact us here at home. We have to remain engaged in the region and support democracies that respect the rights of all people. We need partners who want to work with the United States and be responsible members of the international community. During a period of tremendous unrest in the region, it is critical that we support our strong, steadfast allies such as Jordan and Israel. During the hearing today, I hope you will address these issues and also begin to explain the Administration’s fiscal year 2014 request. The $52 billion requested for the State-Foreign Operations Subcommittee includes $47.8 billion for State and USAID. This request is an increase above the prior year when sequestration is factored in. This will be hard to defend at a time when discretionary spending is decreasing. One difficult budget issue we need to address together is embassy security. The recent death of a Foreign Service officer, American soldiers, and a government contractor in Afghanistan remind us that we must stay focused on keeping American employees safe in a very unsafe world. Our thoughts go out to their families, and I hope we all remember them as we work together to meet security requirements. Secretary Kerry, it is already clear in your first two months in office that you want to work closely with other foreign leaders. You have traveled several times to the Middle East and Europe, and you just returned from the Asia-Pacific region. This Subcommittee knows it is important to move Israel and the Palestinians toward peace, and we look forward to hearing more about what the Administration is doing. We also need to know if the recent changes in the Palestinian authority will have an impact on U.S. assistance. Outreach to European countries is also critical because the U.S. must work with its allies on our most difficult problems - from Syria to Iran to Mali. We know you just returned from South Korea, China, and Japan. We need a read-out of your discussions to understand what these countries are doing to address the threat from North Korea. But it is just as important to make sure our neighbors know they are our partners. We need to know how the Administration will work with our allies in Latin America, particularly with the new president in Mexico. The budget request shifts funds away from what we have traditionally called the front-line states of Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. We need to know how the U.S. will maintain its influence in these countries if the congress follows the Administration’s proposal. Finally, I want to raise a concern I know I share with many of my colleagues on the Subcommittee. We must do more to stop the poaching crisis that is affecting stability in Africa. Mr. Secretary, I want to thank you and the dedicated men and women of the State Department and USAID for what you do every day to promote U.S. interests abroad. As you’ve said, what you do “over there has an enormous impact over here.” And in closing, I want to offer my sincere condolences to you and the people of your home state of Massachusetts for the tragic events that occurred on Monday. An investigation is underway and we hope to get more information soon, but it reminds us all that terrorism knows no boundaries and the work of the State Department and other federal agencies helps to keep this country safe. My thoughts are with you and the people of Boston. I’ll now turn to my ranking member, Mrs. Lowey, for her opening remarks.
04.16.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Lieutenant General Robert Schmidle, Deputy Commandant for Aviation for the U.S. Marine Corps, informed Congresswoman Granger that the Marine Corps would be replacing the C-130s flown by Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 234 (VMGR-234), which are stationed at the Naval Air Station - Joint Reserve Base (NAS JRB) in Fort Worth, with a newer model. “This is great news for Fort Worth and the Marine Corps,” said Congresswoman Granger. “NAS JRB Fort Worth is a world-class facility with the very best soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines, and the community support for our military is second to none. I want to thank General Amos and General Schmidle for recognizing the importance of this squadron to our national security. I am also grateful to the Marine Corps for their commitment to the vitally important mission of the Marine Corps Reserves.” Currently, VMGR-234 flies C-130T models, but starting next summer the squadron will begin receiving a total of 13 C-130J models, allowing for seamless integration and improved interoperability between the Marine Corps Reserve and Active Duty Forces. The squadron provides aerial refueling capabilities as well as transport of personnel, equipment and supplies. The first three planes will arrive in the summer of 2014 and the squadron will be fully operational in 2015. Operated by the Marine Corps, this fleet is separate from the Air National Guard’s 136th Air Wing C-130 squadron, which Congresswoman Granger along with Governor Perry, Senator Cornyn and the Texas Delegation fought to keep in Fort Worth in 2012.
04.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) today released the following statement regarding the Boston Marathon tragedy: "The horror of today's explosions in Boston has shaken our nation and reminded us of the threats that we continue to endure. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families whose lives have forever changed because of this tragedy. We must also extend our deepest gratitude to the first responders who continue to put their lives in danger to save their neighbor."
02.27.2013	WASHINGTON (DC) – Congresswoman Kay Granger released the following statement regarding the passing of pianist Van Cliburn. “I am deeply saddened to hear of the death of my good friend, Van Cliburn. Van’s incredible talent made history and inspired America and the world. But to all who knew him, he will be remembered for his generous spirit, his modesty and his sense of humor. Van made Fort Worth, and our country so proud. He will be dearly missed.”
02.14.2013	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I want to start by welcoming all of the Subcommittee Members to the first hearing of the 113th Congress. Today we will address one of the most urgent issues in the Subcommittee’s jurisdiction -- how best to protect United States diplomatic and development personnel serving overseas. I particularly want to thank our witness this morning, Patrick Kennedy, who currently serves as Undersecretary for Management at the Department of State and has 40 years of experience as a member of the Foreign Service. We have taken the extraordinary step to close the hearing today so that we can discuss more freely the threat environment and the strategies and measures in place to mitigate those threats. Tragedies such as the murder of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans in Libya, the destructive demonstrations at posts across Africa, to the death and injury of security personnel in Turkey just two weeks ago are a stark reminder that the security environment is more challenging than it has ever been. The investment by our Committee of more than $10 billion since fiscal year 2000 has led to the completion of 97 new facilities and provided more than 27,000 diplomats and development personnel with safer facilities. We have taken requests from the Department of State for Embassy Security very seriously and have left it to the security experts to determine the right balance to meet the Department’s needs. As a result, this Committee does not appropriate for specific facilities, designate the type of equipment used, or limit the number of staff. The Committee also gives the Department the authority to reprogram and transfer funds when there is some tragedy, like Benghazi, that requires funds to be moved around. However, the events of the last several months illustrate all too well that the threat environment has changed since the State Department developed its policies and procedures after the bombings of the embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in August of 1998. These events require us to re-examine all aspects of embassy security, including security systems, facility standards and procedures, intelligence collection, threat analysis, and personnel performance. Last week, Chairman Rogers and I sent a letter to Secretary Kerry asking him to address these issues as an urgent priority. We noted that this is a national security challenge far too important to address with a piecemeal approach. We called for a comprehensive plan with timelines and budgets that incorporates the recommendations of the Benghazi Accountability Review Board, inter-agency assessment teams, and any State Department reviews. In the meantime, this Committee stands ready to work with you to understand the Department’s needs and to try to find the resources to address them in this very difficult budget environment. I will now turn to Mrs. Lowey for her opening remarks and then to Chairman Rogers.
02.14.2013	I rise to honor a true american hero, Chris Kyle, a retired Navy SEAL chief petty officer, who was killed in Glen Rose, Texas on February 2nd. Chris Kyle heroically defended his country through four tours of duty in Iraq, where he participated in major battles throughout the country. He was the single deadliest sniper in the history of the United States Military. Chief Kyle was shot twice in the fighting, and was in six separate I.E.D. explosions. However, he never received the Purple Heart because he didn’t want to be separated from his unit while the paperwork was being processed. Chris Kyle fought for his country and saved the lives of many of his fellow Americans, but his accomplishments extend far beyond the battlefield. After ten years of service as a SEAL, Chris retired from the Navy to focus on his family. He continued to train military personnel and security staff, and he wrote a book documenting his time in combat. But rather than keep the proceeds from the sale of the book, he donated the money to the families of two fellow SEAL members who had fallen in battle. On February 2nd, Chris and his friend Chad Littlefield were tragically killed by a veteran they had sought to help. This act of violence may have taken Mr. Kyle’s life, but it does not erase the powerful legacy he leaves behind. Mr. Kyle is survived by his wife and two young children. He lives on through his family, through the lives he saved through his heroism in combat, and through the veterans he helped. He continues to be a source of inspiration to all who know his story. On February 11th more than 7,000 people from around the country gathered in Cowboy Stadium for Chris Kyle’s memorial service. Hundreds more braved bad weather to line roads and highways to honor Chris by watching his funeral procession on the way to the Texas State Cemetery. It was a fitting tribute to a man who touched the lives of so many, and will continue to do so even after his death. This country owes a tremendous debt of gratitude to Chris Kyle for his selfless service to his country, both on and off the battlefield. His heroism, and the heroism of all his fellow veterans, will never be forgotten. My thoughts and Prayers are with his wife, his Children, his family and friends; and his teammates.
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Kay Granger issued the following statement after President Obama delivered the State of the Union speech. “Tonight, the President correctly said that across-the-board defense cuts would harm our military readiness and jeopardize our national security, but he did not offer a specific solution to stop these devastating cuts. Today’s nuclear test in North Korea is a reminder of the risks our country continues to face. We must maintain a military capable of responding to serious threats around the world. "There are two weeks before these cuts go into effect. We need leadership and we need a plan." ###
01.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger, the Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee in the House of Representatives, announced that she will attend the World Economic Forum this week in Davos, Switzerland. This annual meeting brings together leaders in politics, business, academia, the arts and the non-profit sector from around the world for an intensive discussion of economics and geopolitics. Congresswoman Granger was one of just seven Members of the House of Representatives to receive an invitation, due to her role as Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, and her recognized expertise in the areas of foreign policy and foreign aid. “The World Economic Forum is a unique opportunity to engage with world leaders and experts in many different fields on ways to create global economic growth, and deal with challenges related to globalization, security and defense in a fast-changing world” Granger said. “I look forward to contributing to this important dialogue, and learning from the experience of the other accomplished guests.” Other prominent attendees at this year’s conference include: David Cameron, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany Shimon Peres, President of Israel Christine Lagarde, Director of the International Monetary Fund Dmitry Medvedev, Prime Minister of Russia Mario Draghi, President of the European Central Bank Henry Kissinger, Former US Secretary of State Enda Kenny, Prime Minister of Ireland Bill Gates, Co-Chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation King Abdullah of Jordan Ban Ki Moon, Secretary General of the United Nations Gordon Brown, Former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Donald Tusk, Prime Minister of Poland Tom Donahue, President of the US Chamber of Commerce Eric Cantor, Majority Leader of the US House of Representatives
12.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger released the following statement after the passage of the FY2013 National Defense Authorization Act which, because of work by the Texas Congressional Delegation, kept the Texas National Guard’s C-130s in Fort Worth: “The passage of the FY2013 National Defense Authorization Act today represents a significant win for our national security, the Texas National Guard, the State of Texas and the Gulf Coast States. In their FY2013 Budget proposal, the Air Force planned to move the Texas National Guard C-130’s out of Fort Worth. Thanks to my work with Governor Perry, Senator Cornyn, Senator Hutchison and the entire Texas delegation, our C-130s are staying where they are needed and where they belong -- in Fort Worth. We have made it clear to the Air Force that their misguided plan to take our planes will not happen. I’m proud to be part of a delegation that always puts our differences aside and fights hard for Texas.” ###
12.07.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Kay Granger released the following statement after the Allied Pilots Association approved a new contract agreement with American Airlines. “I’m very pleased to hear that the Allied Pilots Association has voted in favor of a new contract agreement with American Airlines. This agreement will allow American to continue achieving its restructuring goals. This is good news for the airline and the thousands of employees who live in North Texas.” ###
11.29.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Kay Granger, Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Committee, released the following statement regarding Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’ decision to petition the United Nations for limited statehood status: “I am extremely disappointed with President Abbas’ decision to seek limited statehood status at the U.N. The only legitimate way of achieving statehood is through direct negotiations between the Palestinians and Israel. This maneuver serves as a diversion from, and an impediment to, the need to restart direct talks.” ####
11.16.2012	Washington D.C - Congresswoman Kay Granger, Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee released the following statement in support of Israel: “Israel has both the responsibility and the duty to protect and defend its citizens from the violence coming from the Gaza strip and the terrorist organization Hamas. The U.S. firmly stands with our friend and ally against terrorism, and I want to reiterate our unwavering support. I am proud to have supported the United States investment in Israel’s Iron Dome missile defense system. We made this investment because of the very violence we are witnessing today. This is a reminder that our investment in our allies saves lives and defends democracy. I pray for a peaceful, quick and permanent end to the violence.” ####
09.28.2012	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, released the following statement after the Committee was notified today that the Administration plans to transfer $450 million in cash assistance to the new Egyptian government: "This proposal comes to Congress at a point when the U.S. - Egypt relationship has never been under more scrutiny, and rightly so. I am not convinced of the urgent need for this assistance and I cannot support it at this time. As Chair of the Subcommittee, I have placed a hold on these funds." ####
09.27.2012	Chairwoman Granger, along with seven other committee and subcommittee chairmen, sent a letter to President Obama earlier this week regarding the events surrounding the terrorist attack on the U.S. embassy in Libya. They reiterated their concerns about the Administration’s response to the attack, the presumed lack of post-9/11 preparedness leading up to the event, and the delayed FBI investigation after the death of Christopher Stevens and three other Americans. Granger and her colleagues closed the letter by requesting a joint-briefing from the Administration to provide answers to their questions and concerns. To read the entire letter click on the PDF below:
09.22.2012	Galveston, TX - Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) joined the U.S. Navy to commission the USS Fort Worth, the third littoral combat ship (LCS-3), at a ceremony today in Galveston, Texas. Granger is the ship sponsor. Thousands of people attended the event, including large crowds from Fort Worth. The ship was officially named at a Christening ceremony in 2010 following a grassroots campaign led by Granger and the entire community to name the ship after the North Texas city founded by our nation’s military. “Serving as the sponsor of such as powerful ship is one of the proudest moments in my time in public service,” said Granger. “As the entire Fort Worth community knows, this is just the beginning of a commitment to all those who will sail on the ship over the course of her life. We have pledged to take great care of this magnificent ship and her crew. With ‘Grit and Tenacity’ we will once again demonstrate our principles of service and patriotism.” The commissioning took place on Pier 21 in Galveston. The USS Fort Worth Commissioning Committee provided bus transportation to help Fort Worth residents make the trip to Galveston for the ceremony. A watch party was also hosted in downtown Fort Worth’s Sundance Square where the event was broadcasted live. The committee plans to further honor its new ship’s crew at a Texas Rangers baseball game on September 24th. The USS Fort Worth is the newest vessel in the Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship program. The program began in 2002 with a goal of building a new type of stealth support ship. The $400 million ship is considered to be the first of its kind. At 390 feet long, it has the ability to travel at more than 40 knots, making it smaller and more agile than older warships. The ship can efficiently operate under a crew of 40 compared to its predecessors, which carried more than 200 crew members. The vessel’s coat of arms features the Texas Flag, a Texas longhorn, and its designated motto, “Grit and Tenacity.” The ship will eventually make its way to its new homeport of San Diego, California. The Navy requires a ship’s name to represent a place with character, spirit and service. Fort Worth has a long-standing military history, including the establishment of the original Camp Worth on the banks of the Trinity River in 1849, a Camp Bowie army facility during World War I, and a WWII bomber plant that now belongs to Lockheed Martin. The Fort Worth metropolitan area is also home to the Naval Air Station/Joint Reserve Base. On April 19, 2006, Granger sent a letter to then-Secretary of the Navy David Winter and Admiral Michael Mullen, then-Chief of Naval Operations, requesting that the third LCS ship be named after the city of Fort Worth. This marked the beginning of an effort that brought together the entire city of Fort Worth. In May of that year, Granger spoke at the Fort Worth Rotary and announced that she had requested that one of their new LCS ships be named in honor of the city. It was at that Rotary meeting where Granger formally asked the Rotary Club to join in a letter-writing campaign to Secretary Winter laying out the many reasons why Fort Worth was a worthy name for the ship. The same day, Granger reached out to the public through a press conference, and a community-wide effort began. The City of Fort Worth printed postcards for citizens to fill out and mail to the Secretary of the Navy showing their support for the ship’s name. Granger subsequently formed a ship-naming committee made up of community leaders who came together to assist in organizing the grassroots effort. School children sent pictures of how they envisioned the USS Fort Worth would look to Secretary Winter, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram wrote editorials of support, and former Mayor Mike Moncrief and the Fort Worth Chamber of Commerce sent letters to Secretary Winter. In total, 34 letters of support were mailed from elected officials and community organizations. Twenty-one resolutions from local cities in Tarrant County passed and over 50,000 postcards were mailed to the Secretary of the Navy from citizens. After two years of the community’s grassroots efforts, Secretary Winter called Congresswoman Granger to notify her of the Navy’s decision to name the third LCS ship after Fort Worth and to ask her to serve as the ship’s sponsor. The official christening of the USS Fort Worth took place on December 4, 2010 in Marinette, WI.
09.12.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the attacks in Libya and Egypt: “I strongly condemn the attacks that occurred yesterday on American diplomatic facilities in Libya and Egypt. My deepest sympathies go out to the families of those who were lost and injured. “The Government of Libya should immediately bring to justice the individuals who are responsible for this vicious attack. The Government of Egypt should condemn the events that occurred at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo yesterday and ensure that proper security is in place. All foreign governments must fulfill their responsibilities to keep our diplomats safe and secure. “I will continue to do my part to ensure that all U.S. diplomatic facilities are protected.”
07.24.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) called a high-level meeting with U.S Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and all parties involved with the financing of the Trinity Uptown bridges and transverse channels. Granger led the meeting on Friday which included Secretary LaHood, Texas Department of Transportation Commissioner Bill Meadows, TxDOT Fort Worth District Engineer Maribel Chavez, North Central Texas Council of Governments Transportation Director Michael Morris, a representative from the Tarrant Regional Water District and representatives from the City of Fort Worth. Afterwards, all parties announced that they would address the $22.3 million commitment to commence construction of the White Settlement Bridge and Roundabout in 2013; the third and final Trinity Uptown bridge that has yet to receive full funding. Friday’s commitment will mean the construction timeline will be moved up by three years to the summer of 2013, and will provide better access to downtown Fort Worth during the construction process. Secretary LaHood pledged to work closely with Fort Worth on the project with monthly scheduled meetings between federal officials and the City of Fort Worth to help ensure the strong partnership continues throughout the project. “The New Trinity River Uptown Bridges project is important for the state of Texas and we will work closely with all of the stakeholders to keep the process moving so construction can get under way as soon as possible,” said Secretary LaHood. “Secretary LaHood’s commitment to this historic project creates great momentum,” said Granger. “TRV continues to move forward on time and under budget because of the successful federal, state and local partnerships we have developed. TRV is a plan for Fort Worth’s future and will bring 16,000 jobs and over $1 billion in economic benefits to our community.” "The Trinity River Vision is a unique, multi-faceted plan that will improve the quality of life and livability of Fort Worth. The White Settlement Bridge is a vital piece of the plan to ensure efficient movement of traffic. I am pleased to see Secretary LaHood's commitment to this project and glad that the Texas Department of Transportation could be a part of its success,” Bill Meadows said. “The Dallas-Fort Worth region has been successful at finding solutions to challenging transportation issues because local, state and federal partners are willing to work together and bring innovation to the table,” Michael Morris said. Fort Worth has grown by over 39 percent in the last ten years, and was named the fastest-growing metropolitan area by the U.S. Census Bureau in 2011. However, little of this growth has occurred in the central city area of Fort Worth. To mitigate the negative impacts of suburban sprawl and to ensure Fort Worth’s continued economic growth, the city has committed to invest in urban infrastructure improvements such as flood control, bridges, roads, and sewer lines. In October 2011, the Regional Transportation Council of the North Central Texas Council of Governments committed $15 million toward construction of the Henderson Street and Main Street bridges in Trinity Uptown. This local funding was in addition to $23 million in federal funding that was secured by Congresswoman Granger. The award-winning Trinity River Vision has been called a “model project” by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. TRV is a partnership between the City of Fort Worth, Tarrant County, Texas Department of Transportation, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Tarrant Regional Water District, and Streams and Valleys.
06.28.2012	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling today on the health care law: “I am disappointed in today’s Supreme Court decision. The court decided the health care law was constitutional. It did not decide it was good policy. The court decided this law was constitutional because they determined it was a tax, even though the President argued it was not a tax. This law is not just a tax. It is a massive tax -- one of the most massive taxes in American history. “The court’s decision now puts the responsibility of eliminating this massive tax increase back in the hands of the Congress. In the words of Justice Anthony Kennedy spoken in 2003, ‘It is a grave mistake to retain a policy just because the court finds it constitutional.’ I couldn’t agree more. “The Congress must now repeal the health care law and start over with health care reform that puts patient care back in the hands of health care professionals - not in the halls of Washington - keeping solutions that are most important to people such as guaranteeing coverage for pre-existing conditions, allowing children to stay on their parent’s insurance until age 26, and eliminating lifetime dollar limits on insurance coverage. “Congress should take the time to get this policy right. These are decisions that will impact generations of Americans.”
05.18.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which requires the Obama Administration to sell at least 66 new F-16 C/D multirole fighter aircraft to Taiwan. The amendment is companion legislation to Granger’s House Bill, H.R. 2992, and Senators Cornyn and Menendez’ Taiwan Airpower Modernization Act of 2011. The amendment was adopted late Thursday evening by voice-vote. The Granger amendment forces the Obama Administration to comply with its legal obligations under the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 which mandates the United States provide Taiwan with the military equipment it needs to defend their homeland. “This sale will ensure our key strategic ally in the Pacific has the defense capacity to defend its own airspace and their nation,” Granger said. “Our support for a democratic Taiwan is consistent with our national security priorities in the region. It also demonstrates that we stand by our friends and allies no matter where the threats are from. The House sent a bipartisan message of unequivocal support for our ally Taiwan and their need to replace their aging fighter aircraft.” In 32 different states, the sale would generate $8.7 billion in economic output and produce an estimated $768 million in federal tax revenues.
05.09.2012	Good morning and welcome to the Subcommittee markup of the fiscal year 2013 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill. I want to begin by thanking Ranking Member Lowey for her continued dedication to this Subcommittee. Mrs. Lowey and I have a unique relationship. While we do not agree on everything, we do have a strong working relationship and we are both invested in the important work of this Subcommittee. It is a pleasure to work with her and I respect her very much. I want to thank all the Members of our Subcommittee – from both sides of the aisle - for their participation and thoughtful contributions to this bill. Members have been passionately engaged in the important work of the Subcommittee. The bill before us saves taxpayer dollars by spending 9 percent less than last year. We do this by terminating ten programs, rescinding funds, and not providing new appropriations if funds are not being used. At the same time this bill supports critical activities related to our national security, such as assistance for Israel and Mexico. The bill restores some of the misguided reductions proposed by the President for Global Health, refugee programs, democracy promotion, and international broadcasting. This Subcommittee believes that our foreign assistance should support our foreign policy objectives and also reflect the values and principles of the American people. This bill lives up to our commitment to oversight. This year alone, we have held nine hearings and member briefings and asked for three reviews from the Appropriations Committee Surveys and Investigations unit. Going through each account, we asked how each program impacts our national security and we looked to see if the conditions on aid are flexible enough to respond to changing situations around the world – some of them for the better and some for the worse. Since the start of the Arab uprising we have been constantly watching the situation throughout the Middle East and closely examining who exactly we are working with. Conditions included in last year’s bill proved to be effective in dealing with the most complicated situations over the last year. While we are not providing the Administration with a new $770 million account as they requested, we are providing some flexibility to respond to the rapid change we have witnessed, but in ways that keep the Congress directly involved in the oversight of the funds. One of the situations we have watched over the last year is our relationship with Egypt as they go through a difficult transition. The travel ban placed on NGO workers was unprecedented and it was a very disappointing chapter in the long and productive relationship we have shared with Egypt. We want the charges against these NGOs to be dropped, the groups to be registered, and our relationship to move forward. We all want Egypt to prosper and our cooperation to remain strong, but because we do not know what stance the new Egyptian government will take toward the United States, we have strengthened congressional oversight on the aid. This bill keeps aid for the Palestinian Authority under close scrutiny. This Subcommittee understands that our assistance not only keeps the Palestinians safe, it makes Israel safer, but it remains conditional. In this year’s bill we reiterate that our economic assistance will stop if the Palestinian Authority achieves statehood at the United Nations, or if they form a unity government – or even if they have an agreement - with Hamas. As a result of the events over the last year, this bill does not provide contributions for UNESCO, consistent with U.S. law that prohibits funding for any UN agency that grants statehood to the Palestinian Authority. This entire Subcommittee will continue to watch the situation with the P.A. very closely. The bill continues to support our key strategic partner Israel by fully funding the Memorandum of Understanding. This Subcommittee understands just how critical it is to support Israel. Whether it is the ongoing threat from Iran trying to pursue a nuclear weapon - or the instability that continues as a result of the Arab uprising – Israel’s security faces serious threats and Congress’ unwavering support has never been stronger. This Subcommittee understands the risks, and we understand what is at stake for both Israel and the United States. We also support the requested $660 million for Jordan’s economic and security assistance, and we direct the State Department to provide an additional $50 million to help Jordan as they face ongoing unrest in the region. Jordan is a critical partner in the war on terrorism and time and again, Jordan proves to be a regional leader by bringing the Israelis and Palestinians back to the negotiating table. I applaud King Abdullah for his leadership, for making political reforms in Jordan, and his commitment to peace in the Middle East. This bill also supports the work our troops are doing overseas and includes $8.2 billion in a separate overseas contingency operations section called OCO. This spending is not a permanent part of our budget, but it allows critical programs to be funded, such as security assistance for Iraq and the Special Inspector General for Reconstruction in Afghanistan. We keep this spending separate to give the most accurate reflection of what these temporary costs are. And we are doing what we pledged to do -- this year, OCO spending is reduced by $3 billion below fiscal year 2012, and these costs will continue to decrease. This bill supports a smaller, more traditional diplomatic footprint in Iraq. We are taking the lessons learned in Iraq and begin to apply those lessons to how we approach Afghanistan. As our military presence decreases in Afghanistan, we have to ensure that our State Department and USAID staff – those who are responsible for delivering assistance – are safe and secure as the Afghan Government takes over security for the country. We have to be realistic about the risks and the costs. This bill withholds State Department funds for Afghanistan until we get a transition plan and more details on how we are going to keep our people safe on the ground. In addition, this bill keeps the anti-corruption conditions on our Afghan aid that Mrs. Lowey included while she was chair. The Afghan Government must continue to implement institutional changes to have a sustainable government that is responsive to its people. Corruption must be stopped or U.S. tax dollars will end up wasted. This bill continues to support our neighbor Mexico. Mexico’s security has a direct impact on our national security. We cannot back down on our support and this bill makes it easier for the United States to deploy resources to help the Mexican Government fight the drug cartels. It is almost unthinkable that more than 40,000 people have been murdered as a result of the drug wars over the last several years. We hope that the strong partnership between the United States and Mexico will help end the violence and lead to a lasting security relationship that benefits both of our countries. We also commend the Government of Colombia on their success against drug trafficking, and include funds to support the great work they are doing to train security forces from other countries in Latin America, Africa, and even in Afghanistan. Moving to our participation with international organizations, this bill increases accountability for the money we provide to the United Nations and other multilateral groups. Last year we started to change how we do business with the UN, and as a result, our contributions are now contingent on disclosing all internal audits and reviews online for American taxpayers to see. The UN still has not done this. As the UN’s largest donor, we cannot blindly provide resources for any agency that cannot tell us if they are spending their funds in ways our constituents would expect. We also eliminate funds for the UN population fund – UNFPA. Mrs. Lowey and I have clear differences on this issue, and we have agreed to disagree. In closing, this bill is a re-focused way of investing our money around the world. In this difficult climate, our foreign aid must be based on American principles, looks out for American interests, and wisely invests American dollars. This bill assesses our foreign aid based on our national security and only supports programs that work. We will hold accountable those who cannot live up to our constituents’ expectations. I know it is said often but I want to express my most sincere gratitude for the hard work of the staff. They did an outstanding job on this bill. Your dedication to your work has produced a bill that will make America safer and stronger. The staff’s loyalty and dedication is recognized. From the majority staff, I want to thank the clerk Anne Marie Chotvacs, Alice Hogans, Craig Higgins, Susan Adams, Clelia Alverado, and Jamie Guinn. From my personal staff, I want to thank Johnnie Kaberle and Scott Alexander. From the minority staff I want to recognize Steve Marchese, Erin Kolodjeski and Talia Dubovi in Mrs. Lowey’s personal office. Lastly, today is the last Subcommittee markup for three very valued members. First, I want to recognize and thank Chairman Lewis for his many years of service and for his friendship. Chairman Lewis has always recognized the important national security work of this Subcommittee and, if it were not for Chairman Lewis, I never would have had the opportunity to serve on this subcommittee. Next I want to recognize and thank Ranking Member Norm Dicks. I have had the honor of working on important national security issues with ranking member Dicks for many years on the Defense Subcommittee. He has been an asset for the Appropriations Committee and he will be sorely missed. Last but not least I want to recognize Congressman Steve Austria who has been an important and active member of this Subcommittee. We are all very grateful for your service. Thank you, and I will now turn to Ranking Member Lowey for her opening statement.
04.08.2012	The North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum, jointly sponsored by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison and Senator John Cornyn, as well as Congressman Joe Barton, Congressman Michael Burgess, Congressman Bill Flores, Congresswoman Kay Granger, Congressman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman Sam Johnson, Congressman Kenny Marchant, and Congressman Pete Sessions will be held Saturday, April 21, 2012. This informational forum provides interested students grades eight through twelve an opportunity to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission and the selection process. North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum Date: Saturday, April 21, 2012 Time: 8:00 AM - 12:00 Noon Registration opens at 7:30 PM Place: First Baptist Church 2400 North Josey Lane Carrollton, TX 75006 Representatives from congressional offices and all five academies (U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy), as well as current academy cadets and midshipmen will be on hand. North Texas students, parents and educators will be able to hear from and meet with these representatives on a one-to-one basis to become informed about the excellent possibilities associated with attending these premier educational institutions and the sorts of careers they generate. Additional presenters will be Larry Mullen, Deputy Director for the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB), as well as representatives from Air Force, Army, Navy and Marine Corps ROTC. The Forum, which is free and open to the public, will be held from 8:00 AM – 12:00 NOON; registration opens at 7:30 AM. For more information regarding the North Texas Academies Forum, please contact Marcia Etie, District Office of Congresswoman Kay Granger, (817) 338-0909. You can also click here for instructions on how to apply.
03.21.2012	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I would like to welcome the Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs, Jeff Feltman and the Special Coordinator for Middle East Transitions, Ambassador Bill Taylor. Thank you for appearing before the Subcommittee today to discuss U.S. policies and our assistance strategy in the Middle East and North Africa, especially those countries affected by the Arab Spring. In the last year we have seen rapid change in the region -- from extraordinary political transitions to violent crackdowns. We find ourselves in unfamiliar territory in one of the most critical regions of the world for U.S. national security. I trust this classified hearing will allow for a full discussion of U.S. strategic interests and how U.S. foreign assistance is being used to further those interests. We also would like to hear your view on the perception of American assistance. As we are seeing in Egypt, the generosity of the American people may not be welcomed. This is of great concern. This Subcommittee wants to be thoughtful about our investments during these changing times. I hope you will be able to address several topics, including how we can best use our assistance as an effective policy tool. We need to know what we are funding, who we are supporting, and how we are executing the programs. What we are funding is critically important. There must be a balance between strengthening government institutions and helping promote civil society. During these transitions, it will be equally important to ensure organizations outside of government institutions are supported so that people can express their opinions freely, advocate for their freedoms, and hold their governments accountable. In addition to what we are investing in, I would like to hear more about who is involved in these transitions. We must know who we are working with before providing assistance. We want to hear how you decide who to engage with and what considerations are in place, since in many cases we have no prior relationships with these individuals and movements. Finally, we want to understand how we are engaging. The President’s fiscal year 2013 request includes $770 million for the Middle East and North Africa Incentive Fund. While some of the proposals make sense, like “incentivizing” certain behaviors, it is not clear why those principles could not simply be applied to existing authorities. The State Foreign Operations bill already includes accounts for contingencies as well as long-term economic development and security assistance. We will need more information to justify the need for a new fund. I want to close by thanking each of you for your service during this challenging time. We know you are both dedicated to this very difficult region and we appreciate what you do. Assistant Secretary Feltman, I understand that you will provide a statement and will defer to Ambassador Taylor to respond to specific questions about funding and assistance programs. Thank you for appearing before the Subcommittee today. I look forward to your testimony. I will now yield to Mrs. Lowey.
03.20.2012	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related programs will come to order. I want to welcome everyone to today’s hearing. Ambassador Rice, thank you for being with us today to give testimony and answer our questions on the Administration’s budget request for the United Nations and international organizations. I know it has been a challenging year since you last testified before this Committee. We commend you for your efforts to get the international community to pressure Iran to stop pursuing nuclear weapons. You have also pushed the UN to assist countries in the Middle East and North Africa that are facing difficult transitions. And I know there are many issues you are always working that never make the front page. Unfortunately, in spite of your hard work, there have been many disappointments at the UN over the last year. The conflict rages on in Syria, with Russia and China unwilling to join the international community to take action against the regime. We want to hear your thoughts on what, if anything, can still be done to put pressure on these countries to act. The situation is very troubling, and it is difficult to explain to our constituents why the UN cannot come up with a coordinated response to a crisis of this magnitude. We have also watched with concern as the Palestinians go around the peace process to seek recognition as a Palestinian state. Administration officials made it known to the Palestinians that the US would veto a statehood resolution at the Security Council, but then the Palestinians simply changed their strategy and went to UNESCO. And we are still concerned that the Palestinians will try to get their status elevated in the General Assembly and at other UN agencies. We would like an update on what you expect will happen over the next year. As you know all too well, the U.S. is now withholding our contribution to UNESCO because of the Palestinians’ actions, in accordance with U.S. law. Many members of Congress believe that cutting off these funds is the reason the PA stopped further recognition efforts. Yet, the Administration has requested the authority to waive the provisions of law that required UNESCO’s funding to stop. We will want to hear more about this waiver proposal. In addition, many concerns remain about the effectiveness and transparency of U.N. organizations. The Administration’s report on U.S. contributions to international organizations shows that $8.5 billion was provided to the U.N. and other international organizations in fiscal year 2010. I was very concerned to learn that, while the U.S. is the largest UN donor, we have limited access to information to ensure that our funds are spent wisely and effectively. As a result, provisions are now included in the State - Foreign Operations appropriations bill that require the Secretary of State to withhold funds if the UN and its agencies are not making progress on transparency and accountability measures. We expect to see real changes and want to hear how these new requirements will be met. Another troubling development is that the Subcommittee recently learned about the possibility of a significant cost over-run for the UN headquarters renovation project. As you may know, language was carried in the last two appropriations bills to limit the cost of the project and minimize the burden on the United States. We continue to expect that you and the State Department will work with the UN to finish the project within funds already appropriated for these purposes. I want to close with a topic I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks – Iran. The head of the IAEA recently said that he has “serious concerns” that Iran may be hiding secret atomic weapons work. While Iran has now signaled a willingness to return to talks, I am very concerned that the time for talk has passed. This promise could simply be another stalling tactic. We want to hear what actions you are taking at the UN Security council to increase pressure on Iran. In closing, Ambassador Rice, I want to thank you and the US delegations stationed in New York and around the world. We appreciate the sacrifices that are made on a daily basis. Thank you for being here. I’ll now turn to Ranking Member Lowey for her opening remarks.
03.06.2012	"The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I would like to welcome the Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, Dr. Raj Shah. Dr. Shah, thank you for appearing before the Subcommittee today to provide testimony and answer questions about the fiscal year 2013 budget request for USAID. The Administration’s total request for the State-Foreign Operations bill is $54.7 billion, including funds designated as regular discretionary and as Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO). USAID administers a large portion of the foreign assistance in this bill in the areas of health, development, democracy promotion, and humanitarian aid. I know it has been a challenging year since you last testified before the Subcommittee. USAID is currently addressing some of the most difficult situations around the world. You and the staff you lead are working to provide humanitarian assistance in response to the drought in the Horn of Africa, deliver sustainable development solutions in conflict zones, and promote democratic transitions in the Middle East and North Africa. I also commend you for continuing your work to change the way USAID does business by emphasizing the role of the private sector in development and by creating more accountability in our foreign assistance programs. At the same time, I also want to highlight a few of my concerns. As we have discussed before, questions remain about USAID’s strategy of providing more assistance directly through host countries. While I understand the importance of strengthening recipient governments so they can eventually stand on their own without our help, this proposal requires much more careful consideration. For that reason, new language was included in the fiscal year 2012 appropriations bill limiting assistance going directly to, and through, foreign governments until certain requirements are met. The Subcommittee will be seeking more information to ensure that USAID is complying with the changes in law. Next, I want to call attention to the reductions proposed in the fiscal year 2013 budget request for the Global Health account. You were very direct with this Subcommittee last year about the lives that could be lost if funding for global health programs was reduced. Yet, the Administration is now proposing similar cuts. We need you to explain whether the proposed reductions can be taken without jeopardizing U.S. leadership in important areas like malaria and maternal and child health. I urge you to work closely with the Congress over the next year so that we all have the same information and can make thoughtful decisions about funding these life-saving programs. As you know, another long-standing issue I will continue to raise is that this Administration continues to make large, multi-year foreign assistance commitments during a time when our own economy is in a downturn. Administration officials have told the Subcommittee that pledges for two signature initiatives will be fulfilled in the next year, but I understand that there are upcoming meetings to discuss what will follow. Dr. Shah, I want to remind you that the Administration is now required to let the Committee know in advance of any future commitments. As I told Secretary Clinton last week, my concern is that the United States remains in an economic crisis, and we will be in a very difficult position if we cannot live up to our promises around the world. I am also concerned about whether these commitments are crowding out other priorities such as democracy promotion activities. I want to close with an issue that has been prominent in the news and is an immediate concern for this Subcommittee – the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan. I am very concerned about the safety of our troops and our civilian employees there. In fact, this new violence calls into question whether the current assistance strategy can be successful if Americans are not even safe to work in ministries alongside Afghan staff who should be our partners. With that in mind, I want to close by thanking the men and women of USAID. When I meet anyone associated with your agency, it is always clear that you lead a very dedicated group of Foreign Service officers, civil servants, and implementing partners who often put themselves in harm’s way to promote American interests and values around the world. Dr. Shah, thank you for appearing before the Subcommittee today. I look forward to your testimony. Before I turn to Mrs. Lowey for her statement, I would like to acknowledge two losses to the Committee - Chairman Lewis and Ranking Member Dicks will both be retiring from the Congress at the end of this year. Both have been dedicated to this Committee, and this Subcommittee in particular, and their presence will be sorely missed. I will now yield to Mrs. Lowey." ####
02.29.2012	Congresswoman Granger and the entire Texas Congressional Delegation sent a letter on February 28th to the United States Air Force Secretary, the Honorable Michael Donley, stating their strong opposition to the United States Air Force’s proposal to relocate the 136th Airlift Wing’s 8 C-130s. The 136th Airlift Wing is one of the most proven and capable airlift organizations in the Air Force and is vital to the State of Texas and the region. To read the entire letter click on the PDF below.
02.29.2012	"The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I want to start by welcoming all of the subcommittee members to our first hearing on the fiscal year 2013 budget request. Mrs. Lowey and I share a commitment to oversight, and we will continue to work with each of you to get the right information to make fair, although sometimes difficult, funding decisions on programs in our Subcommittee’s jurisdiction. Madam Secretary, I want to welcome you to today’s hearing. You are serving as secretary during a very challenging time, and as you have said, American leadership is more important than ever. Two weeks ago, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff came before our Defense Subcommittee. General Dempsey told us that, in his judgment formed over a 38 year military career, we are living in the most dangerous time in his life. I have to agree with General Dempsey. It seems as if every corner of the world faces significant challenges – both economic and political – and the United States is not immune. With our country facing record deficits and debt, this committee has a special responsibility to ensure that taxpayer dollars are well spent. Our constituents demand that our foreign aid is aligned with our national security interests and American values. For that reason, the Fiscal Year 2012 Appropriations bill contained conditions on funding to many countries so that we would have time to see how events on the ground unfold before funds are disbursed. The Congress provided the Administration flexibility because we believed it was the most responsible approach to take in a constantly-changing environment. Madam Secretary, you now have the responsibility to ensure that this Committee is properly consulted, certifications are made when required, and notifications are sent before funds are obligated. We know that these conditions create challenges, but oversight by the Congress is critical. We are faced with several policy issues that are especially troubling – the current unrest in Afghanistan, causing all of us to question the security of our troops and civilians working there; the ongoing crisis in Egypt over nonprofit groups working there to promote democracy; Iran’s continued pursuit of nuclear weapons and the resulting threat to our friends and allies in the region; the possibility of the Palestinians going around direct negotiations with Israel, and the intensifying conflict within Syria. During the hearing today, I hope you will address these issues, and explain how the Administration’s requested increase for programs in this Subcommittee’s jurisdiction will deal with these issues successfully, especially when the defense budget is proposed to be reduced. The $54.7 billion request for the State-Foreign Operations Subcommittee is an increase of 2.6% above fiscal year 2012, and the majority of that increase is for State and USAID’s programs. Part of this increase is for a new account – the Middle East and North Africa Incentive Fund. The subcommittee needs to understand why the budget proposes such a significant increase – roughly $700 million – without a clear plan for how the funds will help these new and emerging democracies. We also need more information on why the budget proposes a decrease in assistance to Latin America, Asia, and Africa – regions we cannot afford to overlook or take for granted. The President himself was in Latin America last year and said that the region is more important to the prosperity and security of the United States than ever before. He also visited the Asia-Pacific area in the fall and said it was a region of “huge strategic importance”. We have also heard about military officials wanting to position special operations forces in Latin America, Asia, and Africa because of growing threats. Madam Secretary, we will need more information to understand how the State Department’s budget proposal is consistent with these statements by Administration officials. The budget request also proposes to reduce global health programs. As we work with you and USAID Administrator Shah, we will need to understand how these reductions can be achieved without jeopardizing our progress and leadership on these issues. As you look ahead to the coming year, I would like to offer a few comments on some priorities that I hope you will focus on. I think that many, if not most, of these concerns are shared by my Subcommittee colleagues. First, I hope the Administration will continue to focus on efforts in the “frontline states” so that you can solidify the military’s accomplishments in Iraq, identify sustainable solutions once our troops leave Afghanistan, and ensure that extremists no longer have safe havens in Pakistan. There is so much at stake in these countries. Next, I hope you will remain vigilant in your support for our neighbors and friends to the south. Latin America’s enormous security challenges affect the United States every day. On the diplomatic front, I hope you and other Administration officials will continue to keep pressure on Iran, wherever and whenever possible, to stop them from obtaining nuclear weapons. Finally, I want to reiterate a topic we discussed last year during the Subcommittee hearing – multi-year funding commitments. I continue to be concerned about the effect of these out year pledges on the State-Foreign Operations budget. While I support many of the same causes, the United States remains in an economic crisis and we will be in a very difficult position if we cannot live up to these promises. I hope you will seriously consider any additional commitments and follow the consultation and notification requirements we have now included in the appropriations bill. Your job as secretary is certainly not without its challenges. We truly thank you and all the dedicated men and women of the State Department and USAID for what you do every day to promote American interests abroad. I want to say a special thank you to Ambassador Anne Patterson, her team in Cairo, and numerous staff in Washington who are dealing with a very complex situation in Egypt. We all look forward to your testimony. I’ll now turn to Mrs. Lowey for her opening remarks. ####
02.07.2012	Washington, D.C. - State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement on the future of Egyptian aid: “Egypt has been a key strategic partner for the United States for over thirty years. One year ago the Mubarak regime fell, and since then Egypt has been a country in rapid transition. As the FY 2012 appropriations bill was developed, Members of Congress knew that the situation on the ground was evolving and that a range of events could occur.” “For that reason, I worked with my colleagues to place conditions on the aid so that it will support an Egyptian government that wants to uphold democratic principles and its commitment to the Camp David Accords. The Congress couldn’t have been more clear.” “Recent actions taken by the Egyptians call into serious question their commitment to democracy and their partnership with the United States. The harassment of Americans who are in Egypt trying to help build their democracy is unacceptable. Not one more dollar should flow to the Government of Egypt until the Secretary of State can assure the American people that this issue is resolved.” ####
01.24.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Granger attended President Obama’s State of the Union Address to a joint session of Congress. “It is clear tonight the President and his Administration’s policies have failed and Americans are the ones suffering the most in this distressed economic time. Instead of running his re-election campaign on his record, he has turned on the ‘do-nothing Congress’ as the target of his campaign efforts. The House has sent over 30 bipartisan jobs bills to the Senate, where 27 of them remain stalled in this Chamber and untouched by the President.” “These divisive politics are barriers to progress – what the American people need is for a Congress and President that focus together on creating opportunities for economic growth through tax reform, reducing our nation’s deficit, and reigning in government spending. Sound policies are what is needed now, not divisive political rhetoric. As this President begins to conclude is first term in office, it is time for him to get to work with Congress and pass real solutions to the problems facing our nation.” “Bipartisanship is key to move strong policies through the legislative process. Tonight this need for more bipartisanship was emphasized by the member’s reaching across the aisle and sitting with our counterparts. I sat with Ranking Member and Democrat from New York, Rep. Nita Lowey, to symbolize our strong bipartisanship and call for this to be furthered this Congress.” Congresswoman Granger’s guest for the joint session of Congress was fellow Texan, a Master Chief of the Navy and highly decorated Iraqi War veteran. ####
01.20.2012	Washington, DC – The Congressional Joint Strike Fighter Caucus co-chairs, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) and Congressman Norm Dicks (WA-6), released the following statement after Defense Secretary Leon Panetta announced he is lifting probation on the F-35B STOVL variant: “This is an important day for the Joint Strike Fighter Program. By announcing that he is lifting the probation on the F-35B a year earlier than expected, Secretary Panetta is officially recognizing the significant progress the STOVL variant has made since it was put on probation a year ago by Secretary Gates. We also want to recognize the Commandant of the Marine Corps, General James Amos, for his leadership on the program. F-35B performed exceedingly well in flight tests in 2011 and the issues that led to the probation status are all on track to be fixed. The F-35B is critical to our nation’s future ability to project power and this is a hard earned achievement for the military and industry professionals who have been working tireless to deliver this revolutionary capability to the US Marine Corps and our allies.” The F-35B STOVL variant is a revolutionary stealth fighter capable of taking off and landing vertically and operating from amphibious assault ships. The F-35B will replace the Marine Corps’ current aging fighter fleet, providing them with a stealth fighter for the first time capable of meeting the future threats facing our nation. ####
11.18.2011	Washington, D.C. –Today the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced the agency’s decision to revoke Avastin’s approval as a metastatic breast cancer treatment drug. “I am deeply disappointed in the FDA decision to remove the metastatic breast cancer indication from the Avastin label,” said Granger. “I have spoken to oncologists in my district who value Avastin as an effective tool in fighting this horrible disease. I encourage Medicare to continue to cover Avastin for breast cancer. For some women in my district, this therapy is their only hope.” ####
11.18.2011	Washington, D.C. –Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger joined 261 of her House colleagues in voting for a Balanced Budget Amendment (BBA) to the United States Constitution. Unfortunately, the BBA failed to get the two-thirds majority vote needed for passage. “Today’s vote was disappointing. This was a chance to force the federal government to start living within its means,” said Granger. “Texans and families across America have to live by a budget every day, and it is unfortunate that some Members of Congress think the government should not have to do the same.” In August, the President signed the Budget Control Act, which included a requirement that both the House and Senate vote on a BBA to the Constitution by December 31, 2011. In order for the Constitution to be amended, both chambers of Congress would have to pass the amendment with a two-thirds majority, and then the BBA would have to be ratified by the states. “Even though this Balanced Budget Amendment did not pass today, that doesn’t mean we’ve given up the fight to cut spending. I will continue working with my colleagues to spend less money and get our country’s debt under control.” The House of Representatives successfully passed a Balanced Budget Amendment in 1995. However, the amendment failed in the Senate by one vote. ####
11.17.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congresswoman Kay Granger’s (TX-12) Taiwan Airpower Modernization Act of 2011 took an important step forward today, gaining the approval of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. The committee voted to approve the legislation with strong bipartisan support, sending it to the full House of Representatives for consideration. Earlier this year, the Obama administration decided that rather than selling F-16 fighter jets to Taiwan, Taiwan should just refurbish its existing fleet. Granger’s legislation requires the executive branch to sell Taiwan 66 new F-16 fighter jets, showing strong support for an important ally of the United States. “I applaud the House Foreign Affairs Committee's overwhelming bipartisan passage of the Taiwan Airpower Modernization Act of 2011,” Granger said. “Taiwan is a staunch ally of the U.S. and we must do everything possible to make sure they have access to the military equipment they need to defend their homeland. “As Chinese defense spending continues to increase, there is a clear need to supply democratic Taiwan with the proper aircraft rather than simply trying to refurbish their current planes. Today’s vote is further evidence of the bipartisan support for Taiwan’s effort to replace their aging aircraft.” U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), who has introduced a companion measure in the Senate, said, “Today’s result is encouraging, as this bill sends a message to nations around the world that America will not abandon our friends or our principles in the face of Chinese intimidation.” Congresswoman Granger has been an outspoken supporter of Taiwan and an advocate of supplying Taiwan with the new F-16s they have requested. To read the statement she issued when her bill was introduced, click here. ####
11.09.2011	48 Members join the bipartisan caucus in the first month Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) and Congressman Norm Dicks (WA-6) today announced the launch of the bipartisan, Joint Strike Fighter Caucus to provide Members of Congress accurate and timely information on the development, testing, and deployment of our next-generation fighter. In this time of budget cuts, some Members of Congress have suggested curtailing or delaying the Joint Strike Fighter program. When countries such as Russia and China are testing their next-generation fighters, the Joint Strike Fighter program is an absolute necessity. Our partners and allies such as the United Kingdom, Australia and Israel must have the strategic and technological advantage. Maintaining air superiority will continue to be one of the most effective deterrents against threats from our common enemies such as Iran. In addition, the JSF program directly and indirectly supports more than 127,000 high-skill, high-wage jobs across the country in 47 states and Puerto Rico. “Like the Joint Strike Fighter program, the JSF Caucus is about partnerships. Our membership reflects the broad bipartisan support the F-35 has in Congress and part of our role is to make sure Members have the very best information possible so we can all make the best decisions possible,” said Granger, who is the Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee and is a member of the Defense Subcommittee. “The F-35 program has reached a critical stage in its development as the most advanced multi-role fighter in the world. It will be important in the years ahead for this broad coalition in the House of Representatives to support an efficient production schedule to assure that America and our international partners bring the aircraft into service as quickly as possible,” said Rep. Dicks, who serves as the ranking Democratic member of the House Appropriations Committee. Members Rep. Kay Granger R-TX Co Chair Rep. Norm Dicks D-WA Co Chair Rep. Trent Franks R-AZ Rep. Joe Barton R-TX Rep. Paul Gosar R-AZ Rep. John Carter R-TX Rep. Jerrry Lewis R-CA Rep. Michael Conaway R-TX Rep. Doug Lamborn R-CO Rep. Bill Flores R-TX Rep. Scott Tipton R-CO Rep. Ralph Hall R-TX Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart R-FL Rep. Sam Johnson R-TX Rep. Jeff Miller R-FL Rep. Kenny Marchant R-TX Rep. Tom Rooney R-FL Rep. Michael McCaul R-TX Rep. Dennis Ross R-FL Rep. Randy Neugebauer R-TX Rep. Paul Broun R-GA Rep. Ted Poe R-TX Rep. Phil Gingrey R-GA Rep. Lamar Smith R-TX Rep. Jack Kingston R-GA Rep. Rob Bishop R-UT Rep. Lynn Westmoreland R-GA Rep. David McKinley R-WV Rep. Donald Manzullo R-IL Rep. Laura Richardson D-CA Rep. Larry Bucshon R-IN Rep. Joe Courtney D-CT Rep. Charles Bass R-NH Rep. John Larson D-CT Rep. Frank Guinta R-NH Rep. Chris Murphy D-CT Rep. Richard Hanna R-NY Rep. Andre Carson D-IN Rep. Walter Jones R-NC Rep. Sander Levin D-MI Rep. Steve Austria R-OH Rep. G.K. Butterfield D-NC Rep. Steve Chabot R-OH Rep. Robert Brady D-PA Rep. Bill Johnson R-OH Rep. Mark Critz D-PA Rep. Michael Turner R-OH Rep. Tim Holden D-PA ####
10.31.2011	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger, Chairwoman of the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organizations (UNESCO) granted full membership to the Palestinians: “I have been clear to the leadership of UNESCO, the Palestinian leadership, and to my colleagues in the Administration that the path to Middle East peace does not run through the U.N. I expect the Administration to enforce existing law and stop contributions to UNESCO and any other U.N. agency that enables the Palestinians to short-cut the peace process. From the start, my message has been consistent that in order for the P.A. to achieve the legitimacy of statehood they must return to direct peace negotiations with Israel.” ####
10.20.2011	$15 Million from Regional Transportation Council will allow completion of Henderson and Main Street Bridges Fort Worth, TX- Congresswoman Granger today announced that $15 million has been secured from the Regional Transportation Council of the North Central Texas Council of Governments (NCTCOG) for the Henderson and Main Street bridges in Trinity Uptown. The new funding will enable both bridges to be constructed on schedule. Granger has delivered $23 million in federal funding for the bridges and coordinated with the NCTCOG, which secured $15 million in Surface Transportation Program Metropolitan Mobility funds for this effort. The local match of $24.8 million is already in place. With the combined federal and local funding, these bridges are now fully funded. This has been a partnership between local governments, the RTC and the Texas Transportation Commission. The new Henderson Street Bridge will be the first bridge constructed as part of the Trinity River Vision. Actual construction to relocate water and sewer utilities in advance of bridge construction begins in November. Completion of design and engineering is slated for late summer 2012 with actual construction beginning in fall 2012. Coordination with the franchise utilities with respect to design and construction activities also continues. The Henderson Street Bridge is within budget and on schedule. The North Main Street Bridge is the second bridge to be constructed as part of the Trinity River Vision. Final design and engineering on the North Main Street Bridge is currently underway and is expected to be completed by summer 2013 with construction beginning in the fall of 2013. The North Main Street Bridge continues to be on schedule and meeting budget expectations. “This project is moving forward on schedule because of the hard work of all the partners involved like Mayor Price, Michael Morris, and Jungus Jordan,” said Granger. “The Trinity River Vision is a key part of Fort Worth’s future and will bring 16,000 jobs and over $1 billion in economic benefits to our community.” “The Trinity River Vision is a game-changing project with significant, positive implications for our city,” said Fort Worth Mayor Betsy Price. “This funding is critical to seeing this project through for the people of Fort Worth. On behalf of our citizens, we thank Michael Morris and our friends at the North Central Texas Council of Governments. We also thank Rep. Kay Granger for her unbridled support of this shared vision.” “Transportation is a critical component to the Trinity Uptown project to help create a vibrant sense of place and allow residents, businesses and visitors to have necessary mobility improvements to access this new sustainable area,” said Jungus Jordan, Fort Worth City Councilmember and RTC Chairman. “The RTC has been working with the City of Fort Worth, Tarrant County, and the Trinity River Vision Authority for years to find the funding for these bridges.” ####
10.18.2011	FORT WORTH — Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) will host a press conference with Fort Worth Mayor Betsy Price and City Councilmember Jungus Jordan to announce the completion of funding for two of the three Trinity Uptown bridges. Rep. Granger has brought in $23 million in funding and, with the commitment from the NCTCOG, the City of Fort Worth in coordination with the Trinity River Vision Authority (TRVA) will be able to complete construction of the Trinity Uptown bridges located along Henderson Street and North Main Street. WHAT: Press Conference WHO: Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) Fort Worth Mayor Betsy Price City Councilmember Jungus Jordan WHEN: Thursday October 20, 2011 11:15 AM CDT WHERE: Bistro Room, 12thFloor, Fort Worth Club, 306 West Seventh St, Fort Worth Contact: Matt Leffingwell, 202-225-5071 (Granger) Jason Lamers, 817-392-8889 (Fort Worth Media and Public Affairs)
10.05.2011	U.S Law requires the withholding of assessed and voluntary contributions to the U.N. Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger, Chairwoman of the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, warned the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organizations (UNESCO) Executive Board that granting full membership to the Palestinians could end U.S. contributions to that organization. Under U.S. law, the United States is prohibited from giving funds to the United Nations or any United Nations agency that grants the Palestine Liberation Organization the same standing as member states. Today, the UNESCO Executive board is scheduled to vote on granting full membership to the Palestinians. U.S. law requires that the United States withhold its ‘assessed and voluntary contributions’ if the Palestine Liberation Organization is given full membership in the UN or any specialized agency, such as UNESCO. “Since April, I have made it clear to the Palestinian leadership that I would not support sending U.S. taxpayer money to the Palestinians if they sought statehood at the United Nations,” Granger said. “Making a move in another U.N. agency will not only jeopardize our relationship with the Palestinians, it will jeopardize our contributions to the United Nations. As Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I will advocate for all funding to be cut off. This is consistent with current law and I will consider additional actions as needed. There are consequences for short-cutting the process, not only for the Palestinians, but for our longstanding relationship with the United Nations.” ####
09.21.2011	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) today introduced legislation to require the Obama Administration to sell 66 new F-16 fighter jets to Taiwan. The legislation is a House companion bill to Senators Cornyn and Menendez’ Taiwan Airpower Modernization Act of 2011. The legislation will force the Obama Administration to comply with its legal obligations under the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 which mandates the United States provide Taiwan with the military equipment it needs to defend its’ homeland. “The sale of F-16s to Taiwan ensures our key strategic ally in the Pacific has the defense capacity to defend its own airspace,” Granger said. “Our support for a democratic Taiwan is consistent with our national security priorities in the region and demonstrates that we will continue to stand by our friends and allies no matter who or where the threats are from.” “In the last year alone, Chinese defense spending increased 12.7 percent and they have been very public about their development of their 5th Generation Fighter Aircraft. We must support Taiwan’s effort to replace their aging aircraft. Simply allowing them to upgrade their existing fleet is not acceptable.” On August 1, 181 bipartisan House members sent a letter to President Obama calling on him to approve the sale of F-16 aircraft to Taiwan. On September 16, Administration officials gave a briefing on Capitol Hill where they said there would be no new sales to Taiwan. However, no official announcement has been made from the White House. ####
07.29.2011	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement after the House passed the Budget Control Act: “I voted tonight to cut spending now and raise the debt ceiling. Conservatives had two options: Vote for a plan that cuts more than $900 billion from the federal budget – with another opportunity to cut even more six months from now – or vote “no” and support Senator Harry Reid and President Obama. That was the choice. “Some claimed that voting against the Budget Control Act and defeating it would have somehow resulted in Congress being able to pass a more conservative bill. With the Senate and the White House controlled by Democrats, that notion is simply out of touch with reality. We already passed a more conservative bill last week – the Cut, Cap and Balance Act. In a perfect world, that bill would have been signed into law. But this is not a perfect world. That bill was immediately killed in the Senate by Harry Reid and Senate Democrats. “Ronald Reagan raised the debt limit 17 times during his two terms in office. Each time, the increase covered only a limited period of time, forcing Congress to reassess spending priorities immediately and try to correct the country’s fiscal path. President Obama wants to raise the debt limit enough to get him through the 2012 election. It’s not hard to figure out that he doesn’t want to deal with this issue in an election year. His timetable is driven by pure politics. “Going into this debate, conservatives said we would increase the debt ceiling only if we cut spending more than we increased the debt ceiling, we didn’t increase taxes, and the debt ceiling increase was short-term. The Budget Control Act meets those requirements. “The legislation I voted for cuts spending more than it increases the debt ceiling, does not increase taxes, and forces Congress to vote on a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. This bill will make sure that the President doesn’t receive a blank check to continue paying for his expensive programs and bailouts. “Spending cuts will continue to be at the top of our agenda in Congress. Our credit cards are maxed out. Tonight, we began cutting them up.” ###
07.27.2011	Good morning and welcome to the subcommittee markup of the fiscal year 2012 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill. I want to begin by thanking Ranking Member Lowey for her dedication to this subcommittee. Mrs. Lowey and I have a unique partnership in this Congress. While we do not agree on some policy items, we are both very invested in the important work of this subcommittee and it is a joy to work with her and I respect her very much. I want to thank all the Members of our subcommittee for their participation and contributions to this bill. This is a very knowledgeable and engaged subcommittee. In the past, we have been able to fund important projects and take the long view, knowing that someday what we plant would bear fruit. But today is a different time. We are facing a global recession unlike anything in recent memory. Our debt is well over $14 trillion. Today, every dollar counts. This bill reflects these new realities. In the past we’ve sometimes measured success by the size of the check we write. Today, we have to measure our success by the size of the change we bring. The State and Foreign Operations budget makes up only one percent of our federal spending. However, we have to cut spending in every part of the federal budget and this bill is no exception. This year’s spending will return many of the accounts back to the FY2008 levels. But more than just cut how much we spend, this bill reforms how we spend. It strengthens the transparency and the oversight tools we have to ensure that the American people get a solid return on their investment. We don’t claim that this bill has all the answers. We do claim it asks the right questions. This bill reforms and refocuses the way we deliver our foreign aid. First, this bill asks the most important question we can ever ask: how does each program we fund impact our national security interest? If that question couldn’t be answered, we reduced the spending, added restrictions, or cancelled the program altogether. The bill supports our key strategic partner Israel by fully funding the Memorandum of Understanding. This subcommittee understands just how critical it is to support Israel, especially in this period of rapid political change throughout the Middle East. Our unwavering support is bipartisan and is clearly reflected in this bill. This bill supports ongoing programs in Iraq and Afghanistan but not without a serious look at the situations in these countries. Funding for Afghanistan is cut by $850 Million from the Administration’s request because prior funds are still in the pipeline that were withheld because the Afghans have not been able to live up to transparency and oversight requirements. We should not continue to appropriate funds until the Afghan Government implements the institutional changes they need to make. Corruption must be stopped or else it is our tax dollars that end up wasted. We believe our bill gives Afghanistan the tools it needs to succeed while making sure there is more accountability. This bill also asks that we remain committed to the work our troops have done overseas and does so by having a separate “Global War on Terrorism” title in the bill. In the past, most of this funding came in the form of emergency supplementals. These programs are too important to be funded without more thought and oversight. The reason we keep these funds separate is to give the most accurate reflection of what these temporary costs are in the frontline states of Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. This is funding that should not be in the base bill. This spending is not a permanent part of our budget but it makes sure critical, temporary programs continue to be funded such as the special inspectors general for reconstruction in both Iraq and Afghanistan security to keep our diplomats on the ground safe, funding for police training, and funding for Iraq’s Security Forces. The Global War on Terrorism Funds will help make sure we have a successful transition as our troops begin to withdraw from combat theatres. In this period of change throughout the Middle East, we have been forced to look closely at who exactly we are working with in the region. The Palestinian Authority, Lebanon and Egypt have gone through enormous change. There is still uncertainty about whether they will continue to work toward peace or allow extremism into their governments. This bill makes it clear that in order to continue to be partners of the United States these governments must demonstrate that they are committed to promoting stability and fighting our common enemies. In this bill, we have prohibited security assistance for Lebanon if the Lebanese government continues to be aligned with Hezbollah. It is unacceptable for our aid to support a government effectively controlled by a terrorist organization. We have placed restrictions on our aid to Egypt. The Egyptians have been a key strategic ally and we value our military-to-military relationship. We will continue to support the Egyptian government as they go through its transition with the conditions that they will fully honor their treaty with Israel, end the smuggling tunnels, and make sure a new government is not aligned with terrorist organizations. The Palestinian Authority has been a recipient of economic aid and funding to support their security efforts. In the West Bank our security assistance has not only made the Palestinians safer, it has made Israel safer. This bill will only support economic assistance as long as the P.A. does not continue its’ pursuit of statehood at the U.N. and does not create a unity government with Hamas. That brings us to Pakistan. We will insist on full transparency and accountability for every dollar we invest in Pakistan. We have placed the toughest restrictions ever on our aid to Pakistan. There are serious questions that we all have about our relationship and this bill hits these concerns head on. I worked closely with Chairman Ros-Lehtinen, Chairman Buck McKeon and Chairman Mike Rogers to make sure the conditions on our aid are tough and consistent. This subcommittee will continue to work closely with the Department of Defense and the Department of State to continuously monitor this relationship. This bill continues to support Mexico, our ally and neighbor, and addresses the unprecedented increase in violent crime they have experienced over the last decade. Mexico’s security has a direct impact on our national security. Through the Merida Initiative, we made significant investments in police training and equipment so the Mexican government had the weapons and equipment to fight back against the drug cartels. Now that we have moved beyond Merida, we need to support the Mexican government as they reform their entire judicial system and make other significant institutional reforms to roll back the violence that has claimed over 40,000 lives. Moving from National Security to our humanitarian efforts, this bill continues to support the Peace Corps. I want to thank Congressman Sam Farr for his commitment to the program. We cannot afford to fund the Corps at the Administration’s request but this subcommittee understands just how important this program is. This bill increases accountability for international organizations. We have to change the way we do business with the United Nations. This bill will make sure that the U.N. is more transparent. Our contributions are now contingent on the U.N.’s ability to publicly disclose all internal audits and reviews. The secrecy about how the U.N. spends U.S. taxpayer dollars must come to an end. In 2009 the previous majority authorized and appropriated $108 billion for the International Monetary Fund. In addition, we authorized the IMF to sell 13 million ounces of its’ gold reserves to help pay for their operational expenses. The IMF has completed these sales at record high prices for gold, and they are sitting on over $10 billion in profits. Since then, this subcommittee has repeatedly asked for spend plans and for the IMF to be accountable to the Congress. Over and over they have failed to respond. In turn we cannot answer questions from our taxpaying constituents as to why billions of dollars of their money continues to fly out the door to bail out fiscally irresponsible European governments – and their debt holders – and distorting free markets. In this bill we are rescinding the $108 billion that was appropriated in 2009. It is time for the United States to stop contributing to the bailouts of European governments. In closing, this bill lives up to our commitment to oversight. We have held over 20 hearings and member briefings. Mrs. Lowey and I have asked for three reviews from the Appropriations Committee Surveys and Investigations unit to look at the U.N., U.S.AID and hiring at State. This bill is a re-focused way of investing our money around the world. This bill will assess our foreign aid based on what works and our ability to measure our success. We will hold accountable those who cannot live up to our constituents’ expectations. In this difficult geopolitical and economic climate, the American people deserve a policy that is based on American principles, looks out for American interests, and wisely invests American dollars. That’s what this bill is. Nothing more. Nothing else. Nothing less. Thank you.
07.19.2011	Cut, Cap and Balance Act to be voted on today Washington, DC– Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement as the House of Representatives plans to consider the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act today. “The debt-ceiling fight we are going through with the President should not be a temporary fix for our fiscal problems. Our national debt is nearly $14.3 trillion – higher than at any time in American history and 95 percent of our entire economy. Right now is a rare opportunity for Congress and the President to come together and create a serious, long-term solution to both our national debt and our spending problem. “Without an agreement before August 2nd we will have serious obligations the U.S. Treasury will not be able to pay. Republicans have a plan that will immediately cut spending by $111 billion, cap spending for the future, and prohibit any additional vote on raising the debt ceiling again before a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution is sent to all of the states for ratification. “The President has rejected every serious solution without tax increases without offering his own proposal. Cut, Cap and Balance is exactly what we have to do to make sure that all of our financial obligations are met while creating a serious, long-term solution to get our country back on track.” ###
07.14.2011	Chairwoman Granger and Ranking Member Rep. Nita Lowey sent a letter earlier this week, and today made public to Palestinian National Authority (PA) President Mahmoud Abbas reiterating their concerns about the intentions of the PA to pursue recognition of a Palestinian state at the United Nations. They asserted that current and future aid would be jeopardized if the PA abandons direct negotiations with Israel. To read the entire letter click on the PDF below.
06.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) announced the names of nine students who have received Congressional appointments to one of the U.S. Service Academies as well as one student who will be attending the Air Force Academy Prep School. “The important task of protecting our country and preserving democracy is entrusted to the men and women in our armed forces,” Granger said. “Today, military leaders must excel in not only military matters, but also in technology, management and other areas. The men and women who have earned appointments to the academies are the very best we have to offer in my district, and I am confident they will go on to be the leaders of tomorrow who will continue to protect and defend the United States.” These appointments are for the class that enters in the summer of 2011 and graduates in the spring of 2015. The appointees from District 12 are as follows: Charles Jacobsen, Boswell High School, U.S. Military Academy Andrew McElfresh, North Crowley High School, U.S. Military Academy James Moody, Boswell High School, U.S. Air Force Academy Mark Don Suges, Haltom High School, U.S. Air Force Academy Also: Michael Menefee, II, who has been attending New Mexico Military Institute, received an appointment to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Garrett O’Hanlon, who has been attending Air Force Prep School, received an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Andrew Rekieta, who has been attending Northwestern Prep, received an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Matthew Sandusky, who has been attending University of Texas, received an appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy Trenton Turrentine, who has been attending Military Academy Prep School, received an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy In addition, the following student will attend a prep school: Giselle Ixchu, Azle High School, will attend the Air Force Academy Prep School Individuals who are interested in obtaining a Congressional nomination for the next academic class, which begins in the summer 2012, must send a completed application package to Congresswoman Granger’s District 12 office no later than October 17, 2011. For additional information or an application packet, write to: Congresswoman Kay Granger ATTN: Service Academy Coordinator 1701 River Run Road, Suite 407 Fort Worth, Texas 76107-6548 Or an individual can call the service academy coordinator in the office at (817) 338-0909. Interested individuals can also go to www.kaygranger.house.govfor nomination information. ###
06.14.2011	Amendment adopted by Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) introduced an amendment in the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee mark-up today that was adopted into the FY 2012 Defense Appropriations Bill. The amendment makes it clear that the United States fully supports the Joint Strike Fighter program. “The Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) is essential for our national security. It will serve as the backbone of U.S. air combat for the next generation.” Granger said. “China and Russia are aggressively competing with the United States. We must demonstrate that we are committed to our future national security by being 100 percent committed to this program. The JSF is being built by the very best work force in the country.” The Granger amendment makes several key points. First, it tells our troops we are committed to providing them the equipment they need to do their job and protect this country. Second, it makes clear to our adversaries that the U.S. will be maintaining air dominance in the skies. And third, it lets our international partners know that we are committed to the success and completion of the Joint Strike Fighter; a program that is not only important to the U.S. but to many of our allies around the world. The FY 2012 Defense Appropriations Bill is scheduled to be on the floor of the House the week of June 20th. ####
06.06.2011	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) received the Semper Fidelis Award in recognition of her support for U.S. Service members and their families. The award was presented at the 25th annual Marine Corps Scholarship Gala in Washington, DC. Only one individual receives the award each year and Granger is the first Texan to be recognized with this honor. Past recipients of the award include Senator John Warner (R-VA), Congressman Norm Dicks (D-WA), and Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS). “This is a humbling honor to receive this award,” Granger said. “If we don’t take care of our military families we are not taking care of our troops. Programs for military families can be just as important to our success on the battlefield as funds spent on body armor and weapons. I am proud to have played a small role in making sure our country serves the families the same way the military community serves us.” The Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation makes it possible for many children of fallen Marines to receive the higher education they deserve. Over $4 million was given in scholarships to 1,400 students from 2010 to 2011 alone. The Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation has been providing scholarships for 25 years. They have awarded over 25,000 need-based scholarships valued at more than $60 million since the organization’s founding in 1962. ###
05.09.2011	Fort Worth –Eagle Mountain-Saginaw’s Boswell High School junior Shannon Poe took home the first place prize in the 12th Congressional District 2011 Art Competition. Congresswoman Kay Granger handed out awards during a ceremony on Saturday, May 7, 2011 in Fort Worth. Shannon’s “Touching Glass” was selected Best in Show from 43 pieces of art submitted by students representing 17 schools in District 12. The Boswell High student’s photograph will become part of the Congressional Art Exhibit that goes on display in the Cannon House Office Building Tunnel in Washington D.C. on June 22, 2011. Shannon will be invited to accompany Congresswoman Granger for the display’s opening ceremonies in Washington. “Art is an important part of our culture and heritage,” Granger said. “Fort Worth has a mature arts community in large part because we have made art a priority. The 2011 Congressional Art Competition produced excellent entries and I will be very proud to see Shannon’s piece hang in the halls of Congress.” Second place honors were presented to Alyssa Wildridge, a Central High School senior. Third place honors were given to All Saints Episcopal School sophomore, Ali Duran. Special Recognition Winners are: Collage: Elise Chernosky, Fort Worth Country Day Drawing: Junjira Mengkheo, Brewer High School Myah Velasquez, Chico High School Mixed Media: Joselyn Escobedo, Lake Worth High School Painting: Sarah Mecke, Trinity Valley School Photography: Dejah Knight, Fort Worth Country Day Print: Marissa Quist, Trinity Valley School Granger selected the Congresswoman’s Choice Award at the reception Saturday: Caroline Baxter, Central High School As first place winner, Shannon’s art work will hang in the Cannon House Office Building Tunnel. Shannon and her parents will be flown to Washington, D.C. for the national exhibition’s opening. As second place winner, Alyssa’s art work will hang in Granger’s Washington office. As third place winner, Ali’s artwork will hang in Granger’s Fort Worth office.
05.04.2011	Washington, DC- State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Kay Granger (TX-12) sent the following letter below to Secretary Clinton today regarding direct government-to-government assistance to Pakistan.
05.04.2011	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after the Obama Administration denied Texas a Major Disaster Declaration in order to assist with the ongoing wildfire season after 2.2 million acres have been burned and over 400 homes have been destroyed: “When tornadoes devastated the southern United States, the Obama Administration rightly wasted no time making sure there was federal disaster relief money available to them,” Granger said. “After over 2 million acres have burned in Texas - and hundreds of families have been displaced - how much more does Texas have to suffer before this Administration steps up? The President has an obligation and a commitment to all Americans in times of emergency to provide for their safety and protection. Texas has been a national leader in emergency preparedness, but every state has a limit. How many hundreds of lives must be destroyed before help is warranted?” On April 19th, Granger joined with the Texas Delegation in writing to President Obama to support Governor Perry’s April 16threquest for federal resources. Full text of the letter below. ####
05.02.2011	"Tonight is a night to remember those who gave their lives on 9-11 and those who have fought the War on Terror for the past ten years. The death of Bin Laden is the result of a decade of work by our military. This is a message to friend and foe alike: we will never allow terrorists like Bin Laden to escape justice. Much work remains to be done. Al Qaeda is still alive and the Taliban just announced its spring offensive. And while the death of Bin Laden is a great victory for America, for the world and for the future, the fight to rid the world of terror must and will go on."
04.28.2011	Chairwoman Kay Granger and Ranking Member Rep. Nita Lowey sent a letter to Palestinian Authority President Mahmmoud Abbas today expressing their concerns about a reconciliation agreement between Fatah and Hamas. To read the entire letter click on the PDF below.
04.28.2011	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger’s office released the following statement in regards to a tentative power-sharing agreement between Hamas and Fatah. Granger is currently in the Middle East meeting with senior members of the Israeli and Egyptian governments as well as the Palestinian Authority: “Congresswoman Granger is in the Middle East looking at U.S. aid to the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. In the current budget environment, all of our foreign assistance needs to be carefully examined. Recent reports of a reconciliation agreement between Hamas and Fatah demonstrate how quickly events are changing throughout the region and reinforce the need for continuous oversight and evaluation of U.S. investments. If a power-sharing agreement with a terrorist organization becomes a reality in the Palestinian territories, the U.S. will be forced to reexamine our aid to the Palestinian Authority.” ####
04.27.2011	Washington, DC- Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Israel’s Minister of Defense, Ehud Barak, in Jerusalem. In addition, Granger met with Director of Military Intelligence Major General Aviv Kochavi. The meetings focused on Egypt’s future participation in the peace process, security in the Sinai Peninsula, and Iran’s increasing influence in the region. While this is the first time Granger has met with Netanyahu as Chairwoman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, their relationship goes back to the 1990s. Granger first met Netanyahu in 1998 when she and then-House Speaker Newt Gingrich traveled to Jerusalem to celebrate Israel’s 50thanniversary. After Netanyahu visited with Granger and Gingrich, he invited the group to his home where the discussions continued for another four hours focusing on the future of the peace process and Middle East politics. While in Israel today, Granger reemphasized the importance of the U.S. – Israel strategic partnership. Granger’s subcommittee oversees aid to Israel, and in addition, she serves on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, where she has fought for funding for U.S.-Israeli missile defense cooperative programs. ####
04.21.2011	In a recent survey, I asked constituents what they believed the top three issues Congress should be focusing on. A vast majority of individuals who participated indicated that the national debt and federal spending should be the nation’s top priority. I want you to know I am taking this seriously. I voted for Paul Ryan’s budget proposal, which will cut our debt by $6.2 trillion over the next ten years. This is only the beginning. See below for the full results of the survey: Issue Percentage % National debt and federal spending 29.25% Illegal immigration and border security 17.05% Economy and Job Creation 16.84% Energy Independence and gas prices 14.84% Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid 10.83% National Security 8.09% Other 3.09% *Note: This survey was conducted by email and 5,559 individuals responded.
04.08.2011	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after announcing that in the event of a government shutdown, she will refuse all compensation from the House of Representatives until our men and women serving in the military are paid: “Yesterday I voted for a bill that would have ensured the men and women serving in our Armed Forces are paid regardless of a federal government shutdown. The Administration and the Senate have rejected this bill while they continue to accept their own compensation. I cannot in good conscience accept my own pay if our war fighters are not receiving a paycheck. These service members are putting their lives on the line in defense of our country, and it is inexcusable that because the President and Senate failed to act, our men and women in uniform will now have to worry how their families will pay their mortgage, buy groceries, and pay the bills. One of Congress’s most important responsibilities is to ensure that our service members and their families are taken care of. The Senate and this Administration have sadly failed them.” ####
04.06.2011	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) sent the attached letter to the Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano today expressing disapproval over her recent statements on the state of security of the U.S. – Mexico border. Read the letter Congresswoman Granger sent to discuss the extreme levels of violence plaguing the U.S. Mexico border and her disapproval of Secretary Napolitano’s statement that the safety of the border is “better now than it has ever been.”
04.06.2011	I want to welcome everyone to today’s Subcommittee hearing. Ambassador Rice, thank you for appearing today to testify on the Administration’s fiscal year 2012 budget request for the United Nations and other international organizations. I want to begin by offering my condolences to the families of the U.N. staff who were killed and injured in recent weeks in Afghanistan, Ivory Coast, and Congo. We appreciate the sacrifices made on a daily basis by the men and women who work for the U.N. Ambassador Rice, this is the first time you have appeared before our Subcommittee, and we thank you for your service during an extremely challenging time. We look forward to your comments on many important issues around the world and hope you will share your first-hand perspective on what is gained through the substantial U.S. investment in the United Nations. Madam Ambassador, this country is facing a fiscal crisis, and funding for the U.N. and other international organizations will be scrutinized along with every program in the State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs bill. The fiscal year 2012 request for U.N. accounts is more than $3.8 billion, but that is only a portion of what the U.S. government has been programming through the United Nations. In 2009, for example, the U.N. and related organizations received more than $6 billion of U.S. funding – almost double the amount directly appropriated. The House-passed fiscal year 2011 continuing resolution, H.R. 1, took an initial step toward re-evaluating these contributions. Funding was dramatically reduced by offsetting assessed costs with credits already on the books and by scaling back voluntary contributions. While the changes in H.R. 1 represent a first attempt to re-balance spending, much more has to be done. I hope it can be done working together with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, the authorizing committees, and the Administration. Madam Ambassador, as you know, in addition to H.R. 1, there have already been bills introduced in the House to either withhold or reduce funds to the U.N. In the past, strong U.S. actions have pressured the U.N. to take on reforms. I can assure you that if members of the House don’t see changes, legislative steps will continue and funds will be in jeopardy. I hope you will provide an update on the Administration’s efforts to push for U.N. reform. There are many areas that need improvement -- international peacekeepers must be held to high standards, procurement processes must prevent graft and corruption, and whistleblowers must be protected -- just to name a few. I also must raise my concerns about U.S. credits that exist at the United Nations. Late last year, the Committee was told that more than $400 million of credits had accumulated. I am concerned about the process, or lack thereof, that has evolved over the last few months, regarding these credits. Soon after the credits were revealed to the Committee, the Administration identified $100 million of perimeter security upgrades that were needed at U.N. facilities in New York. At the end of December, we were told that credits were applied for this purpose. While I understand the need to address security vulnerabilities, it is how the Administration went about funding this project that concerns me. This requirement was never presented in a budget request, nor were funds ever appropriated for this purpose. There seems to be an assumption by the Administration that once the Congress appropriates money to the U.N., funds can be used for any project that seems worthy. This is not the case. Madam Ambassador, I urge the Administration to carefully examine how credits are used and to improve communication with this Committee. In addition to all of the daunting budget and management challenges I’ve mentioned, I hope you can update the Subcommittee on the very serious policy matters that come before you every day. In particular, we would like to hear your comments on Israel and the Palestinian territories, get a better understanding of the response to the crisis and next steps in Libya, and be updated on U.N. efforts to restrain Iran’s nuclear ambitions. In closing, Ambassador Rice, I want to thank you and the U.S. delegations stationed in New York and around the world. Your work is extremely difficult and we appreciate your service. Thank you for being here today.
03.31.2011	I would like to welcome Ambassador Goosby and Ms. Batson before the Subcommittee today to discuss the fiscal year 2012 request for Global Health programs. The President's Global Health Initiative was announced almost two years ago and will encompass all global health funding under this Subcommittee's jurisdiction. It totals $8.7 billion in fiscal year 2012 - an increase of $887 million from the enacted fiscal year 2010 levels. Almost 70% of the Global Health Initiative (GHI), or $5.9 billion, is for HIV/AIDS programs under Ambassador Goosby's office. Therefore, I hope both witnesses will be able to comment on the implementation of the GHI. First, let me state that I support the goals of the President's Global Health Initiative. If the GHI will achieve better health for adults and children in the developing world and provide a long-term plan for delivery of health services led by the countries themselves, then I can support the Administration's efforts. However, given that there is no authorization for this program and no clear goals, I must admit that I am skeptical. To date, your track record is not very good. In the fiscal year 2010 House report, the Committee included language at my request directing the Administration to provide a report on global health programs so the Subcommittee knows how effective they have been at meeting their objectives and goals. Here we are two years later, and we have nothing. In addition, it is still unclear who is providing the leadership for the GHI. In the last week, I learned there is a new executive director. And while the QDDR states that GHI will fall under USAID after certain benchmarks are met, it is unclear what this means in the interim. I will be raising a number of questions today that I hope our witnesses can answer. I also have concerns about the operations of the Global Fund to fight AIDS, TB and malaria, specifically the Administration's large multiyear commitment – something that, if fulfilled, would most likely have to come from offsets to your bilateral HIV/AIDS program. I know this is not your intention, Ambassador Goosby, but it could well be the reality of today's budget climate. Let me close by saying that while I have concerns about the direction this budget request takes us, Americans should be proud of the many milestones U.S. global health assistance has achieved in the past 10 years. Many Americans enter careers in global health to provide care that otherwise would not be available to the poorest of the poor. But more money alone is not the answer. In the current fiscal environment, our government will have to deliver services more efficiently, without destructive competition between agencies and with open books to ensure ample auditing and transparency. Additionally, both USAID and the Global AIDS Coordinator have large pipelines of previously appropriated funds that are unobligated and unexpended. I hope you can provide more details about those funds for the record. Thank you both for appearing before us today. I look forward to hearing more about your work. I will now turn to the Ranking Member, Mrs. Lowey.
03.30.2011	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I would like to welcome the Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, Dr. Raj Shah to discuss the fiscal year 2012 budget request. Dr. Shah, thank you for appearing today. The fiscal year 2012 request for the State-Foreign Operations bill is $59.5 billion, which is $10.7 billion, or 22%, above the 2010 level. USAID administers a large portion of the funding in the bill -- key programs like global health, economic growth, democracy and governance, and disaster assistance. Last week I led a delegation of members from this Subcommittee and the Defense Subcommittee to Colombia, Panama, Guatemala, and Mexico. We saw first-hand the positive impact programs like these can make to transform countries. Your staff in the field are truly dedicated, and I thank them for their service. While I understand the value of many of these important programs, the funding requested for next year is unrealistic in today's budget environment. Although the Administration characterizes this request as a lean budget, the truth remains that an increase of almost $10 billion is a significant amount for American taxpayers. As we all know too well, the federal government’s debt has grown enormously. With debt at historic levels, the Congress must demonstrate an immediate commitment to restrain federal spending. As this Subcommittee works together to make difficult funding decisions, I will ask members to look first at programs that support our highest priority national security needs. We must make a conscious effort to identify what is most important and meet those requirements within our Subcommittee allocation. We simply cannot fund everything that has been funded in the past, and we certainly cannot continue to fund programs that are duplicative and wasteful. A large portion of the USAID request directly supports our national security, including programs for the front-line states and the Middle East. I will have a number of questions about these activities today. There are other requests that will require more discussion. Specifically, I hope you will address the large requests for global health, food security, and climate change. We need to better understand what has been achieved, what is planned, and what efficiencies can be identified so that the Subcommittee can prioritize these requests accordingly. The Subcommittee also needs to hear more about USAID’s staffing surge – the development leadership initiative. I understand that the goal is to increase the agency’s in-house staff so that they can better manage contracts and monitor and evaluate projects. However, doubling the number of Foreign Service Officers – an increase of 1,200 employees above fiscal year 2008 – is extremely ambitious. With this country facing such a dire fiscal situation, we need to know if this global staffing surge should remain a priority. We would also like to hear more about your efforts to reform the agency through the initiative you began last year called USAID Forward. While the goals you have laid out are important, this proposal is expensive. We need to understand why it takes more money just to conduct business a little differently. Dr. Shah, I hope you will address all of these themes in your testimony and during questions, and I look forward to hearing from you today. Let me close by reiterating that I want the Subcommittee to work closely with you to craft a bill that funds the highest priority programs that support our national security. But at the same time we must focus on slowing the rapid growth of some programs, eliminating duplicative programs and personnel, and increasing oversight and transparency. I know that, working together, we can achieve these goals. ####
03.24.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Come to the North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum, on Saturday, April 2, 2011 to learn more about our nation's service academies, requirements for admission and the selection process. Congresswoman Kay Granger’s office is currently accepting applications from residents of the 12th Congressional District interested in attending one of the nation’s prestigious service academies, and invites you to learn more about them. North Texas U.S. Service Academies Forum Date: Saturday, April 2, 2011 Time: 8:00 AM - 12:00 Noon (Registration begins at 7:30 AM) Place: Gateway Church – NRH Campus 7501 Davis Blvd. North Richland Hills, TX 76182 Representatives from North Texas Congressional offices and all five service academies (U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy), as well as current academy cadets and midshipmen will be on hand to answer questions. North Texas students, parents and educators will be able to hear from and meet with these representatives on a one-to-one basis to become informed about the excellent possibilities associated with attending these premier institutions. Additional presenters will be Larry Mullen, Deputy Director for the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB), as well as representatives from Air Force, Army, Navy and Marine Corps ROTC. The forum is free and open to the public, and will be held from 8:00 AM – 12:00 NOON; registration opens at 7:30 AM. For more information regarding the North Texas Academies Forum, please contact Marcia Etie, District Office of Congresswoman Kay Granger, (817) 338-0909. ####
03.22.2011	Panama City, PANAMA- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after leading meetings with Panamanian President Martinelli and Public Security Minister Mulino in Panama City followed by a visit to the Panama Canal: “U.S. - Panama security efforts will work to ensure that criminal organizations no longer have the ability to destabilize or threaten regional security. The Panamanian Government has stepped up their efforts and together we will continue working to prevent drugs and violence from plaguing the region.” “Panama is also a key economic partner. The delegation was briefed on the expansion of the Panama Canal and was impressed with the efforts planned over the next few years. This is critical for commerce and trade in the U.S. and will benefit the state of Texas more than any other state.” ####
03.18.2011	Bogota, COLOMBIA- Congresswoman Kay Granger released the following statement after visiting the international police training facility in Pijaos: “Colombia is an important first stop on a trip that focuses on counternarcotics. Working together, we have accomplished many things for both of our countries’ security and stability. Colombia is a model for how this success can be applied elsewhere in the Western Hemisphere and around the world. I applaud the Colombians for exporting their experience. Training centers - such as those in Pijaos - have proven critical far beyond South America. Whether it is training Afghan counternarcotics officials or Mexican law enforcement, the Colombians are global leaders in combating the illegal drug trade.” ####
03.17.2011	Members will examine the impact of security assistance in the region and the Mérida Initiative Washington, DC - As the Chairwoman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) led eight Members of Congress on a delegation trip to Colombia, Panama, Guatemala, and Mexico to examine the impact of U.S. security assistance in the region. Granger departed Washington today and will return to Texas on Friday, March 25. The delegation will begin in Bogota, Colombia and conclude in Mexico City, Mexico and plans to meet with Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos, Panamanian President Ricardo Martinelli, Guatemalan President Alvaro Colom, and Mexican President Felipe Calderon. “At a time of escalating violence and sophisticated enemies, we need to know what is working and how we can help bring an end to the carnage that has killed thousands and brought drugs and violence into the United States,” said Granger. “As a Member of Congress who worked closely with the Colombians in the 1990s, I have seen the positive long-term impact U.S. assistance can have. The Colombians have proven that the drug cartels can be defeated and they are now working with their neighbors to cut off key drug routes and end the violence. While Mexico faces a different situation, our collaboration with our ally remains a top priority and we share a mutual interest in ensuring a peaceful outcome.” Granger continues to be concerned with ongoing delays in the delivery of equipment in order to fulfill the U.S. commitment as part of the Mérida Initiative. In June 2010, Granger’s subcommittee held a hearing to examine ongoing delays in providing critical support for the Mexican government and hosted subsequent meetings with the State Department and the Department of Defense to help expedite the process at the Congresswoman’s request. Under the Mérida Initiative, the United States provided assistance, largely in the form of equipment and training. Funding for the Mérida Initiative has focused on: • Providing Bell helicopters and surveillance aircraft to support interdiction and the rapid response of Mexican law enforcement agencies; • Providing inspection equipment, ion scanners, and canine units for Mexican customs and the Mexican federal police, as well as the military to interdict trafficked drugs, arms, cash, and persons; • Providing technologies and secure communications to improve data collection and storage; and technical advice and training to strengthen the institutions of justice in order to improve vetting for the Mexican police force, to provide case management software to track investigations through the legal process, to support offices of citizen complaint and professional responsibility, and to promote the establishment of witness protection programs. Firms in the 12thCongressional District, including DynCorp and Bell-Textron, provide important services and equipment to support counter narcotics operations in the regions where the delegation will be travelling. ####
03.15.2011	I would like to welcome the Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation, Mr. Daniel Yohannes, and thank him for appearing before the Subcommittee today to discuss the fiscal year 2012 request for the MCC. The Administration’s request of $1.1 billion is $20 million above the FY2010 appropriation. Since the first compact was signed in 2005, MCC has programmed almost $8 billion for compacts in 22 countries. The MCC is a unique agency, and one I support because the model is focused on generating income in developing countries, which I expect will have a lasting impact. MCC recognizes that the private sector is the real engine of growth. If the history of foreign assistance has taught us anything, it is that money alone cannot force a country to develop. Countries need good institutions, the right policies in place, and a commitment to fight corruption and mismanagement. MCC is in a position to prove how foreign assistance can be effective. It must be devoted to building capacity at the local level so that governments are more effective; it must measure results to determine what works and steer funds away from what does not work; and it must treat compact countries as partners to establish a sense of trust with the United States. Now that two compacts are complete and several more are closing soon, I hope you can share with us both the outputs and the outcomes of these investments. The Congress needs to know if MCC funding has actually generated income in these countries. Mr. Yohannes, I do not have to tell you that this country is facing fiscal pressures never faced before. During these times of constrained budgets, our development and economic assistance must be focused on helping and encouraging sustainability. The MCC should be a catalyst for partner countries to graduate from U.S. development and economic assistance. We must encourage these countries to break the cycle of dependence and begin to raise their own funds on the capital markets and through private investment. This Subcommittee will face constrained budgets this year and into the future, and we must accelerate graduation of countries, where feasible, and examine where duplication exists. Let me point out that MCC compact countries received almost $1.2 billion in other U.S. development and economic assistance in fiscal year 2010. As MCC begins to look at second compacts, countries must be selected on the basis of who can graduate from other U.S. development and economic aid. I hope you can discuss this proposal with the Committee today. Thank you for appearing today, Mr. Yohannes. I look forward to your testimony.
03.10.2011	I want to welcome everyone to today’s Subcommittee hearing. Madam Secretary, thank you for appearing today to testify on the Administration’s fiscal year 2012 budget request for the State Department and Foreign Assistance Programs. I know last week was very busy for you and for the Committee, and I am glad that we were able to get this hearing back on the schedule today. The issues we will discuss are critically important for U.S. national security. Our efforts in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq must achieve clear objectives and demonstrate results. At the same time, we’re all anxiously watching the rapidly unfolding events in the Middle East and North Africa. We must support efforts for reform in this region. Continued investments in democracy promotion and military assistance will be critical to maintaining peace in a very difficult environment. In our own hemisphere, drugs and human trafficking remain grave concerns. Powerful cartels continue to push narcotics through South and Central America into Mexico, bringing violence to our own backyard. In my home state of Texas, the violence in Mexico is spilling across the border. We must take action now. Even with all of these serious issues we are facing around the world, as Admiral Mullen said so well, our debt is the greatest threat to our national security. We must make difficult choices today in order to protect the most critical diplomatic and development funding for the future. While it will not be easy, the Administration and the Congress must work together to make wise decisions to lead this country forward and insulate us from future threats. The State-Foreign Operations bill supports critical national security interests, but we cannot continue to spend like we have in the past. I want to be clear that I remain committed to protecting our national security with investments abroad while giving appropriate attention to our economic recovery here at home. While this Congress and the Administration still have a great deal of work to do, the State-Foreign Operations portion of H.R. 1 – the continuing resolution passed by the House a few weeks ago – was a first attempt to achieve the right balance. The bill prioritized the front line states of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq, and key allies like Israel and Jordan. Simultaneously, H.R. 1 made significant cuts to programs we simply cannot afford. Plans to increase State and USAID staff, support large multi-year commitments, and boost lending by international banks must be reconsidered. The hearing today is this Subcommittee’s first chance to hear how the Administration has prioritized its needs for fiscal year 2012. The budget request totals $59.5 billion for the State-Foreign Operations Subcommittee, which is almost $11 billion above the fiscal year 2010 enacted level. This funding level does include, for the first time, a separate account for the extraordinary costs of operating in the front line states. I’d like to highlight several areas of the budget request that deserve the Subcommittee’s attention. The request for Iraq is billions of dollars more than the State Department and USAID spent in fiscal year 2010, but this is significantly less than the cost of keeping troops on the ground. As the State Department prepares to become the lead agency in Iraq on October first, serious questions remain about State’s capability to manage a program of this size and ensure the security of diplomatic and development staff. In Afghanistan, the Administration continues to focus on providing direct assistance to the government. The Subcommittee will continue to watch this closely. We will also be following how the Administration monitors and evaluates projects, because clear goals must be achieved so that the civilian effort complements military activity. It is only through an integrated strategy that we will ensure that terrorists do not have safe havens to plan attacks on the United States. I am concerned about security changes by the government of Afghanistan that could make the operating environment even more difficult for U.S. Government employees and contractors. A reasonable agreement must be reached so that there is a successful transition to Afghan Security Forces, but counterinsurgency and development goals cannot be put in jeopardy. In Pakistan, the United States continues to demonstrate its commitment to an enduring strategic partnership focused on economic, military, and police assistance to help root out extremists and support other critical investments. For our ally Israel, this budget includes more than $3 billion to help maintain a strong military presence in an increasingly volatile region. While the budget proposal does include planned reductions for Colombia and Mexico, there is a continued focus on these countries and their neighbors in the region. The Subcommittee needs to hear more about how the funding requested will sustain gains made in Colombia over the last decade and will help Mexico build the institutions it needs to forge a lasting front against the cartels. In closing, I want to thank the men and women of this country who are serving overseas, especially those placed in the most difficult circumstances. I also want to thank Secretary Clinton for her dedicated service to this nation. I believe that, working together, we can maintain an effective and efficient diplomatic and development capability in key areas around the world. But justifying the total funding levels proposed in this budget simply will not be possible. I hope today will be the first of many conversations to determine how the United States can remain a leader in the world through a period of extraordinary political crisis, and at the same time, emerge quickly from our own economic turmoil. ####
03.09.2011	I would like to welcome Secretary Geithner and thank him for appearing before the Subcommittee today to discuss the Fiscal Year 2012 request for the Department of Treasury's international programs. Additionally, I would like to hear about the current status of the International Monetary Fund, given the large level of funding approved by Congress two years ago. Secretary Geithner, I know Treasury's international programs are ones you worked on for many years before becoming secretary. I hope you will provide the Committee with your insight so we can better understand this large request for Fiscal Year 2012. The President’s budget includes $3.4 billion for Treasury’s international affairs programs, which is $1.2 billion, or 58%, over the enacted 2010 levels. I would also like to highlight that this is more than a doubling of funds since 2009 and more than a 150% increase since 2008. All of these funds are contributions to international financial institutions, with the exception of the Treasury Technical Assistance and bilateral debt relief programs. Last year, I asked that you justify the need for such a large increase for multilateral assistance during an economic crisis here at home. This year, the fiscal situation is even direr. The United States is facing record budget deficits. The President's fiscal commission released its report calling for freezing or cutting discretionary spending. I know I don't have to remind you that we are all facing a very different budget situation than last year. Support for increases to the multilateral development banks was already in doubt before this budget was formulated. Now, this administration is requesting almost $2 billion in appropriations for capital increases and putting the U.S. taxpayer on the hook for another $40 billion in potential liabilities. Mr. Secretary, this committee never consented to these capital increases. Authorization bills are needed for each bank spelling out specific reforms and possibly withholding funds until reforms are met. I cannot support writing a blank check to these institutions. Large multi-year capital increases and other global commitments will be extremely difficult to justify without convincing evidence that taxpayer dollars will be used in a more effective and transparent manner than they have been in the past. Mr. Secretary, I can predict that this subcommittee will face very difficult choices this year. We will have to look at each request to determine what is critical to our national security. We must prioritize spending by looking at what works, what has good oversight, and what is not duplicated elsewhere. I urge you to approach the Subcommittee with your request in that context today and as the year progresses. Finally, I want to mention the unique role the Treasury Department plays in U.S. foreign policy. Your work to administer sanctions against countries like Iran and Libya, and to track terrorist financing, is critical. Members will want to hear your comments on these important matters. Thank you, and I look forward to your testimony. ####
03.03.2011	The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order. I want to welcome everyone to the first hearing of this Subcommittee in the 112th Congress. Some members are returning, and some of you are just beginning to focus on these issues. I am honored to serve as chair and am committed to making sure that all members' perspectives are considered as we work to tackle some of the world's most complex issues. I look forward to working with each of you and am particularly pleased to have Ranking Member Lowey as my partner on the other side of the aisle. Today’s hearing is focused on oversight of the Department of State and Foreign Operations Programs. I would like to welcome our witness, Ms. Jacquelyn Williams-Bridgers, of the Government Accountability Office (GAO). GAO provides important assessments for the Congress and this Subcommittee in order to help us conduct appropriate oversight. We appreciate your work and look forward to your testimony today. We hope you will address four main issues in this Subcommittee’s jurisdiction, based on your most recent work: • Strategic planning and performance measurement, • Contracting oversight, • U.S. agency capacity, and • Partner nation capability. Several of these topics cross over into many program areas and countries. We want to hear your thoughts on how this subcommittee can continue to support critical national security investments while ensuring that funds are used efficiently and effectively, achieve clear objectives, and demonstrate results. The Administration has made many announcements over the last two years to improve strategic planning and operational efficiencies, including the Presidential Policy Directive on Global Development, the Quadrennial Diplomatic and Development Review, and USAID Forward. We would like to hear if the concerns GAO has raised about strategic planning and performance measurement have been addressed in these recent policy announcements. There are programs in several countries that have been reviewed by GAO and I hope you can update us today on your work in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Mexico, and Central America. In Iraq, questions remain about the State Department’s ability to handle the large contracting and oversight responsibilities they will assume on October first when the military withdraws. There is no room for error in such a critical environment. In Afghanistan, the subcommittee must have assurances that appropriate safeguards are in place and that assistance is not being diverted by corrupt actors in and outside of the government of Afghanistan. In Pakistan, there are questions about appropriate oversight of funds managed by U.S. Government implementing partners and by the government of Pakistan. In Mexico and Central America, GAO has identified problems with measuring the success of the Merida Initiative. While I am pleased that the pace of equipment delivery has improved, more must be done and we must be able to judge the impact of our assistance. In closing, I look forward to hearing GAO's testimony to help us properly conduct oversight of the funds in this subcommittee’s jurisdiction. # # # #
02.22.2011	Washington - Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) received the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence today in recognition of her consistent support of manufacturers and their employees. The award was presented at Williams-Pyro, a high-tech manufacturer in Texas’ 12th Congressional District. “On behalf of Williams-Pyro and our employees, I thank Congresswoman Granger for championing the causes that will help manufacturers thrive in Texas and across the United States,” said Della Williams, Williams-Pyro President and CEO. “We’re fortunate to have Kay Granger in our corner, advocating policies that will enable us to grow, create jobs, expand internationally and stay ahead of our global competition.” “Congresswoman Granger supports common-sense policies that will enable manufacturers to create and maintain good high-paying jobs in Texas and throughout America,” said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. “A vibrant manufacturing base is vital to getting our economy turned around and ensuring quality of life for all Americans. It is critical to have lawmakers like Congresswoman Granger whose actions consistently match their words when it comes to a pro-manufacturing agenda for economic growth and job creation.” Key manufacturing votes for the 111th Congress included energy policy, taxes, regulations and labor law reform, among others. “The Award is a non-partisan indicator to help manufacturers and their employees sort out the true allies of manufacturing based on their votes on key issues that affect the manufacturing economy, jobs and U.S. competitiveness,” Timmons noted. # # # #
02.11.2011	Washington - Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) praised House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers for his leadership in making the largest reduction in discretionary spending in U.S. history to complete the FY 2011 appropriations cycle, which Democrats failed to finish in the 111thCongress. “Chairman Rogers had a very difficult task, but finishing the Democrats’ work is an opportunity for House Republicans to demonstrate that we are serious about ending the out-of-control spending of the last several years,” Granger said. “This is a new era and I applaud the Chairman for his work in making historic cuts and setting the tone as we move into the FY 2012 appropriations cycle when the cuts will go even deeper.” “The reductions made to my section of the bill are a good start. As long as I am Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, I will ensure that our foreign aid is not used as a stimulus bill for foreign countries. This bill is about our national security and the funding levels reflect that.” As Chairwoman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, Granger contributed to the overall budget reduction by making her suggestions on cuts to Chairman Rogers. Granger’s section of the bill received the third largest percentage of cuts out of the 12 Appropriations subcommittees. The total budget allocation for the State and Foreign Operations title in the continuing resolution is $44.9 billion, which is a reduction of $3.8 billion, or 8 percent from total 2010 appropriations and a reduction of $11.7 billion, or 21 percent, from the President’s 2011 budget request. The bill protects key national security priorities by fully funding the $3 billion U.S. commitment to Israel and sustaining current diplomatic and development actions in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. Targeted cuts to the bill were partially made by rescinding funds from appropriations that remain unspent, freezing federal employee pay raises at the State Department, not funding programs that require authorizations, scaling back contributions to the United Nations and other international organizations, and eliminating wasteful, duplicative and ineffective programs. The bill provides $1.3 billion in military aid to Egypt and up to $250 million in economic assistance to Egypt with the understanding that the government will undertake significant economic and democratic reforms. In addition, the bill prohibits military assistance to Lebanon unless the Secretary of State determines it is in the national interest of the United States. “The spending priorities in the bill reflect the fluid and tenuous situation in the Middle East,” Granger said. “Volatility in the region highlights the importance of reaffirming our strategic partnerships and commitments. The events in the Middle East have a direct impact on the safety and security of the United States and our allies.” # # # #
01.31.2011	Washington - Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, released the following statement regarding U.S. aid for Egypt: “While there are calls for eliminating Egypt’s economic and military aid, I urge caution when deciding what the U.S. response will be. It is critical that we are deliberate about the actions we take. Egypt has been a moderate influence in the Middle East and has a peace agreement with Israel. I am continuing to monitor the events on the ground very closely.” # # # #
01.28.2011	Washington - Congresswoman Kay Granger, Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, released the following statement regarding the ongoing violence in Egypt: “While Egypt has long been an important ally of the United States and has been a critical, stabilizing force in the Middle East, I call on the Egyptian government to exercise restraint when responding to the protestors. I urge the opposition to show restraint as well. Violence will not yield a positive outcome for either side.” ####
01.27.2011	On January 19, 2011, the House voted to repeal President Obama’s health care legislation. I asked my constituents how Obamacare would impact them. I received hundreds of responses. Read what they are saying about the bill below: “The new and lower Healthcare Flex Spending Account caps will cost my family significantly as my wife, son and myself have multiple health conditions that require many and varied medications and medical appliances. With the lower cap, I will have to spend more after tax dollars for the necessary medicines. We use the maximum allowance each year by September as it is now. The undue burden to have a doctor's note to purchase over the counter medicine is ridiculous, and costs me an extra visit for each of us to get the note. I am employed by a Fortune 500 company in DFW so I have lots of options for healthcare providers. But several of them do not accept Medicare or Medicaid, so what happens to us when I retire or go out on medical disability?” “My mother is on Medicare, and I can see the problems that are already beginning to happen. Her diabetic supplies can only be bought from companies on a list, and they charge more. She needs more services than she is allowed to have.” “If I'm forced to pay for employee health insurance, we'll let employees go and work ourselves more. As a small retailer we can't afford it.” “It will raise our rates, our taxes, and give us fewer choices for healthcare. We own our own business and pay for our health insurance out of our own pocket, and now we will be closer to not being able to afford to stay in business for ourselves.” “It has already impacted my company with a 19% increase in monthly cost for my employees and the company. The employees cost was much more since I decided to pay only 50% of their premium vs. the 75% we have paid in the past.” “It has already affected us. Our premiums have doubled and our drugs are more expensive. I'm paying $40 for medicine I paid $10 for last year.” “It has raised our health care costs this year $2500. I now have a high deductible health plan with less coverage but higher costs. What happened to the Obama campaign rhetoric about lowering costs?” “It will cause my husband to cancel health care coverage for his employees and pay the government penalty which is less than the cost of their insurance. It will increase the cost of health care, add multiples layers of bureaucracy and regulation, and cause rationing of care at a level not even imaginable to most US citizens. I work in health care and see the rationing of care already in evidence with that government run program. There has never been a government program that was more effective or cost efficient than what the private sector can offer. We MUST repeal and/or not fund anything that is not repealed. It is time to severely DECREASE the governmental regulation and control of our everyday lives. Please de-fund the EPA and cut their power to legislate as the next order of business.” “I am an RN and well aware of all of the severe problems with government controlled health care. Elective surgery will take months; people will wait hours or more to get in to see a doctor. Care and procedures will be delayed and not as good. A company for which I worked at head quarters in Canada. The taxes will go so high it will take everything anyone makes to pay taxes. Doctors will not be as dedicated. The good doctors in Canada are coming over here to practice. All the top surgeons and doctors I know are extremely against it. Some say they will not practice here if that happens. It is scary. The procedures now for government health care, i.e. Medicaid are very controlled in some cases and abused in other cases. I have voted for everyone and everything to prevent the government health care from going into effect. I worked hard to have my retirement benefits and I want to keep them. I have a feeling that some of the people we elected are not going to vote to repeal this law as it has been too quiet since the election, and they are facing how to pay the huge debts from the stimulus bills. Thank you for asking for my opinion. That is freedom.” “As a physician it will force me into retirement!” “I am a mother of 4. I have 2 sons with ADHD and a daughter that needs her tonsils out. This year our deductibles took a big jump. I had to put off getting my son's medications and postpone my daughter’s tonsillectomy. I see cost of health care for even rather healthy children getting more and more costly and more and more limitations on what services can be provided for my family. If the changes from ObamaCare continue, I face not affording help for my sons with ADHD.” “We will be required by law to purchase health insurance that we have never been able to afford before. It will create financial hardship to provide a service we do not need - we are healthy proactive, money-conscience, citizens who take preventative measures to preserve our health. It has already begun to affect our friends - hospitals are laying off nurses, etc. We also believe it will provide poor care, long waits, and inequitable treatment at high prices - we have friends from other countries and we've heard the horror stories. Government run healthcare is NOT a solution - it's a bigger problem. Thanks!” “My husband's company does not provide insurance. They have announced they will have to lay off employees to avoid paying the exorbitant fines. Due to the economy I have lost my job and my husband's income is down 30%. Do we really need a government giveaway program that causes people to lose their jobs?” “Kay, I have a manufacturing company in Fort Worth. I have already made plans to reduce my work force to 50 people in order to avoid paying the fines. I currently have 70 employees, so we will have to let 20 go.” “Most of my working career I have had employer supplemented insurance that allowed me choices based on how much I wanted to spend. There has been basic coverage and options that were deducted from wages at what level I wanted to contribute. These options would go away as the cost for meeting the new requirements (employer) skyrocket and coverage is dropped or pushed down to me. Also I have options because there are companies in the health industry that can make a profit and that profit motivates them to either be better or find cures/options that don't exist today. Research & Development (R&D) is very important, but people won't take a chance investing in R&D if they don't get a desired ROR on their money. This could stifle cure research.”
01.25.2011	By: Rep. Kay Granger, Rep. Joe Barton, Rep. Michael Burgess, Rep. Kenny Marchant Wednesday we fulfilled a promise we made to the people of North Texas when we voted to repeal the federal healthcare reform act. Our constituents have not been shy about sharing their opinions on this new law. Whether it was people at a Town Hall meeting in Mansfield who were upset about the Medicare cuts or the caller from Fort Worth angry about government bureaucrats intruding into his relationship with his doctor, the message was clear: Repeal ObamaCare! The two-page bill approved Wednesday by the U.S. House, 245-189, granted their wish, but it was just the first step. As e-mailers from Euless and callers from Keller were all quick to point out to us, the current system has flaws. We agree. It is important to make sure that we take care of people with pre-existing conditions, give the uninsured the opportunity to get coverage and make sure children can stay on their parents' policy up to age 26. But any changes we make shouldn't be done at the expense of the elderly or by hurting the system with which many patients are already happy. The current law cuts $550 billion from Medicare, and so far no one has been able to explain how to do that without decreasing benefits. Just last week, a government-appointed panel met to start discussing what insurance companies will be required to cover. Their debate will answer questions usually decided by your doctor, things like: What type of kidney dialysis should I receive? How many rounds of chemo should you or your spouse get? The law also creates federal mandates that force people to buy insurance and make it financially viable for companies big and small to drop insurance for their employees. This alone could force up to 87 million Americans into the government-run exchange. It also devastates the budget of many public hospitals -- like John Peter Smith Hospital in Fort Worth -- by taking away millions in federal funding used to cover the cost of indigent care. We want to fix these deficiencies. Work has begun on crafting a new, improved law. There will be open hearings and honest debate as Republicans reach across the aisle to work with Democrats to write a better law -- one that will actually lower costs for small business, expand access to affordable care and protect jobs. Our market-based plan will not come with the current law's trillion-dollar price tag. It takes the power away from Washington and puts it in your hands. Reforms include expanding health savings accounts, allowing people to purchase health insurance across state lines, expanding state high-risk pools so that people with pre-existing conditions get the coverage they deserve, and much needed medical liability reform (something that is already helping Texans). One of the primary goals of our plan will be to lower healthcare premiums for all Americans. This vote wasn't just "symbolic," as some have said. It is a real response to the outcry we have heard from our constituents. We have voted to repeal this law. Now it's time to replace it. We hope people will be just as vocal with possible solutions this year as they were with their outrage last year. Rep. Joe Barton of Arlington represents Texas' 6th Congressional District. Rep. Michael Burgess, M.D., of Lewisville represents the 26th District. Rep. Kay Granger of Fort Worth represents the 12th District. Rep. Kenny Marchant of Coppell represents the 24th District.
01.19.2011	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after voting to repeal President Obama’s health care legislation: “Health care affects every single American. That is why today’s vote to repeal the health care law is so important, and why I am working with my colleagues to replace the legislation with alternatives that will reduce costs, make sure people can get the care they need, reform our tort system and restore the relationship between doctors and patients. These are the priorities that Texans expect in their health care.” “Today’s vote is a direct result of millions of Americans participating in our democratic process. For a year and a half I have heard from thousands of my constituents who don’t want the government interfering in their health care decisions. Through an open and transparent process, we will begin to correct this bad experiment with reform.” # # #
01.13.2011	Washington - Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison announced that she will not seek another term in 2012: “Texas has had no better advocate than my dear friend Kay Bailey Hutchison. She always fought for Texas first and she was outspoken in her representation of her constituents. From our work together on the Trinity River Vision to her countless accomplishments for military families and veterans in my district, she was a great ally to have in the United States Senate. The Senator made a tremendous mark on our state and she will be sorely missed.” ####
01.07.2011	Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX-12) was selected to serve as the Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations for the 112th Congress. In addition, Granger will continue to serve as a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. With the two subcommittee assignments, Granger will oversee nearly $750 billion with the combined defense and foreign operations budgets. “I am honored to have been selected as Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations,” Granger said. “My subcommittee assignments provide an extraordinary opportunity for me to help lead our nation’s defense and foreign policy at a historic time while meeting the needs of my constituents in the 12th Congressional District. North Texas depends on global relationships and the way Congress manages our role in the international community has great implications for families and businesses right here at home.” The State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee has the responsibility of overseeing and allocating all foreign aid spending including support for our ongoing efforts in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq. Because the subcommittee funds the Department of State and USAID, in the 112th Congress Granger will be tasked with overseeing many of the programs that will help determine the long-term outcome for the most volatile regions of the world where the United States has security interests. Granger’s oversight role will help ensure that U.S. taxpayer dollars are being spent wisely on programs that will help bring stability to the region including continued support for our ally Israel. The State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee provides funding for programs that are critical to the 12th District and the State of Texas, including providing training and equipment to help combat the escalating violence along the U.S. - Mexico border. The Subcommittee also provides funding for F-16s, produced by Lockheed Martin in Fort Worth. All programs under the subcommittee’s jurisdiction will be under heavy scrutiny, and projects that are not achieving intended results will be subject to cancellation. Granger has pledged to be a partner in the new majority and will help ensure taxpayers are getting a better return on their investment while addressing the national debt. Granger will also continue to serve on the Defense Subcommittee. The subcommittee oversees all spending for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force and oversees all defense procurement. She was the first woman to ever be named to the subcommittee in the House, and this will be her third session of Congress serving on the panel. “My role on State and Foreign Operations will enhance my role on the Defense Subcommittee, which provides funding for our service members and military equipment and technology that is produced by people who live right here in the District, such as the Joint Strike Fighter and the V-22. I am excited to serve in both capacities. Together, these two subcommittees are responsible for funding and the oversight of nearly all programs critical to our National Security. There are enormous fiscal challenges that we must confront and I pledge to be partner in making our national security not only leaner, but smarter.” # # #
12.16.2010	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger released the following statement after the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced today they will withdraw approval of Avastin for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer: “For the 17,500 women across the country who rely on Avastin to survive, I am extremely disappointed the FDA has chosen to take away one of the very few options for the treatment of late-stage breast cancer. To make matters worse, this announcement comes on the same day that European drug regulators approved the continued use of Avastin for women with late-stage breast cancer. It is troubling that women in Germany and France will soon have access to a life-saving drug, while women in the U.S. will not. I will continue to work in the 112th Congress to ensure doctors and patients continue to have access to every available treatment option.”
12.13.2010	"Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) had surgery to relieve pressure on a nerve in her neck last Wednesday. She was released from the hospital on Thursday and is at home recovering in Fort Worth. Her doctor expects her to make a quick and full recovery. The Congresswoman expects to be back to work next week.”
12.04.2010	Marinette, WI -Congresswoman Kay Granger today christened the third littoral combat ship (LCS-3) the USS Fort Worth at a ceremony in Marinette, Wisconsin. The Christening comes after Congresswoman Granger and the entire community of Fort Worth joined together in an effort to name the ship in honor of the North Texas community’s long military heritage. “Serving as the USS Fort Worth’s sponsor is one of the proudest moments in my career”, said Granger. “This is just the beginning of a commitment I am making with everyone in Fort Worth to all those who will sail on the ship over the course of her life. The enthusiastic residents of our fine city and I have pledged to take great care of this magnificent ship and her crew. With ‘Grit and Tenacity’ we will once again demonstrate our community’s key principles of service and patriotism.” “Fort Worth may be removed from the shoreline by more than a few miles, but our connections with the Navy and all of our military partners remain close to our hearts,” Mayor Moncrief said. “As a city that treasures its military heritage, we are thrilled and honored with the naming of this new ship.” “It is an incredibly rewarding experience to see Fort Worth launch into the water – on time and on budget,” said Orlando Carvalho, president of Lockheed Martin’s Mission Systems and Sensors business. “The team’s strong performance and hard work in bringing Fort Worth to this point illustrates our ability to meet the Navy’s need for a class of affordable, multi-mission combatants.” The Navy requires a ship’s name to represent a place with character, spirit and service. Fort Worth has a long-standing military history, including the establishment of the original Camp Worth on the banks of the Trinity River in 1849, a Camp Bowie army facility during World War I, and a WWII bomber plant that now belongs to Lockheed Martin. The Fort Worth metropolitan area is also home to the Naval Air Station/Joint Reserve Base. On April 19, 2006, Granger sent a letter to then-Secretary of the Navy David Winter and Admiral Michael Mullen, then-Chief of Naval Operations, requesting that the third LCS ship be named after the city of Fort Worth. This marked the beginning of an effort that brought together the entire city of Fort Worth. In May of that year, Granger spoke at the Fort Worth Rotary and announced that she had requested that one of their new LCS ships be named in honor of the city. It was at that Rotary meeting where Granger formally asked the Rotary Club to join in a letter-writing campaign to Secretary Winter laying out the many reasons why Fort Worth was a worthy name for the ship. The same day, Granger reached out to the public through a press conference, and a community-wide effort began. The City of Fort Worth printed post cards for citizens to fill out and mail to the Secretary of the Navy showing their support for the ship’s name. Granger subsequently formed a ship-naming committee made up of community leaders who came together to assist in organizing the grassroots effort. School children sent pictures of how they envisioned the USS Fort Worth would look to Secretary Winter, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram wrote editorials of support, and Mayor Moncrief and the Fort Worth Chamber of Commerce sent letters to Secretary Winter. In total, 34 letters of support were mailed from elected officials and community organizations. Twenty-one resolutions from local cities in Tarrant County passed and over 50,000 postcards were mailed to the Secretary of the Navy from citizens. After two years of tenacity from the residents of Fort Worth, Secretary Winter called Congresswoman Granger to notify her of the Navy’s decision to name the third LCS ship after Fort Worth and to ask her to serve as the ship’s sponsor. The naming of the ship means that the crew and the community will have a long-standing relationship, including invitations to events in the city and maintaining correspondence through letters, e-mails and packages. After the Christening, the USS Fort Worth will complete her fitting out and then undergo a range of sea trials before she is formally accepted into the Navy Fleet after her scheduled Commissioning in 2012.
12.03.2010	Marinette, WI -Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger presented the contents for a container that will become a permanent part of the USS Fort Worth during a traditional mast-stepping ceremony. The mast stepping ceremony occurs toward the final stages of a ship’s construction before she is christened. Placing a coin at the step, or base, of the mast of a newly constructed ship is an ancient tradition, originating with the ancient Greeks and Romans. Today, the custom has expanded to include other items in addition to coins. As legend has it, the custom of placing coins in the mouths of the dead originated from the belief that the coins would ensure payment to the Charon, a figure in Greek mythology, for ferry passage across the River Styx. Because of this tradition, when ships were sent off to battle, enough money was placed in the bottom of a ship’s mast to ensure the entire crew had enough money to pay Charon for passage in the event they did not return. The ritual has survived to this day. Today, items are put in a container that is placed in the base of the mast, as a way to wish the crew safe passage. Although traditions vary, the selection and placement of coins and items commemorates the ship’s history and heritage, creating an enduring tie between the ship’s crew, sponsor and namesake. “I am proud to include items that embody the past, present and future of Fort Worth,” said Granger. “Everything included in the container has a deep connection to our city’s heritage and its future, and I hope these items will provide good luck to the ship and its crew over the course of their service. I am deeply grateful to Fort Worth Historical Society, Lockheed Martin and the U.S. Navy for their contributions to this tradition.” The contents of the container are as follows: Six Silver Half-Dollars – Three sets of two half-dollars minted in the same year as the Matrons’ birth dates. Four Nametags – One name tag each for the youngest and oldest members of both the Blue and the Gold crew who will sail on the USS Fort Worth. It is naval tradition to honor both the youngest and oldest crew members. Three Coins that Represent the Military History of Fort Worth a. A coin from the 2nd Stryker Cavalry Regiment. Major Ripley Arnold was assigned to the Second Dragoons of the United States Army when he established Camp Worth on June 6, 1849. The 2nd Stryker Cavalry Regiment, currently stationed in Vilseck, Germany, has traded their horses for Stryker combat vehicles, but still traces their regimental lineage to the Major Worth’s Second Dragoons. The reverse of the coin proudly states “Dragoons!” and “Since 1938, the oldest continuously serving Regiment.” The 2nd Stryker Regiment has the distinction of being the longest continuously serving Regiment in the United States Army. b. A coin from the 2nd Infantry Division. Major Ripley named Camp Worth after General Williams Jenkins Worth. During the Mexican War, General Worth served under General Zachary Taylor and commanded the 2nd Regular Division, Army of Occupation at the Battle of Monterrey in 1846. He also led the first troops ashore in the United States amphibious landing at Veracruz in March 1847. Major Arnold served under General Worth in the Battle of Monterrey and named Camp Worth in honor of his former commanding officer who had recently passed away. The 2nd Infantry Division Coin commemorates General Worth’s command of the 2nd Regular Division. c. A coin from the current USS Fort Worth. A coin from the Navy’s newest ship to continue Fort Worth’s long history with the military. Three items of personal significance to the ship’s sponsor, Congresswoman Granger a. Congresswoman Granger’s Member Pin for the current 111th Congress from the U.S. House of Representatives. b. A key to the City of Fort Worth. This key is a replica of the key taken to the moon in 1969 by Astronaut Alan Bean. Alan Bean, a Fort Worth native, was the fourth man to walk on the moon. This key was donated by former Mayor Bob Bolen, one of Congresswoman Granger’s mentors. c. A pin to commemorate Fort Worth receiving the All - America City Award in 1993. This award recognizes Fort Worth as a city whose citizens work together to identify and tackle community-wide challenges and achieve uncommon results. A button from a tunic of one of the Dragoons who founded Fort Worth. The button is from the sleeve of a soldier of Company F, 2nd Dragoons, commanded by Major Ripley Allen Arnold. An arrowhead and partial shaft from the period when Fort Worth was founded. The arrow was fabricated from the metal hoop of a frontier water barrel and donated by Eddie Sandoval of Fort Worth, Texas. This item serves as a reminder of the warrior’s duty, sacrifice, and of the proud heritage of the origins of Fort Worth. Part of the exterior composite coating from an F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. This represents how Fort Worth has transformed from an Army camp in 1849 to the world’s premier center for tactical aircraft design and manufacturing. This was donated by Lockheed Martin, the contractor for the USS Fort Worth (LCS3).
11.25.2010	"I want to wish you and your family a very Happy Thanksgiving. As a nation, we will continue to have challenges– but we also have so much to be thankful for. Today is an important day to acknowledge the freedoms and liberties we all enjoy. We should remember that we would never have been able to enjoy this day without the countless sacrifices of the many generations before us and the sacrifices of those who are serving around the world today. I want to offer a special thanks to the men and women in our Armed Forces who cannot be with their loved ones on this Thanksgiving. Please have a safe and wonderful holiday weekend."
11.19.2010	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Congressman Lamar Smith (R-San Antonio) and 16 members of the Texas House Republican delegation sent the attached letter to President Obama today expressing disapproval over the redeployment of National Guard troops on the U.S. – Mexico border. The Administration plans to withdraw National Guard troops from the border early next year.
11.10.2010	"We must never forget the incredible sacrifices made by our veterans and active duty service men and women. Our veterans and their families made lifelong commitments to our nation and their service has been a cornerstone of America’s freedom and prosperity. When their nation called our veterans selflessly put their lives on the line. The United States must continue to honor its commitment to all of those who have served and as your Congresswoman I will never stop fighting for those who fought for us. This Veterans Day, please join me in honoring all the men and women who have given so much to keep our nation safe."
11.09.2010	Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Kay Granger is currently seeking qualified, college-aged applicants who are interested in serving as an intern in either the Congresswoman’s Washington or Fort Worth offices for the spring session. “This is a unique opportunity for young men and women to experience the inner-workings of the federal government and to serve their community,” Granger said. “While these are demanding positions, our interns leave with an expanded worldview and an incredible life experience on their resumes.” Interested applicants must submit their information to the appropriate office by December 1st. Additional information on how to apply can be found by visiting the Congresswoman’s website at kaygranger.house.gov. The number of full and part-time internships in each office is governed by space and availability, financial limitations, and office needs. After completing the application, applicants should send the following information to the office where they want to intern: application, resume, copy of latest transcript, and a letter of recommendation. Please fax application materials for the Fort Worth office to: FORT WORTH OFFICE Fax: (817) 335-5852 Phone: (817) 338-0909 Contact: Barbara Ragland Please email application materials for the Washington, D.C. Office to: WASHINGTON D.C. OFFICE Phone: (202) 225-5071 Contact: Sara Rafferty Email: sara.rafferty@mail.house.gov
10.19.2010	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after receiving the National Tax Limitation Committee’s Tax Fighter Award for the 111th Congress: “Tax relief is one of the best things Congress can do to help spur a great deal of economic growth,” Granger said. “I am proud of my record and making sure your taxes are low has always been one of my top priorities and I can assure you it will continue to be." View the National Tax Limitation Committee Scorecard: Kay Granger - 96%
09.23.2010	
09.23.2010	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after receiving the National Federation of Independent Business’s Guardian of Small Business Award: “As a former small business owner, I know how burdensome regulations imposed by the federal government can be,” Granger said. “I am proud of my record and I will continue to protect the entrepreneur’s right to operate and grow their businesses.” ###
09.20.2010	
09.13.2010	"Childhood Obesity Awareness Month supports the goals of families, schools, and communities who are working to ensure we raise a healthier generation. If we keep our kids healthy now it will alleviate a major burden on our health care system while giving millions of young people the opportunity to live longer, healthier lives."
09.10.2010	“On this solemn day of remembrance, we honor the innocent lives lost nine years ago on September 11th in New York, Pennsylvania and Virginia. We pay tribute to the heroism of law enforcement officials, firefighters, and all our men and women in uniform serving around the world for their efforts in rescuing survivors, punishing those responsible, and their continuing determination to prevent another attack from ever occurring on American soil. These men and women are true American patriots, and represent the very best that America has to offer. We also pay tribute to the surviving families and friends, who have been called upon to bear an even greater burden. We all share a common goal of making our world a more peaceful place for generations to come.”
09.01.2010	Washington, DC — On Saturday, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) hosted a town hall meeting to hear what North Texans want to see in a legislative agenda. As part of a national effort to write priorities for Congress that is driven by the people, Granger asked her constituents to come to the meeting with ideas and solutions for how to reduce government spending, create jobs and get our nation back on track. Here are some of the ideas that constituents brought to the town hall meeting: • Create a stable business environment by providing consistency and certainty with government regulation • Address how to deal with the cost of children born in the United States to parents who are not legal residents • Reform how lobbyists interact with Members of Congress • Provide a permanent fix for the Alternative Minimum Tax • Reinforce the importance of vocational programs in education system “For too long Washington has not listened to the American people”, Granger said. “The public is engaged like never before. They demand to be heard and we are using their enthusiasm to create a new agenda that is created by Texans and not by bureaucrats in Washington. Weatherford was a great opportunity to highlight that Washington can no longer ignore the will of public, and they are clear about what they want to see in an agenda. Congress needs to be reminded of who we work for. Whether it is a Democrat or Republican majority in Congress, there are real priorities that need to be addressed. My constituents came forward with positive solutions that will make a real difference in each of their lives and in our communities in North Texas.”
08.10.2010	Granger Will Vote to Stop the Latest $26 Billion Bailout Washington, DC – In a move that will result in new government spending, Speaker Nancy Pelosi brought Congress back to Washington to vote on a $26 billion bailout for state governments. Congresswoman Kay Granger, who has voted against each and every bailout, opposes this latest taxpayer-funded proposal. ?“Congressional Democrats determined that a $1.5 trillion deficit isn’t large enough and have demanded lawmakers cancel constituent meetings and return to Washington, D.C. with the sole purpose of rushing through additional government spending. “Democrats in Congress gave states $100 billion in the so-called stimulus bill last year, and now they want taxpayers to hand over $26 billion more. Enough is enough. “Using money the federal government does not have to pay for state programs that states can’t afford is unsustainable, leaving taxpayers to wonder, what happens next year? “Instead of returning to Washington D.C. to spend more, this Congress should be finding ways to spend less – and that starts with ending the bailouts and using the money to pay down the debt.?" The bill to be voted on today contains $14 billion dollars in “spending reductions” from the Democrats’ stimulus bill. Congressional Democrats have labeled this a spending cut, but stimulus money is designated as emergency funding and therefore not subject to pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) does not recognize any savings from stimulus reductions for the purposes of statutory PAYGO. Thus, the non-partisan CBO estimates that this bill will actually increase the deficit by $12.6 billion. ####
08.09.2010	
07.28.2010	Ranking Member Kay Granger Opening Statement Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Oversight of U.S. Civilian Assistance for Afghanistan July 28, 2010 Thank you, Madam Chair, for calling this hearing today on oversight of U.S. Civilian Assistance for Afghanistan. The subcommittee has held a series of hearings and briefings on Afghanistan since our subcommittee markup. We’ve addressed a range of concerns, but many important questions remain. As the subcommittee seeks answers, I remain committed to our efforts in Afghanistan because I believe they are critical for U.S. national security. At the same time, I am equally committed to ensuring that the tremendous investment of U.S. assistance is used as intended. I’m interested in hearing from our witnesses today about how investments on the civilian side will contribute to overall success in Afghanistan. In addition, the subcommittee needs to know that mechanisms are in place to ensure that funds are being --and will be --spent properly. I’d now like to welcome today’s witnesses – Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, the special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, and Dr. Raj Shah, the Administrator of U.S.A.I.D. Both of you play a critical role in executing the civilian strategy in Afghanistan, and I thank you for your service. I believe the success of our civilian effort depends on three things – U.S. assistance programs must be focused on results, these funds must be spent in a transparent manner -- free from corruption, waste, fraud, and abuse, and we must be conducting our efforts alongside a reliable partner. Let me explain more fully. First, it must be clear that civilian investments are achieving tangible results. A focus on achieving measurable outcomes needs to be part of the culture in U.S. agencies. This should funnel all the way down to the implementers -- the Afghan government, contractors, grantees, international organizations, and the multiple levels of awardees below them. I know that Administrator Shah is committed to focusing on monitoring and evaluation at U.S.A.I.D., and I hope this is his top priority in Afghanistan. Next, it is critical that U.S. assistance is spent in a transparent way -- free from corruption, waste, fraud, and abuse. There are several elements of the administration’s strategy that seem particularly vulnerable. My first concern is with the “Afghan first” initiative. The administration plans to expand this initiative and send billions of dollars through the Afghan budget. While I certainly recognize the need to build the capacity of the Afghan government, the ongoing allegations of corruption and illicit activity do not give me confidence that now is the time to subject U.S. funds to unnecessary risk. We must ensure that funds go to Afghan ministries for the right reasons and to achieve real results, not simply to meet an arbitrary goal of sending a certain percentage of assistance through the government. In addition to increasing aid to the Afghan government, the administration also plans on channeling more funds through internationally-managed trust funds. But it is still not clear to me that those funds can be properly overseen and audited by the U.S. Government. Another concern is whether U.S. staff is able to provide adequate oversight of assistance programs. This subcommittee has been quite generous in its support -- allowing a tripling of staff in Afghanistan over the last 18 months. But increasing the number of staff does not necessarily mean that oversight is improving. It is difficult to determine if staff is able to ensure that contracts and grants are properly managed. Finally, in order for U.S. efforts to be successful, we must have a reliable partner. The U.S. government can place appropriate safeguards on our assistance dollars, but our efforts will not be successful without cooperation from our Afghan partners. It is the administration’s responsibility to hold Afghan officials accountable for commitments made last week at the Kabul conference. There must be a renewed commitment to the people of Afghanistan in order to build confidence in their government. That starts with the Afghan government living up to its promises to do more on oversight, transparency, and delivering results for the afghan people. Simply making announcements and creating more bureaucracy will not improve the situation. Results must be clear. In closing, I’ve described a long list of concerns, but I also know that the two witnesses before us today are highly skilled in diplomacy and development. I have confidence that you can address these issues. I hope your testimony today will convince the subcommittee that we can continue to provide the funds necessary, and the oversight required, to support the president’s strategy in Afghanistan. Thank you, Madam Chair.
07.26.2010	Granger Statement on Leaked War DocumentsWASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) issued the following statement condemning the release of classified Afghanistan war documents: “The leak of classified information critical to our efforts in Afghanistan is reprehensible. The information only provides aid to our enemies while risking more American lives. Those who protect classified information not only have a duty to their nation but to the men and women who serve on the front lines every day. In addition, it is ultimately the Administration’s responsibility to protect state secrets. “I call on the Administration to thoroughly investigate and prosecute those individuals and organizations responsible for releasing this data and hold them accountable to the fullest extent of the law.” ###
07.15.2010	Ranking Member Kay Granger Opening StatementSubcommittee on State, Foreign Operations Oversight of U.S. Civilian Assistance for Afghanistan July 15, 2010 Thank you, Madam Chair, for calling this very important hearing on oversight of U.S. civilian assistance for Afghanistan. I understand that this will be the first in a series of hearings and briefings the subcommittee will hold, and I agree that there are many issues that must be addressed. Let me begin by saying I share the chair’s concerns about the disturbing news reports coming out -almost everyday - highlighting the corruption problem in Afghanistan. We are all eager to get to the bottom of these allegations. I’d also like to cite some of the most alarming results of recent surveys: A U.N. report earlier this year showed that more Afghans are concerned about corruption than any other public problem. Transparency international’s most recent survey again ranked Afghanistan as one of the most corrupt places in the world. And just last week, an Afghanistan-based group revealed a new study showing that bribery may be a billion dollar business. Corruption is not something that can be fixed overnight, but we must do all we can. This subcommittee must take decisive action to ensure that U.S. taxpayer funds are used as intended. At the same time, I want to be sure that the subcommittee’s actions support the broader strategy on the ground in Afghanistan. The strategy was not intended to be solely a military endeavor -- the civilian side was inherently linked to the overall plan. As General Petraeus noted in his June 15th testimony to the Senate Armed Services Committee, a “critically important part of our civilian-military campaign in Afghanistan is promoting broad-based economic and infrastructure development.” With this in mind, I remain concerned about any potential negative impact that withholding foreign assistance would have while U.S. military and civilians are on the ground. That is why it is essential that we hear from the witnesses before us today to get a better understanding of the oversight that is being conducted. I also look forward to another hearing with senior Administration officials who are responsible for executing the civilian side of the Afghanistan strategy. I’d now like to welcome today’s witnesses - Major General Fields, the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, Mr. Gambatesa the Inspector General for U.S.A.I.D., and Mr. Johnson, director for Afghanistan and Pakistan at the G.A.O. Each of you - and your organizations - play a critical role in preventing and detecting waste, fraud, and abuse of foreign assistance dollars, and I thank you for your service. The chair has already laid out many questions for you to answer, all of which deserve our attention, and there are a few additional matters I’d like you to address. First, I want to know that funds invested in Afghanistan are achieving tangible results. This starts by ensuring that programs are free from corruption -which I know we will discuss in great detail today - but it also means that U.S.-funded programs have clear goals and objectives that are tracked and measured over time. When I visited Afghanistan last fall, I was stunned by the lack of progress there. With roughly $50 Billion invested by the U.S. since FY 2002, results are difficult to see. This cannot continue. Accountability and a focus on results must be part of the culture of U.S. agencies, and that should funnel all the way down to the implementers -the afghan government, contractors, grantees, international organizations, and the multiple levels of awardees below them. I would appreciate hearing your thoughts on how we can move toward a focus on results and accountability. Next, I want to have confidence that sending more assistance through Afghanistan’s institutions and non -governmental organizations is the best course of action. I recognize the need to build the capacity of the government and local groups, but given the recent allegations, now is not the time to subject U.S funds to unnecessary risk. If the administration continues with the “Afghan first” initiative, more than a billion dollars could be distributed in this way. I believe this policy deserves intense scrutiny, and I’d like to hear your assessment and any recommendations that the subcommittee should consider. I also want to discuss the civilian personnel strategy Afghanistan. I understand that the positions have tripled in the last 18 months, but I want to determine if the people who are filling those slots have the right skills to oversee such large programs and in such a difficult operating environment. I’d like to hear your thoughts and any recommendations in this area as well. In closing, I look forward to getting a better understanding of the work your organizations have already undertaken - and the work that is planned - to address waste, fraud, and abuse. Your testimony will help the subcommittee have confidence in providing the funds necessary to support the president’s strategy in Afghanistan.
07.01.2010	HOUSE PASSES GRANGER’S HUMAN TRAFFICKING RESOLUTIONWashington- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after the House passed H.Res. 1412, calling on the Government of South Africa to expand law enforcement efforts during the 2010 FIFA World Cup and to prevent the enslavement and sexual exploitation of men, women, and children: “I am pleased the House of Representatives passed my resolution to prevent the enslavement and sexual exploitation of men, women, and children,” Granger said. “We must continue to work to ensure that we protect the millions of vulnerable people who are enslaved in this vicious cycle. Light is being shed on these disgusting acts against humanity and justice will be served.” “As the co-chair of the House Human Trafficking Caucus, I have seen the permanent devastation this cycle brings to victims and their families. This legislation urges South Africa to build upon its efforts to not only fight human trafficking while the World Cup games are taking place but also to combat this exploitation after the people leave. Implementing increased security measures to stop human trafficking is just the beginning of a continued effort to stop one of the biggest human rights violations. This year marks the 10th Anniversary of the Trafficking in Persons Report and no country has presented a comprehensive response to combating trafficking and protecting the victims. “With the Dallas-Fort Worth area hosting the Super Bowl in 2011, we should watch the South African government action and approach closely. With Texas sitting on the Mexican border we already have serious challenges in combating human trafficking. Major sporting events like the Super Bowl only enhance the crime.”
06.30.2010	Ranking Member Kay Granger Opening Statement Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs FY 2011 Subcommittee Markup June 30, 2010 Thank you, Madam Chair. It has been a pleasure working with you and all of the Members of the subcommittee again on this important bill that funds the operations of the State Department and our foreign assistance programs around the world. Everyone who serves on this subcommittee is aware of the critical decisions we make in this bill. We’re often able to come together to help solve some of the world’s most difficult problems. But we also face the continued concern in our own country about our economy and the devastating effects of skyrocketing deficits and debt. And the State-Foreign Operations bill before us could very well represent the largest increase of all the appropriations bills that we consider for fiscal year 2011. At $52.6 billion, this bill is $4 billion -- 8 percent -- above last year. This comes on top of a significant increase in the bill for fiscal year 2010, which was justified by a pledge to move away from supplemental appropriations. however, we now see another $4.5 billion in war-related spending and $1.7 billion to respond to the Haiti disaster – in this Subcommittee’s jurisdiction alone now before the Congress. Another unfortunate reality is that Members enter this room today with no certainty about the top-line level of discretionary spending and no idea how that funding will be distributed among each of the subcommittees. Because this year’s process is so far off-track, we don’t even have this basic information. I also sit on the Defense Subcommittee, and it is difficult to support the bill today without knowing the plan for funding the Defense Department. These two bills are complementary, and we are expected to strike the right balance. I want to be sure that we aren’t increasing foreign aid at the expense of our troops. Many of the concerns I just described are not in Mrs. Lowey’s control, and I appreciate that she has tried to address issues raised by Members on this side of the aisle. In terms of policy decisions, the Chair and I share a commitment to listen to Members and try to find bipartisan solutions. The Chair has already described the highlights of the bill, so I will simply reiterate four very important items that I believe demonstrate our shared commitment on matters of national security and foreign policy. • This bill fully funds the security assistance requests for strategic allies like Israel, Egypt and Jordan. • It continues the fight against illegal drug trafficking in Mexico, Central America, and Colombia. • It allows the Millennium Challenge Corporation to begin new compacts, and • It supports vital maternal and child health programs. With regard to Afghanistan, the chair and I have agreed to schedule a hearing to pursue the renewed allegations of corruption and misuse of U.S. taxpayer dollars. We are in agreement on how critically important this issue is to our Subcommittee. The Administration’s policy of providing direct assistance to the Government of Afghanistan assumes a great deal of risk and with ongoing corruption inside the afghan government, it is difficult to justify. We need to examine how this policy relates to the recent corruption scandals. We also need to determine whether the current system that is in place to assess the capacity of the Ministries is sufficient. that is why the chair and i are requesting a thorough investigation be performed by the government accountability office to examine credible allegations of abuse, and also to look at our efforts to build anti-corruption and rule of law within the afghan ministries. We also have to look at how those changes in funding would impact the overall strategy for Afghanistan while we have our troops on the ground. When General Petraeus helped craft the current afghan strategy last year, it was not exclusively a military strategy – the state department and USAID were intended to be key partners in the overall effort. We must get all the facts and weigh them to ensure we don’t negatively affect ongoing U.S. military operations. I have joined the chair in calling for an oversight hearing on these issues, but with respect to the overall strategy I strongly encourage the chair to invite the top leadership from the state department and USAID who are responsible for executing the civilian side of the strategy. I urge you, madam chair, to have the secretary of state, the USAID administrator, and ambassador Eikenberry testify at this hearing. I have expressed concerns about a few other items in this bill that I just want to briefly mention. One item I’ve raised with the Chair is that the Subcommittee mark funds voluntary family planning programs at a significantly higher level than last year. There are legitimate concerns about family planning funds that are spent abroad, and Mrs. Lowey again deserves credit for not altering longstanding provisions in this bill that address some of these concerns. Another concern is the astounding multi-year costs necessary to fulfill the many international commitments made by the Administration over the last 18 months. Many of them are funded in this bill. I want to continue to work with the Chair to be sure we have proper oversight of these funds. I’d also like to thank the staff on both sides who have worked together to craft the bill. I’d like to thank the majority staff: Nisha Desai-Biswal, Craig Higgins, Steve Marchese, Michele Sumilas, Celia Alvarado, and Dennis Vega. On the minority staff: Anne Marie Chotvacs, Alice Hogans, Mike Ringler, and Susan Adams. I know Mrs. Lowey and I both appreciate the work of our personal office staff who work on the bill, Ann Vaughan and Rachel Carter. We all benefit from these highly professional staff and they, too, have worked together to bring forth this product. Again, I want to express appreciation to the Chair for her willingness to work together. We both agree that Members on both sides of the aisle deserve to have their voices heard on the very important matters contained in this bill. We all hope this bill will move to full committee and floor consideration, but because there is such uncertainty, my colleagues and I will be offering amendments today to try to improve the product before us. Thank you. ###
06.25.2010	GRANGER STATEMENT ON THE PASSAGE OF THE COMPREHENSIVE IRAN SANCTIONS, ACCOUNTABILITY, AND DIVESTMENT ACTWashington- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement regarding the conference report on the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act (H.R. 2194): “I applaud today’s passage of the most aggressive, targeted Iran sanctions this Congress has ever approved. While this action is long overdue, we are actively demonstrating to Tehran that we will use all means necessary to prevent them from becoming a nuclear power, stopping their continued support of international terrorism and confronting their abysmal human rights record. Iran’s dependence on imported gasoline and the international banking sector are among the most promising targets. Today’s report that Iran is bracing for the latest round of sanctions only goes to show that we may have found the regime’s Achilles Heel. “Iran’s nuclear intentions are not peaceful but meant to bully and intimidate. Iran has deceived weapons inspectors and world leaders who legitimately wanted to work toward a peaceful solution. With the announcement that Iran is sending a Red Crescent flotilla - with the intention of breaking the Israeli naval blockade – it only further demonstrates that they want confrontation. “I now call on the President Obama to apply these sanctions forcefully. The Congress has overwhelmingly given its bipartisan approval and it is now the administration’s duty to enforce.”
06.23.2010	Granger Statement on Three-Month Anniversary of ObamaCareWASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) issued the following statement on the three-month anniversary of ObamaCare: “It has been three months to the day since President Obama’s Health Care bill was signed into law. The American people are still angry and their voices have been heard in the halls of Congress. They did not want this bill. The American people are continuing to learn about the consequences of the legislation and the broken promises from the administration. Higher taxes, fewer personal coverage choices, and government mandates are now reality. I will continue to fight for Texans and continue to push back against this dangerous bill.”
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger was honored this week by the C3 Colorectal Cancer Coalition for her efforts in Congress to fight colorectal cancer. “I appreciate the dedicated work of the C3 Colorectal Cancer Coalition and it is a privilege to be honored by them this year,” said Granger. Colorectal cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer in the United States. According to the American Cancer Society, every five seconds someone who should have been screened for colorectal cancer is not. The costs of two thirds of these colorectal cancer cases are borne by the Medicare program. The Lewin Group recently conducted a comprehensive study of the potential cost savings to Medicare and found that every 10 years a colorectal cancer screening program will result in savings of about 1.5 years worth of Medicare expenditures. Last year, Congresswoman Granger introduced the colorectal screening bill (H.R. 1738), that would increase funding for colorectal cancer screenings, establish a national screening program for colorectal cancer individuals over 50 years of age or who are at high risk, and create a public awareness and education campaign on colorectal cancer. Granger’s bill currently has 117 co-sponsors. “Lives and money could be saved if more individuals knew the importance of preventative care,” Granger added.
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger is cosponsoring the DFW Metroplex U.S. Service Academies Forum at Tarrant County College on April 12. Representatives from congressional offices and all five academies will be on hand to talk with students, parents and educators about the admission requirements, selection process and career possibilities associated with the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. “I look forward every year to the service academy informational forum,” Granger said. “This is a great opportunity for those young men and women who are interested in serving our country to learn more about attending one of our nation’s prestigious service academies.” This forum is also sponsored by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, Sen. John Cornyn, Rep. Sam Johnson, Rep. Joe Barton, Rep. Kenny Marchant, Rep. Michael Burgess and Rep. Pete Sessions. WHAT: DFW Metroplex U.S. Service Academies Forum WHEN: Saturday, April 12, 2008 8:00 AM – 12:00 PM CST Note: Forum is open to the public WHERE Tarrant County College, Northeast 828 Harwood Rd Hurst, TX 76054
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger, Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today attended a ceremony at the White House honoring Pope Benedict XVI. “The ceremony honoring Pope Benedict XVI was beautiful and inspirational – it was America at its best. “The Pope talked about the beginning of this country and both he and the President referenced the significant part religion and faith play among this nation’s citizens, which I thought was important. “Kathleen Battle sang the Lord’s Prayer, and everyone in the crowd sang a spontaneous Happy Birthday to the Pope. It was a terrific moment.”
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger, Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, sent a letter to House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton and Ranking Member Duncan Hunter yesterday evening requesting a hearing be held with the Department of Defense regarding the Department’s vetting process for contracts. According to news reports this week, at least one company affiliated with the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (FLDS), the same church sect whose Texas compound was raided on Friday, April 4, after reports of physical abuse, was the recipient of federal contracts that went to fund the church’s activities. Granger, who sits on the Defense, Homeland Security and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittees, is ultimately concerned that federal tax dollars may have been misused to fund the sect’s illegal activities. The following is the text of the letter Granger sent to the House Armed Services Committee: April 16, 2008 The Honorable Ike Skelton The Honorable Duncan Hunter Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Armed Services Committee on Armed Services 2120 Rayburn Building 2120 Rayburn Building Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member Hunter: Less than two weeks ago, the media revealed troubling events occurring at a Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (FLDS) compound in West Texas. Like you, I was very disturbed to learn of the allegations of polygamy and child abuse, and I hope that law enforcement officials will act quickly to investigate and resolve this situation. In addition to these allegations, it has been reported that at least one company affiliated with the FLDS church was the recipient of federal loans and contracts. As a Member of Congress, I am concerned that federal tax dollars may have been misused to fund this sect’s illegal activities. New Era Manufacturing, a company that was formerly named Western Precision, Inc., is a Nevada-based supplier of wheel and brake components for military aircraft. New Era’s President and CEO is a known associate of the polygamist FLDS leader and convicted rapist Warren Jeffs. As Jack Douglas first reported in the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, FLDS church members were forced to work with little or no pay for Western Precision, Inc. It has been reported that the Department of Defense (DoD) awarded $1.2 million in sole source contracts to New Era Manufacturing. While religious affiliation should certainly not be a determining factor, DoD has a responsibility to closely scrutinize any company under consideration before contracts are awarded. I am concerned that such scrutiny did not occur in this case, and that funds from this company may have been used to support the FLDS church’s activities. I respectfully request that the House Armed Services Committee hold a hearing to investigate this matter. DoD officials should explain the vetting process used to examine prospective contract recipients in general, and the New Era Manufacturing contract in particular. I look forward to your response, and hope that you will schedule this critical oversight hearing promptly. Sincerely, Kay Granger Member of Congress
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger today unveiled the American Families Agenda: Assuring the American Dream, alongside the House Leadership and Members of the House Republican Conference. Granger made the following statement: “Today, I am proud to announce the American Families Agenda. This agenda reflects where families are today and addresses the concerns that keep parents up at night. Families have changed dramatically over the last few decades and Washington needs to catch up. “Whether it’s the high cost of food or gas prices, the skyrocketing cost of health care, or concerns about our kids being the targets of online predators, families face increasing worries in today’s world. This agenda provides a blueprint for assuring American families can continue to pursue the American dream. “One of the main foundations of the agenda centers on the special role wives and mothers have in the workforce while in many situations continuing to be the primary caretakers for their family. In 1950, less than 12 percent of mothers with children under the age of six were in the labor force. Today, more than 60 percent of them work outside the home. “It is with these issues and many others in mind that we created this agenda, but more importantly we plan to take these solutions directly to the American people. We will be traveling the country and discussing how we can provide commonsense solutions to the problems we are faced with today.”
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger made the following statement after the House Republican Conference unveiled its Energy Agenda. “Today, House Republicans set forth an energy agenda that addresses the number one concern facing American families today - the high price of gasoline. The high price of gas is costing hard-working families an average of $3.80 a gallon. That is nearly $1.50 more a gallon than it was in January 2007, with no relief in sight. “Skyrocketing gas prices have taken a dramatic toll on the cost-of-living expenses for American families. Whether it’s driving to work, taking the kids to soccer practice, or planning the road trip during the Memorial Day weekend, many families are forced to make big sacrifices in other areas of their daily lives just to keep gas in the tank. “The plan we unveiled today will increase production of American-made energy in an environmental-safe way. We will promote new, clean, and reliable sources of energy while cutting red tape and increasing the supply of American-made fuel and energy. We will also encourage greater energy efficiency by offering conservation tax incentives to Americans who make their home, car and business more energy efficient.”
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Kay Granger announced Thursday that six District 12 nominees have received Congressional appointments to United States service academies. In addition, two nominees will be attending Foundation Prep schools. “The important task of protecting our country and preserving democracy is entrusted to the men and women in the military,” Granger said. “Today, military leaders must excel in not only military matters, but also in technology, management and other areas. The women and men who have earned appointments to the military academies this year are the best we have to offer in District 12, and I am confident they will go on to be the military leaders of tomorrow who will continue to protect and defend the United States.” The appointments are for the class that enters in Summer 2008 and graduates in Spring 2012. The appointees from District 12 are as follows: * Nathan Krohn, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Mansfield High School * Michael Palazzolo, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Weatherford High School * Amanda Terry, U.S. Air Force Academy, Brewer High School * Daniel Watts, U.S. Naval Academy, Tarleton State University Students who have been attending a prep school and who received appointments are: * William Drummond, U.S. Naval Academy * Brandon Schoenfeldt, U.S. Air Force Academy In addition, the following students will be attending a Foundation Prep school through the U.S. Air Force Academy: * Brennon Lemieux, Decatur High School, New Mexico Military Institute * Justin Riling, Central High School, Northwestern University Individuals who are interested in obtaining a Congressional nomination for the next academic class, which begins in Summer 2009, must send a completed application package to Congresswoman Granger’s District 12 office no later than October 20, 2008. For additional information or an application packet, write to: Congresswoman Kay Granger 1701 River Run Road, Suite 407 Fort Worth, Texas 76107-6548 Or an individual can call the military academy coordinators in the office at (817) 338-0909. Interested individuals can also go to www.kaygranger.house.gov for nomination information.
06.22.2010	Arlington, TX – With no relief in sight for the rapidly rising price of groceries, gas and other necessities, several Members of Congress from North Texas met with a local company to hear how families and businesses are being impacted. Reps. Joe Barton, Michael Burgess, Kay Granger and Pete Sessions toured a Tom Thumb grocery store, met with company leaders and spoke with customers. It was another chance for the Representatives to hear the real impact the energy mess is having on all aspects of people’s lives. The group then spoke to the media highlighting energy plans to bring costs under control by increasing the supply of American energy, improving energy efficiency, and encouraging investment in alternative and renewable energy technologies. After touring the store, Congressman Barton (R-Arlington) said, “Republicans introduced a package of bills recently that would lower prices by increasing the production of American-made energy in an environmentally-safe way. This includes the exploration of next generation oil, natural gas, and coal and the production of advanced alternative fuels like cellulosic and clean coal-to-liquids. In fact ground breaking research in this field is being conducted right now at UTA. This plan does more than just lower gasoline prices – it lowers the price for all energy from the electricity you use to cool you home to the natural gas you use to cook.” Congresswoman Kay Granger pointed out that the pain extends past the gas pump and into the grocery aisle. "Americans are asking for help with the high price of gasoline, the rising cost of food, and the inescapable increase in cost-of-living. However, families are not the only one's hurt by the rising energy prices. Communities and the tourism industry are particularly impacted by rising energy cost, small businesses with employees who can't work from home and other businesses that are unable to raise their prices to offset additional energy cost are feeling the affect as their profits shrink leaving them vulnerable to potentially unavoidable financial disasters.” Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville) acknowledged the anger being felt by North Texas consumers and then laid out a simple road map to lower gas prices. "Talk to Texans at their local grocery store or gas station like this one and they’ll tell you they’re honking mad about prices and hostile nations having the upper hand because they produce oil. We can ease the pain at the pump and lessen our dependence foreign oil by taking some reasonable and realistic steps that I call relaxing the three R’s: re-examining biofuel mandates; rolling back the diesel tax, and, building refineries," said Rep. Burgess. Congressman Sessions (R-Dallas) also addressed the nation’s unnecessary dependence on foreign oil. “From rising food costs to soaring gas prices, North Texans are burdened with cost of living increases, limiting their ability to make ends meet and invest for the future. For current gas price relief and long-term energy independence, Congress must increase supply by opening domestic resources to energy production and decrease demand by prioritizing energy efficiency and alternative, renewable energy development. The prosperity of our nation and its economy depends on it.” Each of the Representatives also applauded the Tom Thumb and other retailers for their efforts to lower shoppers’ bills by offering discounts when possible. The Members of Congress said they would take the lessons learned during the store tour and share them with their colleagues in Washington as they continue to fight for energy policy reform.
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger introduced the Helping HANDS for Autism Act, H.R.6282 along with Jim McGovern, MA; Chris Smith, NJ; Mike Doyle, PA; Dan Burton, IN; and Ruben Hinojosa, TX to increase public awareness, help families access the treatment and services they need, and also provide adult services for individuals with autism. “The increase of children being diagnosed with autism is alarming. More needs to be done to get a handle on this disorder. As a legislator and a parent with grown children starting to have children I want the scientists and doctors studying this disorder to have all the resources necessary to combat this increasing problem.” Since autism was first described 60 years ago, the prevalence of autism has dramatically increased. Autism spectrum disorders will be diagnosed in more than 25,000 U.S. children this year. Scientists and doctors still know very little about the neurological disorder, but most agree that early intervention is key. Too often families feel overwhelmed after diagnosis and lost as to where to turn for help. That is why I have introduced the Helping HANDS for Autism Act which creates a grant program to provide “autism navigator” services to help families navigate the web of services and care. Navigators will help guide families to current health, education, housing and social services that are often available. The program will help connect families to important treatment options soon after diagnosis, help families identify education options, help coordinate individuals’ care and community support. The Helping HANDS for Autism Act, H.R. 6282 is a three-part legislative package designed not only to support families dealing with autism spectrum disorders but also to increase public awareness and provide adult services for individuals with autism.
06.22.2010	By John Boehner Some 250 miles north of the Arctic Circle Sunday, ten of my House Republican colleagues and I completed an American energy tour focused on real solutions to help lower gasoline prices and energy costs for families and small businesses. Our trip started Friday with a visit to Golden, Colorado, and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) — a government facility operated by private-sector scientists and engineers dedicated to perfecting cutting-edge solar, wind, fuel cell, biomass, and other emerging energy technologies to reduce our nation’s costly and increasingly dangerous dependence on foreign sources of energy. The work done at NREL is important and, quite frankly, symbolic of America’s energy future. We’re getting closer, but we’re not there just yet. The challenge is building a bridge to that energy future. And that challenge brought us to Alaska. Our visit to Alaska’s north slope, on the coast of the Arctic Ocean, was symbolic of America’s vast, existing energy resources. Those resources can be found in the coal mines of West Virginia, the natural-gas deposits far off our shores, and in the oil-rich Mountain West, Arctic coastal plain, and Outer Continental Shelf. Some of those resources we utilize today — particularly American coal. But some of them, such as the tremendous amounts of American oil and gas, remain locked away by decades of policy crafted by those who have done the bidding of the radical environmental community — and those, namely the Democrats in charge of Congress, who continue to worship at that same altar of radical environmentalism today. Our delegation learned two key lessons on the Arctic shores — two lessons that will further embolden our fight in Congress for more production of American energy. First, and perhaps most strikingly, we learned that the Trans-Alaskan Pipeline, which carries petroleum from Prudhoe Bay on the North Slope 800 miles south to Valdez, on the Gulf of Alaska, is in a state of decline. Officials in Alaska warned us that in ten years, if the pipeline continues its current rate of decline in transporting oil supplies, the pipeline will be processing less than 300,000 barrels of oil per day, compared to nearly 720,000 today. Experts agree that at that level — without adding new supplies of oil — the pipeline could not continue to operate, shutting down all production in the North Slope and turning a multi-billion dollar asset into scrap metal. It’s a “pipeline deadline,” if you will. The reason the pipeline is in a state of decline is not due to a lack of adequate supply. Rather, it is a combination of lawsuits, time-consuming permitting processes, and the Democratic Congress’ refusal to lead that has slowed the flow of supply out of the North Slope. And nowhere is this more apparent than in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge’s (ANWR) “10-02 Area.” Designated by President Carter and Congress nearly 30 years ago for energy exploration and production, the 10-02 Area’s 2,000 acres (out of ANWR’s 19 million acres) contains some 10 billion barrels of oil, and possibly more, which is currently being held hostage by a Democratic leadership that is shockingly out of touch with the wishes of a large majority of Americans. Their reasoning? More often than not, they claim it is because of the pristine and wildlife-filled lands of ANWR. That leads into our second lesson. The fact is, my colleagues and I saw plenty of wildlife on our visit to the North Slope. Caribou were abundant. We saw them running atop the permafrost in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (where Democratic leaders suddenly support drilling, by the way), roaming near the pipeline, and one even made its way onto the runway of a small airport near Prudhoe Bay just as we were about to take off for the 10-02 Area. (We were told earlier in the day that caribou have the right of way.) Musk oxen were scattered about. And we even heard that a polar bear wandered onto the Endicott petroleum production facility grounds, which sits on an island in the Arctic, during our tour. The point is, wildlife and environmentally-safe energy production successfully coexist in the region — and it could elsewhere as well, including in the 10-02 Area. I found the sheer amount of respect energy producers have for the land and for the native Alaskan way of life — of which wildlife is a key part — to be simply remarkable. Moreover, the new technologies energy companies use to reduce the “footprint” on the environment is equally impressive. Those on the Left who cite these companies’ “insensitivity” as a reason for stonewalling more production in the region either suffer from a complete misunderstanding of the issue or are purposely twisting the facts. And either way, it’s the American people — not to mention North Slope residents who depend upon energy production for jobs — who suffer the consequences. Increased American energy production throughout all of the North Slope — not to mention the Outer Continental Shelf and other remote government-owned lands across the country — is part of a bridge to America’s energy future. While scientists and engineers perfect emerging technologies such as those at NREL, more of our nation’s vast energy reserves must be explored in a respectful and responsible way to help bring down fuel costs. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D., Calif.) and her liberal colleagues in the Democratic leadership are under immense pressure from the American public and from an increasing number of rank-and-file Democrats to stop fiddling and schedule a real vote on more American energy production. But what is her response? The Speaker told CNN last week that “I have no plans to do so.” House Republicans will continue this fight every single day, but let’s be clear: Only Speaker Pelosi and her liberal Democratic colleagues are standing in the way of lower gasoline prices for the American people.
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON – Americans getting pummeled at the gas pump may at least see some relief on their tax returns in the near future. A bill in Congress would increase the mileage reimbursement rate Americans could claim for business travel and charitable travel. Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) is co-sponsoring the Increase Mileage Reimbursement Rates for Americans Act, H.R. 6368. This bill, introduced by Rep. Kevin Brady (TX-08), improves upon the increases the IRS made to some of the mileage reimbursement rates this summer. “As gasoline prices continue to climb, more needs to be done to provide relief at the pump,” said Granger. “I believe H.R. 6368 will provide needed and immediate relief for some of the people who need it most.” Specifically, the Act would increase the mileage reimbursement rate for business or trade from 58.5 cents to 67.5 cents per mile. The charitable rate would increase from 14 cents to 27 cents per mile. The IRS had already increased the medical care and moving rates from 19 cents to 27 cents per mile. The Brady bill would maintain this increase. In addition to the immediate increase in reimbursement rates, the Increase Mileage Reimbursement Rates for Americans Act would also allow the Treasury Department to make future adjustments to the charitable rate without waiting on Congress to act.
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Last week, the Club for Growth announced that Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) earned the annual Defender of Economic Freedom award for 2007. The award honors Members of Congress who have a strong voting record on economic growth issues. “Congresswoman Granger is a champion of the pro-growth agenda,” said Club for Growth president Pat Toomey. “As one of 55 congressional members to earn this award, Congresswoman Granger demonstrates a strong commitment to economic freedom and free-market principles.” The Club for Growth is the nation’s leading free-market advocacy organization with over 40,000 members. “It is an honor for me to receive this award,” said Granger. “I am proud to support economic growth by doing all I can to keep taxes low. Being a former small business owner myself, I know the daily struggles of operating a business while continually trying to find ways to grow.” The award is based on certain votes the Club for Growth tracks on its scorecard. The study included a comprehensive examination of each lawmaker’s record on pro-growth policies and computed an Economic Growth Score on a scale of 1 to 100. A score of 100 indicates the highest support for pro-growth policies. Those lawmakers scoring 90 or higher receive the Defender of Economic Freedom award. “The scorecard is an important tool in providing the general public the opportunity to see how their representative and senators vote,” Mr. Toomey said. “These bills promote economic growth and create more jobs for all Americans. We hope that in each year to come, support for commonsense, economic principles will continue to grow, allowing more members to earn this award and more Americans to benefit.”
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Last week, Congresswoman Granger (R-Fort Worth) co-sponsored the Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) Act, H.R. 6210. The SHOP Act would use tax incentives, online information, and predictable costs to make health insurance more available to small businesses and the self-employed. It would also create a voluntary program to help more than 28 percent of individuals working for small businesses who are uninsured. “Many small businesses simply can’t afford to provide health insurance on their own,” said Granger. “This bill would make health insurance more affordable. It would create more insurance options, and it would make those options easier to research and choose from. Wise County small businesses need help and this bill is a step in the right direction.” More than 28 percent of small business employees are uninsured in America. This is a disproportionate amount when compared to the 16 percent of the general population that are uninsured. To improve the insurance markets available to small business owners, the SHOP Act would offer tax incentives to states to encourage them to 1) reform existing small group insurance markets that are functioning poorly and 2) develop state purchasing pools backstopped by a voluntary, nationwide pool. Tax credits will also be available to small business owners who join a state purchasing pool. “This doesn’t solve the problem, but it does help,” said Granger. “I want to do whatever I can to help our small business owners here at home cope with all the problems they are facing from lowering gas prices to helping them provide health insurance to their workers.”
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Wall Street Journal recently cited the work Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) and other Members of Congress, including several from Texas, did to urge the Bush Administration to stop a proposed rule that would have resulted in deep cuts to the Centers of Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Late last week, the Administration announced they would not move forward with their proposed Medicare cuts. “I was proud to join the effort to stop these cuts,” said Granger. “Now is not the time to cut funding for nursing home care. For me, stopping this new regulation was an easy choice and I am glad the Administration listened to us and decided not to move forward with their plan.” If the rule had been approved, nursing home care for millions of seniors would have been threatened. The rule would have cut $770 million in Medicare funding for skilled nursing facility care in 2009 and more than $4 billion over the next five years. Texas seniors would have faced cuts of more than $45 million next year. “For families in Wise County, this positive news means they can rest a little easier at night knowing the high quality of care they were promised for their parents will continue to be available,” said Granger. The Texas Health Care Association (THCA) praised Granger and the other Texas lawmakers for signing the letter sent last week to Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt. The other Texas lawmakers included Reps. Louie Gohmert and Eddie Bernice Johnson. “Thankfully, with the help of these three key Texas House Members, the damaging federal Medicare regulation was derailed,” said Tim Graves, President of THCA.
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. - As Congress prepares to adjourn for their summer district work period, Congresswoman Kay Granger today called on the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives to allow a vote on the American Energy Act, H.R. 6566, before they leave town. The act would increase the supply of American-made energy to reduce gas prices. “Congress needs an ‘all of the above’ strategy to reduce energy prices,” said Granger. “The high price of gasoline is really making it difficult for folks, even if it’s just driving to work and back every day. Unlike other parts of the country, we rely heavily on our cars because taking a train or bus is not an option when you work in Fort Worth, but live 40 miles away in Decatur. The American Energy Act is a comprehensive energy package to increase the supply American-made energy in environmentally sound ways, improve energy conservation and efficiency, and promote renewable and alternative energy technologies. “The Democrat leadership controls what legislation is brought to the House floor. I strongly urge them today to allow a vote on this bill,” said Granger. “We can’t afford to wait another week. This American Energy Act is the ‘all of the above’ approach we need.”
06.22.2010	FORT WORTH, TX — Yesterday Congresswoman Granger met with local Mayors from her congressional district to talk about energy, transportation and other issues impacting the communities she represents. Covering Parker, Tarrant and Wise counties over 20 mayors attended her roundtable discussion. Attending from Parker County were Dorothy Hall, Cool; Doug Hughes, Springtown; Marvin Glasgow, Willow Park; Kit Marshall, Aledo; Jamie French, Millsap; and Dennis Hooks, Weatherford. “Last year, I hosted this meeting for the first time and it was a huge success,” said Granger. “There is no better resource than meeting face to face with the Mayors in the communities I represent.” During the meeting, Congresswoman Granger gave a brief update on her work in Washington and what can be expected between now and the end of the legislative session, which officially concludes the last week of September. Granger said to expect energy to continue to be a central focus, but was hesitant to say the necessary steps to lower prices would be taken. She has been a strong supporter of the American Energy Act, which includes conservation, incentives for alternative energy such as wind, solar, and nuclear, as well as measures to increase domestic drilling. However, this bill has been prevented from being brought up for a vote. Transportation dominated much of the conversation. The high price of gasoline, the lack of revenue the State is collecting and the donor state system were all issues raised during the meeting. In addition, infrastructure and bridge repairs came up. Back in July, Congress passed a $1 billion federal authorization bill for bridge repairs and reconstruction. Texas is home to more bridges than any other state in the country. In Granger’s district alone there are over 2,600 bridges. “I knew transportation would be a large part of our conversation. I appreciated hearing their honesty and completely agree more needs to be done to resolve our local transportation issues,” said Granger. “Several years ago, Texas was only receiving around seventy cents to every dollar for transportation. The entire Texas delegation stood together to say that was completely unacceptable and we were able to close the gap and now Texas receives more than ninety cents for every dollar.” While transportation and energy were the two most discussed issues during the meeting, rural water issues and the need for affordable healthcare were also mentioned. Granger said she plans to continue to hold these mayor roundtable meetings in the future.
06.22.2010	There is no doubt we are in the middle of a very serious economic situation. Over the past week and a half, I have attended briefings daily and heard from hundreds of constituents. I have met with both Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and listened carefully to the plan they have come up with. First, I am convinced that the Congress must act quickly and decisively in order to avert further disaster and stabilize the situation. However, I have very serious concerns about the plan for recovery that has been outlined, and I will tell you why. 1. Our first responsibility is to the taxpayer, not Wall Street. There are alternatives being offered that would allow Wall Street to work out their problems rather than taxpayers bailing out Wall Street. Those are the solutions we should be seeking. 2. Lack of oversight is one of the reasons we are in the crisis we are facing today. The plan as proposed does not have that oversight. Too much power is left in the hands of one person. We should immediately impose transparency, oversight and market reform. 3. There is too much opportunity for those who got us into this problem—Wall Street executives—to benefit, not pay for their mistakes. 4. Too much private capital is sitting on the sidelines during this crisis. We should give tax relief that can help companies free up capital. We should temporarily suspend dividend payments by financial institutions and cut capital gains to encourage the market. This problem cannot be corrected by passing a bill by the Congress. I believe the changes I have outlined will immediately help stabilize the situation, but the creation of a blue ribbon panel with representatives from Treasury, SEC and the Federal Reserve Board should be immediately named to bring recommendations for the new administration and Congress so that we will have the changes necessary to continue improving our economy throughout the coming year. Lastly, economic recovery should include a real energy policy that allows drilling for American independency, conservation, and investment in alternative forms of energy such as wind, nuclear and solar energy. Energy independence and job creation is the best stimulus our economy could have. This is not a time for Congress to pack its bags and go home. It is our responsibility to consider every option and act responsibly and decisively, regardless of elections, appointments, and, certainly, in the best interests of the nation and the people we represent.
06.22.2010	https://republicanleader.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=104002
06.21.2010	40350.772917
06.21.2010	Local troops preparing to deploy to Iraq got a visit from their congresswoman, Rep. Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), at their training facility in Fort Stewart, Hinesville, Georgia on Saturday. The troops are part of the 56th Infantry Combat Brigade, headquartered in Fort Worth. “These soldiers are American heroes,” said Granger. “The sacrifices they make to be away from their families and to put themselves in harm’s way for our country is truly humbling and inspiring.” The 56th Infantry Combat Brigade (56th IBCT) is preparing for deployment to Iraq in the coming weeks. Congresswoman Granger had been unable to see the troops off before they left North Texas for training in Georgia, so she flew to Georgia Friday to visit with and thank them before they deployed to Iraq. Congresswoman Granger toured the training area and ate dinner with 15 soldiers from Weatherford and Fort Worth. “I am always impressed with the incredible dedication of our citizen soldiers,” said Granger. “These men and women are juggling their civilian careers and families at the same time that they are going to fight for us. They take all of these challenges in stride. I want them to know I am proud of them, Texas is proud of them, and America is proud of them.” The 56th IBCT, which has approximately 3,200 soldiers, is made up of units from all over Texas including Weatherford, Fort Worth, Waco, Midland, El Paso, and Marshall.
06.21.2010	ongresswoman Kay Granger joined the growing ranks of Americans who have signed the T. Boone Pickens pledge to end our country’s dependence on foreign oil. “While I am relieved energy prices have dropped here in Tarrant County, now is not the time to become complacent,” said Granger. “Now is actually the time to push for a new energy strategy, because none of us want to face four dollars a gallon again. That is why signing the pledge now is important. ” Congresswoman Granger played a critical role in Washington in calling on Congress to increase the supply of American-made energy. Over the summer, Granger repeatedly urged a vote on the American Energy Act, an “all of the above” solution to reducing energy prices. “We were successful on some fronts this last summer to increase the ability of our country to produce more domestic energy, but we still have a long way to go,” said Granger. “We can now begin to explore offshore drilling in an environmentally safe way, and we have extended incentives to use alternative energy such as solar and wind power. The Pickens Plan would significantly increase the use of wind energy and natural gas to meet our energy needs. The Pickens Plan website cites a Department of Energy report stating that twenty percent of America’s electricity can come from wind. In the Texas panhandle town ofPampa, Pickens has plans to build the largest wind farm in the world. Natural gas is the second part of the Pickens strategy to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. His website states that natural gas is our country’s second largest energy resource. His site goes on to state that 98% of the natural gas used in the United States is from North America. Granger joins over 1.3 million Americans and 131,990 Texans who have signed the pledge. “I appreciate the resolve T. Boone Pickens has shown on this issue. His pledge has generated a great amount of interest and support,” said Granger. “I am glad to join with him and so many others to work on a solution that is doable, because we can’t just continue to talk about our dependence, we need to do something about it” ### Unveiled on July 8, 2008 by T. Boone Pickens, the Pickens Plan is a detailed solution for ending the United States’ growing dependence on foreign oil. Earlier this year, when oil prices reached $140/barrel, America was spending about $700 billion for foreign oil, equaling the greatest transfer of wealth in human history. That figure has decreased while oil prices have retreated, but the U.S. is still dependent on foreign nations for nearly 70 percent of its oil, representing a continuing national economic and national security threat. The plan calls for investing in power generation from domestic renewable resources such as wind and using our abundant supplies of natural gas as a transportation fuel, replacing more than one-third of our imported oil. You can learn more about the Pickens plan by visiting his website (https://www.pickensplan.com/)
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger was honored this week by the C3 Colorectal Cancer Coalition for her efforts in Congress to fight colorectal cancer. “I appreciate the dedicated work of the C3 Colorectal Cancer Coalition and it is a privilege to be honored by them this year,” said Granger. Colorectal cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer in the United States. According to the American Cancer Society, every five seconds someone who should have been screened for colorectal cancer is not. The costs of two thirds of these colorectal cancer cases are borne by the Medicare program. The Lewin Group recently conducted a comprehensive study of the potential cost savings to Medicare and found that every 10 years a colorectal cancer screening program will result in savings of about 1.5 years worth of Medicare expenditures. Last year, Congresswoman Granger introduced the colorectal screening bill (H.R. 1738), that would increase funding for colorectal cancer screenings, establish a national screening program for colorectal cancer individuals over 50 years of age or who are at high risk, and create a public awareness and education campaign on colorectal cancer. Granger’s bill currently has 117 co-sponsors. “Lives and money could be saved if more individuals knew the importance of preventative care,” Granger added.
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger was honored this week by the National Association of Community Health Centers for her work in Congress to increase the number of community health centers nationwide. “It’s a privilege to be honored by the National Association of Community Health Centers,” said Granger. “I appreciate the hard work and outstanding services provided by our nation’s community health centers. They meet such an important local need.” According to the National Association of Community Health Center’s website, there are more than 1,150 community health centers nationwide. These health centers serve more than 17 million Americans who do not have access to affordable health care. In Texas alone, there are close to 300 community health centers that provide care to over 700,000 patients a year. In Fort Worth, the Albert Galvan Health Clinic provided services to 13,000 individuals in 2007. “When I was mayor of Fort Worth, we didn’t have a community health center but there was a clear need for one,” said Granger. “I am enormously proud of the Albert Galvan Health Clinic and the critical services it now provides to the community.” Congresswoman Granger has been a strong advocate for increasing the number of community health centers in local communities around the country. She currently serves as co-chair of the Community Health Caucus which helps educate Members of Congress about the role community health centers play.
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger, along with eighteen other Members of Congress, witnessed the launch of space shuttle Endeavour from the Kennedy Space Center this morning. The space shuttle, STS-123, launched at 2:30 a.m. and is bound for the International Space Station where it will transport a science station built by the Japanese, called a Kibo. “NASA and the space program have had an enormous impact on our nation and the world over the past five decades. To witness the shuttle launch first-hand was incredible,” said Granger. Granger was part of a congressional delegation trip, hosted by Rep. Nick Lampson, to gain a better understanding of the technology used and the resources necessary to maintain the space program. Aside from witnessing the shuttle launch, delegation members toured the Orbiter Processing Facility (OPF) where shuttles are maintained and received a pre-launch briefing from NASA officials on the mission of STS-123, which represents all five international partners. Other Members of the delegation included: Bart Gordon (D-TN), Russ Carnahan (D-MO), Brad Miller (D-NC), Laura Richardson (D-CA), Adrian Smith (D-WA), Phil Gingrey (R-GA), Patrick Kennedy (D-RI), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), John Shimkus (R-IL), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), John Carter (R-TX), Vic Snyder (D-AR) and Dave Reichert (D-WA).
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) made the following statement after House Democrats released their FY 2009 budget proposal. “Today, House Democrats released their fiscal year 2009 budget, laying out their spending priorities for the next fiscal year. Unfortunately, their proposal does not reflect the fiscal discipline Washington needs to lower the deficit and reform entitlement programs. “They are also proposing the largest tax increase in American history for the second year in a row. The $683 billion tax increase will hit working families and small business entrepreneurs the hardest. In fact, under the proposal, 116 million taxpayers will be burdened with an average tax hike of $1,833 per year. “During this time of economic uncertainty, higher energy prices, and increasing health care costs, Congress needs to develop a common sense, pro-growth strategy to keep America competitive and lighten the burden on hard-working families, not raise their taxes.”
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, this evening released the following statement in response to President Bush’s State of the Union address. “The President addressed a number of issues tonight, one of the most important being the economy. He told Congress it needed to pass the bi-partisan economic growth package quickly and I agree. The tax rebates in the package are going to help working families, especially single parents with children, who nowadays are increasingly women. “It’s important we get this package passed quickly to help people now and then we need to continue to enact pro-growth policies that reduce the tax burden on employers and taxpayers and encourage investment and job creation. “I was pleased to hear the President talk about the progress that has been made at our borders. We’ve expanded the Border Patrol from 9,000 agents in 2001 to more than 15,000 agents today. By the end of 2008, we should have more than 18,000 agents. That is a dramatic increase that is resulting in a significant reduction in apprehensions of illegal immigrants crossing the Southern border. We need to continue this trend and finish the job. “The President also talked about Iraq. I agree that the surge is working and think the Iraqis see it working as well. Over the past few months they have placed their confidence in us and we are now working together to rid their communities of al Qaeda and other violent extremists. We now need to continue to build on this success.
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today spoke at a press conference with fellow Members of the Republican House leadership about the need for a speedy economic stimulus package, with Granger highlighting the important role women play in the U.S. economy. “I don’t think many people appreciate the widespread and important role women play in the economy – they are the mothers, small business owners, homeowners and workers. They truly make up the backbone of our economy,” said Granger. According to the Center for Women’s Business Research, in 2006, two out of every five businesses in the country were projected to be women-owned. These firms were estimated to generate $1.9 trillion in annual sales and employ 12.8 million people nationwide. The U.S. Census Bureau estimates that women comprised 46 percent of the total U.S. labor force in 2006. According to the National Association of Realtors, single women are the fastest-growing group of homeowners in recent years. “When we’re talking about stimulus plan options, we need to be factoring women into the equation and considering the impact it will have on them,” said Granger. “I’ve been encouraging Members to listen to women back home to hear what their biggest concerns are. Can they pay their childcare? Their healthcare? Can they expand their payroll? These are real concerns we all need to take into account as we move forward with a package,” added Granger.
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today released the following statement after President Bush submitted his budget to Congress. “Today, the President released his budget, which aims to continue the economic growth we’ve seen these past few years and to balance the budget without raising taxes. I agree that we should not be saddling our over-burdened small businesses and families with higher taxes. “We also have to address entitlement spending and exert fiscal discipline. It’s important that we take steps now to address the current problems before they become bigger ones later on. “I also urge my Democratic colleagues to adopt a budget that does not raise taxes. Last year Democrats proposed the largest tax increase in American history in their budget – something the American people cannot afford right now. We can and should balance the budget without raising taxes.”
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today released the following statement in response to Democratic leaders saying they would push off important budget decisions critical to Middle Class Americans and small businesses until the next Congress. “It’s Congress’ job to work for the American people and that means getting its work done. It does not mean putting the work off – like some Democrats suggest doing – until a time that is more politically expedient. This is part of what has Americans frustrated with Washington – its misplaced priorities. “Congress’ priorities should be where Americans’ priorities are, and right now, that is with ensuring Middle Class Americans and small businesses have enough money to support their families and keep their businesses growing. It also means that Congress needs to exercise increased fiscal restraint. “We can and should work together to get this job done and restore Americans’ faith in the process.”
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — In response to growing concerns about the economy, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), a small business owner for 20 years, today signed on as an original sponsor of an economic stimulus bill entitled the “Middle Class Jobs Protection Act.” The bill, introduced by Rep. Eric Cantor (VA-07), will help businesses create more American jobs and will encourage long-term growth. “There is a lot of anxiety about the economy right now and Congress needs to be solving real problems for real people,” said Granger. “This bill will help stem some of the negative trends we’re seeing by supporting our small businesses and the workers they employ.” The bill allows businesses to deduct an increased amount of the costs of business equipment at the time they acquire the equipment. It also allows small businesses to expense up to $250,000 for purchases up to a $1 million for 2008 and 2009. To help soften the blow of slower years, the bill allows businesses to deduct net operating losses from their total income for the last five years, reducing their tax liability. These provisions will encourage businesses to invest and retain their workers. They will also allow companies to re-invest and distribute more profits to shareholders including pension funds and family investors. “I started my own business 20 years ago with $10,000 and I succeeded -- but it’s hard. One in 10 businesses will not make it their first year,” said Granger. “This bill gives the stimulus needed for businesses to pay their wages, pay their employees’ healthcare, and continue to employ working families.” Economic studies show that workers ultimately bear much of the burden of high corporate tax rates. Studies show that over the long run, tax cuts mean higher wages and better job opportunities for workers. In 1999, Granger won the Fort Worth Business Hall of Fame’s outstanding business executive award, becoming the first woman ever to win the award. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas U.S. House delegation. She sits on the Appropriations Committee and serves on the Energy and Water Development, Homeland Security, and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittees. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her sixth term in Congress.
06.21.2010	Residents of all ages attended a town hall meeting in Springtown Saturday afternoon to hear from United States House Representative Kay Granger. Teens, not even voting age, listened to the representative’s words and assisted by setting up chairs and videotaping the event held at the Springtown Area Senior Center. Adults in the crowd submitted questions prior to the meeting for Granger to address. Granger opened the meeting by speaking of her involvement in homeland security, but the main topic of the day was health care reform. “The environment we are in today is difficult,” Granger said. “When the financial crisis hit us, we all made changes. Retirements were cut in half, people lost jobs. “The government’s made changes. They are not the changes I would have wanted. Because in a time where we are all saying ‘I can do without this,’ the government, the bills we are faced with, has not been doing that.” Standing next to a copy of the 1,990-page health reform bill presented to congress last week, she spoke critically of President Barack Obama’s “czars” and Nancy Pelosi’s statement that “this will be a time of transparency and ethics.” “This is scheduled for a vote this week,” she said referring to the newest health care reform bill. “That doesn’t even make sense. We’ve been talking about one of five bills that is not the bill you see here. Hopefully the votes are not there to pass this. There should not be one Republican ‘yes.’ I think every Republican will vote ‘no.’” One audience member asked if the bill being presented was something she had never seen before or did it encompass pieces of the previous bills. “It has some parts of each,” Granger said. “It has other parts that have never been seen and will never go through committee or sub-committee. There are 800 pages here that have never been seen because they were not in the bill everyone was talking about.” Another audience member asked the representative if she thought the bill could pass without any republican votes. She said yes, because the democrats hold a majority in the senate, but added she knows of democrats who are planning on voting against the bill unless changes are made. In her own moment of transparency, Granger told the audience she pays $159 a month for her Blue Cross health insurance plan that covers only herself. She said her cost it low because the larger the employer the lower the cost, and the federal government is a large employer. “Part of reform should take on that,” she said. “If you are self employed or buying individual insurance you should not be paying higher. That’s not even in this bill. You should be able to form associations and buy insurance across state lines. None of that is in here.” Granger said health needs to be reformed, but the current bill will cost tax payers more money and could be devastating to the future of medical research. She said one of her fears is the government would stop spending money on finding cures for a disease or cancer if it is not “cost effective.” “It doesn’t lower costs when you have that sort of bureaucracy,” she said. “The only way to do that is with hold care. There is nothing else in it that lowers costs. There are new agencies. It’s going to increase costs.” In response to another audience submitted question, Granger said it is not constitutional for the government to mandate individuals to purchase health insurance. She also spoke against government control of banks and the auto industry. “I don’t want the government in my life anymore than it is,” she said. “It is not constitutional. For the federal government to go into a bank and say this is the salary you will pay. That is outrageous.” She also said if the current health care reform passes, she is concerned about the future of the medical field when doctors are already not being able to recouping the costs of tests funded through Medicare. “Sometimes we forget that doctors are small business owners,” Granger said. “They want to provide health care, but that have to pay nurses and keep their offices open. We’re losing doctors and people saying they would not advise their children to go into medicine.”
06.21.2010	House Leadership unveiled their latest plan for a takeover of government health care that will raise taxes, increase the national debt, and put government bureaucrats between patients and their doctors. Click here to read the full text of the legislation.
06.21.2010	On October 26th, Congresswoman Kay Granger hosted nearly 6,000 constituents on a live telephone town hall. Please click here to listen.
06.21.2010	Fort Worth Star-Telegram Pakistani, U.S. officials on hand in Fort Worth for F-16 ceremonies By BOB COX rcox@star-telegram.com For the first time in two decades, Pakistan’s air force is about to get new F-16 fighter jets. Pakistani military and government officials were on hand Tuesday at Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Co. in Fort Worth for ceremonies unveiling the first of 18 new F-16s to be delivered in the next year. And to highlight the continuing value of the F-16 to Lockheed and Fort Worth, the Defense Department announced that it had notified Congress of a possible sale of 24 F-16s to Egypt, along with spare engines, radars and weapons, a deal potentially worth about $3.2 billion. The Pakistan jet sale, worth roughly $2 billion, was authorized in 2006 by President George W. Bush. It was the first to Pakistan since 1990, when then-President George H.W. Bush cut off delivery of 28 previously purchased planes over the country’s nuclear weapons development program. "Many people thought this day would never come," Pakistan’s ambassador to the U.S., Husain Haqqani, said in remarks at the ceremony. "It’s a historic and defining moment." The U.S. and Pakistan, Haqqani said, "are democracies struggling to protect the world against terrorism and protecting us from those who would take our freedom." The resumption of F-16 sales was opposed by some members of Congress, denounced by India and at times threatened by lagging payments to Lockheed. "This journey was long, difficult, challenging and sometimes frustrating," said Rep. Kay Granger, Fort Worth, whose district includes the Lockheed plant. Granger said Pakistan "is the point of the spear" in U.S. efforts to combat terrorism in Afghanistan and elsewhere. She said the U.S. and Pakistan have "a growing relationship that will last for decades to come." Pakistan is buying 18 F-16C Block 52 jets, one of the most capable versions of the aircraft, which is flown by the U.S. Air Force and numerous other countries. In addition, Lockheed is producing modernization and upgrade kits for 35 of Pakistan’s 1980s-era F-16As. The kits will provide the same radar, digital mission computers and modern digital instrumentation systems as the new aircraft. Four aircraft will be upgraded in Fort Worth, with the rest of the kits shipped to Pakistan to be installed there. The head of Pakistan’s air force, Air Chief Marshal Rao Qamar Suleman, said that nation’s F-16s have proved valuable in making precision attacks on Al Qaeda and Taliban extremists that operate out of the rugged mountainous region between Pakistan and Afghanistan. At the end of June, Lockheed had a backlog of 87 unfilled F-16 orders, enough to keep the Fort Worth assembly line operating through about 2012. Lockheed has about 2,100 Fort Worth employees directly tied to the F-16 program and several hundred others who provide varying degrees of support. Additional sales to Egypt, should they occur, would add to the backlog. The Obama administration signaled to the Egyptian government this year that it would look favorably upon a request to buy additional F-16s. Egypt has already taken delivery of 220 F-16s since 1982. Before Tuesday’s Egypt announcement, John Larson, Lockheed’s vice president of the F-16 program, said he was "very optimistic about additional F-16 sales. There are a number of government-to-government discussions going on now that we’re pretty confident will result in orders." The biggest potential source of business is Pakistan’s neighbor and historical enemy, India, which is holding a competition to buy 126 fighter jets. Lockheed is competing for that business, as is Boeing with its F/A-18 Super Hornet, along with several foreign aircraft manufacturers.
06.21.2010	Weatherford Telegram Hate crimes attachment irks Granger Wednesday, Oct. 14, 2009 Congresswoman Kay Granger (Fort Worth) voted against the National Defense Authorization Bill for fiscal year 2010 because it contained controversial "hate crimes" legislation that is not germane to armed forces funding. "It’s indefensible that the Defense Authorization Bill, which should exclusively support our troops, is instead being used as a vehicle for a controversial social policy that goes against the principles of my constituents," Granger said. Granger believes that all criminals should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of existing law without labels and, similarly, victims should be protected to the fullest extent of the law. She believes this should not happen in the Defense Authorization Bill. "To use our troops as political pawns is irresponsible and sets a dangerous precedent," said the congresswoman who has voted for every Defense Authorization bill since she has been in Congress. "I do not approve of our bravest sons and daughters being used to move a social agenda forward."
06.21.2010	By Arshad Mohammed NEW YORK, Sept 24 (Reuters) - The U.S. State Department said it is rethinking a decision to give $2.5 million in aid to Libya, including to foundations run by the Libyan leader's sons, after lawmakers on Thursday asked it to cancel the plan. In a letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, two U.S. lawmakers said they were unwilling to give the aid because of the warm reception Tripoli recently gave a Libyan official convicted of involvement in the 1988 Lockerbie bombing. They also accused Libyan leader Col. Muammar Gaddafi of showing "flagrant disrespect" for the 270 victims of the bombing during his visit to New York this week to attend the U.N. General Assembly. "The celebration that President (Gaddafi) recently held in honor of ... the only man convicted in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, showed just how little remorse (he) has for the terrorist attacks that killed 270 civilians," Rep. Nita Lowey and Rep. Kay Granger wrote in a letter obtained by Reuters. Lowey, a New York Democrat, chairs the influential House of Representatives appropriations subcommittee that oversees funding for the State Department and U.S. foreign assistance. Granger, of Texas, is the subcommittee's top Republican. While the State Department could reject their request, as a practical matter it is unlikely to do so because of the power that the appropriations committee has over its budget. State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said the department was rethinking the funding, which two sources said had included $200,000 each for two foundations run by Gaddafi's sons. One source said one foundation promoted civil society and the other women's empowerment. "The decision to appropriate the money was made some time ago but, in light of recent events, we will be taking another look at these decisions," Crowley said. The "recent events" was a reference to the celebratory reception Abdel Basset al-Megrahi received on his return to Libya last month after being freed by Scottish authorities on compassionate grounds because of his terminal cancer. 'IT IS ALL OVER'? Gaddafi's U.S. visit has upset some family members of the Lockerbie victims who resented his unsuccessful efforts to get permission to pitch a Bedouin tent he likes to stay in in Central Park and in two other sites near New York City. On Wednesday, Gaddafi delivered a rambling 94-minute speech to the U.N. General Assembly that touched on everything from the assassination of John F. Kennedy to swine flu and denounced the powers of the U.N. Security Council, which he said should be called the "Terror Council." Despite Gaddafi's unpredictability, the United States in late 2003 began a process of rapprochement with Libya after decades of estrangement because of Tripoli's decision to abandon the pursuit of weapons of mass destruction. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal newspaper, Gaddafi appeared to strike a conciliatory tone, saying he could "comprehend" the anger directed at him by Americans who lost relatives in the Lockerbie bombing. Gaddafi also said he hoped to build a new era of relations with U.S. President Barack Obama and wanted to put his nation's long conflict with the United States in the past. "As a case, the Lockerbie question: I would say it's come to an end, legally, politically, financially, it is all over," the newspaper quoted Gaddafi as saying. "I would say, thank Allah, that this problem has been solved to the satisfaction of all parties. We all feel the pain for such a tragedy." He also made clear his desire for his country to benefit from Western technology. "Libya does need the technology of the advanced world," Gaddafi said. "And if Libya wishes to develop itself, it must cooperate with the developed world."
06.21.2010	GRANGER CO- HOSTS SECOND ANTI- TERROR SUMMIT Washington, DC. - Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (Fort Worth) co-hosted the second summit of the Trans-Atlantic Parliamentary Group on Counterterrorism (TAG) in Washington, DC. As the co-chair of the Anti- Terrorism Caucus, Granger joined with colleagues in 2008 to create TAG to maintain a dialogue between legislators from Europe and the United States regarding strategic threats and the ongoing threat of international Jihadi terrorism to Western democracies. Today the international group of legislators represented Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Spain, Austria, France, the Netherlands, Romania and Cyprus. TAG discussions, today, focused on the terror strategies and counter strategies in: Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, Iran, Lebanon, Somalia and Africa. European and American legislators addressed and analyzed these various issues in their respective nations. “TAG is a unique platform to share the successes and challenges of our respective approaches against the shared threat of Islamic Terrorism,” said Granger. “I strongly support an ongoing global dialogue to help legislators combat new threats. We know too well that terrorists know no boundaries and the ideas we discuss will help us stay ahead of our enemies and allow us to bring a more sophisticated perspective back to Congress.”
06.21.2010	“The media has thoroughly unveiled the corruption that exists at ACORN. Texans are rightfully appalled at what they have learned. Last Thursday I was proud to support a House amendment that will stop all taxpayer dollars from going to ACORN and am encouraged that the House of Representatives has adopted it with overwhelming, bipartisan support. While this is a step in the right direction, it does not go far enough. “Today I cosponsored the “Defund ACORN Act” which will ensure that all ties between ACORN and the federal government are severed, and that the future possibility of taxpayer dollars financing this dubious organization is eliminated. “I ask that Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats bring this common-sense legislation to the floor immediately. In a time of national economic hardship and excessive demands on taxpayers we should expect increased discretion in how my constituent’s tax-dollars are spent.
06.21.2010	Do you know Herb Allison? Does the name Daniel Fried sound familiar? How about Alan Bersin or Carol Browner? If you’re like most Americans, you’ve never heard of these people. These people are the “czars” responsible for giving bailout money to banks, closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay, determining how to secure the border, and revamping American energy policy. The concept of having a czar to help coordinate a pressing, emergency issue is not new. Presidents Reagan and George H. W. Bush each had one czar. President Clinton had three, and President George W. Bush had four. However, in just six months in office, President Obama has already named at least 32 czars, and more could be coming. These “czars” are given a staff, a $172,000 per year salary, and broad authority to set policy that affects your life. They are not subject to Senate approval, and don’t have to answer to anyone except President Obama. This is just another example of the growth of big government without any accountability to Congress, or to the American people. That’s why I’m a cosponsor of H.R. 3226, the Czar Accountability and Reform Act. I believe this bill would cut off the salaries for these czars to restore transparency and accountability to our government.
06.21.2010	First USS Fort Worth Milestone Completed On Saturday, Congresswoman Kay Granger attended the Keel Laying ceremony for the USS Fort Worth in Marinette, Wisconsin. Although some of the construction has already begun, the Keel Laying ceremony is the symbolic kick-off to the start of construction. Congresswoman Granger attended the ceremony as the ship’s sponsor. As part of the tradition of the being the ship’s sponsor, Congresswoman Granger had her initials “KG” welded to the ship which will remain with it for the entire service life of the ship. “It’s a great honor to serve as the sponsor of the USS Fort Worth,” said Granger. “The keel laying ceremony today is also a great tribute to the tireless efforts by the city of Fort Worth and all those who believed this day would happen. The thousands of letters that were written and the drawings that were done embody the spirit of making this dream a reality. The keel is the backbone of the ship, and the city of Fort Worth has long been a “backbone” of support for our American Military forces.” The community will have a unique role to play in supporting the USS Fort Worth. The USS Fort Worth committee and the community will be supporting the USS Fort Worth at home, and while the ship travels around the world. Congresswoman Granger was joined during the ceremony by Captain Robert E. Howell, the Director of Contracts and Rear Admiral (Sel.) James Murdoch the manager of the Littoral Combat Ship program for the United States Navy. Lockheed Martin representatives were also on hand including Dan Schultz, vice president and general manager of Lockheed Martin’s Maritime Systems Sensors, Integrated Defense Technologies business. In addition, there were nearly 100 people who attended the ceremony that are involved in the construction of the USS Fort Worth as well as the mayors of the five surrounding cities of Marinette, Menominee, Oconto, Green Bay and Peshtigo. "Today, we are recognizing the symbolic first significant construction milestone in delivering a ship. And in this case, the second of a new breed of vital ship to be delivered to the fleet in support of our global maritime strategy. Fort Worth and her sister ships will give our forces new capabilities to deal with the numerous threats and challenges they face around the world," said Capt. Jim Murdoch, LCS program manager within the Navy's Program Executive Office, Ships. "It is an honor that this warship will be associated with the people and city of Fort Worth, a city with a proud heritage of support for our men and women in uniform." “We are committed to continuing our partnership with the Navy and providing them the most affordable solution to fill a critical need,” said Dan Schultz, vice president and general manager of Lockheed Martin’s Maritime Systems & Sensors, Integrated Defense Technologies business. “LCS 3’s construction will benefit from lessons learned on USS Freedom. It will be built using Marinette Marine’s modular production process that enables ship modules to be outfitted up to 85 percent complete prior to launch. We look forward to Fort Worth (LCS 3) following in USS Freedom’s (LCS 1) ground-breaking footsteps, as one of the Navy’s finest surface combatants.” The announcement a ship would be named USS Fort Worth came nearly three years after a grassroots effort by Congresswoman Granger and the community to name the ship after the city in honor of Fort Worth’s rich military history. The littoral combat ship is a 21st century ship that is designed to allow access to shallow coastal waters for missions such as mine warfare, anti-submarine warfare and surface warfare. It will also be outfitted with reconfigurable payloads that can be changed out quickly to accommodate various missions. The USS Fort Worth will be designated LCS-3 and will be built by Lockheed Martin. It will be 378 feet in length, have a waterline beam of 57 feet, displace approximately 3,000 tons and will make speed in excess of 40 knots. Based on previous LCS construction timelines, the USS Fort Worth is slated for completion in 2012. ### This ceremony is the first of four key milestones (keel laying, launching, christening, and commissioning). In earlier times, the keel laying was the “laying down” of the central or main timber making up the backbone of the vessel. Today, fabrication of the ship may begin months before and some of the ship’s bottom may actually be joined. However, the keel laying symbolically recognizes the joining of modular components and the ceremonial beginning of a ship.
06.21.2010	Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX), the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee for State-Foreign Operations, reinforced the will of Congress today with an amendment to prohibit funds in the State-Foreign Operations Appropriations bill from being used by the Secretary of the Treasury to negotiate any agreement in breach of enacted provisions in the War Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009 that was signed into law in June. The Granger amendment reaffirms Congress' role in controlling the Administration as it spends hundreds of billions of dollars in multilateral foreign assistance. In a show of bipartisan support, the House passed the Granger amendment by an overwhelming vote of 429-2. Granger released the following statement after the passage of the amendment: “I appreciate the bipartisan support for my amendment. I think we can all agree that now more than ever we need to keep a watchful eye on how we spend money – regardless of whether it’s spent domestically or overseas. “Sending money overseas, and to an organization such as the IMF with no commitment from the Administration to ensure the funds are used properly or will not be given to any state sponsor of terrorism is completely unacceptable,” said Granger. Last month, the Democrat majority in Congress provided President Obama with $108 billion in new funding for the International Monetary Fund as well as approved for the IMF to sell 13 million ounces of gold with proceeds providing a cushion for their internal operating expenses. In doing so, Congress provided for an unprecedented expansion of IMF resources and powers. On June 24, when President Obama signed the fiscal year 2009 supplemental into law, he issued a signing statement saying he would ignore guidelines put in place by Congress when the IMF funding was approved. The very provisions ignored by President Obama provide some of the only oversight that the United States exercises over the IMF – an organization that will triple in size this year because of the supplemental allocation. On June 23 during the markup of the State-Foreign Operations bill, the full Committee accepted an amendment by Congresswoman Granger that severely limited the IMF’s authority, including a requirement that the US contribute no more than 20% of the total to the IMF’s emergency loans and a requirement that the U.S. contribution to the IMF emergency credit line expire after 5 years.
06.21.2010	In a year that has seen the loss of 2.9 million jobs in America, I remain focused on creating jobs, cutting spending to reduce the deficit, and keeping taxes low. I encourage you to watch the video below. Number One Priority -- VIDEO On Tuesday evening, Speaker Pelosi and the Democrat majority surprisingly announced that this Friday will be the day the House considers landmark energy and climate legislation known as “cap and trade.” “Cap and trade” means the government would set artificial limits on the amount of emissions businesses, utilities, farmers, and others can have, forcing them to severely alter the way they operate. If they can’t operate within their emissions limit, they would have to pay the government or other parties to get a higher limit. This is essentially a tax on these groups, and it is most certainly going to be passed on to all of you. This bill is still being written as we speak – no one has seen or read it, and the bill is being crafted completely behind closed doors and as it stands now it is rumored to be 1,201 pages long. Normally, Members draft legislation, and then submit it to congressional committees for consideration. Only after it has received the support of the committee can the legislation be considered for a vote. However, this bill is going straight from the drawing board in Speaker Pelosi’s office to the House floor with no input from anyone except the small group of Members drafting the bill. The cost is still unknown, but some reports indicate this bill could result in the loss of 3.2 million U.S. jobs. The Heritage Foundation estimates this bill will increase electricity costs by 90 percent by 2035, gasoline by 58 percent, and natural gas by 55 percent. At this point, it is very likely that we will not see the bill before we vote on it Friday. Speaker Pelosi is continuing to hold closed door meetings this week, so the final version of the bill has not been written. I do not support the process House Democrats are using to force this bill through the House, and I can’t support a costly piece of legislation when we do not know its impact on our country.
06.21.2010	Below are copies of Congresswoman Kay Granger's opening statement during the FY 2010 Full Committee Markup and a copy of her statement on the IMF Amendment offered. The amendment was accepted by the committe during the mark
06.21.2010	Today, during the conference meeting on the FY2009 Supplemental Appropriations bill, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) offered a motion to include the Senate provision delaying the release of detainee photographs. The motion received bipartisan support during debate, but was rejected by the House Democrats on the conference committee. “I’m disappointed that some conferees chose not to put the welfare of our troops first. There are real life implications we are dealing with here. This is a serious issue with serious consequences,” said Granger. Earlier today in the House, 95 Democrats joined 172 Republicans in voting to oppose the release of detainee photos for a period of three years. The vote on the Republican motion to instruct conferees on the FY 2009 Supplemental Appropriations bill was agreed to by a vote of 267-152. “Not only are the White House, the Departments of State and Defense, and a clear majority in Congress opposed to the release of these photos, our commanders on the field in Iraq and Afghanistan are strongly opposed as well,” Granger said. “Frankly, there is no question that the release of these photos would be used as propaganda and as a recruiting tool for terrorists.” Last month, President Obama ordered the Justice Department to appeal a federal court ruling allowing the release of detainee photos under the Freedom of Information Act. “Very few times in Congress do we have an opportunity to do something that will almost certainly save lives – well, I believe this is one of those times,” said Granger.
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) released the following statement today in response to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius’ announcement regarding preparation for a possible swine flu pandemic: “I was pleased to learn this morning that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has moved forward with one of the recommendations in the letter I sent to Secretary Sebelius on Tuesday. This morning HHS ordered 12 million courses of antivirals to replenish the national stockpile. “Maintaining the stockpile of enough antiviral drugs for 25 percent of the population is a critical component of the National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza (NSPI) and will be our nation’s first line of defense as the H1N1 influenza virus continues to spread. “As I said in my letter to Secretary Sebelius, I strongly encourage HHS to move forward with purchasing antivirals for prophylaxis use by health care workers and first responders. HHS has published guidance on antiviral drug use during an influenza pandemic and it is important to begin implementing this plan as soon as possible. “HHS has nearly $1.3 billion in unspent funds that Congress appropriated back in 2007 that can be used for research and development of a vaccine to match the H1N1 virus as well as to purchase additional antivirals to treat patients until a vaccine is available. I will continue to monitor this situation closely, and as a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will work to make sure additional funding is made available as needed for pandemic preparedness.”
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today released the following statement regarding the Administration’s new strategy for the war in Afghanistan: “The President's speech recognizes the importance of defeating al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan, but we must not underestimate the danger of the Taliban and the Haqqani network to the stability and progress of these countries. “Success will depend on what we do militarily and diplomatically. “We must also recognize and deal with the reality of the narco-trafficking that provides funding for these organizations. We have to clearly understand what we are dealing with in these complex societies and not make the mistake of thinking they are the same as what we faced in Iraq.”
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) released the following statement in response to the Administration’s announcement today of its plan to combat Mexican drug cartels and secure the border. “I appreciate that the Departments of Homeland Security, State and Justice are finally recognizing the urgent need to confront the problems drug cartels are causing in Mexico and on our Southwest border. Innocent civilians are getting caught in the crossfire of an increasingly violent war between rival drug cartels. “Congress has appropriated $700 million toward the Merida Initiative, to support President Calderon’s brave efforts to stop the corruption and violence caused by the drug gangs. Among the Merida measures is increasing air mobility for the Mexican Army and Air Force. I urge the Administration to speed up the delivery of the five helicopters that have already been funded and fulfill the Mexican government’s request for additional air assets for the police.”
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after the Wall Street Journal reported this morning comments made by Attorney General Eric Holder that some Guantanamo detainees could be released inside the United States: “This is simply outrageous and unacceptable. The fact that the Attorney General would even suggest some Guantanamo detainees could be released into the United States should terrify all of us. The combatants remaining in Guantanamo are some of the most hardened terrorists in the world who want to harm innocent Americans. Under no circumstances should they be released on American soil. The Administration must reject this suggestion immediately.”
06.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) released the following statement in response to United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s comments in a meeting with the House Foreign Relations Committee today: “United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon's statement that the United States is a ‘deadbeat’ donor to the U.N. is not only offensive, it's flat-out wrong. “For more than 60 years, the U.S. has been the single largest financial contributor to the U.N. system -- from the moment the U.N. charter was signed in San Francisco, to the day it broke ground on its headquarters in New York City, to the present, as the organization gets nearly one-quarter of its budget from the United States. “Given our unmatched generosity towards the U.N., the Secretary-General should know better than to look a gift horse in the mouth. Right now, Americans care far more about paying their own bills than they do about appeasing the head of the U.N.”
06.21.2010	Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) released this statement following President Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress this evening: “I deeply appreciate the President’s address to Congress this evening. There is no mistaking the serious challenges facing our country – both on the domestic front and internationally as we continue to tackle a troubled economy and a continual threat of terrorism. “All along, I, and my House Republican colleagues, have expressed our desire to work with the President. Reducing the deficit and controlling spending are areas we are firmly committed to working on with the President. However, we cannot ignore the impact that raising taxes and significant cuts to our Armed Forces will have on both our economy and national security. “Roughly 64 percent of those who are scheduled for a tax increase are small businesses. Job creation and growth will be severely stressed if we continue to ask our small business owners to bear an even greater burden to pay more in taxes during this tough economic time. “I remain confident and look forward to working with the President to get our economy back on track.”
06.21.2010	I was pleased when President Obama announced his plans to jump start our economy by cutting taxes and investing in infrastructure. Unfortunately, while our economy continues to falter, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Appropriations Chairman David Obey, and other Democrats in Congress insist that a new massive spending package is the best way to help stimulate the economy in the short term. I have many concerns with the $819 billion bill that is currently moving through Congress. If enacted into law in its current form, the Pelosi-Obey bill would be the most expensive piece of legislation in history, heaping mountains of new debt on future generations. That does not put our country in a position to be competitive in future years. We have already seen the problems that can arise from writing a massive government blank check. The Troubled Assets Relief Program, which Congress approved last fall, authorized spending a total of $700 billion to help financial institutions with the fallout from the housing and credit crisis. Unfortunately, the funds were not used as promised. Instead, they were redirected and used to help companies like AIG – companies that have already mismanaged the money they received. That is exactly why I opposed releasing the second half of the $700 billion to the Treasury Department. Instead, I chose to support a bill introduced by my colleague from Texas, Louie Gohmert. His tax holiday bill would have stopped the remaining $350 billion and instead authorized a two-month freeze on federal income taxes, allowing Americans to keep more of their paychecks. That’s the sort of fast-acting stimulus our country needs – one that lets taxpayers decide how their money should be spent. The Pelosi-Obey bill does not do what’s needed to create new jobs and get our economy on track. Instead, it creates a new set of government programs and provides funding to existing programs that already have difficulty spending their large, unspent balances. Alternative proposals continue to be offered, and I believe many of these ideas have merit and should be taken into consideration. Instead of spending billions of dollars on programs that don’t create jobs, an effective stimulus package should help small businesses thrive. Small businesses, those with fewer than 500 employees, make up 85 percent of our economy and by far the largest source of new jobs in America. Small businesses often pay up to 35 percent of their income in taxes; lowering those taxes would immediately free up funds for small businesses to retain jobs and create new ones. To achieve that goal, Republicans in Congress have proposed giving small businesses a tax deduction equal to 20 percent of their income. Small businesses are the first to recover during periods of economic turmoil. Helping small businesses is a necessary step in any stimulus package, but the bill given to us by Democratic leadership doesn’t empower small businesses; it simply empowers the government. Congressman Mike Simpson of Idaho and I recently wrote a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer and Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey expressing our desire for a targeted stimulus effort that addresses transportation and infrastructure needs, reduces the tax burden on American families and gives businesses the tools they need to create jobs. There is no doubt we would all benefit from additional funding to build new roads or maintain current ones, and the jobs that would result from those efforts. However, the fact about the Pelosi-Obey bill that doesn’t receive attention is that out of the $825 billion, less than five percent is dedicated to such projects. When you spread that amount across 50 states and thousands of communities, it fails to provide the stimulus we were originally led to believe it would. Finally, any economic recovery plan must not raise taxes to pay for new government spending. The huge amounts of spending contained in the House Democrat bill understandably cause concern that Congress will try to raise Americans’ taxes in the future to pay for it. That’s why I have joined my colleagues in asking for a provision that will prevent raising taxes at any time to pay for this new spending. Instead, it should be paid for by reducing government spending elsewhere. Congress needs to act to improve our country’s economic situation. But it is crucial that we take the right actions. Funding for global-warming research and physics research – both of which are provisions contained in the Pelosi-Obey bill – may be worthy projects, but they do not address the most pressing economic needs we face. They do not belong in this bill. We must use common sense and restraint in deciding how to accomplish our goal of getting our economy back on its feet. We should focus on creating jobs, not just more work. The Pelosi-Obey bill being considered in Congress does just the opposite. Our focus should be on the short term, but if we fail to consider the long-term consequences, I fear we will find ourselves at the drawing board again very soon.
06.21.2010	Congresswoman Kay Granger today expressed her disappointment after voting against the final version of the spending package that has been at the center of much of the debate since President Obama took office. “I am disappointed in the final version of this spending package,” said Granger. “There was so much discussion at the beginning that we would focus solely on items that would provide an immediate jolt to our economy. Instead, we have a bill that fails to fund a significant amount of ‘shovel ready’ infrastructure projects and provide additional relief to small businesses.” Much of the discussion has centered on the price tag of the spending package – bouncing between $819 billion to as high as $930 billion before settling at over $790 billion. Included in the bill were items Granger deemed worthy, but not projects that would stimulate the economy. Instead, she believes the bill should have focused on tax relief for individuals and small businesses as well as a sufficient amount on transportation and water infrastructure projects that could provide new jobs almost immediately – including new jobs in North Texas. Granger is a strong advocate of giving relief to small businesses, which account for about 85 percent of the economy. In the final version of the bill, only a tiny fraction was dedicated to relieving the tax burden on small businesses. Reducing the tax rate for these small businesses would immediately free up funds for them to retain workers and hire new ones. “Small businesses are the first to recover during periods of economic turmoil,” said Granger. “Helping small businesses is a necessary step in any stimulus package, but the Democratic leadership’s bill doesn’t empower small businesses; it empowers the government.” Communities and the public were led to believe that transportation and water infrastructure projects would make up the bulk of the bill. Communities were excited and started to make plans. However, Granger and many others were shocked to learn that a relatively small share of the total $792 billion package is devoted to transportation infrastructure — $47 billion, or 5.9 percent, and only $27.5 billion, or 3.4 percent, for highway construction. “You can imagine my disbelief when I learned that less than 10 percent would be dedicated to a sector that offers a true stimulus to the economy and could create hundreds, if not thousands, of new jobs in North Texas,” said Granger. The lack of transparency was another reason for Granger’s disappointment. The House of Representatives voted unanimously earlier in the week to post the final version of the bill on the Internet and allow the public to view the bill for at least 48 hours before a vote. However, in reality, Members had less than a day to review the bill before voting. Included in the bill were items like $2 billion for the Neighborhood Stabilization Fund, providing funds to organizations such as ACORN, as well as $700 million for controversial “comparative effectiveness” research that could lead to health care rationing. “I hesitate writing a check for $100. The Democrat leadership wrote a check for almost $800 billion without batting an eye when this bill will have long-term consequences,” said Granger. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released an analysis of the stimulus bill noting it was bad for the economy over the long-term. The CBO concluded that the size of the stimulus package will crowd-out private investment and result in an actual decrease in the Gross Domestic Product. “We got in this mess because people and institutions took on debt they could not afford,” Granger said. “This bill makes the same mistake.” This week alone the Obama administration and the Democrat-controlled Congress pledged almost $3 trillion in new spending. The Treasury Department laid out its plan for spending the remaining TARP funds and for increased financing from the Federal Reserve. The stimulus package Granger voted against totals more than $1.1 trillion when you factor in interest. Granger believes that these commitments will have severe long-term consequences that will impact several generations to come.
06.21.2010	I support the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). During my first term in Congress, I voted to create the program and believe we need to responsibly reauthorize it. Texas first began enrolling children in SCHIP in May 2000. Since that time, 1,928,725 Texas children have received their health care through SCHIP. And, nationwide, 7.4 million kids were enrolled in SCHIP in 2008. There is no doubt that we all support providing insurance to low-income children. In fact, this program originally passed on a broad bipartisan basis. Enacted by a Republican Congress and signed by a Democratic President, it was a model of bipartisanship. SCHIP has been a good program that creates an important safety net to provide health insurance to low-income children whose families cannot afford private insurance and do not qualify for Medicaid. But the Majority has repeated their mistakes from last Congress, and pushed through a bill with very little input from our Conference that strays from the original purpose of the SCHIP program. Not only does the Democrats' bill not put the priority on covering low income kids, the bill is paid for with tax increases and budget gimmicks. That is why I have introduced a bill to expand the SCHIP program to cover millions of uninsured kids that is paid for without budget gimmicks and without raising taxes. My bill, the Kids First Act (H.R. 688), provides funding increases to state SCHIP programs and help them to find those eligible children who are not yet enrolled. In addition, the Kids First Act closes the loophole that allows some states to extend their program to higher income families, even while they have thousands of lower-income children who are still not covered. Finally, by responsibly allocating scarce resources, the Kids First Act increases funding for SCHIP without raising taxes and without budget gimmicks. The Kids First Act truly puts kids first, eliminating nearly all adults from this program designed for children so that more children can be covered. The Kids First Act mirrors the Senate alternative introduced by Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Senate Republican Minority Whip John Kyl of Arizona. It reauthorizes the program through FY2013 and increases state allotments, allowing millions of new low income children to be covered. I offered this alternative to ensure that we build on the past successes of SCHIP by working to ensure we put poor children first.
06.21.2010	United States Representatives Phil Gingrey, MD (R-GA), David Scott (D-GA), Kay Granger (R-TX), and Norman Dicks (D-WA) sent a letter today to President Barack Obama, urging the new President to obligate critical funding to continue production of the F-22 Raptor. 184 other Members of the House have joined them in signing the letter. “The F-22 is our nation’s most capable fighter, ensuring America’s air dominance now and in the future,” said Rep. Gingrey (R-GA). “Nearly 100,000 Americans – including 2,600 in Marietta, Georgia – manufacture this aircraft which annually provides over $12 billion in economic activity to our national economy. As we face a time of unprecedented economic challenges, it is critical that we preserve this program which sustains our manufacturing base and strengthens our national defense. This letter – signed by 188 Members of the House – will ensure that President Obama understands the importance of the F-22 from day one of his Presidency.” “The United States is in the midst of a recession,” said Rep. Scott (D-GA). “Therefore it is essential that we not only create more jobs, but keep those Americans already working fully employed. Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Pratt and Whitney and others employ nearly 100,000 people in the production of F-22s. As such, it is critical not only for national security but for economic security that we continue this vital program. Failure to do so would cause thousands of employees to be laid off which would be devastating to not only my Congressional District but to families all across the nation.” “The F-22 plays a vital role in our national security. In Fort Worth, the F-22 and the defense community are important economic engines,” Rep. Granger (R-TX) said. “Our country and allies around the world depend on our military superiority. Continued procurement of the F-22 is clearly in the national interest.” “The F-22 program is at a crossroads,” said Rep. Dicks (D-WA). “In my years in Congress, all too often I have seen the Department of Defense invest billions of dollars to develop an essential new weapon system, and then not procure enough of them. There is little argument that the F-22 is the premier air dominance platform for the foreseeable future. Numerous analyses have shown a requirement for far larger numbers than the 183 F-22 Raptors that are in the current plan. And there is no question that if we purchase no more of them right now, we will lose the ability to ever produce them again. That is why I have joined in writing to President Obama to urge him to support continued production of 20 more F-22 Raptors now, with the expectation that the program requirement will get an in depth evaluation in the context of the next Quadrennial Defense Review.”The text of the letter is below: January 21, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: The Fiscal Year 2009 National Defense Authorization act requires your certification on continued F-22A Raptor production by March 1, 2009. We strongly urge your certification of continued production of this vital program. Continued F-22 production is critical to the security of our nation. The F-22 is the nation’s most capable fighter and the world’s only operation 5th generation fighter aircraft in full-rate production. It is the weapon system we need to respond to potential adversaries who are increasing their air combat capabilities both in terms of technology and numbers of aircraft. Several nations have announced that they are developing stealthy, twin-engine, high-altitude, 5th generation fighters that will reach production within the next five to ten years. Additionally, sophisticated and highly lethal air defense systems such as the SA-20 and S-300/400 are proliferating worldwide. Our nation has committed to procuring a total of just 183 F-22 aircraft. We are convinced that this number is insufficient to meet potential threats. After accounting for test, training, and maintenance aircraft, only about 100 F-22s will be immediately available for combat at any given time. Given that over 30 air campaign studies completed over the last 15 years have validated a requirement for far more than 183 F-22 Raptors to replace the original force of 800 F-15 A-D Eagles, it is clear that such a lean F-22 fleet is not consistent with America’s national security interest. The F-22 is a model production line. Since full-rate production began, the unit flyaway cost has decreased by 35 percent. If this certification is delayed, layoffs will begin as this critical supplier base shuts down. Once we begin to lose the F-22 industrial base that was created with billions of dollars of investment over many years, it will quickly become virtually impossible to reconstitute a production capability. The F-22 program annually provides over $12 billion of economic activity to the national economy. As our nation faces one of the most trying economic times in recent history, it is imperative to preserve existing high paying, specialized jobs that are critical to our national defense. Over 25,000 Americans working for more than 1,000 suppliers in 44 states manufacture this aircraft. Moreover, it is estimated that another 70,000 Americans indirectly owe their jobs to this program. Finally, your certification of continued F-22 production by March 2009 will enable production to continue while the Department of Defense undertakes a more in-depth analysis of the F-22 requirement in the context of the total national security requirement that will be examined in the 2009 Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR). With these points in mind — growing worldwide threats, substantiated requirements for larger numbers of F-22s, a high-performing, production capability, and a vital industrial base that sustains high quality jobs — we urge you to expeditiously certify that continued production of the F-22 Raptor is in the economic and national security interest of the United States of America.
06.21.2010	As Congress and the incoming Obama administration work to tackle the struggling economy, most of the ideas being offered have multi-billion dollar price tags. But many in Congress, including Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), believe we can better serve the economy by letting taxpayers keep more of the money they earn, rather than simply expecting them to pay for more government spending. In response, Granger signed on to Congressman Louie Gohmert’s (TX-01) tax holiday bill, H.R. 143, to relieve Americans from paying their federal taxes for a period of two months. The bill would provide an alternative to more bailouts and would reduce 2009 income taxes by almost 17 percent. “I think this is a practical solution,” Granger said. “Not every option has to include spending billions of dollars. I think most Americans would be surprised at the amount they could save if they didn’t have to pay federal taxes for two months.” Gohmert first introduced his tax holiday legislation last year, but with the Presidential election and shortened Congressional schedule, his bill was never voted on. His new legislation, introduced last week, would eliminate the Treasury Secretary’s authority to use the remaining $350 billion in bailout funding, ensuring those funds can’t be used for that purpose. Instead, his bill would grant a two-month tax freeze on all federal income taxes based on wages earned and FICA withholding that normally would come out of Americans’ paychecks. “From the overwhelming number of voices across the nation that have expressed their support for this tax holiday, it is clear that this fight is far from over,” said Gohmert. “My bill would provide relief to taxpayers and do a better job of stimulating our economy by letting the people who know the market best decide which companies or industries are most deserving of their hard-earned dollars.” Rep. Gohmert’s website and American Solutions, a think tank founded by former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, report that Americans pay $101.6 billion per month in personal income tax and $65.6 billion per month in FICA tax. If Gohmert’s bill became law, the two-month tax holiday would still cost less than the remaining $350 billion in bailout funds sought by the Treasury. “I applaud Congressman Gohmert for his ingenuity,” Granger said. “Now is the perfect time to put all ideas on the table for consideration, and taxpayers can spend – or save -- $350 billion of their own money better than the government can.”
06.21.2010	In the aftermath of one of the deadliest tornado seasons in recent history, Congress will have a second chance to consider legislation to provide Americans in the path of dangerous storms with life-saving warnings. Reps. Brad Ellsworth (D-IN), Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Dennis Moore (D-KS) and Kay Granger (R-TX) reintroduced CJ’s Home Protection Act today. The bill requires manufactured and mobile homes to be equipped with emergency weather radios. The group of lawmakers first introduced the bill in 2007. Although it received unanimous support in the House, the bill’s momentum was halted when the Senate was forced to turn its attention to the growing financial crisis last year. According to National Weather Service data, 125 people were killed in tornadoes in 2008, the most since 1998. “This bill is about public safety. When it comes to surviving these violent storms, a warning can make all the difference,” said Rep. Ellsworth. “We are going to keep pushing for this bill because if it prevents just one mother from losing her son, a $30 weather radio is not too much to ask.” “With today’s technology, we have the science to predict a severe storm, sometimes as much as a half hour before it arrives. We are building more storm shelters. Now, we must address the missing link for people who live in manufactured housing, making sure that people get emergency warnings in time to seek shelter from the storm,” said Rep. Baucus, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee. “Congress has made great progress in addressing wind hazards, including creating the National Wind Hazard Reduction Program, which calls for better design and construction practices of buildings, improves emergency response and increases public education relating to wind hazards. But there is more to be done. We may not be able to stop tornadoes, but together we can certainly lessen the impact of these deadly storms,” said Rep. Moore. “North Texas has had its share of severe weather. In many cases a storm can strike quickly and with little notice,” Rep. Granger said. “The built-in technology this bill provides would ensure that people are getting the information they need before a severe storm hits. This bill will help save lives and prevent needless injuries from occurring.” Summary of Legislation: CJ’s Home Protection Act would change the Federal manufactured home construction and safety standards to require every manufactured home delivered for sale to be supplied with a weather radio. Weather radios provide immediate broadcasts of severe weather warnings and civil emergency messages, including tornado and flood warnings, AMBER alerts for child abductions, and chemical spill notifications. Prices vary from $20-$80. The bill is named after CJ Martin, a two-year-old boy, whose life was taken by an F3 tornado in southwest Indiana in 2005. His mother, Kathryn, turned her grief into a state-wide advocacy campaign that resulted in an Indiana law requiring NOAA Weather Radios be installed in all new mobile and manufactured housing, which then prompted the federal initiative.
06.21.2010	Congresswoman Kay Granger of Fort Worth will play a key role in the nation’s foreign policy decisions over the next two years after she was selected this week to serve as the Ranking Member of the Appropriations subcommittee on State-Foreign Operations for the 111thCongress. “I am honored to have the support and trust of my colleagues,” Granger said. “My experience as a longtime member of the Appropriations Committee, a member of the leadership team and now as a Ranking Member provides a unique and rewarding record of service to the 12thDistrict and the Congress.” As the highest-ranking Republican member on the subcommittee, Granger will be a leading voice in decisions that affect both the defense industry at home and the United States’ interests in the world. The subcommittee’s actions help define America’s image abroad and set theU.S. agenda for a wide range of international efforts including providing humanitarian aid, fostering global development, controlling the spread of illegal narcotics and assisting our allies in the fight against terrorism. Granger’s foreign policy role will also affect North Texas’ robust defense industry, as the State-Foreign Operations subcommittee vets and approves foreign military financing and foreign military sales. The defense industry is a critical partner of the United States government as it implements foreign policy through military sales and relationships. "Congresswoman Granger is a strong leader in Washington and we are gratified to learn of her expanded responsibilities as the ranking Republican on the House Appropriations subcommittee on State-Foreign Operations,” Ralph D. Health, President, Lockheed Martin Aeronautics said. “Congresswoman Granger brings tremendous expertise and experience to an important role in this increasingly challenging international security environment. The people of the 12th district of Texas should continue to be proud of her achievements supporting both the district and our nation’s priorities.” “Congresswoman Kay Granger has always been an outstanding public servant and we in the greater Fort Worth area have always appreciated her appropriate support for our industry,” Dick Millman, Bell Helicopter President and CEO said. “I am pleased to see that her expertise and experience recognized by her selection to this key position.” Granger, in her seventh term as a Member of Congress, has served on the Appropriations Committee since 1999. During her tenure on the committee, she has served on a variety of subcommittees including Energy & Water, Defense, Homeland Security, and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs. Granger, who has long been known as a leading defense expert, adds a foreign policy portfolio that will benefit the Fort Worth-area 12thDistrict, a community with deep ties to the defense of the United States and its allies. “This new experience will allow me to provide a broader perspective and influence on how we interact with our allies and adversaries around the world,” Granger said. “The United States is currently engaged in two major military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we are phasing out our military presence in Iraq. The way we conduct our foreign policy is more important now than ever before. I understand firsthand how a decision made in Congress can alter the actions made by others around the world.” The Appropriations Subcommittee on State-Foreign Operations has jurisdiction over the Departments of State, Defense and Treasury as well as agencies such as the U.S. Peace Corps and the Trade and Development Agency. “Kay’s tireless and principled work on the Appropriations Committee, her service on the Subcommittee on Defense, and her long-time interest in international and counter-terrorism issues make her a great fit as the new senior Republican on the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee,” Congressman Jerry Lewis (CA-41) said. “I have had the honor of serving with Kay for many years, and her dedication, excellent reputation and record, and her level-headed decision making ability has placed her in a class with few rivals. I look forward to working with her throughout this next Congress as we strive to address the many serious international challenges facing our nation.” Additionally, the Sister Cities program is funded through the State-Foreign Operations subcommittee. Sister Cities International is a nonprofit citizen diplomacy network that creates and strengthens partnerships between the United States and international communities. As a participant in the program, Fort Worth has established relationships with communities such as Budapest, Hungary. Last June, Fort Worthwas recognized by Sister Cities for the Best Overall Program. Reps. Kay Granger and Jo Ann Emerson, Financial Services subcommittee, (MO-08) are the first Republican women to hold the position of Ranking Member on the House Appropriations committee.
06.21.2010	Washington- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement regarding the consequences of the global community’s knee-jerk reaction to Israel’s flotilla response: “The consequences of the international community’s knee-jerk reaction to Israel’s flotilla response are now evident. With pledges from the Iranian Red Crescent to help future flotillas break Israel’s naval blockade there is a high risk that an already fragile situation could only worsen. As a democracy, Israel has the right to defend her borders from Hamas and their Iranian sponsors. Without Israel's blockade and the ability to screen freight heading toward Gaza, this already troubling security threat would only increase and more innocent lives would be at risk. Unfortunately, the world’s response has only enabled Iran. “In the wake of new sanctions approved by the U.N. Security Council, it is a critical time for the international community to keep their eye on what is truly emerging as one of the greatest security threats of our time – Iran.”
06.21.2010	Fort Worth, TX- The city of Fort Worth and the Fort Worth Museum of Science and History have successfully secured a relic from the Twin Towers destroyed in attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. A delivery date has not been finalized, but after its arrival, the artifact will be permanently displayed at the Museum of Science and History. Last April, the city and the museum drafted a joint letter to the New York Port Authority formally requesting a beam from the World Trade Center approximately 12 feet high by 6-to-7 feet wide for a permanent exhibit. Fort Worth Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) and New York Congressman Tim Bishop (NY-01) also provided support and assistance to this effort. Mentioned in the application process was the fact that the Fort Worth Museum of Science and History was the first venue outside of Washington, D.C., to host the Smithsonian’s Traveling Exhibition September 11: Bearing Witness to History. “The people of Fort Worth are humbled and honored to host and permanently display a beam relic from the Twin Towers,” said Mayor Mike Moncrief. “Three thousand of our fellow Americans lost their lives on that tragic day. It was a day that none of us will ever forget. We greatly appreciate the help from the Port Authority of New York and from the Museum for their help to bring this historic piece to our city.” “The Museum is deeply honored that we will be able to develop an exhibit that pays homage to 9/11, and the people who perished on that day” said Museum of Science and History President Van A. Romans. “As a history museum, ours is an appropriate venue for such an important artifact. We worked with architect Ricardo Legorreta to plan its placement in front of the museum so that our 1 million annual visitors will have access to it.” Fort Worth Councilmember Carter Burdette said, “The Museum of Science and History is a special place, and there’s not a more appropriate location in our city to display this solemn memorial to those whom we lost on Sept. 11, 2001. We are grateful to our friends in New York and to Congresswoman Kay Granger for their work to make this possible.” Congresswoman Granger stated, “I will never forget that tragic day and I know that all Americans who witnessed those horrific events on their televisions and in person will never be able to erase those images from their memories. By securing a permanent display of a beam from the World Trade Center attacks of 9/11, our community will be able to preserve that sad day in our nation’s history and will ensure that the memory of those who lost their lives is honored forever.” Final details of the exhibit will be determined within the next 60 days. Contacts: Fort Worth Media and Public Affairs: 817-392-8889 Fort Worth Museum of Science and History: 817-255-9411 Office of Congresswoman Kay Granger: 202-225-5071
06.21.2010	Washington- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Co-Chair of the Human Trafficking Caucus, introduced a resolution, H.Res. 1412, calling on the Government of South Africa to expand law enforcement efforts during the 2010 World Cup to prevent the enslavement and sexual exploitation of men, women, and children. In addition, the Granger resolution applauds the Government of South Africa upon its first two successful convictions for human trafficking. Beginning this Friday, South Africa will host the 2010 FIFA World Cup through July 11th and will play host to half a million visitors to the country and an estimated 2.7 million local spectators. H.Res.1412 urges the Government of South Africa to detain and prosecute tourists participating in commercial sexual exploitation of women and children during the 2010 FIFA World Cup. In South Africa, aid groups estimate that 38,000 children are trapped in the country’s sex trade. H.Res. 1412 calls on the Government of South Africa to not only increase awareness among officials at all levels of government regarding their responsibilities under anti-trafficking laws, but also to prioritize anti-trafficking law enforcement during the 2010 FIFA World Cup through expanded law enforcement presence, increased investigations, and prosecutions in areas where trafficking crimes are likely to occur. “I am pleased that the Government of South Africa has had its first two successful convictions for human trafficking,” Granger said. “We must continue to work to ensure that we protect men, women and children enslaved in this vicious cycle. Light is being shed on these disgusting acts against humanity and justice will be served.” According to the U.S. Department of State, ‘South Africa is a source, transit, and destination country for trafficked men, women, and children. . . Children are largely trafficked within the country . . . to urban centers like Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban, and Bloemfontein--girls trafficked for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and domestic servitude; boys trafficked for forced street vending, food service, begging, crime, and agriculture . . .' South African President Jacob Zuma has addressed fears about sex trafficking: "We have noted the concern amongst women's groups that the 2010 FIFA World Cup may have the unintended consequence of creating opportunities for human trafficking," the President said. "We are putting systems in place to prevent this, as part of general security measures that we should take when hosting an event of this magnitude." “I applaud the Government of South Africa for implementing increased security measures to stop human trafficking while the world gathers in Johannesburg,” Granger said. “I hope this is just the beginning of a continued effort to stop a major human rights issue. With the Dallas-Fort Worth area hosting the Super Bowl in 2011, we should watch closely to see how the South African government fights these crimes. With Texas sitting on the Mexican border we already have serious challenges in combating human trafficking.”
06.21.2010	Legislation compensates service members wrongly accused by the government Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger today introduced legislation, the Service Member Legal Relief Act (H.R. 5374), that will ensure that service men and women, who are acquitted of charges stemming from their military duties related to handling terrorists, or suspected terrorists, are fully reimbursed if they seek outside counsel. In September 2009, three U.S. Navy SEALs were charged with crimes related to the alleged torturing of a terrorist who had coordinated the killing of four U.S. contractors in Fallujah, Iraq in 2004. Ahmed Hashim Abed accused Petty Officers Julio Huertas, Jonathan Keefe and Matthew McCabe of assaulting him while he was detained. Granger subsequently sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Gates stating that the SEALs’ courts-martial proceedings were not warranted and asking for the Secretary to intervene. As of May 2010 all three SEALs were acquitted, but not without accruing legal fees. In January 2010, Granger introduced H.Res. 1025 in the House of Representatives, a resolution that reinforces the House’s strong support for our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines; clarifies that political sensitivities should not impact decisions to bring charges against our troops; and emphasizes that our service members should have the best defense possible. Most importantly, the resolution also states that any service member charged with a crime related to the treatment of terrorist should have their legal fees paid for by the U.S. government if those charges are dropped or the service member is acquitted. Granger’s follow-on legislation goes beyond an expression of support and directs the Secretary of Defense to reimburse service members charged in crimes related to the treatment of terrorists to be reimbursed for their legal expenses. “The recent acquittal of all three Navy SEALs accused of crimes related to the alleged beating of a terrorist proves what we already suspected – these men’s purpose was to protect our troops and bring a suspected murderer to justice,” Granger said. “These SEALs had their careers and futures on the line and rightfully sought the best legal representation available to them. It has been proven that these SEALs were guilty merely of doing their jobs, and they should not face financial burdens as a result.”
06.21.2010	Fort Worth, TX- Rep. Kay Granger today announced the names of six 12th District constituents who have received Congressional appointments to one of the U.S. Service Academies as well as appointments to the Naval Academy Prep School and Northwestern Prep School. “The important task of protecting our country and preserving democracy is entrusted to the men and women of our military,” Granger said. “On the 21st century battlefield military leaders must excel not only in warfare, but also in technology, communications, logistics, and other highly skilled areas. The men and women who have earned appointments to the military academies are the very best in North Texas. These students will go on to be the military leaders of tomorrow and will continue to defend the United States at home and abroad.” The appointees from District 12 for the Class of 2014 are as follows: • James Anderson, Paschal High School, U.S. Military Academy • Leigha Bednar, Fossil Ridge High School, U.S. Air Force Academy • Vanessa Covarrubias, South Hills High School, U.S. Naval Academy • Shaun Dyson, Weatherford High School, U.S. Air Force Academy • Gabriela Scherer, Fossil Ridge High School, U.S. Naval Academy In addition: • Heather Shepard, who has been attending the Air Force Academy Prep School, received an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Finally, the following students will attend a prep school: • Victoria-Rose Godfirnon, Saginaw High School, will go to the Air Force Academy Prep School • Andrew Rekieta, Fort Worth Country Day, will go to Northwestern Prep School Individuals who are interested in obtaining a Congressional nomination for the next academic year, which begins in Summer 2011, must send a completed application package to Congresswoman Granger’s District 12 office no later than October 18, 2010. For additional information or an application packet, write to: Congresswoman Kay Granger 1701 River Run Road, Suite 407 Fort Worth, Texas 76107-6548 Or an individual can call the military academy coordinator in the office at (817) 338-0909. Interested individuals can also go to www.kaygranger.house.gov for nomination information.
06.21.2010	Granger calls for follow up meeting with State Department and DOD Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX 12), the most senior Republican on the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, held a security assistance hearing to focus on the Merida Initiative and efforts in Mexico and Central America to contain a surge in violence along the United States – Mexico border. Subcommittee Chairwoman Nita Lowey granted the request for the hearing in late March. In the hearing Granger reviewed the spending that was a result of the Merida Initiative – $1.4 billion in funding in supplies and equipment for the Mexican government to help stop the surge in violence along the border. Under the Merida Initiative, the United States provided $1.4 billion in assistance, largely in the form of equipment and training, from FY2008 through FY2010. The four primary goals of the Merida Initiative are to: 1) break the power and impunity of criminal organizations; 2) assist the Mexican and Central American governments in strengthening border, air, and maritime controls; 3) improve the capacity of justice systems in the region; and, 4) curtail gang activity in Mexico and Central America and diminish the demand for drugs in the region. For FY 2011, the Obama Administration has requested $346 million in funding to help support the institutional reforms and rule of law programs to help Mexico crack down on international criminal organizations. Funding for the Merida Initiative focused on: • Providing helicopter and surveillance aircraft to support interdiction and rapid response of Mexican law enforcement agencies; • Providing non-intrusive inspection equipment, ion scanners, and canine units for Mexican customs, the new Mexican federal police and the military to interdict trafficked drugs, arms, cash, and persons; • Providing technologies and secure communications to improve data collection and storage; and technical advice and training to strengthen the institutions of justice in order to improve vetting for the Mexican police force, to provide case management software to track investigations through the legal process, to support offices of citizen complaint and professional responsibility, and to promote the establishment of witness protection programs. “In this time of out-of-control violence, the Merida Initiative is the kind of cooperation we need with Mexico and our allies in Central America,” Granger said. “Collectively, we are dealing with an enemy that is extremely sophisticated, even more sophisticated than the Columbian cocaine cartels in the 1980s. These drug gangs are international, organized, and show no mercy to their victims. We must respond in a smart, deliberate, and coordinated way that will strip down these criminals on all fronts and keep the violence out of borders. I appreciate Chairwoman Lowey for responding so quickly to my request for a hearing on this very critical issue so we can make sure we’re doing all we can.”
06.21.2010	Washington, DC- During a Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX 12) questioned Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Michael Mullen about the growing need to contain spillover violence from Mexican drug gangs operating in border cities such as Juarez and Nuevo Laredo, as well as the larger issue of the United States Government security aid and assistance to Mexico. Granger has been in close consultation with the Defense Department, State Department and Governor Rick Perry’s office on how the United States Government, in cooperation with the State of Texas, can prevent violence from percolating out of Mexican cities into the United States. Granger is the most senior Republican member on the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, and has been responsible for fulfilling the U.S. financial commitment to the Merida Initiative. Merida was designed to help Mexico battle drug cartels. While the committee has met the funding commitment for this important initiative, the level of violence has increased drastically, and there is a renewed interest in sustaining or renewing the program. This week, Granger announced that the State Department would redirect $83.5 million from the FY 2009 Supplemental to be used for the purchase of three Blackhawk helicopters for anti- narcotic operations in Northern Mexico. At today’s hearing, Granger inquired about: 1) Any progress that was made during high-level diplomatic meetings in Mexico City between Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen, Secretary Clinton, and senior Mexican diplomats. 2) Governor Rick Perry’s year-old request to Secretary Gates and President Obama to deploy 1,000 National Guard troops to the Texas-Mexico border under Title 32 authority. 3) The ability for the Department of Defense to expedite delivery of promised technology and equipment to the Mexican Government. “As of yesterday, the United States and Mexican Governments drafted a completely new strategy for dealing with the increased violence in Northern Mexico. There is a joint recognition that the stability and security of Mexico is not just an issue for the state of Texas but is a major threat to our homeland security,” Granger said. “Governor Perry and the Texas delegation understand that without immediate action, the risk of American casualties will continue to rise. We are dealing with the most sophisticated, 21st Century drug gangs that use the most brutal methods to intimidate and infiltrate Mexican law enforcement, the press, and those who are tasked with weeding out corruption and violence. We must continue to work with the Mexican Government to ensure we protect our own national security.”
06.21.2010	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a government-takeover of our health care system: “The outcome of tonight’s vote is a huge disappointment. Health care affects every single American. It affects our mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, children, grandchildren and grandparents. This bill is not what the people I represent want. Our health care system is in desperate need of reform. We did not get reform from this bill. What we did get is $ 569 billion in new taxes, $528 billion in cuts to Medicare, and hundreds of thousands of fewer jobs in our economy. This is shameful. “I want to sincerely thank the thousands of Americans who took time out of their lives to come to Washington and tell their member of Congress that they want them to stop this legislation. I want to also thank every Texan who called, wrote letters, emailed, or spoke to me in person about their position on this important issue over the last year. The intense passion to kill this bill should now focus on the Senate. Do not be misled; this battle is far from over.”
06.21.2010	The Majority has just posted the Reconciliation bill online. If you would like to view the full text of the legislation please click here.
06.21.2010	Ten Facts About Claiming Donations Made to Haiti If you are donating to charities providing earthquake relief in Haiti, you may be able to claim those donations on your 2009 tax return. Here are 10 important facts the Internal Revenue Service wants you to know about this special provision. 1. A new law allows you to claim donations for Haitian relief on your 2009 tax return, which you will be filing this year. 2. The contributions must be made specifically for the relief of victims in areas affected by the Jan. 12 earthquake in Haiti. 3. To be eligible for a deduction on the 2009 tax return, donations must be made after Jan. 11, 2010 and before March 1, 2010. 4. In order to be deductible, contributions must be made to qualified charities and can not be designated for the benefit of specific individuals or families. 5. The new law applies only to cash contributions. 6. Cash contributions made by text message, check, credit card or debit card may be claimed on your federal tax return. 7. You must itemize your deductions in order to claim these donations on your tax return. 8. You have the option of deducting these contributions on either your 2009 or 2010 tax return, but not both. 9. Contributions made to foreign organizations generally are not deductible. You can find out more about organizations helping Haitian earthquake victims from agencies such as the U.S. Agency for International Development ( www.usaid.gov). 10. Federal law requires that you keep a record of any deductible donations you make. For donations by text message, a telephone bill will meet the record-keeping requirement if it shows the name of the organization receiving your donation, the date of the contribution, and the amount given. For cash contributions made by other means, be sure to keep a bank record, such as a cancelled check or a receipt from the charity. Receipts should show the name of the charity, the date and amount of the contribution. For more information see IRS Publication 526, Charitable Contributions and Publication 3833 , Disaster Relief: Providing Assistance through Charitable Organizations. To determine if an organization is a qualified charity visit IRS.gov, keyword "Search for Charities". Note that some organizations, such as churches or governments, may be qualified even though they are not listed on IRS.gov.
02.17.2010	Fort Worth, TX- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement today on the one-year anniversary of the $787 billion stimulus package: “Today is the one-year anniversary of the $787 billion so-called “stimulus” package, which was intended to spur job growth and economic development. After nearly $1 trillion of government spending, most of us have not seen improvement in our day-to-day lives. What we have seen is government waste at its worst and an unmanageable national debt. “When the Administration rolled out the package last January, the price tag was a staggering $787 billion. Now the Congressional Budget Office estimates it will cost taxpayers $862 billion – nearly $100 billion over what we were all told. Even worse, the government has spent your money on projects that have made us all cringe like a new skateboard park in Rhode Island, new furniture for government agencies, bike racks in Washington, DC, and ginseng farming in West Virginia. “And after all that spending, unemployment rates are still sky high with the economy shedding 20,000 jobs in January alone. In fact, Texas had 1.6 percent fewer jobs in December 2009 than we did in February 2009. This has only led to more Congressional calls for another stimulus package. Only this time they will call it a “jobs bill.” “Stimulus-style spending has not created jobs, but it has certainly grown our national debt over the last year. I have voted against increasing our debt limit twice in the last few months. If not brought under control, the debt alone could push the economy back into recession. Enough is enough. Let’s make this next year a time when we cut spending, taxes, and resuscitate our economy through common sense and reform and not through deficits, debt, and political spin.
01.26.2010	Ten Facts About Claiming Donations Made to Haiti If you are donating to charities providing earthquake relief in Haiti, you may be able to claim those donations on your 2009 tax return. Here are 10 important facts the Internal Revenue Service wants you to know about this special provision. 1. A new law allows you to claim donations for Haitian relief on your 2009 tax return, which you will be filing this year. 2. The contributions must be made specifically for the relief of victims in areas affected by the Jan. 12 earthquake in Haiti. 3. To be eligible for a deduction on the 2009 tax return, donations must be made after Jan. 11, 2010 and before March 1, 2010. 4. In order to be deductible, contributions must be made to qualified charities and can not be designated for the benefit of specific individuals or families. 5. The new law applies only to cash contributions. 6. Cash contributions made by text message, check, credit card or debit card may be claimed on your federal tax return. 7. You must itemize your deductions in order to claim these donations on your tax return. 8. You have the option of deducting these contributions on either your 2009 or 2010 tax return, but not both. 9. Contributions made to foreign organizations generally are not deductible. You can find out more about organizations helping Haitian earthquake victims from agencies such as the U.S. Agency for International Development ( www.usaid.gov). 10. Federal law requires that you keep a record of any deductible donations you make. For donations by text message, a telephone bill will meet the record-keeping requirement if it shows the name of the organization receiving your donation, the date of the contribution, and the amount given. For cash contributions made by other means, be sure to keep a bank record, such as a cancelled check or a receipt from the charity. Receipts should show the name of the charity, the date and amount of the contribution. For more information see IRS Publication 526, Charitable Contributions and Publication 3833 , Disaster Relief: Providing Assistance through Charitable Organizations. To determine if an organization is a qualified charity visit IRS.gov, keyword "Search for Charities". Note that some organizations, such as churches or governments, may be qualified even though they are not listed on IRS.gov.
12.23.2009	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after the Democrats allowed a government takeover of the health care to move forward: “Without transparency and only 72 hours to review the final version of this incredibly complex legislation, Harry Reid cut enough backroom deals to move the Senate health care bill forward. While the power brokers were able to make the changes to the legislation needed to buy votes, they did nothing to address the core problems with the bill. This is democracy at its worse. With a majority of Americans now opposed to the Senate legislation this is Washington telling Americans, once again, that they know best. This is a bill that might be good for Nebraska, but it is certainly not good for Texas. “This is still a government takeover of health care, and the same issues remain for consumers: costs will still go up, premiums will continue to rise, access to quality care will decrease, and 8-9 million people will lose employer coverage under the Reid bill. This is not the reform that Americans had in mind.”
12.23.2009	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) issued the following statement following the vote to increase the federal debt limit by nearly $300 billion: “This is the fourth time since July 2008 the Democrats have had to increase the federal debt limit in order to accommodate their reckless spending. The problem is not that our debt limit is too low; it’s that spending is too high. The federal government is now over $12 trillion in debt. If Washington pays back one dollar of that debt per second, it would take nearly 32,000 years to pay back one trillion dollars. To pay back all of what our federal government owes today it would take nearly 400,000 years. “These are staggering numbers. Congress has played fast and loose with the economic security of our nation by spending until they legally cannot spend any more. Instead of slowing down the pace, they are ramming through more big ticket items such as health care, stimulus packages, and cap and trade. Enough is enough.
12.23.2009	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement following the passage of the Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act: “If we are serious about stopping the emergence of a nuclear Iran, our window for diplomacy is coming to a close. Today’s response from Congress is long overdue. It is clear that Iran’s nuclear intentions are not peaceful but meant to bully their neighbors and enemies. Iran has deceived weapons inspectors and world leaders who legitimately wanted to work toward a peaceful solution. We should use every tool to prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear power and stop its support of international terrorism. Iran’s dependence on imported gasoline is among the best tools we currently have at our disposal. This legislation begins to turn tough talk into consequences by cutting off the imported gasoline that the regime relies on.”
12.23.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after the President’s speech at West Point, NY: “After visiting Afghanistan last week where I met with troops and with General Stanley McChrystal, our brave soldiers need to know that those who send them into battle will support them until the mission is complete. “It is critical that the United States take a firm stance with the elected Afghan government led by Hamid Karzai. It is clear that disaffection has developed between local leaders and the central government due to persistent corruption. In order for there to be a sustainable peace there must be a functional, transparent government that does not condone corruption and prosecutes those who have abused the system. “I support the President’s goal of including Pakistan as a key part of the strategy. Pakistan has allowed a safe haven for Al-Qaeda leaders from Afghanistan for far too long. Moving forward without a partnership with Pakistan will only ensure failure as soon as we leave the region. The borders are too porous and the nations are too intertwined to not consider both simultaneously and with equal goals. “While I support the addition of troops to the theatre, I am concerned about the Administration presenting timelines without consideration for future developments and unpredictable conditions on the ground. While I believe this commitment is not open ended, telling our enemies when our mission will be completed is only a prescription for defeat.
12.01.2009	GRANGER MEETS WITH GENERAL McCHRYSTAL ON EVE OF OBAMA TROOP ANNOUNCEMENT Ongoing issues on the ground reflect White House indecision Washington, DC- On the eve of President Obama’s troop increase announcement, Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) returned from a trip to Afghanistan that included meetings with the Commander of the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and U.S. Forces – Afghanistan (USFOR-A), General Stanley McChrystal and Regional Commander of the ISAF Major General Nick Carter. The trip allowed the Congresswoman to have a first-hand look at the increasing challenges our military is facing in the combat theatre. Granger traveled to Afghanistan in her role as a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. In Granger’s meeting with General McChrystal, they discussed the General’s desire to see additional troops added to the mission in order to create the time and space necessary to allow Afghan security forces to be effectively trained so a functional, elected leadership can fully inherit the responsibility of governance. McChrystal described his strategy of focusing renewed military, political and economic efforts on population centers instead of on sparsely populated regions. In addition they discussed the need to revise election laws to better empower local officials and traditional leadership bodies such as the Loya Jirga. Finally, the General described a concerning general disaffection between the government and its people. Granger acknowledged that she sees an uphill climb for U.S. forces in Afghanistan, but reiterated that the White House’s delays in forming a strategy have only led to added uncertainty, instability, and risk for the Afghans and for our troops on the ground. "What I saw in Afghanistan concerns me,” Granger said. “We have a lot of work to do. But what I've seen over the last few months from the Obama administration concerns me even more. We have needed action and resolve but have only had meetings, discussions, and indecision. It is ironic that the same President who pushed for big government spending policies in record time has been unable to decide about a vital national security issue that directly impacts the safety and security of our troops and a population we have pledged to secure." “The Congress must support our troops wherever they are stationed, no matter what the mission is. Success in Afghanistan is not something the United States can achieve alone - there must continue to be a combined, international effort that does not focus solely on military action, but also enhances the economic and political capacity of the Afghan people. I support General McChrystal's assessment, and believe it is critical that the Administration makes an immediate decision that supports the needs of our commanders and troops in the field.” While traveling to southern Afghanistan, Granger experienced first-hand the turbulence that troubles the Kandahar region, which remains the center for Taliban forces. After leaving Kabul, Granger’s flight circled Kandahar but was unable to land due to an ensuing firefight on the ground that forced the plane to return to Bagram Air Force Base. Before the President’s announcement on Tuesday evening, Granger will go to the White House for a briefing on Obama’s long-anticipated Afghanistan strategy. While in the region, Granger also visited with troops from Texas. She called their families upon her return to the United States. Congresswoman Kay Granger is the Ranking Member on the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee and a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.
11.19.2009	GRANGER: PROSECUTION OF TERRORISTS RESPONSIBILITY OF MILITARY COMMISSIONS Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after co-sponsoring legislation to prohibit the prosecution of terrorists by the Department of Justice and signing a discharge petition to move H.R. 2294, the Keep Terrorists Out of America Act, out of committee for a vote on the floor: “The prosecution of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed on American soil sets a dangerous precedent by granting an admitted terrorist Constitutional rights, permitting a message of terror to be widely distributed through extensive media coverage, potentially allowing U.S. intelligence to be used and scrutinized by the defense, and creating additional security concerns for a city that has already experienced absolute horror as a result of the defendant’s actions. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is an enemy of war, not a common criminal. The only way to keep Americans safe and to ensure justice is to try non-citizen terrorists in military commissions.”
11.18.2009	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) today signed an amicus curiae brief supporting the Second Amendment for the U.S. Supreme Court case McDonald v. City of Chicago. “By signing this brief, my colleagues and I are reiterating our support for the existing rights we, as Americans, hold to be sacred, and reminding the Supreme Court of those rights,” Granger said. “The Second Amendment applies to all Americans. The government should respect the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding citizens throughout our country, regardless of where they live." An amicus curiae or “friend of the court” brief can be offered by a party, not directly involved in the case, on a point of law to assist the court in deciding a matter before it. It is ultimately up to the court to decide whether to admit the information in the amicus brief. The city of Chicago has some of the strictest gun laws in the nation and this case will have major implications for the legality of restrictive gun laws in other cities and states across the country. Rep. Granger signed an amicus brief in District of Columbia v. Heller in support of the Court upholding the Second Amendment as a fundamental, individual right. The decision in the Heller case upheld Second Amendment rights. The amicus brief for McDonald v. City of Chicago points the Supreme Court Justices to the text of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution, which says: “No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.”
11.10.2009	GRANGER VOTES AGAINST GOVERNMENT TAKE OVER OF HEALTH CARE Washington, DC- Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement tonight after voting against H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act of 2009: “With unemployment over 10%, the national debt at $12 trillion, and our federal deficit at $1.4 trillion, there is too much reckless government spending already. House Democrats insisted on passing the $1.05 trillion Pelosi Health Care bill at a time when we should be doing what every family around this country is doing: cutting costs and paying the bills. And worse, this dangerous legislation puts the government squarely in the middle of everyone’s personal medical decisions. It will dramatically change the way we receive our health care. “Texans don’t want government-run insurance. This bill does not include the patient-centered reforms that will truly make a difference in my constituents’ lives. I want to support a bill that holds down costs and makes health care more affordable and dependable, and I’m disappointed that this evening, Democrats failed to live up to these principles."
11.09.2009	To find out what you can to do help and for information on the latest news on the Fort Hood tragedy please click here.
11.09.2009	For the most up-to-date information on how you can help the families of victims of the Fort Hood tragedy, please visit https://pao.hood.army.mil/ to see how you can help.
11.06.2009	Rep. Kay Granger in live interview from Washington, D.C.: "It's a terrible afternoon." "It's shocking, unprecedented this is a terrible tragedy and an enormous alert." Speaking about reaction on Capital Hill: "We're all stunned and of course very concerned and horribly sorry for all the persons that were wounded, shot and their families."
11.06.2009	By DARREN BARBEE dbarbee@star-telegram.com Federal taxpayers will pony up $125.2 million to lease Fort Worth’s new veterans clinic, though the building and land are projected to cost the private owners $70 million. At first glance, the extra $55 million for the 20-year lease seemed a tad high, so Watchdog checked out the numbers to see whether public money was going to waste. The difference is nearly enough to buy five brand-new elementary schools in the Fort Worth school district — in today’s dollars — or to pay for a year’s worth of charity care at Cook Children’s Medical Center with $13 million left over. But Veterans Affairs Department officials say the lease, over the long run, is slightly cheaper than the cost of ownership. They come to that conclusion using what they call the "net present value" of the lease — an inflation adjustment based on discounting the future value of money. By the VA’s estimate, the lease payments will total $69,788,614.41 in adjusted dollars, making the cost of leasing a wash. "Based on the net present value analysis . . . leasing of the Fort Worth Clinic is actually cheaper than the $70 million construction estimate, and that’s without all the other intangible savings and flexibility you get from leasing," George Szwarcman, chief of real property service for the VA, said in an e-mail. Two economists told Watchdog that the lease payments seem reasonable on the surface. "You would have a tough time choosing from $100 a year from now and $75 right now," TCU economist John Harvey said. "What that means is that $100 a year from now to you is [worth] $75 to you right now. What [the VA is] saying is $70 million right now is same as $125 million spread out over 20 years. Those two are equivalent." Economist Ray Perryman said that the VA’s discounted rate of 4.9 percent based on Treasury bonds seemed "a pretty decent average of what it’s been in the recent past." Ownership issues Nevertheless, when the lease expires in 2029, the VA won’t have any ownership stake in the building. And such lease arrangements have been criticized by a government watchdog agency as a "pervasive and ongoing problem." Over time, such leases are generally more costly, even if lease payments "look cheaper" on balance sheets, according to a 2005 report by the Government Accountability Office. U.S. Rep. Kay Granger, R-Fort Worth, wasn’t happy with the cost of the lease compared with the price of the building. "If that’s true, I’m very disturbed about it, naturally," Granger said in an interview this month. Local VA officials say they opted for a lease to get services to veterans more quickly. The department’s budget for construction projects is so competitive that lease deals are easier to get, said Jennifer Purdy, assistant director of outpatient services for the North Texas VA.
11.06.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement today after introducing an internationally coordinated resolution expressing continued support for the Iranian people as they stand up for freedom, human rights, and the fundamental elements of democracy: “I am pleased to introduce a resolution that recognizes that the will of the Iranian people is to have the freedom of expression and the other basic human rights that we take for granted in the United States. My resolution states that this Congress lends its sincere and respectful support. What started as a grassroots election controversy in Iran has grown into a national movement for freedom. “As a founding member of the Trans-Atlantic Parliamentary Group, I am encouraged to be coordinating this resolution with the Parliaments of the European Union and Canada. The freedoms Iranians are fighting for are universal and their friends in the West wholeheartedly support their cause.”
11.06.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) will participate in a Health Care ‘House Call’ tomorrow to speak with the hundreds of activists who will be in Washington, DC to protest Speaker Pelosi’s Health Care Bill. “Texans have made it clear that they do not like this bill and they do not want the government running their health care,” Granger said. “Their voices were heard and we had better not forget what they said. This is the time for lawmakers to let our constituents know that we are listening to them and opposing the terrible things Democrats want to do to our country’s health care.”
11.04.2009	Granger decries healthcare bill By Terry Evans Democrats in Congress who drafted a healthcare bill to be voted on this week have no faith in one of its major components, said Congresswoman Kay Granger. Earlier this year, Granger said, she signed a pledge that she would not vote for a public option unless Congress members would have to enroll in it. That suggestion went nowhere, said the Republican representing Parker County and the rest of District 12. “The Democrats must not have much confidence in the Pelosi Healthcare Bill if they’re not willing to make it their plan, too,” she said. “We’ve said it should be in there, like a lot of other provisions, but they have 40 more votes than we do. We expect to be able to offer one amendment. That’s all they’ll give us.” Granger objected to what she perceives as a rush to vote on a complicated bill that could ultimately cost the nation $1.2 trillion. “They’re asking for three hours debate and allowing Republicans only one amendment for something that will change healthcare across our nation,” she said. “That’s not right. Healthcare is one sixth of our entire economy.” Three hours of debate before the vote she expects to be called Thursday is ludicrous on a bill that was filed Friday, Granger said. Giving Republicans only one amendment is unfair, she added, quipping that she’d toyed with the idea of putting the mandatory Congressional enrollment into the amendment. “I’d much rather see that amendemnt say ‘this is what healthcare reform should be,’” she said. “It should include tort reform.” Granger lamented that in debates leading up to this bill, malpractice lawsuit situations in such states as Tennessee and Massachusetts had been mentioned, but never Texas. “One of the problems we have is the number of physicians [in the nation],” she said. “When we [Texans] passed tort reform, 5,000 physicians moved to Texas, because they were free to practice medicine without that enormous threat of lawsuits. The main thing was that malpractice insurance rates were skyrocketing. When we passed tort reform, that made an enormous difference in [the cost of] malpractice insurance. Texas should be the model for national tort reform.” Granger said Congress should do everything it can to lower the cost of healthcare insurance. “That means insurance pools where small businesses like mine [an insurance agency she sold three years ago] can pool together to buy insurance like great big companies. Realtors, people who work from their homes, all those ways that recognize the work force today, we should be addressing costs. This bill doesn’t. It costs $1.2 trillion.” Republicans already should have done what Granger is calling for, she admitted. “We should have been working on this all along,” she said. “When I came in 13 years ago this was the top issue in town hall meetings. We did some things, but didn’t do everything. We nibbled around the corners.” Lauding President Obama for bringing the issue back, Granger applauded him for saying: “Let’s do something.” But she lamented that the Pelosi bill is not the change that people were asking for at those town hall meetings. “They didn’t want something that would destroy the best health care system in the world,” she said. Despite rankings that put the United States lower than some third-world nations in some areas of public health, Granger was adamant about its quality. “The rankings I pay attention to are breast cancer and other cancers, and what the cure rates are,” she said. “We lead the world in the way we address major illnesses that affect the greatest number of people. That’s why people come from all over the world to be treated in the United States.” Granger cited circumstances surrounding H1N1 vaccines as evidence if poor government influence. “That is a government program and no one knows where to go, whether they should go, who is served first,” she said. “The form that was given to our district office to answer someone who asks ‘What do I do?’ said people between the ages of six months and 24 should get the vaccine. So, people started calling the office saying their children aren’t eligible at six months because there isn’t enough vaccine.” Granger said she was on the health committee that worked on H1N1 vaccines for six years because they knew it was coming. She wonders what became of their work. “We don’t have enough vaccine, can’t tell people in their communities when they’re going to get it or what the risk is,” she said. “I can’t even get the information to give out to people.” Another example of poorly executed government-run healthcare is Medicare, Granger said. “It’s going broke,” she said. “So we’re going to put another trillion dollar healthcare program out there when the one we have is going broke.” Admitting that Medicare is important to a lot of people, Granger said that the increasing number of people going on the program is killing it. “We live so much longer,” she said. “We put prescription drugs on [Medicare], which added to the cost and we’re not addressing cost savings.” Granger lauded a federal campaign that tracked down and recovered nearly $1 billion in Medicare fraud. The Star-Telegram reported Oct. 31 that about 300 cases of Medicare fraud were discovered this year through the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Teams, known as HEAT. Reporter Dianna Hunt wrote that HEAT is part of a nationwide crackdown on incidents of Medicare and Medicaid fraud that experts say cost taxpayers as much as $60 billion a year. Granger cited campaigns against fraud as a examples of issues on which both sides of the House agree. Others include being able to buy insurance across state lines and portable insurance that goes with the insured from one job to another. “People are stuck in jobs, because they can’t afford to lose their health insurance,” she said. “The average person now changes jobs nine times in their lifetimes. [Understanding] that people change jobs, that some are self-employed, that should be recognized as far as costs.” Unfortunately, Granger said, agreement is a component that was missing in the months leading up to this bill. “What should have happened on health care reform is that we all should have been working together,” she said. “Things like covering people with pre-existing conditions we all agree on. But, instead of working at that and having a real effort at it, we [Republicans] were literally closed out of the process.” Granger said that The Pelosi Health Care Bill is an appropriate name for the legislation not only because that’s what Democrats call it in press conferences. “That’s what I call it, because she [Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi] was very insistent on what should be in this bill,” she said. “In her press conferences, she would say this has to be in the bill and that has to be in the bill, when many of her own party’s members didn’t support some of the issues. That’s how we got to $1.2 trillion.” Granger said Republicans also support some of the preventive services included in the bill. “Community health centers have been very successful,” she said. Citing Albert Galvan Health Clinic in north Fort Worth as an example, Granger said the clinic is in a neighborhood where residents need it. “They get vaccinations, treatment for colds and all the things that people need who would go to emergency rooms if the clinic wasn’t there,” she said. “[Emergency room care] is the highest cost health care there is. Republicans want more community health centers.” Granger said there are lots of answers for healthcare reform, but government-run health insurance for everyone is not something Republicans can support. Nor do Republicans support mandated health insurance, Granger added. “This bill says that if you don’t have health insurance you will be taxed,” she said. “If you don’t pay your tax, you go to jail. This bill started as healthcare reform and became insurance reform. We went from making sure that people have healthcare to making sure they have insurance. People who go to federally funded community health centers don’t have insurance.” Granger said that anyone is eligible to receive medical care from a community health center. “The price you pay is on a sliding scale,” she said. “If your salary is higher, the price you pay is higher.” Granger said that the tax-supported State Children’s Health Insurance Program can be considered a success, “if we can reach enough children. Some are covered at no cost and others at a percentage of income. So many people say their employer covers them but not the family, and they can’t afford to cover their families. SCHIP picks up those children.” But Granger is opposed to government-run health insurance that eliminates other options. “If you’re putting out the public option the way [Democrats] are describing it, it will start at a much lower cost [than private health insurance],” she said. “If you’re a business that insures employees with Blue Cross or Mutual of Omaha, and there’s this option that’s a much lower cost to begin with, companies will dump private insurance and go on the public option.” As Granger understands the public option, it can be obtained by companies or individuals, and she fears that its cost to taxpayers and, ultimately, to the insured themselves will rise dramatically. Americans, she lam
11.04.2009	Wednesday, Nov. 04, 2009 Granger decries healthcare bill By Terry Evans Democrats in Congress who drafted a healthcare bill to be voted on this week have no faith in one of its major components, said Congresswoman Kay Granger. Earlier this year, Granger said, she signed a pledge that she would not vote for a public option unless Congress members would have to enroll in it. That suggestion went nowhere, said the Republican representing Parker County and the rest of District 12. “The Democrats must not have much confidence in the Pelosi Healthcare Bill if they’re not willing to make it their plan, too,” she said. “We’ve said it should be in there, like a lot of other provisions, but they have 40 more votes than we do. We expect to be able to offer one amendment. That’s all they’ll give us.” Granger objected to what she perceives as a rush to vote on a complicated bill that could ultimately cost the nation $1.2 trillion. “They’re asking for three hours debate and allowing Republicans only one amendment for something that will change healthcare across our nation,” she said. “That’s not right. Healthcare is one sixth of our entire economy.” Three hours of debate before the vote she expects to be called Thursday is ludicrous on a bill that was filed Friday, Granger said. Giving Republicans only one amendment is unfair, she added, quipping that she’d toyed with the idea of putting the mandatory Congressional enrollment into the amendment. “I’d much rather see that amendemnt say ‘this is what healthcare reform should be,’” she said. “It should include tort reform.” Granger lamented that in debates leading up to this bill, malpractice lawsuit situations in such states as Tennessee and Massachusetts had been mentioned, but never Texas. “One of the problems we have is the number of physicians [in the nation],” she said. “When we [Texans] passed tort reform, 5,000 physicians moved to Texas, because they were free to practice medicine without that enormous threat of lawsuits. The main thing was that malpractice insurance rates were skyrocketing. When we passed tort reform, that made an enormous difference in [the cost of] malpractice insurance. Texas should be the model for national tort reform.” Granger said Congress should do everything it can to lower the cost of healthcare insurance. “That means insurance pools where small businesses like mine [an insurance agency she sold three years ago] can pool together to buy insurance like great big companies. Realtors, people who work from their homes, all those ways that recognize the work force today, we should be addressing costs. This bill doesn’t. It costs $1.2 trillion.” Republicans already should have done what Granger is calling for, she admitted. “We should have been working on this all along,” she said. “When I came in 13 years ago this was the top issue in town hall meetings. We did some things, but didn’t do everything. We nibbled around the corners.” Lauding President Obama for bringing the issue back, Granger applauded him for saying: “Let’s do something.” But she lamented that the Pelosi bill is not the change that people were asking for at those town hall meetings. “They didn’t want something that would destroy the best health care system in the world,” she said. Despite rankings that put the United States lower than some third-world nations in some areas of public health, Granger was adamant about its quality. “The rankings I pay attention to are breast cancer and other cancers, and what the cure rates are,” she said. “We lead the world in the way we address major illnesses that affect the greatest number of people. That’s why people come from all over the world to be treated in the United States.” Granger cited circumstances surrounding H1N1 vaccines as evidence if poor government influence. “That is a government program and no one knows where to go, whether they should go, who is served first,” she said. “The form that was given to our district office to answer someone who asks ‘What do I do?’ said people between the ages of six months and 24 should get the vaccine. So, people started calling the office saying their children aren’t eligible at six months because there isn’t enough vaccine.” Granger said she was on the health committee that worked on H1N1 vaccines for six years because they knew it was coming. She wonders what became of their work. “We don’t have enough vaccine, can’t tell people in their communities when they’re going to get it or what the risk is,” she said. “I can’t even get the information to give out to people.” Another example of poorly executed government-run healthcare is Medicare, Granger said. “It’s going broke,” she said. “So we’re going to put another trillion dollar healthcare program out there when the one we have is going broke.” Admitting that Medicare is important to a lot of people, Granger said that the increasing number of people going on the program is killing it. “We live so much longer,” she said. “We put prescription drugs on [Medicare], which added to the cost and we’re not addressing cost savings.” Granger lauded a federal campaign that tracked down and recovered nearly $1 billion in Medicare fraud. The Star-Telegram reported Oct. 31 that about 300 cases of Medicare fraud were discovered this year through the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Teams, known as HEAT. Reporter Dianna Hunt wrote that HEAT is part of a nationwide crackdown on incidents of Medicare and Medicaid fraud that experts say cost taxpayers as much as $60 billion a year. Granger cited campaigns against fraud as a examples of issues on which both sides of the House agree. Others include being able to buy insurance across state lines and portable insurance that goes with the insured from one job to another. “People are stuck in jobs, because they can’t afford to lose their health insurance,” she said. “The average person now changes jobs nine times in their lifetimes. [Understanding] that people change jobs, that some are self-employed, that should be recognized as far as costs.” Unfortunately, Granger said, agreement is a component that was missing in the months leading up to this bill. “What should have happened on health care reform is that we all should have been working together,” she said. “Things like covering people with pre-existing conditions we all agree on. But, instead of working at that and having a real effort at it, we [Republicans] were literally closed out of the process.” Granger said that The Pelosi Health Care Bill is an appropriate name for the legislation not only because that’s what Democrats call it in press conferences. “That’s what I call it, because she [Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi] was very insistent on what should be in this bill,” she said. “In her press conferences, she would say this has to be in the bill and that has to be in the bill, when many of her own party’s members didn’t support some of the issues. That’s how we got to $1.2 trillion.” Granger said Republicans also support some of the preventive services included in the bill. “Community health centers have been very successful,” she said. Citing Albert Galvan Health Clinic in north Fort Worth as an example, Granger said the clinic is in a neighborhood where residents need it. “They get vaccinations, treatment for colds and all the things that people need who would go to emergency rooms if the clinic wasn’t there,” she said. “[Emergency room care] is the highest cost health care there is. Republicans want more community health centers.” Granger said there are lots of answers for healthcare reform, but government-run health insurance for everyone is not something Republicans can support. Nor do Republicans support mandated health insurance, Granger added. “This bill says that if you don’t have health insurance you will be taxed,” she said. “If you don’t pay your tax, you go to jail. This bill started as healthcare reform and became insurance reform. We went from making sure that people have healthcare to making sure they have insurance. People who go to federally funded community health centers don’t have insurance.” Granger said that anyone is eligible to receive medical care from a community health center. “The price you pay is on a sliding scale,” she said. “If your salary is higher, the price you pay is higher.” Granger said that the tax-supported State Children’s Health Insurance Program can be considered a success, “if we can reach enough children. Some are covered at no cost and others at a percentage of income. So many people say their employer covers them but not the family, and they can’t afford to cover their families. SCHIP picks up those children.” But Granger is opposed to government-run health insurance that eliminates other options. “If you’re putting out the public option the way [Democrats] are describing it, it will start at a much lower cost [than private health insurance],” she said. “If you’re a business that insures employees with Blue Cross or Mutual of Omaha, and there’s this option that’s a much lower cost to begin with, companies will dump private insurance and go on the public option.” As Granger understands the public option, it can be obtained by companies or individuals, and she fears that its cost to taxpayers and, ultimately, to the insured themselves will rise dramatically. Americans, she lamented, have been conditioned to see health insurance as the best way to access healthcare. “Insurance is just the vehicle to get healthcare that we have assumed,” she said. “What you really want is the healthcare. Companies provided insurance as a benefit. It’s become the assumption that that’s the way you get the healthcare.” Underlying the entire debate, Granger said, is a question that few have addressed. “We should ask where the money [spent on healthcare] is going,” she said. “If you talk to doctors, they’ve been squeezed to the point that they’re leaving [the profession]. Insurance companies and pharmaceutical companies are where the money is going. I think there was an enormous overreach to begin with in this bill.”
11.02.2009	Residents of all ages attended a town hall meeting in Springtown Saturday afternoon to hear from United States House Representative Kay Granger. Teens, not even voting age, listened to the representative’s words and assisted by setting up chairs and videotaping the event held at the Springtown Area Senior Center. Adults in the crowd submitted questions prior to the meeting for Granger to address. Granger opened the meeting by speaking of her involvement in homeland security, but the main topic of the day was health care reform. “The environment we are in today is difficult,” Granger said. “When the financial crisis hit us, we all made changes. Retirements were cut in half, people lost jobs. “The government’s made changes. They are not the changes I would have wanted. Because in a time where we are all saying ‘I can do without this,’ the government, the bills we are faced with, has not been doing that.” Standing next to a copy of the 1,990-page health reform bill presented to congress last week, she spoke critically of President Barack Obama’s “czars” and Nancy Pelosi’s statement that “this will be a time of transparency and ethics.” “This is scheduled for a vote this week,” she said referring to the newest health care reform bill. “That doesn’t even make sense. We’ve been talking about one of five bills that is not the bill you see here. Hopefully the votes are not there to pass this. There should not be one Republican ‘yes.’ I think every Republican will vote ‘no.’” One audience member asked if the bill being presented was something she had never seen before or did it encompass pieces of the previous bills. “It has some parts of each,” Granger said. “It has other parts that have never been seen and will never go through committee or sub-committee. There are 800 pages here that have never been seen because they were not in the bill everyone was talking about.” Another audience member asked the representative if she thought the bill could pass without any republican votes. She said yes, because the democrats hold a majority in the senate, but added she knows of democrats who are planning on voting against the bill unless changes are made. In her own moment of transparency, Granger told the audience she pays $159 a month for her Blue Cross health insurance plan that covers only herself. She said her cost it low because the larger the employer the lower the cost, and the federal government is a large employer. “Part of reform should take on that,” she said. “If you are self employed or buying individual insurance you should not be paying higher. That’s not even in this bill. You should be able to form associations and buy insurance across state lines. None of that is in here.” Granger said health needs to be reformed, but the current bill will cost tax payers more money and could be devastating to the future of medical research. She said one of her fears is the government would stop spending money on finding cures for a disease or cancer if it is not “cost effective.” “It doesn’t lower costs when you have that sort of bureaucracy,” she said. “The only way to do that is with hold care. There is nothing else in it that lowers costs. There are new agencies. It’s going to increase costs.” In response to another audience submitted question, Granger said it is not constitutional for the government to mandate individuals to purchase health insurance. She also spoke against government control of banks and the auto industry. “I don’t want the government in my life anymore than it is,” she said. “It is not constitutional. For the federal government to go into a bank and say this is the salary you will pay. That is outrageous.” She also said if the current health care reform passes, she is concerned about the future of the medical field when doctors are already not being able to recouping the costs of tests funded through Medicare. “Sometimes we forget that doctors are small business owners,” Granger said. “They want to provide health care, but that have to pay nurses and keep their offices open. We’re losing doctors and people saying they would not advise their children to go into medicine.”
10.30.2009	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement today after House Democrats unveiled their latest plan for a government takeover of health care that will raise taxes, increase our national debt, and put government bureaucrats between patients and their doctors: “After weeks of closed-door meetings, House Democrats unveiled their health care plan that contains everything that we feared it would. This plan follows months of secret negotiations and backroom deals, and flies in the face of rising opposition by my constituents. Their idea for reform includes a government takeover of health care that will raise costs, add to our national debt, and hurt seniors, small businesses and families. “Instead of government-run health care, I support keeping what works, fixing what doesn’t, and bringing down costs for all Americans. I will continue to fight on behalf of responsible health care solutions that Texans can support.”
10.29.2009	House Leadership unveiled their latest plan for a takeover of government health care that will raise taxes, increase the national debt, and put government bureaucrats between patients and their doctors. Click here to read the full text of the legislation.
10.27.2009	On October 26th, Congresswoman Kay Granger hosted nearly 6,000 constituents on a live telephone town hall. Please click here to listen.
10.14.2009	Fort Worth Star-Telegram Pakistani, U.S. officials on hand in Fort Worth for F-16 ceremonies By BOB COX rcox@star-telegram.com For the first time in two decades, Pakistan’s air force is about to get new F-16 fighter jets. Pakistani military and government officials were on hand Tuesday at Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Co. in Fort Worth for ceremonies unveiling the first of 18 new F-16s to be delivered in the next year. And to highlight the continuing value of the F-16 to Lockheed and Fort Worth, the Defense Department announced that it had notified Congress of a possible sale of 24 F-16s to Egypt, along with spare engines, radars and weapons, a deal potentially worth about $3.2 billion. The Pakistan jet sale, worth roughly $2 billion, was authorized in 2006 by President George W. Bush. It was the first to Pakistan since 1990, when then-President George H.W. Bush cut off delivery of 28 previously purchased planes over the country’s nuclear weapons development program. "Many people thought this day would never come," Pakistan’s ambassador to the U.S., Husain Haqqani, said in remarks at the ceremony. "It’s a historic and defining moment." The U.S. and Pakistan, Haqqani said, "are democracies struggling to protect the world against terrorism and protecting us from those who would take our freedom." The resumption of F-16 sales was opposed by some members of Congress, denounced by India and at times threatened by lagging payments to Lockheed. "This journey was long, difficult, challenging and sometimes frustrating," said Rep. Kay Granger, Fort Worth, whose district includes the Lockheed plant. Granger said Pakistan "is the point of the spear" in U.S. efforts to combat terrorism in Afghanistan and elsewhere. She said the U.S. and Pakistan have "a growing relationship that will last for decades to come." Pakistan is buying 18 F-16C Block 52 jets, one of the most capable versions of the aircraft, which is flown by the U.S. Air Force and numerous other countries. In addition, Lockheed is producing modernization and upgrade kits for 35 of Pakistan’s 1980s-era F-16As. The kits will provide the same radar, digital mission computers and modern digital instrumentation systems as the new aircraft. Four aircraft will be upgraded in Fort Worth, with the rest of the kits shipped to Pakistan to be installed there. The head of Pakistan’s air force, Air Chief Marshal Rao Qamar Suleman, said that nation’s F-16s have proved valuable in making precision attacks on Al Qaeda and Taliban extremists that operate out of the rugged mountainous region between Pakistan and Afghanistan. At the end of June, Lockheed had a backlog of 87 unfilled F-16 orders, enough to keep the Fort Worth assembly line operating through about 2012. Lockheed has about 2,100 Fort Worth employees directly tied to the F-16 program and several hundred others who provide varying degrees of support. Additional sales to Egypt, should they occur, would add to the backlog. The Obama administration signaled to the Egyptian government this year that it would look favorably upon a request to buy additional F-16s. Egypt has already taken delivery of 220 F-16s since 1982. Before Tuesday’s Egypt announcement, John Larson, Lockheed’s vice president of the F-16 program, said he was "very optimistic about additional F-16 sales. There are a number of government-to-government discussions going on now that we’re pretty confident will result in orders." The biggest potential source of business is Pakistan’s neighbor and historical enemy, India, which is holding a competition to buy 126 fighter jets. Lockheed is competing for that business, as is Boeing with its F/A-18 Super Hornet, along with several foreign aircraft manufacturers.
10.14.2009	Weatherford Telegram Hate crimes attachment irks Granger Wednesday, Oct. 14, 2009 Congresswoman Kay Granger (Fort Worth) voted against the National Defense Authorization Bill for fiscal year 2010 because it contained controversial "hate crimes" legislation that is not germane to armed forces funding. "It’s indefensible that the Defense Authorization Bill, which should exclusively support our troops, is instead being used as a vehicle for a controversial social policy that goes against the principles of my constituents," Granger said. Granger believes that all criminals should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of existing law without labels and, similarly, victims should be protected to the fullest extent of the law. She believes this should not happen in the Defense Authorization Bill. "To use our troops as political pawns is irresponsible and sets a dangerous precedent," said the congresswoman who has voted for every Defense Authorization bill since she has been in Congress. "I do not approve of our bravest sons and daughters being used to move a social agenda forward."
10.08.2009	Granger Votes Against Defense Authorization Bill Critical military funding legislation includes controversial “Hate Crimes” bill Washington, DC. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today voted against the National Defense Authorization Bill for FY 2010 because it contains controversial “hate crimes” legislation that is not germane to the funding of our armed forces. “It’s indefensible that the Defense Authorization Bill, which should exclusively support our troops, is instead being used as a vehicle for a controversial social policy that goes against the principles of my constituents,” said Granger. Granger believes that all criminals should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of existing law without labels and, similarly, victims should be protected to the fullest extent of the law. Granger believes this should not happen in the Defense Authorization Bill. “To use our troops as political pawns is irresponsible and sets a dangerous precedent,” continued Granger, who has voted for every Defense Authorization bill since she has been in Congress. “I do not approve of our bravest sons and daughters being used to move a social agenda forward.”
09.25.2009	By Arshad Mohammed NEW YORK, Sept 24 (Reuters) - The U.S. State Department said it is rethinking a decision to give $2.5 million in aid to Libya, including to foundations run by the Libyan leader's sons, after lawmakers on Thursday asked it to cancel the plan. In a letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, two U.S. lawmakers said they were unwilling to give the aid because of the warm reception Tripoli recently gave a Libyan official convicted of involvement in the 1988 Lockerbie bombing. They also accused Libyan leader Col. Muammar Gaddafi of showing "flagrant disrespect" for the 270 victims of the bombing during his visit to New York this week to attend the U.N. General Assembly. "The celebration that President (Gaddafi) recently held in honor of ... the only man convicted in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, showed just how little remorse (he) has for the terrorist attacks that killed 270 civilians," Rep. Nita Lowey and Rep. Kay Granger wrote in a letter obtained by Reuters. Lowey, a New York Democrat, chairs the influential House of Representatives appropriations subcommittee that oversees funding for the State Department and U.S. foreign assistance. Granger, of Texas, is the subcommittee's top Republican. While the State Department could reject their request, as a practical matter it is unlikely to do so because of the power that the appropriations committee has over its budget. State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said the department was rethinking the funding, which two sources said had included $200,000 each for two foundations run by Gaddafi's sons. One source said one foundation promoted civil society and the other women's empowerment. "The decision to appropriate the money was made some time ago but, in light of recent events, we will be taking another look at these decisions," Crowley said. The "recent events" was a reference to the celebratory reception Abdel Basset al-Megrahi received on his return to Libya last month after being freed by Scottish authorities on compassionate grounds because of his terminal cancer. 'IT IS ALL OVER'? Gaddafi's U.S. visit has upset some family members of the Lockerbie victims who resented his unsuccessful efforts to get permission to pitch a Bedouin tent he likes to stay in in Central Park and in two other sites near New York City. On Wednesday, Gaddafi delivered a rambling 94-minute speech to the U.N. General Assembly that touched on everything from the assassination of John F. Kennedy to swine flu and denounced the powers of the U.N. Security Council, which he said should be called the "Terror Council." Despite Gaddafi's unpredictability, the United States in late 2003 began a process of rapprochement with Libya after decades of estrangement because of Tripoli's decision to abandon the pursuit of weapons of mass destruction. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal newspaper, Gaddafi appeared to strike a conciliatory tone, saying he could "comprehend" the anger directed at him by Americans who lost relatives in the Lockerbie bombing. Gaddafi also said he hoped to build a new era of relations with U.S. President Barack Obama and wanted to put his nation's long conflict with the United States in the past. "As a case, the Lockerbie question: I would say it's come to an end, legally, politically, financially, it is all over," the newspaper quoted Gaddafi as saying. "I would say, thank Allah, that this problem has been solved to the satisfaction of all parties. We all feel the pain for such a tragedy." He also made clear his desire for his country to benefit from Western technology. "Libya does need the technology of the advanced world," Gaddafi said. "And if Libya wishes to develop itself, it must cooperate with the developed world."
09.23.2009	GRANGER CO- HOSTS SECOND ANTI- TERROR SUMMIT Washington, DC. - Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (Fort Worth) co-hosted the second summit of the Trans-Atlantic Parliamentary Group on Counterterrorism (TAG) in Washington, DC. As the co-chair of the Anti- Terrorism Caucus, Granger joined with colleagues in 2008 to create TAG to maintain a dialogue between legislators from Europe and the United States regarding strategic threats and the ongoing threat of international Jihadi terrorism to Western democracies. Today the international group of legislators represented Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Spain, Austria, France, the Netherlands, Romania and Cyprus. TAG discussions, today, focused on the terror strategies and counter strategies in: Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, Iran, Lebanon, Somalia and Africa. European and American legislators addressed and analyzed these various issues in their respective nations. “TAG is a unique platform to share the successes and challenges of our respective approaches against the shared threat of Islamic Terrorism,” said Granger. “I strongly support an ongoing global dialogue to help legislators combat new threats. We know too well that terrorists know no boundaries and the ideas we discuss will help us stay ahead of our enemies and allow us to bring a more sophisticated perspective back to Congress.”
09.23.2009	“The media has thoroughly unveiled the corruption that exists at ACORN. Texans are rightfully appalled at what they have learned. Last Thursday I was proud to support a House amendment that will stop all taxpayer dollars from going to ACORN and am encouraged that the House of Representatives has adopted it with overwhelming, bipartisan support. While this is a step in the right direction, it does not go far enough. “Today I cosponsored the “Defund ACORN Act” which will ensure that all ties between ACORN and the federal government are severed, and that the future possibility of taxpayer dollars financing this dubious organization is eliminated. “I ask that Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats bring this common-sense legislation to the floor immediately. In a time of national economic hardship and excessive demands on taxpayers we should expect increased discretion in how my constituent’s tax-dollars are spent.
08.14.2009	Do you know Herb Allison? Does the name Daniel Fried sound familiar? How about Alan Bersin or Carol Browner? If you’re like most Americans, you’ve never heard of these people. These people are the “czars” responsible for giving bailout money to banks, closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay, determining how to secure the border, and revamping American energy policy. The concept of having a czar to help coordinate a pressing, emergency issue is not new. Presidents Reagan and George H. W. Bush each had one czar. President Clinton had three, and President George W. Bush had four. However, in just six months in office, President Obama has already named at least 32 czars, and more could be coming. These “czars” are given a staff, a $172,000 per year salary, and broad authority to set policy that affects your life. They are not subject to Senate approval, and don’t have to answer to anyone except President Obama. This is just another example of the growth of big government without any accountability to Congress, or to the American people. That’s why I’m a cosponsor of H.R. 3226, the Czar Accountability and Reform Act. I believe this bill would cut off the salaries for these czars to restore transparency and accountability to our government.
07.11.2009	First USS Fort Worth Milestone Completed On Saturday, Congresswoman Kay Granger attended the Keel Laying ceremony for the USS Fort Worth in Marinette, Wisconsin. Although some of the construction has already begun, the Keel Laying ceremony is the symbolic kick-off to the start of construction. Congresswoman Granger attended the ceremony as the ship’s sponsor. As part of the tradition of the being the ship’s sponsor, Congresswoman Granger had her initials “KG” welded to the ship which will remain with it for the entire service life of the ship. “It’s a great honor to serve as the sponsor of the USS Fort Worth,” said Granger. “The keel laying ceremony today is also a great tribute to the tireless efforts by the city of Fort Worth and all those who believed this day would happen. The thousands of letters that were written and the drawings that were done embody the spirit of making this dream a reality. The keel is the backbone of the ship, and the city of Fort Worth has long been a “backbone” of support for our American Military forces.” The community will have a unique role to play in supporting the USS Fort Worth. The USS Fort Worth committee and the community will be supporting the USS Fort Worth at home, and while the ship travels around the world. Congresswoman Granger was joined during the ceremony by Captain Robert E. Howell, the Director of Contracts and Rear Admiral (Sel.) James Murdoch the manager of the Littoral Combat Ship program for the United States Navy. Lockheed Martin representatives were also on hand including Dan Schultz, vice president and general manager of Lockheed Martin’s Maritime Systems Sensors, Integrated Defense Technologies business. In addition, there were nearly 100 people who attended the ceremony that are involved in the construction of the USS Fort Worth as well as the mayors of the five surrounding cities of Marinette, Menominee, Oconto, Green Bay and Peshtigo. "Today, we are recognizing the symbolic first significant construction milestone in delivering a ship. And in this case, the second of a new breed of vital ship to be delivered to the fleet in support of our global maritime strategy. Fort Worth and her sister ships will give our forces new capabilities to deal with the numerous threats and challenges they face around the world," said Capt. Jim Murdoch, LCS program manager within the Navy's Program Executive Office, Ships. "It is an honor that this warship will be associated with the people and city of Fort Worth, a city with a proud heritage of support for our men and women in uniform." “We are committed to continuing our partnership with the Navy and providing them the most affordable solution to fill a critical need,” said Dan Schultz, vice president and general manager of Lockheed Martin’s Maritime Systems & Sensors, Integrated Defense Technologies business. “LCS 3’s construction will benefit from lessons learned on USS Freedom. It will be built using Marinette Marine’s modular production process that enables ship modules to be outfitted up to 85 percent complete prior to launch. We look forward to Fort Worth (LCS 3) following in USS Freedom’s (LCS 1) ground-breaking footsteps, as one of the Navy’s finest surface combatants.” The announcement a ship would be named USS Fort Worth came nearly three years after a grassroots effort by Congresswoman Granger and the community to name the ship after the city in honor of Fort Worth’s rich military history. The littoral combat ship is a 21st century ship that is designed to allow access to shallow coastal waters for missions such as mine warfare, anti-submarine warfare and surface warfare. It will also be outfitted with reconfigurable payloads that can be changed out quickly to accommodate various missions. The USS Fort Worth will be designated LCS-3 and will be built by Lockheed Martin. It will be 378 feet in length, have a waterline beam of 57 feet, displace approximately 3,000 tons and will make speed in excess of 40 knots. Based on previous LCS construction timelines, the USS Fort Worth is slated for completion in 2012. ### This ceremony is the first of four key milestones (keel laying, launching, christening, and commissioning). In earlier times, the keel laying was the “laying down” of the central or main timber making up the backbone of the vessel. Today, fabrication of the ship may begin months before and some of the ship’s bottom may actually be joined. However, the keel laying symbolically recognizes the joining of modular components and the ceremonial beginning of a ship.
07.09.2009	Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX), the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee for State-Foreign Operations, reinforced the will of Congress today with an amendment to prohibit funds in the State-Foreign Operations Appropriations bill from being used by the Secretary of the Treasury to negotiate any agreement in breach of enacted provisions in the War Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009 that was signed into law in June. The Granger amendment reaffirms Congress' role in controlling the Administration as it spends hundreds of billions of dollars in multilateral foreign assistance. In a show of bipartisan support, the House passed the Granger amendment by an overwhelming vote of 429-2. Granger released the following statement after the passage of the amendment: “I appreciate the bipartisan support for my amendment. I think we can all agree that now more than ever we need to keep a watchful eye on how we spend money – regardless of whether it’s spent domestically or overseas. “Sending money overseas, and to an organization such as the IMF with no commitment from the Administration to ensure the funds are used properly or will not be given to any state sponsor of terrorism is completely unacceptable,” said Granger. Last month, the Democrat majority in Congress provided President Obama with $108 billion in new funding for the International Monetary Fund as well as approved for the IMF to sell 13 million ounces of gold with proceeds providing a cushion for their internal operating expenses. In doing so, Congress provided for an unprecedented expansion of IMF resources and powers. On June 24, when President Obama signed the fiscal year 2009 supplemental into law, he issued a signing statement saying he would ignore guidelines put in place by Congress when the IMF funding was approved. The very provisions ignored by President Obama provide some of the only oversight that the United States exercises over the IMF – an organization that will triple in size this year because of the supplemental allocation. On June 23 during the markup of the State-Foreign Operations bill, the full Committee accepted an amendment by Congresswoman Granger that severely limited the IMF’s authority, including a requirement that the US contribute no more than 20% of the total to the IMF’s emergency loans and a requirement that the U.S. contribution to the IMF emergency credit line expire after 5 years.
06.25.2009	In a year that has seen the loss of 2.9 million jobs in America, I remain focused on creating jobs, cutting spending to reduce the deficit, and keeping taxes low. I encourage you to watch the video below. Number One Priority -- VIDEO On Tuesday evening, Speaker Pelosi and the Democrat majority surprisingly announced that this Friday will be the day the House considers landmark energy and climate legislation known as “cap and trade.” “Cap and trade” means the government would set artificial limits on the amount of emissions businesses, utilities, farmers, and others can have, forcing them to severely alter the way they operate. If they can’t operate within their emissions limit, they would have to pay the government or other parties to get a higher limit. This is essentially a tax on these groups, and it is most certainly going to be passed on to all of you. This bill is still being written as we speak – no one has seen or read it, and the bill is being crafted completely behind closed doors and as it stands now it is rumored to be 1,201 pages long. Normally, Members draft legislation, and then submit it to congressional committees for consideration. Only after it has received the support of the committee can the legislation be considered for a vote. However, this bill is going straight from the drawing board in Speaker Pelosi’s office to the House floor with no input from anyone except the small group of Members drafting the bill. The cost is still unknown, but some reports indicate this bill could result in the loss of 3.2 million U.S. jobs. The Heritage Foundation estimates this bill will increase electricity costs by 90 percent by 2035, gasoline by 58 percent, and natural gas by 55 percent. At this point, it is very likely that we will not see the bill before we vote on it Friday. Speaker Pelosi is continuing to hold closed door meetings this week, so the final version of the bill has not been written. I do not support the process House Democrats are using to force this bill through the House, and I can’t support a costly piece of legislation when we do not know its impact on our country.
06.24.2009	Below are copies of Congresswoman Kay Granger's opening statement during the FY 2010 Full Committee Markup and a copy of her statement on the IMF Amendment offered. The amendment was accepted by the committe during the markup.
06.11.2009	Today, during the conference meeting on the FY2009 Supplemental Appropriations bill, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) offered a motion to include the Senate provision delaying the release of detainee photographs. The motion received bipartisan support during debate, but was rejected by the House Democrats on the conference committee. “I’m disappointed that some conferees chose not to put the welfare of our troops first. There are real life implications we are dealing with here. This is a serious issue with serious consequences,” said Granger. Earlier today in the House, 95 Democrats joined 172 Republicans in voting to oppose the release of detainee photos for a period of three years. The vote on the Republican motion to instruct conferees on the FY 2009 Supplemental Appropriations bill was agreed to by a vote of 267-152. “Not only are the White House, the Departments of State and Defense, and a clear majority in Congress opposed to the release of these photos, our commanders on the field in Iraq and Afghanistan are strongly opposed as well,” Granger said. “Frankly, there is no question that the release of these photos would be used as propaganda and as a recruiting tool for terrorists.” Last month, President Obama ordered the Justice Department to appeal a federal court ruling allowing the release of detainee photos under the Freedom of Information Act. “Very few times in Congress do we have an opportunity to do something that will almost certainly save lives – well, I believe this is one of those times,” said Granger.
04.30.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) released the following statement today in response to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius’ announcement regarding preparation for a possible swine flu pandemic: “I was pleased to learn this morning that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has moved forward with one of the recommendations in the letter I sent to Secretary Sebelius on Tuesday. This morning HHS ordered 12 million courses of antivirals to replenish the national stockpile. “Maintaining the stockpile of enough antiviral drugs for 25 percent of the population is a critical component of the National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza (NSPI) and will be our nation’s first line of defense as the H1N1 influenza virus continues to spread. “As I said in my letter to Secretary Sebelius, I strongly encourage HHS to move forward with purchasing antivirals for prophylaxis use by health care workers and first responders. HHS has published guidance on antiviral drug use during an influenza pandemic and it is important to begin implementing this plan as soon as possible. “HHS has nearly $1.3 billion in unspent funds that Congress appropriated back in 2007 that can be used for research and development of a vaccine to match the H1N1 virus as well as to purchase additional antivirals to treat patients until a vaccine is available. I will continue to monitor this situation closely, and as a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will work to make sure additional funding is made available as needed for pandemic preparedness.”
04.29.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C., April 28 — Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) sent a letter to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, urging her to use the $1.3 billion in unspent funds Congress has already appropriated for pandemic preparedness. “The threat of a pandemic flu outbreak is something that I, and many in Congress, have been concerned about for years,” Granger said. “It’s something we have been preparing for since the initial draft of the National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza in 2004. Congress has taken an active role to ensure HHS has the resources it needs to combat any potential pandemic outbreak.” Back in 2007, Granger urged then-HHS Secretary Leavitt to expeditiously use the resources already made available to the Department to prepare for a potential outbreak. In the letter Granger wrote, she cited there were approximately $2.5 billion unobligated funds, at the time, for the implementation of the National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza. Granger was particularly concerned about the slow progress in completing key elements of the Department’s preparedness plans. One of the most notable of those elements was the planned stockpiling of antivirals, which is our nation’s first line of defense at the outset of any pandemic influenza outbreak inside the United States. Still concerned about the failure to use the funds allotted, Granger sent another letter today to HHS Secretary Sebelius. “Today, I urged the Department of Health and Human Services to use the $1.3 billion in unspent funds currently set aside for pandemic preparedness,” Granger said. “We have shipped 11 million courses of antivirals to the States this week to deal with the current outbreak. We need to ensure that our stockpile remains complete to maintain our reserves for 25 percent of the population.” “However, it is important to note that because of the initial work done by the federal government, we are far more prepared to handle a major incident,” Granger said. “I am proud to have been a part of that preparation and planning, but more must be done." ###
04.29.2009	Granger Statement on Pandemic Flu Protection Granger sends letter to Health and Human Services Secretary, urging the use of the $1.3 billion in unobligated funds for pandemic protection WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) sent a letter to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, urging her to use the $1.3 billion in unspent funds Congress has already appropriated for pandemic preparedness. “The threat of a pandemic flu outbreak is something that I, and many in Congress, have been concerned about for years,” Granger said. “It’s something we have been preparing for since the initial draft of the National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza in 2004. Congress has taken an active role to ensure HHS has the resources it needs to combat any potential pandemic outbreak.” Back in 2007, Granger urged then-HHS Secretary Leavitt to expeditiously use the resources already made available to the Department to prepare for a potential outbreak. In the letter Granger wrote, she cited there were approximately $2.5 billion unobligated funds, at the time, for the implementation of the National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza. Granger was particularly concerned about the slow progress in completing key elements of the Department’s preparedness plans. One of the most notable of those elements was the planned stockpiling of antivirals, which is our nation’s first line of defense at the outset of any pandemic influenza outbreak inside the United States. Still concerned about the failure to use the funds allotted, Granger sent another letter today to HHS Secretary Sebelius. “Today, I urged the Department of Health and Human Services to use the $1.3 billion in unspent funds currently set aside for pandemic preparedness,” Granger said. “We have shipped 11 million courses of antivirals to the States this week to deal with the current outbreak. We need to ensure that our stockpile remains complete to maintain our reserves for 25 percent of the population.” “However, it is important to note that because of the initial work done by the federal government, we are far more prepared to handle a major incident,” Granger said. “I am proud to have been a part of that preparation and planning, but more must be done.
04.24.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C., April 22 — Today the Commission on Smart Global Health Policy launched an initiative to provide recommendations for some of the most pressing health issues facing the international community. Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) was among those chosen to serve on the commission that will develop recommendations for a long-term, strategic U.S. approach to global health. “It’s an honor to serve on this commission. Health care is something I care deeply about,” Granger said. “Serving on this commission is exciting, because it is an opportunity to come up with solutions that will have a real impact on a global scale.” Granger serves as the senior Republican on the House of Representatives’ State-Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, which has oversight of U.S. foreign assistance programs. Granger is actively involved as the co-chair and founder of the Congressional Study Group on Public Health, co-chair of the Congressional Prevention Caucus, and co-chair of the Congressional Women’s Caucus Health Policy Task Force. “I want to focus over the next year on solutions to develop a better information network. Our agencies, non-governmental organizations, and local community organizations have all collected good information, but the problem is this information is stove-piped. We need a set of commonsense solutions to promote a more free-flowing dialogue and encourage information sharing,” Granger said. “Additionally, I want to focus on addressing child and maternal health. A recent report by the Congressional Research Service showed that more than 500,000 women die each year due to pregnancy-related causes. Most of these deaths occur in developing countries.” The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) maintains that the majority of these deaths could be prevented if women in developing countries had access to adequate diets, safe water and sanitation facilities, basic literacy, and health services during pregnancy and childbirth. The Commission is part of the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), which is a bipartisan, nonprofit organization headquartered in Washington, D.C. CSIS conducts research and analysis and develops policy initiatives that look into the future and anticipate change. According to the CSIS website, the Commission operates from the premise that investments in health, while benefiting people first, also have rising foreign policy, security, economic and development stakes, of direct import to long-term U.S. national interests. The Commission will be working with senior policy makers in the Obama administration and both parties in Congress to ensure interest in its work and guarantee success in seeing its recommendation translated into action. “What I like the most about the emphasis of this commission is the use of ‘smart power’ and how we can employ these techniques to tackle global health concerns,” Granger said. “I have talked a lot about ‘smart power’ in the diplomatic world as we address issues with other countries – both friendly and unfriendly toward the U.S. So for me, applying this same type of thinking to health care makes a lot of sense. There is no doubt that improving health care in other nations is in our national security interest as well.” The Commission is co-chaired by Dr. Helene Gayle, President and CEO of CARE, and Admiral William J. Fallon, former Commander of both the U.S. Central Command and U.S. Pacific Command. The commission’s report is scheduled to be released in January 2010. ###
04.24.2009	Granger Selected for Commission on Smart Global Health Policy WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today the Commission on Smart Global Health Policy launched an initiative to provide recommendations for some of the most pressing health issues facing the international community. Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) was among those chosen to serve on the commission that will develop recommendations for a long-term, strategic U.S. approach to global health. “It’s an honor to serve on this commission. Health care is something I care deeply about,” Granger said. “Serving on this commission is exciting, because it is an opportunity to come up with solutions that will have a real impact on a global scale.” Granger serves as the senior Republican on the House of Representatives’ State-Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, which has oversight of U.S. foreign assistance programs. Granger is actively involved as the co-chair and founder of the Congressional Study Group on Public Health, co-chair of the Congressional Prevention Caucus, and co-chair of the Congressional Women’s Caucus Health Policy Task Force. “I want to focus over the next year on solutions to develop a better information network. Our agencies, non-governmental organizations, and local community organizations have all collected good information, but the problem is this information is stove-piped. We need a set of commonsense solutions to promote a more free-flowing dialogue and encourage information sharing,” Granger said. “Additionally, I want to focus on addressing child and maternal health. A recent report by the Congressional Research Service showed that more than 500,000 women die each year due to pregnancy-related causes. Most of these deaths occur in developing countries.” The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) maintains that the majority of these deaths could be prevented if women in developing countries had access to adequate diets, safe water and sanitation facilities, basic literacy, and health services during pregnancy and childbirth. The Commission is part of the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), which is a bipartisan, nonprofit organization headquartered in Washington, D.C. CSIS conducts research and analysis and develops policy initiatives that look into the future and anticipate change. According to the CSIS website, the Commission operates from the premise that investments in health, while benefiting people first, also have rising foreign policy, security, economic and development stakes, of direct import to long-term U.S. national interests. The Commission will be working with senior policy makers in the Obama administration and both parties in Congress to ensure interest in its work and guarantee success in seeing its recommendation translated into action. “What I like the most about the emphasis of this commission is the use of ‘smart power’ and how we can employ these techniques to tackle global health concerns,” Granger said. “I have talked a lot about ‘smart power’ in the diplomatic world as we address issues with other countries – both friendly and unfriendly toward the U.S. So for me, applying this same type of thinking to health care makes a lot of sense. There is no doubt that improving health care in other nations is in our national security interest as well.” The Commission is co-chaired by Dr. Helene Gayle, President and CEO of CARE, and Admiral William J. Fallon, former Commander of both the U.S. Central Command and U.S. Pacific Command. The commission’s report is scheduled to be released in January 2010. ###
03.27.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today released the following statement regarding the Administration’s new strategy for the war in Afghanistan: “The President's speech recognizes the importance of defeating al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan, but we must not underestimate the danger of the Taliban and the Haqqani network to the stability and progress of these countries. “Success will depend on what we do militarily and diplomatically. “We must also recognize and deal with the reality of the narco-trafficking that provides funding for these organizations. We have to clearly understand what we are dealing with in these complex societies and not make the mistake of thinking they are the same as what we faced in Iraq.”
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C., March 11 — U. S. Senator John Cornyn and U.S. Rep. Kay Granger, R-Texas, announced today that Haltom City will receive a federal grant of $1,470,000 to remove 124 flood-prone structures, eliminating health and safety risks to residents in the event of future flooding. The funding comes from FEMA’s Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Granger worked to secure the funding for the area. “This is great news for Haltom City residents and I’m encouraged that the area is finally receiving this support to help diminish the effects of future disasters,” Sen. Cornyn said. “This funding provides needed assistance to protect Haltom City against devastation that may come from future storms, and it will ultimately save lives. I will continue to do my part to ensure the federal government is providing the necessary resources to Texas communities for disaster preparedness and prevention.” “In June 2007, a flood in Haltom City took the life of a 4-year-old girl and endangered hundreds of homes and lives. Senator Cornyn and I visited the affected area shortly thereafter. After seeing the damage the flood caused, we sought federal funding to lessen future storm risks. This much-needed grant will help Haltom City ensure that those kinds of tragedies won't happen again,” said Rep. Granger. The Hazard Mitigation Grant Program provides funding to states and local governments for projects that will reduce losses from future disasters.
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) released the following statement after the Wall Street Journal reported this morning comments made by Attorney General Eric Holder that some Guantanamo detainees could be released inside the United States: “This is simply outrageous and unacceptable. The fact that the Attorney General would even suggest some Guantanamo detainees could be released into the United States should terrify all of us. The combatants remaining in Guantanamo are some of the most hardened terrorists in the world who want to harm innocent Americans. Under no circumstances should they be released on American soil. The Administration must reject this suggestion immediately.”
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) released the following statement in response to the Administration’s announcement today of its plan to combat Mexican drug cartels and secure the border. “I appreciate that the Departments of Homeland Security, State and Justice are finally recognizing the urgent need to confront the problems drug cartels are causing in Mexico and on our Southwest border. Innocent civilians are getting caught in the crossfire of an increasingly violent war between rival drug cartels. “Congress has appropriated $700 million toward the Merida Initiative, to support President Calderon’s brave efforts to stop the corruption and violence caused by the drug gangs. Among the Merida measures is increasing air mobility for the Mexican Army and Air Force. I urge the Administration to speed up the delivery of the five helicopters that have already been funded and fulfill the Mexican government’s request for additional air assets for the police.”
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) expressed her outrage today about the recent problems with the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and the extraordinary bonuses paid to executives at AIG and other firms assisted by TARP funds. Granger has become increasingly alarmed about reports over the last few months that TARP recipients used government funds for purposes Congress never intended, such as acquiring other banks. Then, the same firms that accepted government help used taxpayer dollars to pay extraordinary bonuses to their executives. Today it was reported that at least 13 of the biggest TARP recipients have unpaid tax bills, totaling $220 million. “Nearly every week, we hear about another problem with the TARP program,” Granger said. “As far as we know, these are the only problems, but where does it stop? We have no idea. One of the reasons we got into this situation is because we rushed through and didn’t fully examine the proposal and its possible side effects. Here we are again today, trying to rush through a solution when we don’t understand the problem.” Granger voted against the bill the House considered today because it would only recover some of the bonus money a year from now. The plan Granger supports would recover all of the bonus money immediately. “The American people deserve to get 100 percent of their money back from these bonuses, and they deserve to know what the administration knew about the bonuses and when they knew it. I am outraged by the behavior of the TARP recipients, the administration, and the Treasury Department. There has been no transparency and no accountability. We need a full investigation into the TARP program so we can begin to understand and solve the problems we know about, and the ones we have yet to discover.” The Senate voted unanimously to add an amendment to the stimulus bill that would have restricted bonuses at any company receiving bailout funds. However, this provision was removed from the final version of the bill. As a result, AIG was allowed to give $165 million in bonuses to its executives. “The Senate clearly understood there was a problem. However, under pressure from the administration, the provision that would have prevented these outrageous taxpayer-funded bonuses was stripped. Secretary Geithner knew what was happening. He is one of the chief architects of the situation we now find ourselves in, and he should do the right thing and resign immediately.”
03.11.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) released the following statement in response to United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s comments in a meeting with the House Foreign Relations Committee today: “United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon's statement that the United States is a ‘deadbeat’ donor to the U.N. is not only offensive, it's flat-out wrong. “For more than 60 years, the U.S. has been the single largest financial contributor to the U.N. system -- from the moment the U.N. charter was signed in San Francisco, to the day it broke ground on its headquarters in New York City, to the present, as the organization gets nearly one-quarter of its budget from the United States. “Given our unmatched generosity towards the U.N., the Secretary-General should know better than to look a gift horse in the mouth. Right now, Americans care far more about paying their own bills than they do about appeasing the head of the U.N.”
03.11.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) expressed her outrage today about the recent problems with the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and the extraordinary bonuses paid to executives at AIG and other firms assisted by TARP funds. Granger has become increasingly alarmed about reports over the last few months that TARP recipients used government funds for purposes Congress never intended, such as acquiring other banks. Then, the same firms that accepted government help used taxpayer dollars to pay extraordinary bonuses to their executives. Today it was reported that at least 13 of the biggest TARP recipients have unpaid tax bills, totaling $220 million. “Nearly every week, we hear about another problem with the TARP program,” Granger said. “As far as we know, these are the only problems, but where does it stop? We have no idea. One of the reasons we got into this situation is because we rushed through and didn’t fully examine the proposal and its possible side effects. Here we are again today, trying to rush through a solution when we don’t understand the problem.” Granger voted against the bill the House considered today because it would only recover some of the bonus money a year from now. The plan Granger supports would recover all of the bonus money immediately. “The American people deserve to get 100 percent of their money back from these bonuses, and they deserve to know what the administration knew about the bonuses and when they knew it. I am outraged by the behavior of the TARP recipients, the administration, and the Treasury Department. There has been no transparency and no accountability. We need a full investigation into the TARP program so we can begin to understand and solve the problems we know about, and the ones we have yet to discover.” The Senate voted unanimously to add an amendment to the stimulus bill that would have restricted bonuses at any company receiving bailout funds. However, this provision was removed from the final version of the bill. As a result, AIG was allowed to give $165 million in bonuses to its executives. “The Senate clearly understood there was a problem. However, under pressure from the administration, the provision that would have prevented these outrageous taxpayer-funded bonuses was stripped. Secretary Geithner knew what was happening. He is one of the chief architects of the situation we now find ourselves in, and he should do the right thing and resign immediately.”
03.11.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C., March 11 — U. S. Senator John Cornyn and U.S. Rep. Kay Granger, R-Texas, announced today that Haltom City will receive a federal grant of $1,470,000 to remove 124 flood-prone structures, eliminating health and safety risks to residents in the event of future flooding. The funding comes from FEMA’s Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Granger worked to secure the funding for the area. “This is great news for Haltom City residents and I’m encouraged that the area is finally receiving this support to help diminish the effects of future disasters,” Sen. Cornyn said. “This funding provides needed assistance to protect Haltom City against devastation that may come from future storms, and it will ultimately save lives. I will continue to do my part to ensure the federal government is providing the necessary resources to Texas communities for disaster preparedness and prevention.” “In June 2007, a flood in Haltom City took the life of a 4-year-old girl and endangered hundreds of homes and lives. Senator Cornyn and I visited the affected area shortly thereafter. After seeing the damage the flood caused, we sought federal funding to lessen future storm risks. This much-needed grant will help Haltom City ensure that those kinds of tragedies won't happen again,” said Rep. Granger. The Hazard Mitigation Grant Program provides funding to states and local governments for projects that will reduce losses from future disasters.
03.06.2009	Artist's rendering of the LCS ships built by Lockheed Martin WASHINGTON, D.C., March 6 — This afternoon, Secretary of the Navy Donald Winters announced that the newest littoral combat ship (LCS) will be named USS Fort Worth. The announcement comes nearly three years after the grassroots effort began by Congresswoman Granger and the community to name the ship after the city in honor of Fort Worth’s rich military history. “What a remarkable day for our city of Fort Worth,” Granger said. “The thousands of letters, drawings, phone calls, and outpouring of support from the community over the last couple of years showed the Navy just how special this is for us. This was truly a community wide effort.” The littoral combat ship is a 21st Century ship that is designed to allow access to shallow coastal waters for missions such as mine warfare, anti-submarine warfare and surface warfare. It will also be outfitted with reconfigurable payloads that can be changed out quickly to accommodate various missions. The USS Fort Worth will be designated LCS-3 and will be built by Lockheed Martin. It will be 378 feet in length, have a waterline beam of 57 feet, displace approximately 3,000 tons and will make speed in excess of 40 knots. Based on previous LCS construction timelines, the USS Fort Worth is slated for completion around 2012. “The LCS is a state-of-the-art combat ship that will continue to put our Navy at the cutting edge of naval warfare,” Granger said. Currently, the USS Freedom (LCS-1) is the only littoral combat ship in service. Another ship, LCS-2, is being built and will be named the USS Independence. The vessels in the Freedom class are named after American mid-sized cities, small towns and communities. “Fort Worth is steeped in military tradition and has always been a patriotic community,” Granger said. “Today is a well deserved honor for our community.” The USS Freedom, the first ship in the littoral combat ship class, on its maiden voyage. The USS Fort Worth will be the third ship in this class. The USS Fort Worth will share the design features of the the USS Freedom, pitcured above.
02.25.2009	Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) released this statement following President Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress this evening: “I deeply appreciate the President’s address to Congress this evening. There is no mistaking the serious challenges facing our country – both on the domestic front and internationally as we continue to tackle a troubled economy and a continual threat of terrorism. “All along, I, and my House Republican colleagues, have expressed our desire to work with the President. Reducing the deficit and controlling spending are areas we are firmly committed to working on with the President. However, we cannot ignore the impact that raising taxes and significant cuts to our Armed Forces will have on both our economy and national security. “Roughly 64 percent of those who are scheduled for a tax increase are small businesses. Job creation and growth will be severely stressed if we continue to ask our small business owners to bear an even greater burden to pay more in taxes during this tough economic time. “I remain confident and look forward to working with the President to get our economy back on track.”
02.13.2009	I was pleased when President Obama announced his plans to jump start our economy by cutting taxes and investing in infrastructure. Unfortunately, while our economy continues to falter, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Appropriations Chairman David Obey, and other Democrats in Congress insist that a new massive spending package is the best way to help stimulate the economy in the short term. I have many concerns with the $819 billion bill that is currently moving through Congress. If enacted into law in its current form, the Pelosi-Obey bill would be the most expensive piece of legislation in history, heaping mountains of new debt on future generations. That does not put our country in a position to be competitive in future years. We have already seen the problems that can arise from writing a massive government blank check. The Troubled Assets Relief Program, which Congress approved last fall, authorized spending a total of $700 billion to help financial institutions with the fallout from the housing and credit crisis. Unfortunately, the funds were not used as promised. Instead, they were redirected and used to help companies like AIG – companies that have already mismanaged the money they received. That is exactly why I opposed releasing the second half of the $700 billion to the Treasury Department. Instead, I chose to support a bill introduced by my colleague from Texas, Louie Gohmert. His tax holiday bill would have stopped the remaining $350 billion and instead authorized a two-month freeze on federal income taxes, allowing Americans to keep more of their paychecks. That’s the sort of fast-acting stimulus our country needs – one that lets taxpayers decide how their money should be spent. The Pelosi-Obey bill does not do what’s needed to create new jobs and get our economy on track. Instead, it creates a new set of government programs and provides funding to existing programs that already have difficulty spending their large, unspent balances. Alternative proposals continue to be offered, and I believe many of these ideas have merit and should be taken into consideration. Instead of spending billions of dollars on programs that don’t create jobs, an effective stimulus package should help small businesses thrive. Small businesses, those with fewer than 500 employees, make up 85 percent of our economy and by far the largest source of new jobs in America. Small businesses often pay up to 35 percent of their income in taxes; lowering those taxes would immediately free up funds for small businesses to retain jobs and create new ones. To achieve that goal, Republicans in Congress have proposed giving small businesses a tax deduction equal to 20 percent of their income. Small businesses are the first to recover during periods of economic turmoil. Helping small businesses is a necessary step in any stimulus package, but the bill given to us by Democratic leadership doesn’t empower small businesses; it simply empowers the government. Congressman Mike Simpson of Idaho and I recently wrote a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer and Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey expressing our desire for a targeted stimulus effort that addresses transportation and infrastructure needs, reduces the tax burden on American families and gives businesses the tools they need to create jobs. There is no doubt we would all benefit from additional funding to build new roads or maintain current ones, and the jobs that would result from those efforts. However, the fact about the Pelosi-Obey bill that doesn’t receive attention is that out of the $825 billion, less than five percent is dedicated to such projects. When you spread that amount across 50 states and thousands of communities, it fails to provide the stimulus we were originally led to believe it would. Finally, any economic recovery plan must not raise taxes to pay for new government spending. The huge amounts of spending contained in the House Democrat bill understandably cause concern that Congress will try to raise Americans’ taxes in the future to pay for it. That’s why I have joined my colleagues in asking for a provision that will prevent raising taxes at any time to pay for this new spending. Instead, it should be paid for by reducing government spending elsewhere. Congress needs to act to improve our country’s economic situation. But it is crucial that we take the right actions. Funding for global-warming research and physics research – both of which are provisions contained in the Pelosi-Obey bill – may be worthy projects, but they do not address the most pressing economic needs we face. They do not belong in this bill. We must use common sense and restraint in deciding how to accomplish our goal of getting our economy back on its feet. We should focus on creating jobs, not just more work. The Pelosi-Obey bill being considered in Congress does just the opposite. Our focus should be on the short term, but if we fail to consider the long-term consequences, I fear we will find ourselves at the drawing board again very soon.
02.13.2009	Congresswoman Kay Granger today expressed her disappointment after voting against the final version of the spending package that has been at the center of much of the debate since President Obama took office. “I am disappointed in the final version of this spending package,” said Granger. “There was so much discussion at the beginning that we would focus solely on items that would provide an immediate jolt to our economy. Instead, we have a bill that fails to fund a significant amount of ‘shovel ready’ infrastructure projects and provide additional relief to small businesses.” Much of the discussion has centered on the price tag of the spending package – bouncing between $819 billion to as high as $930 billion before settling at over $790 billion. Included in the bill were items Granger deemed worthy, but not projects that would stimulate the economy. Instead, she believes the bill should have focused on tax relief for individuals and small businesses as well as a sufficient amount on transportation and water infrastructure projects that could provide new jobs almost immediately – including new jobs in North Texas. Granger is a strong advocate of giving relief to small businesses, which account for about 85 percent of the economy. In the final version of the bill, only a tiny fraction was dedicated to relieving the tax burden on small businesses. Reducing the tax rate for these small businesses would immediately free up funds for them to retain workers and hire new ones. “Small businesses are the first to recover during periods of economic turmoil,” said Granger. “Helping small businesses is a necessary step in any stimulus package, but the Democratic leadership’s bill doesn’t empower small businesses; it empowers the government.” Communities and the public were led to believe that transportation and water infrastructure projects would make up the bulk of the bill. Communities were excited and started to make plans. However, Granger and many others were shocked to learn that a relatively small share of the total $792 billion package is devoted to transportation infrastructure — $47 billion, or 5.9 percent, and only $27.5 billion, or 3.4 percent, for highway construction. “You can imagine my disbelief when I learned that less than 10 percent would be dedicated to a sector that offers a true stimulus to the economy and could create hundreds, if not thousands, of new jobs in North Texas,” said Granger. The lack of transparency was another reason for Granger’s disappointment. The House of Representatives voted unanimously earlier in the week to post the final version of the bill on the Internet and allow the public to view the bill for at least 48 hours before a vote. However, in reality, Members had less than a day to review the bill before voting. Included in the bill were items like $2 billion for the Neighborhood Stabilization Fund, providing funds to organizations such as ACORN, as well as $700 million for controversial “comparative effectiveness” research that could lead to health care rationing. “I hesitate writing a check for $100. The Democrat leadership wrote a check for almost $800 billion without batting an eye when this bill will have long-term consequences,” said Granger. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released an analysis of the stimulus bill noting it was bad for the economy over the long-term. The CBO concluded that the size of the stimulus package will crowd-out private investment and result in an actual decrease in the Gross Domestic Product. “We got in this mess because people and institutions took on debt they could not afford,” Granger said. “This bill makes the same mistake.” This week alone the Obama administration and the Democrat-controlled Congress pledged almost $3 trillion in new spending. The Treasury Department laid out its plan for spending the remaining TARP funds and for increased financing from the Federal Reserve. The stimulus package Granger voted against totals more than $1.1 trillion when you factor in interest. Granger believes that these commitments will have severe long-term consequences that will impact several generations to come.
02.04.2009	39848.409722
01.21.2009	United States Representatives Phil Gingrey, MD (R-GA), David Scott (D-GA), Kay Granger (R-TX), and Norman Dicks (D-WA) sent a letter today to President Barack Obama, urging the new President to obligate critical funding to continue production of the F-22 Raptor. 184 other Members of the House have joined them in signing the letter. “The F-22 is our nation’s most capable fighter, ensuring America’s air dominance now and in the future,” said Rep. Gingrey (R-GA). “Nearly 100,000 Americans – including 2,600 in Marietta, Georgia – manufacture this aircraft which annually provides over $12 billion in economic activity to our national economy. As we face a time of unprecedented economic challenges, it is critical that we preserve this program which sustains our manufacturing base and strengthens our national defense. This letter – signed by 188 Members of the House – will ensure that President Obama understands the importance of the F-22 from day one of his Presidency.” “The United States is in the midst of a recession,” said Rep. Scott (D-GA). “Therefore it is essential that we not only create more jobs, but keep those Americans already working fully employed. Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Pratt and Whitney and others employ nearly 100,000 people in the production of F-22s. As such, it is critical not only for national security but for economic security that we continue this vital program. Failure to do so would cause thousands of employees to be laid off which would be devastating to not only my Congressional District but to families all across the nation.” “The F-22 plays a vital role in our national security. In Fort Worth, the F-22 and the defense community are important economic engines,” Rep. Granger (R-TX) said. “Our country and allies around the world depend on our military superiority. Continued procurement of the F-22 is clearly in the national interest.” “The F-22 program is at a crossroads,” said Rep. Dicks (D-WA). “In my years in Congress, all too often I have seen the Department of Defense invest billions of dollars to develop an essential new weapon system, and then not procure enough of them. There is little argument that the F-22 is the premier air dominance platform for the foreseeable future. Numerous analyses have shown a requirement for far larger numbers than the 183 F-22 Raptors that are in the current plan. And there is no question that if we purchase no more of them right now, we will lose the ability to ever produce them again. That is why I have joined in writing to President Obama to urge him to support continued production of 20 more F-22 Raptors now, with the expectation that the program requirement will get an in depth evaluation in the context of the next Quadrennial Defense Review.”The text of the letter is below: January 21, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: The Fiscal Year 2009 National Defense Authorization act requires your certification on continued F-22A Raptor production by March 1, 2009. We strongly urge your certification of continued production of this vital program. Continued F-22 production is critical to the security of our nation. The F-22 is the nation’s most capable fighter and the world’s only operation 5th generation fighter aircraft in full-rate production. It is the weapon system we need to respond to potential adversaries who are increasing their air combat capabilities both in terms of technology and numbers of aircraft. Several nations have announced that they are developing stealthy, twin-engine, high-altitude, 5th generation fighters that will reach production within the next five to ten years. Additionally, sophisticated and highly lethal air defense systems such as the SA-20 and S-300/400 are proliferating worldwide. Our nation has committed to procuring a total of just 183 F-22 aircraft. We are convinced that this number is insufficient to meet potential threats. After accounting for test, training, and maintenance aircraft, only about 100 F-22s will be immediately available for combat at any given time. Given that over 30 air campaign studies completed over the last 15 years have validated a requirement for far more than 183 F-22 Raptors to replace the original force of 800 F-15 A-D Eagles, it is clear that such a lean F-22 fleet is not consistent with America’s national security interest. The F-22 is a model production line. Since full-rate production began, the unit flyaway cost has decreased by 35 percent. If this certification is delayed, layoffs will begin as this critical supplier base shuts down. Once we begin to lose the F-22 industrial base that was created with billions of dollars of investment over many years, it will quickly become virtually impossible to reconstitute a production capability. The F-22 program annually provides over $12 billion of economic activity to the national economy. As our nation faces one of the most trying economic times in recent history, it is imperative to preserve existing high paying, specialized jobs that are critical to our national defense. Over 25,000 Americans working for more than 1,000 suppliers in 44 states manufacture this aircraft. Moreover, it is estimated that another 70,000 Americans indirectly owe their jobs to this program. Finally, your certification of continued F-22 production by March 2009 will enable production to continue while the Department of Defense undertakes a more in-depth analysis of the F-22 requirement in the context of the total national security requirement that will be examined in the 2009 Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR). With these points in mind — growing worldwide threats, substantiated requirements for larger numbers of F-22s, a high-performing, production capability, and a vital industrial base that sustains high quality jobs — we urge you to expeditiously certify that continued production of the F-22 Raptor is in the economic and national security interest of the United States of America.
01.12.2009	As Congress and the incoming Obama administration work to tackle the struggling economy, most of the ideas being offered have multi-billion dollar price tags. But many in Congress, including Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), believe we can better serve the economy by letting taxpayers keep more of the money they earn, rather than simply expecting them to pay for more government spending. In response, Granger signed on to Congressman Louie Gohmert’s (TX-01) tax holiday bill, H.R. 143, to relieve Americans from paying their federal taxes for a period of two months. The bill would provide an alternative to more bailouts and would reduce 2009 income taxes by almost 17 percent. “I think this is a practical solution,” Granger said. “Not every option has to include spending billions of dollars. I think most Americans would be surprised at the amount they could save if they didn’t have to pay federal taxes for two months.” Gohmert first introduced his tax holiday legislation last year, but with the Presidential election and shortened Congressional schedule, his bill was never voted on. His new legislation, introduced last week, would eliminate the Treasury Secretary’s authority to use the remaining $350 billion in bailout funding, ensuring those funds can’t be used for that purpose. Instead, his bill would grant a two-month tax freeze on all federal income taxes based on wages earned and FICA withholding that normally would come out of Americans’ paychecks. “From the overwhelming number of voices across the nation that have expressed their support for this tax holiday, it is clear that this fight is far from over,” said Gohmert. “My bill would provide relief to taxpayers and do a better job of stimulating our economy by letting the people who know the market best decide which companies or industries are most deserving of their hard-earned dollars.” Rep. Gohmert’s website and American Solutions, a think tank founded by former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, report that Americans pay $101.6 billion per month in personal income tax and $65.6 billion per month in FICA tax. If Gohmert’s bill became law, the two-month tax holiday would still cost less than the remaining $350 billion in bailout funds sought by the Treasury. “I applaud Congressman Gohmert for his ingenuity,” Granger said. “Now is the perfect time to put all ideas on the table for consideration, and taxpayers can spend – or save -- $350 billion of their own money better than the government can.”
01.08.2009	In the aftermath of one of the deadliest tornado seasons in recent history, Congress will have a second chance to consider legislation to provide Americans in the path of dangerous storms with life-saving warnings. Reps. Brad Ellsworth (D-IN), Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Dennis Moore (D-KS) and Kay Granger (R-TX) reintroduced CJ’s Home Protection Act today. The bill requires manufactured and mobile homes to be equipped with emergency weather radios. The group of lawmakers first introduced the bill in 2007. Although it received unanimous support in the House, the bill’s momentum was halted when the Senate was forced to turn its attention to the growing financial crisis last year. According to National Weather Service data, 125 people were killed in tornadoes in 2008, the most since 1998. “This bill is about public safety. When it comes to surviving these violent storms, a warning can make all the difference,” said Rep. Ellsworth. “We are going to keep pushing for this bill because if it prevents just one mother from losing her son, a $30 weather radio is not too much to ask.” “With today’s technology, we have the science to predict a severe storm, sometimes as much as a half hour before it arrives. We are building more storm shelters. Now, we must address the missing link for people who live in manufactured housing, making sure that people get emergency warnings in time to seek shelter from the storm,” said Rep. Baucus, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee. “Congress has made great progress in addressing wind hazards, including creating the National Wind Hazard Reduction Program, which calls for better design and construction practices of buildings, improves emergency response and increases public education relating to wind hazards. But there is more to be done. We may not be able to stop tornadoes, but together we can certainly lessen the impact of these deadly storms,” said Rep. Moore. “North Texas has had its share of severe weather. In many cases a storm can strike quickly and with little notice,” Rep. Granger said. “The built-in technology this bill provides would ensure that people are getting the information they need before a severe storm hits. This bill will help save lives and prevent needless injuries from occurring.” Summary of Legislation: CJ’s Home Protection Act would change the Federal manufactured home construction and safety standards to require every manufactured home delivered for sale to be supplied with a weather radio. Weather radios provide immediate broadcasts of severe weather warnings and civil emergency messages, including tornado and flood warnings, AMBER alerts for child abductions, and chemical spill notifications. Prices vary from $20-$80. The bill is named after CJ Martin, a two-year-old boy, whose life was taken by an F3 tornado in southwest Indiana in 2005. His mother, Kathryn, turned her grief into a state-wide advocacy campaign that resulted in an Indiana law requiring NOAA Weather Radios be installed in all new mobile and manufactured housing, which then prompted the federal initiative.
01.08.2009	Congresswoman Kay Granger of Fort Worth will play a key role in the nation’s foreign policy decisions over the next two years after she was selected this week to serve as the Ranking Member of the Appropriations subcommittee on State-Foreign Operations for the 111th Congress. “I am honored to have the support and trust of my colleagues,” Granger said. “My experience as a longtime member of the Appropriations Committee, a member of the leadership team and now as a Ranking Member provides a unique and rewarding record of service to the 12th District and the Congress.” As the highest-ranking Republican member on the subcommittee, Granger will be a leading voice in decisions that affect both the defense industry at home and the United States’ interests in the world. The subcommittee’s actions help define America’s image abroad and set the U.S. agenda for a wide range of international efforts including providing humanitarian aid, fostering global development, controlling the spread of illegal narcotics and assisting our allies in the fight against terrorism. Granger’s foreign policy role will also affect North Texas’ robust defense industry, as the State-Foreign Operations subcommittee vets and approves foreign military financing and foreign military sales. The defense industry is a critical partner of the United States government as it implements foreign policy through military sales and relationships. "Congresswoman Granger is a strong leader in Washington and we are gratified to learn of her expanded responsibilities as the ranking Republican on the House Appropriations subcommittee on State-Foreign Operations,” Ralph D. Health, President, Lockheed Martin Aeronautics said. “Congresswoman Granger brings tremendous expertise and experience to an important role in this increasingly challenging international security environment. The people of the 12th district of Texas should continue to be proud of her achievements supporting both the district and our nation’s priorities.” “Congresswoman Kay Granger has always been an outstanding public servant and we in the greater Fort Worth area have always appreciated her appropriate support for our industry,” Dick Millman, Bell Helicopter President and CEO said. “I am pleased to see that her expertise and experience recognized by her selection to this key position.” Granger, in her seventh term as a Member of Congress, has served on the Appropriations Committee since 1999. During her tenure on the committee, she has served on a variety of subcommittees including Energy & Water, Defense, Homeland Security, and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs. Granger, who has long been known as a leading defense expert, adds a foreign policy portfolio that will benefit the Fort Worth-area 12th District, a community with deep ties to the defense of the United States and its allies. “This new experience will allow me to provide a broader perspective and influence on how we interact with our allies and adversaries around the world,” Granger said. “The United States is currently engaged in two major military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we are phasing out our military presence in Iraq. The way we conduct our foreign policy is more important now than ever before. I understand firsthand how a decision made in Congress can alter the actions made by others around the world.” The Appropriations Subcommittee on State-Foreign Operations has jurisdiction over the Departments of State, Defense and Treasury as well as agencies such as the U.S. Peace Corps and the Trade and Development Agency. “Kay’s tireless and principled work on the Appropriations Committee, her service on the Subcommittee on Defense, and her long-time interest in international and counter-terrorism issues make her a great fit as the new senior Republican on the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee,” Congressman Jerry Lewis (CA-41) said. “I have had the honor of serving with Kay for many years, and her dedication, excellent reputation and record, and her level-headed decision making ability has placed her in a class with few rivals. I look forward to working with her throughout this next Congress as we strive to address the many serious international challenges facing our nation.” Additionally, the Sister Cities program is funded through the State-Foreign Operations subcommittee. Sister Cities International is a nonprofit citizen diplomacy network that creates and strengthens partnerships between the United States and international communities. As a participant in the program, Fort Worth has established relationships with communities such as Budapest, Hungary. Last June, Fort Worth was recognized by Sister Cities for the Best Overall Program. Reps. Kay Granger and Jo Ann Emerson, Financial Services subcommittee, (MO-08) are the first Republican women to hold the position of Ranking Member on the House Appropriations committee.
12.23.2008	Congresswoman Kay Granger joined the growing ranks of Americans who have signed the T. Boone Pickens pledge to end our country’s dependence on foreign oil. “While I am relieved energy prices have dropped here in Tarrant County, now is not the time to become complacent,” said Granger. “Now is actually the time to push for a new energy strategy, because none of us want to face four dollars a gallon again. That is why signing the pledge now is important. ” Congresswoman Granger played a critical role in Washington in calling on Congress to increase the supply of American-made energy. Over the summer, Granger repeatedly urged a vote on the American Energy Act, an “all of the above” solution to reducing energy prices. “We were successful on some fronts this last summer to increase the ability of our country to produce more domestic energy, but we still have a long way to go,” said Granger. “We can now begin to explore offshore drilling in an environmentally safe way, and we have extended incentives to use alternative energy such as solar and wind power. The Pickens Plan would significantly increase the use of wind energy and natural gas to meet our energy needs. The Pickens Plan website cites a Department of Energy report stating that twenty percent of America’s electricity can come from wind. In the Texas panhandle town of Pampa, Pickens has plans to build the largest wind farm in the world. Natural gas is the second part of the Pickens strategy to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. His website states that natural gas is our country’s second largest energy resource. His site goes on to state that 98% of the natural gas used in the United States is from North America. Granger joins over 1.3 million Americans and 131,990 Texans who have signed the pledge. “I appreciate the resolve T. Boone Pickens has shown on this issue. His pledge has generated a great amount of interest and support,” said Granger. “I am glad to join with him and so many others to work on a solution that is doable, because we can’t just continue to talk about our dependence, we need to do something about it” ### Unveiled on July 8, 2008 by T. Boone Pickens, the Pickens Plan is a detailed solution for ending the United States’ growing dependence on foreign oil. Earlier this year, when oil prices reached $140/barrel, America was spending about $700 billion for foreign oil, equaling the greatest transfer of wealth in human history. That figure has decreased while oil prices have retreated, but the U.S. is still dependent on foreign nations for nearly 70 percent of its oil, representing a continuing national economic and national security threat. The plan calls for investing in power generation from domestic renewable resources such as wind and using our abundant supplies of natural gas as a transportation fuel, replacing more than one-third of our imported oil. You can learn more about the Pickens plan by visiting his website (https://www.pickensplan.com/)
10.27.2008	Local troops preparing to deploy to Iraq got a visit from their congresswoman, Rep. Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), at their training facility in Fort Stewart, Hinesville, Georgia on Saturday. The troops are part of the 56th Infantry Combat Brigade, headquartered in Fort Worth. “These soldiers are American heroes,” said Granger. “The sacrifices they make to be away from their families and to put themselves in harm’s way for our country is truly humbling and inspiring.” The 56th Infantry Combat Brigade (56th IBCT) is preparing for deployment to Iraq in the coming weeks. Congresswoman Granger had been unable to see the troops off before they left North Texas for training in Georgia, so she flew to Georgia Friday to visit with and thank them before they deployed to Iraq. Congresswoman Granger toured the training area and ate dinner with 15 soldiers from Weatherford and Fort Worth. “I am always impressed with the incredible dedication of our citizen soldiers,” said Granger. “These men and women are juggling their civilian careers and families at the same time that they are going to fight for us. They take all of these challenges in stride. I want them to know I am proud of them, Texas is proud of them, and America is proud of them.” The 56th IBCT, which has approximately 3,200 soldiers, is made up of units from all over Texas including Weatherford, Fort Worth, Waco, Midland, El Paso, and Marshall.
09.29.2008	https://republicanleader.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=104002
09.26.2008	There is no doubt we are in the middle of a very serious economic situation. Over the past week and a half, I have attended briefings daily and heard from hundreds of constituents. I have met with both Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and listened carefully to the plan they have come up with. First, I am convinced that the Congress must act quickly and decisively in order to avert further disaster and stabilize the situation. However, I have very serious concerns about the plan for recovery that has been outlined, and I will tell you why. 1. Our first responsibility is to the taxpayer, not Wall Street. There are alternatives being offered that would allow Wall Street to work out their problems rather than taxpayers bailing out Wall Street. Those are the solutions we should be seeking. 2. Lack of oversight is one of the reasons we are in the crisis we are facing today. The plan as proposed does not have that oversight. Too much power is left in the hands of one person. We should immediately impose transparency, oversight and market reform. 3. There is too much opportunity for those who got us into this problem—Wall Street executives—to benefit, not pay for their mistakes. 4. Too much private capital is sitting on the sidelines during this crisis. We should give tax relief that can help companies free up capital. We should temporarily suspend dividend payments by financial institutions and cut capital gains to encourage the market. This problem cannot be corrected by passing a bill by the Congress. I believe the changes I have outlined will immediately help stabilize the situation, but the creation of a blue ribbon panel with representatives from Treasury, SEC and the Federal Reserve Board should be immediately named to bring recommendations for the new administration and Congress so that we will have the changes necessary to continue improving our economy throughout the coming year. Lastly, economic recovery should include a real energy policy that allows drilling for American independency, conservation, and investment in alternative forms of energy such as wind, nuclear and solar energy. Energy independence and job creation is the best stimulus our economy could have. This is not a time for Congress to pack its bags and go home. It is our responsibility to consider every option and act responsibly and decisively, regardless of elections, appointments, and, certainly, in the best interests of the nation and the people we represent.
09.19.2008	Granger Meets with Local Mayors FORT WORTH, TX — Yesterday Congresswoman Granger met with local Mayors from her congressional district to talk about energy, transportation and other issues impacting the communities she represents. Covering Parker, Tarrant and Wise counties over 20 mayors attended her roundtable discussion. Attending from Parker County were Dorothy Hall, Cool; Doug Hughes, Springtown; Marvin Glasgow, Willow Park; Kit Marshall, Aledo; Jamie French, Millsap; and Dennis Hooks, Weatherford. “Last year, I hosted this meeting for the first time and it was a huge success,” said Granger. “There is no better resource than meeting face to face with the Mayors in the communities I represent.” During the meeting, Congresswoman Granger gave a brief update on her work in Washington and what can be expected between now and the end of the legislative session, which officially concludes the last week of September. Granger said to expect energy to continue to be a central focus, but was hesitant to say the necessary steps to lower prices would be taken. She has been a strong supporter of the American Energy Act, which includes conservation, incentives for alternative energy such as wind, solar, and nuclear, as well as measures to increase domestic drilling. However, this bill has been prevented from being brought up for a vote. Transportation dominated much of the conversation. The high price of gasoline, the lack of revenue the State is collecting and the donor state system were all issues raised during the meeting. In addition, infrastructure and bridge repairs came up. Back in July, Congress passed a $1 billion federal authorization bill for bridge repairs and reconstruction. Texas is home to more bridges than any other state in the country. In Granger’s district alone there are over 2,600 bridges. “I knew transportation would be a large part of our conversation. I appreciated hearing their honesty and completely agree more needs to be done to resolve our local transportation issues,” said Granger. “Several years ago, Texas was only receiving around seventy cents to every dollar for transportation. The entire Texas delegation stood together to say that was completely unacceptable and we were able to close the gap and now Texas receives more than ninety cents for every dollar.” While transportation and energy were the two most discussed issues during the meeting, rural water issues and the need for affordable healthcare were also mentioned. Granger said she plans to continue to hold these mayor roundtable meetings in the future.
09.19.2008	Granger Helps to Stop Texas Medicare Cuts WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Wall Street Journal recently cited the work Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) and other Members of Congress, including several from Texas, did to urge the Bush Administration to stop a proposed rule that would have resulted in deep cuts to the Centers of Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Late last week, the Administration announced they would not move forward with their proposed Medicare cuts. “I was proud to join the effort to stop these cuts,” said Granger. “Now is not the time to cut funding for nursing home care. For me, stopping this new regulation was an easy choice and I am glad the Administration listened to us and decided not to move forward with their plan.” If the rule had been approved, nursing home care for millions of seniors would have been threatened. The rule would have cut $770 million in Medicare funding for skilled nursing facility care in 2009 and more than $4 billion over the next five years. Texas seniors would have faced cuts of more than $45 million next year. “For families in Wise County, this positive news means they can rest a little easier at night knowing the high quality of care they were promised for their parents will continue to be available,” said Granger. The Texas Health Care Association (THCA) praised Granger and the other Texas lawmakers for signing the letter sent last week to Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt. The other Texas lawmakers included Reps. Louie Gohmert and Eddie Bernice Johnson. “Thankfully, with the help of these three key Texas House Members, the damaging federal Medicare regulation was derailed,” said Tim Graves, President of THCA.
09.19.2008	Granger Co-Sponsors Small Business Insurance Act WASHINGTON, D.C. — Last week, Congresswoman Granger (R-Fort Worth) co-sponsored the Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) Act, H.R. 6210. The SHOP Act would use tax incentives, online information, and predictable costs to make health insurance more available to small businesses and the self-employed. It would also create a voluntary program to help more than 28 percent of individuals working for small businesses who are uninsured. “Many small businesses simply can’t afford to provide health insurance on their own,” said Granger. “This bill would make health insurance more affordable. It would create more insurance options, and it would make those options easier to research and choose from. Wise County small businesses need help and this bill is a step in the right direction.” More than 28 percent of small business employees are uninsured in America. This is a disproportionate amount when compared to the 16 percent of the general population that are uninsured. To improve the insurance markets available to small business owners, the SHOP Act would offer tax incentives to states to encourage them to 1) reform existing small group insurance markets that are functioning poorly and 2) develop state purchasing pools backstopped by a voluntary, nationwide pool. Tax credits will also be available to small business owners who join a state purchasing pool. “This doesn’t solve the problem, but it does help,” said Granger. “I want to do whatever I can to help our small business owners here at home cope with all the problems they are facing from lowering gas prices to helping them provide health insurance to their workers.”
09.19.2008	Granger Receives Defender of Economic Freedom Award WASHINGTON, D.C. — Last week, the Club for Growth announced that Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) earned the annual Defender of Economic Freedom award for 2007. The award honors Members of Congress who have a strong voting record on economic growth issues. “Congresswoman Granger is a champion of the pro-growth agenda,” said Club for Growth president Pat Toomey. “As one of 55 congressional members to earn this award, Congresswoman Granger demonstrates a strong commitment to economic freedom and free-market principles.” The Club for Growth is the nation’s leading free-market advocacy organization with over 40,000 members. “It is an honor for me to receive this award,” said Granger. “I am proud to support economic growth by doing all I can to keep taxes low. Being a former small business owner myself, I know the daily struggles of operating a business while continually trying to find ways to grow.” The award is based on certain votes the Club for Growth tracks on its scorecard. The study included a comprehensive examination of each lawmaker’s record on pro-growth policies and computed an Economic Growth Score on a scale of 1 to 100. A score of 100 indicates the highest support for pro-growth policies. Those lawmakers scoring 90 or higher receive the Defender of Economic Freedom award. “The scorecard is an important tool in providing the general public the opportunity to see how their representative and senators vote,” Mr. Toomey said. “These bills promote economic growth and create more jobs for all Americans. We hope that in each year to come, support for commonsense, economic principles will continue to grow, allowing more members to earn this award and more Americans to benefit.”
09.17.2008	Granger Co-Sponsors Bill to Increase Mileage Reimbursement Rates WASHINGTON – Americans getting pummeled at the gas pump may at least see some relief on their tax returns in the near future. A bill in Congress would increase the mileage reimbursement rate Americans could claim for business travel and charitable travel. Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) is co-sponsoring the Increase Mileage Reimbursement Rates for Americans Act, H.R. 6368. This bill, introduced by Rep. Kevin Brady (TX-08), improves upon the increases the IRS made to some of the mileage reimbursement rates this summer. “As gasoline prices continue to climb, more needs to be done to provide relief at the pump,” said Granger. “I believe H.R. 6368 will provide needed and immediate relief for some of the people who need it most.” Specifically, the Act would increase the mileage reimbursement rate for business or trade from 58.5 cents to 67.5 cents per mile. The charitable rate would increase from 14 cents to 27 cents per mile. The IRS had already increased the medical care and moving rates from 19 cents to 27 cents per mile. The Brady bill would maintain this increase. In addition to the immediate increase in reimbursement rates, the Increase Mileage Reimbursement Rates for Americans Act would also allow the Treasury Department to make future adjustments to the charitable rate without waiting on Congress to act.
09.12.2008	Granger Urges Vote on American Energy Act WASHINGTON, D.C. - As Congress prepares to adjourn for their summer district work period, Congresswoman Kay Granger today called on the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives to allow a vote on the American Energy Act, H.R. 6566, before they leave town. The act would increase the supply of American-made energy to reduce gas prices. “Congress needs an ‘all of the above’ strategy to reduce energy prices,” said Granger. “The high price of gasoline is really making it difficult for folks, even if it’s just driving to work and back every day. Unlike other parts of the country, we rely heavily on our cars because taking a train or bus is not an option when you work in Fort Worth, but live 40 miles away in Decatur. The American Energy Act is a comprehensive energy package to increase the supply American-made energy in environmentally sound ways, improve energy conservation and efficiency, and promote renewable and alternative energy technologies. “The Democrat leadership controls what legislation is brought to the House floor. I strongly urge them today to allow a vote on this bill,” said Granger. “We can’t afford to wait another week. This American Energy Act is the ‘all of the above’ approach we need.”
07.23.2008	By John Boehner Some 250 miles north of the Arctic Circle Sunday, ten of my House Republican colleagues and I completed an American energy tour focused on real solutions to help lower gasoline prices and energy costs for families and small businesses. Our trip started Friday with a visit to Golden, Colorado, and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) — a government facility operated by private-sector scientists and engineers dedicated to perfecting cutting-edge solar, wind, fuel cell, biomass, and other emerging energy technologies to reduce our nation’s costly and increasingly dangerous dependence on foreign sources of energy. The work done at NREL is important and, quite frankly, symbolic of America’s energy future. We’re getting closer, but we’re not there just yet. The challenge is building a bridge to that energy future. And that challenge brought us to Alaska. Our visit to Alaska’s north slope, on the coast of the Arctic Ocean, was symbolic of America’s vast, existing energy resources. Those resources can be found in the coal mines of West Virginia, the natural-gas deposits far off our shores, and in the oil-rich Mountain West, Arctic coastal plain, and Outer Continental Shelf. Some of those resources we utilize today — particularly American coal. But some of them, such as the tremendous amounts of American oil and gas, remain locked away by decades of policy crafted by those who have done the bidding of the radical environmental community — and those, namely the Democrats in charge of Congress, who continue to worship at that same altar of radical environmentalism today. Our delegation learned two key lessons on the Arctic shores — two lessons that will further embolden our fight in Congress for more production of American energy. First, and perhaps most strikingly, we learned that the Trans-Alaskan Pipeline, which carries petroleum from Prudhoe Bay on the North Slope 800 miles south to Valdez, on the Gulf of Alaska, is in a state of decline. Officials in Alaska warned us that in ten years, if the pipeline continues its current rate of decline in transporting oil supplies, the pipeline will be processing less than 300,000 barrels of oil per day, compared to nearly 720,000 today. Experts agree that at that level — without adding new supplies of oil — the pipeline could not continue to operate, shutting down all production in the North Slope and turning a multi-billion dollar asset into scrap metal. It’s a “pipeline deadline,” if you will. The reason the pipeline is in a state of decline is not due to a lack of adequate supply. Rather, it is a combination of lawsuits, time-consuming permitting processes, and the Democratic Congress’ refusal to lead that has slowed the flow of supply out of the North Slope. And nowhere is this more apparent than in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge’s (ANWR) “10-02 Area.” Designated by President Carter and Congress nearly 30 years ago for energy exploration and production, the 10-02 Area’s 2,000 acres (out of ANWR’s 19 million acres) contains some 10 billion barrels of oil, and possibly more, which is currently being held hostage by a Democratic leadership that is shockingly out of touch with the wishes of a large majority of Americans. Their reasoning? More often than not, they claim it is because of the pristine and wildlife-filled lands of ANWR. That leads into our second lesson. The fact is, my colleagues and I saw plenty of wildlife on our visit to the North Slope. Caribou were abundant. We saw them running atop the permafrost in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (where Democratic leaders suddenly support drilling, by the way), roaming near the pipeline, and one even made its way onto the runway of a small airport near Prudhoe Bay just as we were about to take off for the 10-02 Area. (We were told earlier in the day that caribou have the right of way.) Musk oxen were scattered about. And we even heard that a polar bear wandered onto the Endicott petroleum production facility grounds, which sits on an island in the Arctic, during our tour. The point is, wildlife and environmentally-safe energy production successfully coexist in the region — and it could elsewhere as well, including in the 10-02 Area. I found the sheer amount of respect energy producers have for the land and for the native Alaskan way of life — of which wildlife is a key part — to be simply remarkable. Moreover, the new technologies energy companies use to reduce the “footprint” on the environment is equally impressive. Those on the Left who cite these companies’ “insensitivity” as a reason for stonewalling more production in the region either suffer from a complete misunderstanding of the issue or are purposely twisting the facts. And either way, it’s the American people — not to mention North Slope residents who depend upon energy production for jobs — who suffer the consequences. Increased American energy production throughout all of the North Slope — not to mention the Outer Continental Shelf and other remote government-owned lands across the country — is part of a bridge to America’s energy future. While scientists and engineers perfect emerging technologies such as those at NREL, more of our nation’s vast energy reserves must be explored in a respectful and responsible way to help bring down fuel costs. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D., Calif.) and her liberal colleagues in the Democratic leadership are under immense pressure from the American public and from an increasing number of rank-and-file Democrats to stop fiddling and schedule a real vote on more American energy production. But what is her response? The Speaker told CNN last week that “I have no plans to do so.” House Republicans will continue this fight every single day, but let’s be clear: Only Speaker Pelosi and her liberal Democratic colleagues are standing in the way of lower gasoline prices for the American people.
07.18.2008	Granger Co-Sponsors Bill to Increase Mileage Reimbursement Rates WASHINGTON – Americans getting pummeled at the gas pump may at least see some relief on their tax returns in the near future. A bill in Congress would increase the mileage reimbursement rate Americans could claim for business travel and charitable travel. Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) is co-sponsoring the Increase Mileage Reimbursement Rates for Americans Act, H.R. 6368. This bill, introduced by Rep. Kevin Brady (TX-08), improves upon the increases the IRS made to some of the mileage reimbursement rates this summer. “As gasoline prices continue to climb, more needs to be done to provide relief at the pump,” said Granger. “I believe H.R. 6368 will provide needed and immediate relief for some of the people who need it most.” Specifically, the Act would increase the mileage reimbursement rate for business or trade from 58.5 cents to 67.5 cents per mile. The charitable rate would increase from 14 cents to 27 cents per mile. The IRS had already increased the medical care and moving rates from 19 cents to 27 cents per mile. The Brady bill would maintain this increase. In addition to the immediate increase in reimbursement rates, the Increase Mileage Reimbursement Rates for Americans Act would also allow the Treasury Department to make future adjustments to the charitable rate without waiting on Congress to act.
06.18.2008	Granger Introduces Helping HANDS for Autism Act WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger introduced the Helping HANDS for Autism Act, H.R.6282 along with Jim McGovern, MA; Chris Smith, NJ; Mike Doyle, PA; Dan Burton, IN; and Ruben Hinojosa, TX to increase public awareness, help families access the treatment and services they need, and also provide adult services for individuals with autism. “The increase of children being diagnosed with autism is alarming. More needs to be done to get a handle on this disorder. As a legislator and a parent with grown children starting to have children I want the scientists and doctors studying this disorder to have all the resources necessary to combat this increasing problem.” Since autism was first described 60 years ago, the prevalence of autism has dramatically increased. Autism spectrum disorders will be diagnosed in more than 25,000 U.S. children this year. Scientists and doctors still know very little about the neurological disorder, but most agree that early intervention is key. Too often families feel overwhelmed after diagnosis and lost as to where to turn for help. That is why I have introduced the Helping HANDS for Autism Act which creates a grant program to provide “autism navigator” services to help families navigate the web of services and care. Navigators will help guide families to current health, education, housing and social services that are often available. The program will help connect families to important treatment options soon after diagnosis, help families identify education options, help coordinate individuals’ care and community support. The Helping HANDS for Autism Act, H.R. 6282 is a three-part legislative package designed not only to support families dealing with autism spectrum disorders but also to increase public awareness and provide adult services for individuals with autism.
06.17.2008	Gas and Grocery Prices Have Texans Honking Mad Arlington, TX – With no relief in sight for the rapidly rising price of groceries, gas and other necessities, several Members of Congress from North Texas met with a local company to hear how families and businesses are being impacted. Reps. Joe Barton, Michael Burgess, Kay Granger and Pete Sessions toured a Tom Thumb grocery store, met with company leaders and spoke with customers. It was another chance for the Representatives to hear the real impact the energy mess is having on all aspects of people’s lives. The group then spoke to the media highlighting energy plans to bring costs under control by increasing the supply of American energy, improving energy efficiency, and encouraging investment in alternative and renewable energy technologies. After touring the store, Congressman Barton (R-Arlington) said, “Republicans introduced a package of bills recently that would lower prices by increasing the production of American-made energy in an environmentally-safe way. This includes the exploration of next generation oil, natural gas, and coal and the production of advanced alternative fuels like cellulosic and clean coal-to-liquids. In fact ground breaking research in this field is being conducted right now at UTA. This plan does more than just lower gasoline prices – it lowers the price for all energy from the electricity you use to cool you home to the natural gas you use to cook.” Congresswoman Kay Granger pointed out that the pain extends past the gas pump and into the grocery aisle. "Americans are asking for help with the high price of gasoline, the rising cost of food, and the inescapable increase in cost-of-living. However, families are not the only one's hurt by the rising energy prices. Communities and the tourism industry are particularly impacted by rising energy cost, small businesses with employees who can't work from home and other businesses that are unable to raise their prices to offset additional energy cost are feeling the affect as their profits shrink leaving them vulnerable to potentially unavoidable financial disasters.” Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Lewisville) acknowledged the anger being felt by North Texas consumers and then laid out a simple road map to lower gas prices. "Talk to Texans at their local grocery store or gas station like this one and they’ll tell you they’re honking mad about prices and hostile nations having the upper hand because they produce oil. We can ease the pain at the pump and lessen our dependence foreign oil by taking some reasonable and realistic steps that I call relaxing the three R’s: re-examining biofuel mandates; rolling back the diesel tax, and, building refineries," said Rep. Burgess. Congressman Sessions (R-Dallas) also addressed the nation’s unnecessary dependence on foreign oil. “From rising food costs to soaring gas prices, North Texans are burdened with cost of living increases, limiting their ability to make ends meet and invest for the future. For current gas price relief and long-term energy independence, Congress must increase supply by opening domestic resources to energy production and decrease demand by prioritizing energy efficiency and alternative, renewable energy development. The prosperity of our nation and its economy depends on it.” Each of the Representatives also applauded the Tom Thumb and other retailers for their efforts to lower shoppers’ bills by offering discounts when possible. The Members of Congress said they would take the lessons learned during the store tour and share them with their colleagues in Washington as they continue to fight for energy policy reform.
05.29.2008	GRANGER ANNOUNCES SUMMER 2012 SERVICE ACADEMY CADET APPOINTEES WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Kay Granger announced Thursday that six District 12 nominees have received Congressional appointments to United States service academies. In addition, two nominees will be attending Foundation Prep schools. “The important task of protecting our country and preserving democracy is entrusted to the men and women in the military,” Granger said. “Today, military leaders must excel in not only military matters, but also in technology, management and other areas. The women and men who have earned appointments to the military academies this year are the best we have to offer in District 12, and I am confident they will go on to be the military leaders of tomorrow who will continue to protect and defend the United States.” The appointments are for the class that enters in Summer 2008 and graduates in Spring 2012. The appointees from District 12 are as follows: * Nathan Krohn, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Mansfield High School * Michael Palazzolo, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Weatherford High School * Amanda Terry, U.S. Air Force Academy, Brewer High School * Daniel Watts, U.S. Naval Academy, Tarleton State University Students who have been attending a prep school and who received appointments are: * William Drummond, U.S. Naval Academy * Brandon Schoenfeldt, U.S. Air Force Academy In addition, the following students will be attending a Foundation Prep school through the U.S. Air Force Academy: * Brennon Lemieux, Decatur High School, New Mexico Military Institute * Justin Riling, Central High School, Northwestern University Individuals who are interested in obtaining a Congressional nomination for the next academic class, which begins in Summer 2009, must send a completed application package to Congresswoman Granger’s District 12 office no later than October 20, 2008. For additional information or an application packet, write to: Congresswoman Kay Granger 1701 River Run Road, Suite 407 Fort Worth, Texas 76107-6548 Or an individual can call the military academy coordinators in the office at (817) 338-0909. Interested individuals can also go to www.kaygranger.house.gov for nomination information.
05.22.2008	Granger, House Colleagues Unveil Commonsense Energy Plan to Help American Families WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger made the following statement after the House Republican Conference unveiled its Energy Agenda. “Today, House Republicans set forth an energy agenda that addresses the number one concern facing American families today - the high price of gasoline. The high price of gas is costing hard-working families an average of $3.80 a gallon. That is nearly $1.50 more a gallon than it was in January 2007, with no relief in sight. “Skyrocketing gas prices have taken a dramatic toll on the cost-of-living expenses for American families. Whether it’s driving to work, taking the kids to soccer practice, or planning the road trip during the Memorial Day weekend, many families are forced to make big sacrifices in other areas of their daily lives just to keep gas in the tank. “The plan we unveiled today will increase production of American-made energy in an environmental-safe way. We will promote new, clean, and reliable sources of energy while cutting red tape and increasing the supply of American-made fuel and energy. We will also encourage greater energy efficiency by offering conservation tax incentives to Americans who make their home, car and business more energy efficient.”
05.14.2008	Granger Unveils House GOP Families Agenda WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger today unveiled the American Families Agenda: Assuring the American Dream, alongside the House Leadership and Members of the House Republican Conference. Granger made the following statement: “Today, I am proud to announce the American Families Agenda. This agenda reflects where families are today and addresses the concerns that keep parents up at night. Families have changed dramatically over the last few decades and Washington needs to catch up. “Whether it’s the high cost of food or gas prices, the skyrocketing cost of health care, or concerns about our kids being the targets of online predators, families face increasing worries in today’s world. This agenda provides a blueprint for assuring American families can continue to pursue the American dream. “One of the main foundations of the agenda centers on the special role wives and mothers have in the workforce while in many situations continuing to be the primary caretakers for their family. In 1950, less than 12 percent of mothers with children under the age of six were in the labor force. Today, more than 60 percent of them work outside the home. “It is with these issues and many others in mind that we created this agenda, but more importantly we plan to take these solutions directly to the American people. We will be traveling the country and discussing how we can provide commonsense solutions to the problems we are faced with today.”
04.17.2008	Granger Calls for Hearing on Government Funds Used for Polygamist Sect WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger, Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, sent a letter to House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton and Ranking Member Duncan Hunter yesterday evening requesting a hearing be held with the Department of Defense regarding the Department’s vetting process for contracts. According to news reports this week, at least one company affiliated with the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (FLDS), the same church sect whose Texas compound was raided on Friday, April 4, after reports of physical abuse, was the recipient of federal contracts that went to fund the church’s activities. Granger, who sits on the Defense, Homeland Security and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittees, is ultimately concerned that federal tax dollars may have been misused to fund the sect’s illegal activities. The following is the text of the letter Granger sent to the House Armed Services Committee: April 16, 2008 The Honorable Ike Skelton The Honorable Duncan Hunter Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Armed Services Committee on Armed Services 2120 Rayburn Building 2120 Rayburn Building Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member Hunter: Less than two weeks ago, the media revealed troubling events occurring at a Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (FLDS) compound in West Texas. Like you, I was very disturbed to learn of the allegations of polygamy and child abuse, and I hope that law enforcement officials will act quickly to investigate and resolve this situation. In addition to these allegations, it has been reported that at least one company affiliated with the FLDS church was the recipient of federal loans and contracts. As a Member of Congress, I am concerned that federal tax dollars may have been misused to fund this sect’s illegal activities. New Era Manufacturing, a company that was formerly named Western Precision, Inc., is a Nevada-based supplier of wheel and brake components for military aircraft. New Era’s President and CEO is a known associate of the polygamist FLDS leader and convicted rapist Warren Jeffs. As Jack Douglas first reported in the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, FLDS church members were forced to work with little or no pay for Western Precision, Inc. It has been reported that the Department of Defense (DoD) awarded $1.2 million in sole source contracts to New Era Manufacturing. While religious affiliation should certainly not be a determining factor, DoD has a responsibility to closely scrutinize any company under consideration before contracts are awarded. I am concerned that such scrutiny did not occur in this case, and that funds from this company may have been used to support the FLDS church’s activities. I respectfully request that the House Armed Services Committee hold a hearing to investigate this matter. DoD officials should explain the vetting process used to examine prospective contract recipients in general, and the New Era Manufacturing contract in particular. I look forward to your response, and hope that you will schedule this critical oversight hearing promptly. Sincerely, Kay Granger Member of Congress
04.16.2008	Granger Statement on White House Ceremony with Pope Benedict XVI WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger, Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today attended a ceremony at the White House honoring Pope Benedict XVI. “The ceremony honoring Pope Benedict XVI was beautiful and inspirational – it was America at its best. “The Pope talked about the beginning of this country and both he and the President referenced the significant part religion and faith play among this nation’s citizens, which I thought was important. “Kathleen Battle sang the Lord’s Prayer, and everyone in the crowd sang a spontaneous Happy Birthday to the Pope. It was a terrific moment.”
04.04.2008	Granger Cosponsors DFW Metroplex U.S. Service Academies Forum WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger is cosponsoring the DFW Metroplex U.S. Service Academies Forum at Tarrant County College on April 12. Representatives from congressional offices and all five academies will be on hand to talk with students, parents and educators about the admission requirements, selection process and career possibilities associated with the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. “I look forward every year to the service academy informational forum,” Granger said. “This is a great opportunity for those young men and women who are interested in serving our country to learn more about attending one of our nation’s prestigious service academies.” This forum is also sponsored by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, Sen. John Cornyn, Rep. Sam Johnson, Rep. Joe Barton, Rep. Kenny Marchant, Rep. Michael Burgess and Rep. Pete Sessions. WHAT: DFW Metroplex U.S. Service Academies Forum WHEN: Saturday, April 12, 2008 8:00 AM – 12:00 PM CST Note: Forum is open to the public WHERE Tarrant County College, Northeast 828 Harwood Rd Hurst, TX 76054
03.17.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger was honored this week by the C3 Colorectal Cancer Coalition for her efforts in Congress to fight colorectal cancer. “I appreciate the dedicated work of the C3 Colorectal Cancer Coalition and it is a privilege to be honored by them this year,” said Granger. Colorectal cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer in the United States. According to the American Cancer Society, every five seconds someone who should have been screened for colorectal cancer is not. The costs of two thirds of these colorectal cancer cases are borne by the Medicare program. The Lewin Group recently conducted a comprehensive study of the potential cost savings to Medicare and found that every 10 years a colorectal cancer screening program will result in savings of about 1.5 years worth of Medicare expenditures. Last year, Congresswoman Granger introduced the colorectal screening bill (H.R. 1738), that would increase funding for colorectal cancer screenings, establish a national screening program for colorectal cancer individuals over 50 years of age or who are at high risk, and create a public awareness and education campaign on colorectal cancer. Granger’s bill currently has 117 co-sponsors. “Lives and money could be saved if more individuals knew the importance of preventative care,” Granger added.
03.17.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger was honored this week by the National Association of Community Health Centers for her work in Congress to increase the number of community health centers nationwide. “It’s a privilege to be honored by the National Association of Community Health Centers,” said Granger. “I appreciate the hard work and outstanding services provided by our nation’s community health centers. They meet such an important local need.” According to the National Association of Community Health Center’s website, there are more than 1,150 community health centers nationwide. These health centers serve more than 17 million Americans who do not have access to affordable health care. In Texas alone, there are close to 300 community health centers that provide care to over 700,000 patients a year. In Fort Worth, the Albert Galvan Health Clinic provided services to 13,000 individuals in 2007. “When I was mayor of Fort Worth, we didn’t have a community health center but there was a clear need for one,” said Granger. “I am enormously proud of the Albert Galvan Health Clinic and the critical services it now provides to the community.” Congresswoman Granger has been a strong advocate for increasing the number of community health centers in local communities around the country. She currently serves as co-chair of the Community Health Caucus which helps educate Members of Congress about the role community health centers play.
03.11.2008	GRANGER: SHUTTLE LAUNCH AWE-INSPIRING EVENT WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger, along with eighteen other Members of Congress, witnessed the launch of space shuttle Endeavour from the Kennedy Space Center this morning. The space shuttle, STS-123, launched at 2:30 a.m. and is bound for the International Space Station where it will transport a science station built by the Japanese, called a Kibo. “NASA and the space program have had an enormous impact on our nation and the world over the past five decades. To witness the shuttle launch first-hand was incredible,” said Granger. Granger was part of a congressional delegation trip, hosted by Rep. Nick Lampson, to gain a better understanding of the technology used and the resources necessary to maintain the space program. Aside from witnessing the shuttle launch, delegation members toured the Orbiter Processing Facility (OPF) where shuttles are maintained and received a pre-launch briefing from NASA officials on the mission of STS-123, which represents all five international partners. Other Members of the delegation included: Bart Gordon (D-TN), Russ Carnahan (D-MO), Brad Miller (D-NC), Laura Richardson (D-CA), Adrian Smith (D-WA), Phil Gingrey (R-GA), Patrick Kennedy (D-RI), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), John Shimkus (R-IL), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), John Carter (R-TX), Vic Snyder (D-AR) and Dave Reichert (D-WA).
03.05.2008	Granger Statement on Democrats’ Budget Proposal;Budget Should Focus on Fiscal Responsibility WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) made the following statement after House Democrats released their FY 2009 budget proposal. “Today, House Democrats released their fiscal year 2009 budget, laying out their spending priorities for the next fiscal year. Unfortunately, their proposal does not reflect the fiscal discipline Washington needs to lower the deficit and reform entitlement programs. “They are also proposing the largest tax increase in American history for the second year in a row. The $683 billion tax increase will hit working families and small business entrepreneurs the hardest. In fact, under the proposal, 116 million taxpayers will be burdened with an average tax hike of $1,833 per year. “During this time of economic uncertainty, higher energy prices, and increasing health care costs, Congress needs to develop a common sense, pro-growth strategy to keep America competitive and lighten the burden on hard-working families, not raise their taxes.”
02.06.2008	Granger SOTU Response WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, this evening released the following statement in response to President Bush’s State of the Union address. “The President addressed a number of issues tonight, one of the most important being the economy. He told Congress it needed to pass the bi-partisan economic growth package quickly and I agree. The tax rebates in the package are going to help working families, especially single parents with children, who nowadays are increasingly women. “It’s important we get this package passed quickly to help people now and then we need to continue to enact pro-growth policies that reduce the tax burden on employers and taxpayers and encourage investment and job creation. “I was pleased to hear the President talk about the progress that has been made at our borders. We’ve expanded the Border Patrol from 9,000 agents in 2001 to more than 15,000 agents today. By the end of 2008, we should have more than 18,000 agents. That is a dramatic increase that is resulting in a significant reduction in apprehensions of illegal immigrants crossing the Southern border. We need to continue this trend and finish the job. “The President also talked about Iraq. I agree that the surge is working and think the Iraqis see it working as well. Over the past few months they have placed their confidence in us and we are now working together to rid their communities of al Qaeda and other violent extremists. We now need to continue to build on this success.
02.06.2008	Granger: Women are the Backbone of our Economy WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today spoke at a press conference with fellow Members of the Republican House leadership about the need for a speedy economic stimulus package, with Granger highlighting the important role women play in the U.S. economy. “I don’t think many people appreciate the widespread and important role women play in the economy – they are the mothers, small business owners, homeowners and workers. They truly make up the backbone of our economy,” said Granger. According to the Center for Women’s Business Research, in 2006, two out of every five businesses in the country were projected to be women-owned. These firms were estimated to generate $1.9 trillion in annual sales and employ 12.8 million people nationwide. The U.S. Census Bureau estimates that women comprised 46 percent of the total U.S. labor force in 2006. According to the National Association of Realtors, single women are the fastest-growing group of homeowners in recent years. “When we’re talking about stimulus plan options, we need to be factoring women into the equation and considering the impact it will have on them,” said Granger. “I’ve been encouraging Members to listen to women back home to hear what their biggest concerns are. Can they pay their childcare? Their healthcare? Can they expand their payroll? These are real concerns we all need to take into account as we move forward with a package,” added Granger.
02.06.2008	Granger Statement on President’s Budget Proposal WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today released the following statement after President Bush submitted his budget to Congress. “Today, the President released his budget, which aims to continue the economic growth we’ve seen these past few years and to balance the budget without raising taxes. I agree that we should not be saddling our over-burdened small businesses and families with higher taxes. “We also have to address entitlement spending and exert fiscal discipline. It’s important that we take steps now to address the current problems before they become bigger ones later on. “I also urge my Democratic colleagues to adopt a budget that does not raise taxes. Last year Democrats proposed the largest tax increase in American history in their budget – something the American people cannot afford right now. We can and should balance the budget without raising taxes.”
02.06.2008	Granger Urges Democratic Leaders to Address, Not Delay, Important Budgetary Issues WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today released the following statement in response to Democratic leaders saying they would push off important budget decisions critical to Middle Class Americans and small businesses until the next Congress. “It’s Congress’ job to work for the American people and that means getting its work done. It does not mean putting the work off – like some Democrats suggest doing – until a time that is more politically expedient. This is part of what has Americans frustrated with Washington – its misplaced priorities. “Congress’ priorities should be where Americans’ priorities are, and right now, that is with ensuring Middle Class Americans and small businesses have enough money to support their families and keep their businesses growing. It also means that Congress needs to exercise increased fiscal restraint. “We can and should work together to get this job done and restore Americans’ faith in the process.”
02.05.2008	Granger Signs on to Economic Stimulus Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. — In response to growing concerns about the economy, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), a small business owner for 20 years, today signed on as an original sponsor of an economic stimulus bill entitled the “Middle Class Jobs Protection Act.” The bill, introduced by Rep. Eric Cantor (VA-07), will help businesses create more American jobs and will encourage long-term growth. “There is a lot of anxiety about the economy right now and Congress needs to be solving real problems for real people,” said Granger. “This bill will help stem some of the negative trends we’re seeing by supporting our small businesses and the workers they employ.” The bill allows businesses to deduct an increased amount of the costs of business equipment at the time they acquire the equipment. It also allows small businesses to expense up to $250,000 for purchases up to a $1 million for 2008 and 2009. To help soften the blow of slower years, the bill allows businesses to deduct net operating losses from their total income for the last five years, reducing their tax liability. These provisions will encourage businesses to invest and retain their workers. They will also allow companies to re-invest and distribute more profits to shareholders including pension funds and family investors. “I started my own business 20 years ago with $10,000 and I succeeded -- but it’s hard. One in 10 businesses will not make it their first year,” said Granger. “This bill gives the stimulus needed for businesses to pay their wages, pay their employees’ healthcare, and continue to employ working families.” Economic studies show that workers ultimately bear much of the burden of high corporate tax rates. Studies show that over the long run, tax cuts mean higher wages and better job opportunities for workers. In 1999, Granger won the Fort Worth Business Hall of Fame’s outstanding business executive award, becoming the first woman ever to win the award. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas U.S. House delegation. She sits on the Appropriations Committee and serves on the Energy and Water Development, Homeland Security, and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittees. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her sixth term in Congress.
02.05.2008	Granger Signs on to Economic Stimulus Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. — In response to growing concerns about the economy, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), a small business owner for 20 years, today signed on as an original sponsor of an economic stimulus bill entitled the “Middle Class Jobs Protection Act.” The bill, introduced by Rep. Eric Cantor (VA-07), will help businesses create more American jobs and will encourage long-term growth. “There is a lot of anxiety about the economy right now and Congress needs to be solving real problems for real people,” said Granger. “This bill will help stem some of the negative trends we’re seeing by supporting our small businesses and the workers they employ.” The bill allows businesses to deduct an increased amount of the costs of business equipment at the time they acquire the equipment. It also allows small businesses to expense up to $250,000 for purchases up to a $1 million for 2008 and 2009. To help soften the blow of slower years, the bill allows businesses to deduct net operating losses from their total income for the last five years, reducing their tax liability. These provisions will encourage businesses to invest and retain their workers. They will also allow companies to re-invest and distribute more profits to shareholders including pension funds and family investors. “I started my own business 20 years ago with $10,000 and I succeeded -- but it’s hard. One in 10 businesses will not make it their first year,” said Granger. “This bill gives the stimulus needed for businesses to pay their wages, pay their employees’ healthcare, and continue to employ working families.” Economic studies show that workers ultimately bear much of the burden of high corporate tax rates. Studies show that over the long run, tax cuts mean higher wages and better job opportunities for workers. In 1999, Granger won the Fort Worth Business Hall of Fame’s outstanding business executive award, becoming the first woman ever to win the award. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas U.S. House delegation. She sits on the Appropriations Committee and serves on the Energy and Water Development, Homeland Security, and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittees. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her sixth term in Congress.
04.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers today announced the Republican Members who will serve as Vice Chairs of the 12 Appropriations subcommittees for the 114th Congress. These Members will serve as Chair of the subcommittee in the absence of the Chairperson, and assist them in official Committee duties. “The Vice Chairs for the Appropriations Committee have distinguished themselves as knowledgeable on the appropriations process and are committee to responsible budgeting,” Chairman Rogers said. “These Members will play an integral role in bringing each of the 12 Appropriations bills from Subcommittee to the House floor, and I know that they will live up to the demands of the job over what I expect will be a tough but successful appropriations year.”The Subcommittee Vice Chairs are as follows:Agriculture: David Valadao, CaliforniaCommerce, Justice, Science: Robert Aderholt, AlabamaDefense: Kay Granger, TexasEnergy and Water: Chuck Fleischmann, TennesseeFinancial Services: Jaime Herrera Beutler, WashingtonHomeland Security: Rodney Frelinghuysen, New JerseyInterior and Environment: Mike Simpson, IdahoLabor, Health and Human Services, and Education: Steve Womack, ArkansasLegislative Branch: Mark Amodei, NevadaMilitary Construction and Veterans Affairs: Jeff Fortenberry, NebraskaState and Foreign Operations: Charlie Dent, PennsylvaniaTransportation, Housing and Urban Development: Kevin Yoder, Kansas Contact: Jennifer Hing, (202) 226-7007
04.08.2015	By Jack Douglas Jr. Senior Investigative Producer, CBS 11 News April 7, 2015 11:08 AM U.S. Rep. Kay Granger, a Fort Worth Republican, has been recognized for her work to fight the illegal poaching of wild animals throughout the world – a dangerous practice that she says can fund terrorism. Rhinos and elephants, such as the ones you can see in North Texas zoos, are among the animals in danger of becoming extinct because thousands of them are being hunted down for their tusks and horns, said Granger, honored at the Fort Worth zoo by the World Wildlife Fund. Granger, who is chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations subcommittee in Congress, told CBS 11 News that the global killing of wildlife puts humans at risk as well. As the international community works to close down bank accounts used by terrorists, the lucrative practice of poaching wildlife has been seen as a way to fund future attacks, experts fear. Noting that a single elephant tusk has a black market price tag of $56,000, Granger, in a statement to CBS 11, said “the killing of just one middle-aged elephant” could have been enough to fund the deadly terrorist attacks in 1998 of the U.S. embassies in Nairobi and in Dar es Salaam – with $6,000 left over. “This kind of black market financing is a real concern especially as criminal poaching networks become more sophisticated in the weapons and equipment they use to illegally poach rhinos and elephants for their ivory …,” Granger said in the statement. Carter Roberts, president and CEO of World Wildlife Fund, said “the reason the U.S. has put serious money behind solving this problem is because a handful of people in our government are committed to addressing it …and none more so than Kay Granger.” Roberts also said “the poaching of rhinos in South Africa has increased from a dozen rhinos killed in 2007 to over 1,200 last year – a 10,000 percent increase – all because of organized crime syndicates.” https://dfw.cbslocal.com/2015/04/07/north-texas-congresswoman-fights-terror-saves-friendly-beasts/
12.08.2006	December 8, 2006 Granger Introduces Resolutions Commending WWII "Monuments Men" WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) this week introduced H.Con.Res 499, a resolution honoring the service of World War II heroes named “Monuments Men” who helped retrieve famous works of art confiscated by the Nazis, and returning them to their rightful owners. “It’s important that we pay tribute to the Monuments Men for their significant contribution in retrieving some of the world’s most valued art treasures from the Nazis. Their efforts were significant and they deserved to be honored for it,” said Granger. The Monuments Men were nicknamed “Monuments Men” by American GI’s. They rescued tens of thousands of pieces of art and monuments from Hitler and the Nazis including some of the most famous works of Michelangelo, Rembrandt, Raphael, Vermeer, Picasso and DaVinci. Ms. Granger became interested in the Monuments Men story after meeting with Robert Edsel, author of Rescuing DaVinci, a book which tells the story of the Monuments Men. There are currently 13 living Monuments Men. One of the last 13 living Monuments Men, Harry Ettlinger, was in DC this week to help celebrate the resolution’s introduction. Granger will reintroduce the resolution in the 110th Congress. The resolution is not likely to have great opposition. Granger was just elected to serve in the 110th Congress as Republican Conference Vice-Chair, a leadership position. She serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations and Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Subcommittees and also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
03.14.2006	March 14, 2006 Republican Members of Congress call Sen. Feingold's Resolutions "Grand-Standing;" Another Sign Democrats Lack a Plan, National Security Agenda WASHINGTON, DC – This morning, Republican Members of Congress issued the following statements in response to Democrat Sen. Russ Feingold’s resolution to censure President Bush for ordering NSA Surveillance Wiretappings. Rep. Kay Granger (R-TX): “Spending time censuring the President for implementing a legitimate program that works to protect Americans from another terrorist attack is alarming. Despite having two planes crash through the World Trade Center, killing thousands on American soil, and with terrorist attacks continuing around the world, and in Iraq, many Democrats appear to underestimate the threat against America. We cannot afford to forget the terrorist’s hatred of America and of the universal values of freedom and individual rights. Republicans in Congress are the ones responsible for enacting legislation that has made this country safer. We will continue to protect this country as we move forward.” Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA): “The fact that the Senate Democratic Leadership has failed to call this stunt what it is – political grandstanding – is outrageous. Senator Feingold’s actions reaffirm that the Democratic Party is more interested in playing politics than coming up with their own ideas. “Do Democrats have another way to monitor surveillance on communications with al-Qaeda? Do Democrats have a better way to protect Americans from another terrorist attack?” “Of course they don’t, that’s why Democrats are always willing to heckle the starting quarterback from the cheap seats but they are never willing to get in the game themselves. “Not one Democrat has offered an amendment or a bill to repeal this important national security program. They like to harp about it at Democrat fund raisers and at red meat partisan clubs but when it comes to actually trying to stop it they don't have the guts. Once you get past their left wing rhetoric, even their own members know this is a vital program.” Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC): “Senator Feingold’s call to censure President Bush for implementing a legitimate and effective terrorist surveillance program demonstrates that Democrats continue to value their political ambitions more than our national security. From Nancy Pelosi’s fierce fight against the Patriot Act to Howard Dean’s defeatist remarks about our troop’s efforts to Senator Feingold’s careless call to censure our President, it’s obvious that Democrats still have no positive plan to protect American families,” said Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02). “As our enemies continue to issue threats daily against our country, Republicans will remain committed to pro-actively investigating, capturing, and detaining Al Qaeda operatives and any other terrorists who seek to attack our nation.” Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-CO): “I thought the Democrats’ national security agenda couldn’t get any whackier, but they’ve outdone themselves once again. Russ Feingold and the Democrat base want an immediate troop withdrawal in Iraq and an end to monitoring terrorists’ calls into the U.S. What’s next, creating a Department of Radical Islamic Understanding? Feingold should at least be consistent and censure the Democrats who for months were briefed on the terrorist surveillance program and didn’t raise an objection. FACT: A Majority of Americans Support President Bush's Terrorist Surveillance Program • An ABC News/Washington Post Poll, Found A Majority Of Americans Consider Wiretapping Telephone Calls And Emails Without Court Approval An Acceptable Way For The Federal Government To Investigate Terrorism. (ABC News/Washington Post Poll, 1,000 Adults Nationwide, Conducted March 2-5, 2006, Margin Of Error +/- 3%) • The Same Poll Found That 62% Of Americans Believe The FBI Should Retain Additional Authority In Areas Like Surveillance, Wiretaps And Obtaining Records In Terrorism Investigations. (ABC News/Washington Post Poll, 1,000 Adults Nationwide, Conducted March 2-5, 2006, Margin Of Error +/- 3%) • A CBS News Poll Found That A Majority Of Americans Approve Of The Use Of Wiretaps Without Court Warrants. (CBS News Poll, 1,018 Adults Nationwide, Conducted February 22-26, 2006, Margin Of Error +/- 3%) (Courtesy of the Republican National Committee)
12.11.2007	MOMUMENTS MEN RECOGNIZED BY HOUSE WASHINGTON, D.C.—The National Defense Authorization Act passed the House today by a vote of XX-XX. Included in the bill was language supported by Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) that recognizes a group of veterans known as the “Monuments Men.” The Monuments Men were a group of World War II soldiers from over 13 nations, most of whom were American, who were able to locate, preserve and return more than five million cultural items, including many of the world’s greatest works of art, to their rightful owners. “It’s important that we pay tribute to the Monuments Men for their significant contribution in retrieving some of the world’s most valued art treasures from the Nazis. Their efforts were significant and they deserved to be honored for it,” said Granger. Congresswoman Kay Granger introduced H.Con.Res. 48 to honor these men on January 31. During the Armed Services Committee markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, Congressman Robin Hayes offered the resolution as an amendment to the authorization bill. The amendment was approved by the Committee, and language honoring the Monuments Men was included the Defense Authorization Act that passed the House by a vote of 397 to 27 on May 17. Congresswoman Granger worked to have the language that was included in the House-passed bill included in the final conference report, and it was. The soldiers were nicknamed the “Monuments Men” by other American GI’s. They rescued tens of thousands of pieces of art and monuments from Hitler and the Nazis including some of the most famous works of Michelangelo, Rembrandt, Raphael, Vermeer, Picasso and Da Vinci. There are currently only 12 living Monuments Men in the United States. One of the last living men, Henry Ettlinger, was in Washington, D.C. last December to help celebrate the resolution’s introduction. Granger sits on the Appropriations Committee and serves on the Energy and Water Development, Homeland Security and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittees. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her sixth term in Congress.
11.16.2007	Granger: We need to Fund Our Troops Now WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today released the following statement in response to Department of Defense Secretary Robert Gates’ comments that if Congress does not pass a war supplemental quickly, he will have to begin laying off employees and shutting down U.S. military bases. The House passed a measure Wednesday that provided funding for the missions in Iraq and Afghanistan with language calling for the immediate withdrawal of our troops in Iraq and a ‘goal’ of all combat troops being withdrawn by December 15, 2008. The Senate voted down the same measure. “Secretary Gates’ comments should be a wake up call to those who think it’s of no consequence to play political games with funding for our mission and troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. On the contrary, it is clear that delaying funding will have immediate and severe consequences. “I urge my Democrat Colleagues to stop focusing on politics and start thinking of our troops on the ground.” ### Los Angeles Times November 16, 2007 Gates Warns Of Layoffs Without War Funding If Congress doesn't approve $196 billion for the U.S. military in Iraq and Afghanistan, he says, bases may partly shut down and civilians may lose jobs. Democrats point out he's said this before. By Julian E. Barnes and Noam N. Levey, Los Angeles Times Staff Writers WASHINGTON —Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Thursday that he will have to lay off 200,000 civilian employees and contractors, terminate military contracts and partially shut down U.S. military bases unless Congress acts quickly to approve additional funding for the Iraq war. Echoing similar warnings from past funding battles, Gates said the Army and Marine Corps will develop plans for sharp spending cuts unless Congress moves to provide $196 billion President Bush has requested. On Tuesday, Bush signed a separate $471-billion Defense appropriations bill. But that spending measure includes little of the money needed to keep the wars going in Iraq and Afghanistan. The House has offered the president $50 billion as a bridge fund for the wars, but it would require most combat troops to leave Iraq by December 2008. The White House has vowed to veto the bill if it passes the Senate in a vote planned for today. Gates said he has little ability to move money within the Defense budget to pay for war expenses, despite new authority contained in the Defense appropriations bill signed by Bush this week. Gates said the department was only authorized to move $3.7 billion, which would fund the wars for about a week. "There is a misperception that this department can continue funding our troops in the field for an indefinite period of time through accounting maneuvers, that we can shuffle money around the department," Gates said. "This is a serious misconception." But congressional Democrats reacted skeptically, recalling similar warnings from Gates earlier this year. Defense officials complained in February about drastic consequences if a funding bill was not passed then; the bleak scenarios did not come about, even though the bill was not passed until May. "We have determined that both peacetime and war operations can be sustained, with no impact to troop readiness, until at least March 2008," said Rep. John P. Murtha (D-Pa.), who heads the House Defense Appropriations subcommittee. At a Senate hearing Thursday, top Army leaders also tried to ratchet up pressure to pass the supplemental funding. Failing to approve the money, said Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the Army chief of staff, "sends the wrong message to soldiers." Army Secretary Pete Geren said furloughs of Army civilians would have to begin by February. "This will fall most heavily on . . . home-based troops and their families," Geren said. Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) said the Congress was "nickeling and diming" the military by not passing the supplemental funding. "Those troops are entitled to absolute support," Sessions said. Democratic Sen. Jim Webb of Virginia dismissed suggestions that his party was "reluctant to fund people on the battlefield." Some Democrats appeared ready for a major confrontation with the White House. Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-San Francisco) said House Democrats would refuse to send the president a funding bill free of conditions if Senate Republicans block the House measure. "We're not going to be taking it up anymore over here," she told reporters. In addition to voting on the House's partial funding measure, the Senate is also likely to vote on a Republican alternative to provide $70 billion without requiring a troop withdrawal. Even as partisan conflict over the Iraq war began to heat up again, Gates argued Thursday that the administration had moved to address Democratic demands for a drawdown, a timetable for shrinking the force, and a change in the mission. Gates said the main debate in Congress was over the pace of troop reductions and the change in the mission -- but on those points, Gates said, lawmakers should defer to military commanders. "It seems to me that there ought to be some deference to those who are running the war, the generals, in terms of . . . the pace at which this drawdown should take place," Gates said. Gates offered a positive assessment of the security situation in Iraq and suggested that withdrawing forces too quickly would erode gains of recent months. "However one feels about how we got to this point, the reality is, we have had some significant success due to the efforts of our men and women in uniform," Gates said. "We don't want to sacrifice that success."
10.29.2007	House Passes CJ’s Home Protection Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) applauded today’s passage of CJ’s Home Protection Act, a bill requiring manufactured and mobile homes to be equipped with weather radios. Granger was an original sponsor of the bill along with Reps. Brad Ellsworth (D-IN), Spencer Bachus (R-AL) and Dennis Moore (D-KS). “I’m thrilled CJ’s Home Protection Act has passed the House and am hopeful it will soon be signed into law,” said Congresswoman Granger. “The built-in technology this bill would provide would ensure people are getting the information they need before a severe local storm system hits. This will help save hundreds of lives and prevent needless, tragic deaths.” CJ’s Home Protection Act would change the Federal manufactured home construction and safety standards to require every manufactured home delivered for sale to be supplied with a weather radio. Weather radios provide immediate broadcasts of severe weather warnings and civil emergency messages, including tornado and flood warnings, AMBER alerts for child abductions, and chemical spill notifications. Prices range from $20-$80. The bill is named after CJ Martin, a two-year-old boy, whose life was taken by an F3 tornado in southwest Indiana in 2005. His mother, Kathryn, turned her grief into a state-wide advocacy campaign that resulted in an Indiana law requiring NOAA Weather Radios be installed in all new mobile and manufactured housing, which then prompted the federal initiative. Rep. Ellsworth introduced the bill and Granger signed on as an original sponsor. “CJ Martin is the reason we are here today. He is a reminder of the destruction that comes to families and communities when severe weather strikes without warning,” said Congressman Ellsworth. “Severe weather doesn’t distinguish between Republicans and Democrats. It doesn’t care whether you live in Indiana or Alabama or Kansas or California. This is public safety legislation the Senate should support, because if we prevent just one mother from losing her son, a $30 weather radio is not too much to ask.” Passage by the House is only the first step in the process. CJ’s bill will next go to the Senate for its consideration. Upon passage in the Senate, the bill must then be signed by President Bush before becoming law. Granger sits on the Appropriations Committee and serves on the Energy and Water Development, Homeland Security and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittees. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her sixth term in Congress.
10.15.2007	Granger Urges Democrats to Move Forward on Appropriations Work; Especially MilCon-VA bill WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, released the following statement today about the delay in passage of the 12 Appropriations bills, especially the MilCon-VA bill. “We are a month away from adjourning and Democrats have not passed any of the 12 Appropriations spending bills. Instead of getting the people’s work done, the Democratic leadership continue to focus on partisan politics instead of on important issues like getting funding to our veterans. By delaying passage of bills like the MilCon-VA Appropriations bill, Democrats are delaying $4.4 billion in new benefits to veterans along with $600 million in funding for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and traumatic brain injury care, and $480 million in funding for prosthetics research for wounded warriors. “Republicans are ready to work with the Democrats on getting the people’s work done. We have conferees ready to work on the MilCon-VA Approprations bills and are waiting for Democrats to appoint theirs. It’s time we start working together to get these bills passed so Americans aren’t the ones who are left suffering.”
10.10.2007	Granger: Armenian Genocide Resolution Poses Grave Risk to National Security Interests WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Co-chair of the Congressional Turkey Caucus and Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today issued the following statement following the House Committee on Foreign Affairs markup of H.Res.106, a resolution that would label the deaths of Armenians more than 90 years ago during the Ottoman Empire as “genocide.” “It is clear that hundreds of thousands if not millions of Armenian men, women and children died during and immediately after World War I. What is less clear is how or why these deaths occurred. “While I do not seek to minimize the historical significance of the atrocities and murders perpetrated against Armenians from 1915 to 1923 as described in H. Res. 106, rushing to label these events as genocide would have a severely negative effect on US-Turkish relations and put American national security interests at stake. “Turkey currently provides the U.S. military with access to Turkish airspace, military bases and the border crossing with Iraq, acting as a crucial linchpin in the transshipment of vital cargo and fuel resources to U.S. troops, coalition partners and Iraqi civilians. Turkish troops serve shoulder-to-shoulder with U.S. and other NATO allies in the Balkans and Turkey acts as a transit hub for non-OPEC oil and gas, remaining key to our efforts to help the Euro-Atlantic community bolster its energy security. “Passage of this resolution would be considered a major affront which may result in Turkey closing the Incirlik Air Base, restricting U.S. use of its airspace, cutting off supply shipments to U.S. troops in Iraq that pass through Turkey, excluding further procurement of U.S. defense equipment and withdrawing their application for membership in the EU. Turkey will also view U.S. passage as a ‘rejection by the West’ which could result in the radical nationalist factions gaining power in Turkey. “Given the importance of our relationship with Turkey, passing a resolution whose conclusion has not been proven is unconscionable. I stand with all eight living, former Secretaries of State and three former defense secretaries in firmly opposing this resolution. I will continue to fight for its defeat in the House.”
09.19.2007	Granger: We Need to Reauthorize SCHIP Now WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today issued the following statement following a press conference this morning with Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee Joe Barton (R-TX) and Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Nathan Deal (R-GA), announcing the Republican SCHIP extension proposal. “We shouldn't be playing partisan politics with children's health. I support SCHIP. It's got to be reauthorized now. It expires in 11 days and without reauthorization 1.4 million children will lose their health care.”
09.18.2007	Granger Addresses Iraq War Veterans; Gold and Blue Star Families WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) spoke to over 220 Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans from 43 states and over 350 Gold and Blue Star Families who traveled to Washington to show their support for our troops in Iraq and their mission. The event, organized by Vets for Freedom, was held at the Upper Senate park at 3 p.m. and was a bi-partisan event. “I thanked the veterans for their service and their steadfastness. They really are the best America has to offer,” said Granger. “It’s because of their sacrifice that we have the ability to experience the freedoms we do.” Also speaking at the event was Sen. John McCain (R-AZ), Sen. Joe Liberman (D-CT), Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX), Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA), House Minority Whip Roy Blunt (R-MO), Executive Director of Vets for Freedom Pete Hegseth and Families United President Merillee Carlson. Over a dozen other Members of Congress attended the event as well. Granger spoke with Gold and Blue Star Family Members who told her about the loved ones they have lost (Gold Star families are families who have lost a son or daughter in our nation’s wars and Blue Star families are those who currently have a son or daughter fighting on the battlefield) and reiterated their commitment to the mission in Iraq. One Gold Star family member thanked Granger for supporting the troops and the mission and said “[the soldiers] all want to go back, that’s what [the anti-war protestors] don’t get. Please do the right thing [and stay until we win in Iraq].” Granger, the Republican Conference Vice Chair, encouraged Members this week to come to the event to show their support for our nation’s veterans and their families. “This was a great opportunity to go over to the Senate Park and simply say ‘thank you’ -- thank you to the families and to the veterans for what they do and for their service,” said Granger. Vets for Freedom is a nonpartisan organization established by combat veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to educate the American public about the importance of achieving success in these conflicts. Granger sits on the Appropriations Committee and serves on the Energy and Water Development, Homeland Security and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittees. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her sixth term in Congress.
09.11.2007	Granger Statement on Sixth Anniversary of September 11 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today released the following statement on the Anniversary of September 11, 2001. “Today, we remember those who lost their lives in the devastating terrorist attacks carried out in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania on September 11, 2001. The memory of that horrific day is seared into our memories forever. “Unfortunately, the threat of terrorism still remains and is constantly evolving. Fueled by an ideology of fear and hatred, terrorists continue to plan attacks on America and other free societies around the world. “We have made significant progress in strengthening our homeland security since the attacks on 9-11 and have successfully dismantled countless terrorist cells both in this country and abroad, which has made the country safer today. However, we must remain vigilant in our efforts to seek out and defeat the enemy until the threat of terrorism is wiped out completely.”
09.10.2007	Granger Statement on Testimonies of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today released the following statement following the testimonies of General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker to Congress. “Our nation is fortunate to have heard today from two of our most forthright and authoritative military and diplomatic experts. The testimony by General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker at this critical time in our nation’s history comes with their best judgment, based on their long and distinguished careers. I value the facts and judgments that they presented and will use today’s testimony to give this issue the comprehensive and thoughtful review that it deserves. “Three things are abundantly clear to me after closely listening to their statements. “First, we are making significant military progress in Iraq. Sectarian violence, the use of improvised explosive devices and attacks on Coalition forces are all markedly down since the surge began just over six months ago. In fact, the level of attacks in Iraq overall are down by nearly 40 percent since the surge began in earnest just three months ago. We have begun to turn the tide in Iraq and we owe our men and women in uniform a debt of gratitude for this. The improved security situation has given General Petraeus the ability to recommend that 30,000 troops be withdrawn from Iraq within the next ten months. “Second, as other government reports have indicated, the Iraqi Security Forces need our continued help, but the progress that they are making is real and credible. Iraqi military and local police units are standing and fighting alongside American units every single day. With some help from American and British units, 95 of the 140 Iraqi Army battalions are now capable of taking the lead in securing their areas of operation and this capacity is expanding each day. While some police elements in the Ministry of Interior have clearly demonstrated that they are a part of the problem and not the solution, it is clear that Iraqis are increasingly taking charge of their own destiny. I am hopeful that this irrefutable fact will sew the seeds of a successful and viable government in Iraq. “Third, the consequences of failure in Iraq remain both profound and grave. Congress has received seven reports on Iraq over the past nine months and all of them say the same thing: a premature and abrupt departure from Iraq would be disastrous not only for Iraq but for the free world. Today, both General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker have clearly and powerfully reinforced this view. “There is absolutely no question that al Qaida and other terrorist organizations with global reach chose to make Iraq the central front in their war against us and that they would turn Iraq into a hotbed of terrorist training and a launching pad for attacks against the West. Additionally, Iran and Syria would be the biggest winners should the United States leave Iraq before it is stable and capable of defending its own borders. Iranian President Mahmud Ahmadinejad has openly stated his nation’s desire to fill any vacuum in Iraq that would be presented by an American withdrawal. “Let there be no mistake. There are no quick and easy fixes to the difficult situation that we face in Iraq and much work remains to be done there. A lack of political reconciliation at the national level, a pressing humanitarian crisis and continued economic stagnation are all problems that need to be addressed swiftly. But advocating defeat and retreating from the face of terrorism in Iraq would bring irrefutable danger. “I look forward to working with leadership from both parties and the Administration in the coming weeks. Together, I am confident that we can find the national resolve to prevail in Iraq. No other option should be acceptable to the American people.”
09.10.2007	Granger Statement on MoveOn.org Ad; Petraeus Briefing WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today issued the following statement in response to the ad MoveOn.org ran in this morning’s New York Times. “The petty attacks leveled against a decorated and honorable general like General Petraues by MoveOn.org’ ad in this morning’s New York Times illustrates why groups like MoveOn.org have no place in a serious, public debate. “It should be noted that General Petraeus has served our nation for over 30 years, has a Ph.D. and was confirmed unanimously by the Democratic-led Senate. He is not a partisan and everyone should want to hear what he and Ambassador Crocker have to say today. “We need to keep in mind what the point of today’s briefing is. Members of Congress and the American public need to know how much or how little progress General Petraeus believes we are making in Iraq, what roadblocks he thinks we are facing, and which of these roadblocks can be removed and which can’t. Ultimately, we need to know what his prognosis for stability in Iraq is. “I urge all Members, especially my Democratic Colleagues, to keep an open mind today when listening to General Petraeus’ report. Unless we can raise the tone of this debate to a more serious one, we are going to put ourselves further away from being able to work together to find solutions to many of the problems we face in the broader Middle East. The consequences of failure are just too grave for politics to supersede what is best for our national interest at this critical point in history.”
09.05.2007	Granger Statement on passing of former Rep. Jennifer Dunn WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today released the following statement after learning of the death of her friend and former colleague, Jennifer Dunn. “I was stunned and saddened to hear that my friend and former colleague Jennifer Dunn passed away last night. My condolences and prayers go out to her family at this time. “As the first freshman woman to be elected to the Republican House leadership, Jennifer paved the way for other women in the party and encouraged women across the country to get involved in politics and aspire to leadership positions. She was a vocal advocate for the party and her vision and determination made her the strong leader she was. “Her leadership and presence will be missed.”
09.05.2007	Granger Statement on Passing of Rep. Paul Gillmor WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) released the following statement following the news of Congressman Paul Gillmor’s (OH-05) sudden passing. “I was shocked and saddened by the news of Congressman Paul Gillmor’s death. His sudden passing is a tragedy and my thoughts and prayers go out to his family during this difficult time. “Paul was a respected Member of Congress and made a significant contribution serving in the Air Force and in the House of Representatives for 20 years. “I know that I am not alone in mourning the loss of my colleague on this somber day. The state of Ohio and the people of the 5th district have lost a strong leader and decent man. His contributions and presence will be missed.”
08.02.2007	August 2, 2007 Granger Statement on Troop Readiness Bill WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today released the following statement after voting against H.R. 3159, the Tauscher Troop Readiness Bill. “All Americans are eternally grateful for the tremendous and noble sacrifices that our military service members and their families have made and continue to make as we fight the Global War on Terror. However, today the Democrats in Congress introduced a bill that attempts to politicize this issue rather than provide the serious and sensible consideration that this issue demands. “The Democrat’s bill attempts to legislate mandatory rest periods for our troops deploying to Iraq, but fails in two critical areas. First, it ties the hands of our military commanders by blocking their ability to capitalize on the successes we’ve already made. Second, it completely ignores the brave and noble efforts of our troops who are engaged in a tough fight in Afghanistan. “Our nation has a long standing and effective tradition of allowing our commanders in the field to make the decisions necessary to fight and win against our enemies. Applying arbitrary restrictions on military decisions from the halls of Congress hasn’t made sense since 1776 and it doesn’t make sense now. “We are seeing promising gains in Iraq. Now is not the time for increased rhetoric, but for true bi-partisan problem-solving. It’s time to end the rhetoric on this issue and work together toward a strategy to protect our country from the threat of terrorists.”
07.31.2007	July 31, 2007 Granger Statement on Clyburn Comments WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today made the following statement in response to House Majority Whip James Clyburn’s comments in a Washington Post interview yesterday that if General Petraues gave a positive progress report on Iraq to Congress in September, “it would be a problem for us.” “I am disappointed by the recent comments made by Congressman Clyburn. I believe our troops deserve better than to hear comments like this coming out of Washington. “We must all be invested in success in Iraq and I look forward to hearing from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker in September. Our current mission in Iraq is a difficult one, but it is one I believe we can and must win. The consequences of failure are far too grave for our nation to not do everything in our power to achieve victory. “The men and women who wear our nation’s uniform have performed brilliantly, and we are seeing positive military results on the ground as a result of the surge. However, our diplomatic, political and economic efforts have fallen far short of its goals. Time is of the essence. We must begin a diplomatic and political offensive in order to secure the gains we are making on the military front. “I believe that the will of the American people is strong, and despite our political differences, we all want to succeed in every mission we send our men and women in uniform to accomplish. I urge my colleagues to set aside the political differences that divide us. Now is the time to come together and show the world and our enemies that our determination is strong and we are united.”
07.31.2007	July 31, 2007 Granger Talks With Bush about Iraq WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today met with President Bush and other female Republican House Members to discuss the situation in Iraq. Granger released the following statement after the meeting. “In our meeting today with President Bush, my female House colleagues and I asked questions about the war in Iraq and about our current strategy. The President listened intently to Members and also candidly expressed some of his concerns and the progress of the war. “The President talked about the report General Petraeus is going to give to Congress in September and told us that Petraeus will be giving an honest assessment of the war in Iraq and the surge. He said he talks to Petraeus regularly and has good confidence in him. “He hopes Members continue giving the surge time to work and stressed that it’s only been a matter of weeks since it has been fully in place. “He told Members he was considering all options but as Commander in Chief, he would make decisions based on recommendations of those on the ground. The President did acknowledge early reports showing signs the surge is working. “Before leaving, I told the President about meeting with the family of a fallen soldier. They asked me to thank the President for the way in which their son was brought home. The President was moved by that.”
07.18.2007	July 18, 2007 North Texas to Receive Increase in Homeland Security Funding Caitlin Carroll/Steve Dutton (202) 225-5071 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) made the following statement regarding the announcement of an increase of 51.5 percent in homeland security funding for North Texas. “As a member of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations Subcommittee, I understand the critical need to provide our first responders with all the resources they require. The more prepared our local communities are to respond to security threats, the safer our country will be in the long run. “Protecting our communities against acts of terrorism is our number one priority and I am pleased that North Texas will receive an increase in funding to adequately fund our homeland security programs. “North Texas is one of the fastest growing areas in the country and it can’t be overstated how important this funding is. With so much critical infrastructure and transportation systems in North Texas, the additional funds will provide the critical assistance our communities need.” The funding will be issued through the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI), which is under the Department of Homeland Security. The Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington area will receive $20.95 million for 2007, which is a 51.5 percent increase from 2006 funding levels when it received $13.83 million. The grants are awarded directly to cities from DHS for preparedness initiatives. Congresswoman Granger serves on the Subcommittee on Appropriations for Homeland Security, which provides the overall funding levels for the UASI grant program. ###
07.16.2007	July 16, 2007 Granger Announces the Planned Opening of a Commissary Store at the Joint Reserve Base Caitlin Carroll/Steve Dutton (202) 225-5071 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) announced that the Defense Department intends to open a new Commissary store at Naval Air Station – Joint Reserve Base, Fort Worth today. The new store will provide grocery items to the thousands of active, reserve, guard and retired military personnel and their families who call the Fort Worth area home. The store will be operated by the Defense Commissary Agency and is expected to open sometime before December of this year. “I’m proud to be able to make this important announcement, particularly at a time when our servicemen, women and their families are sacrificing so much for our freedoms here at home. Commissaries are an important military entitlement and our local servicemen and women and their families will benefit immensely from this new store opening,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. “As a Member of Congress, I am always proud to stand by our troops and applaud their heroic efforts. They give so much to our nation and we owe them our steadfast support.”
07.17.2007	July 17, 2007 Granger Statement on National Intelligence Estimate Caitlin Carroll (202) 225-5071 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, issued the following statement after the release of the National Intelligence Estimate today. “The NIE report released today illustrates the serious and continued threat we’re facing against terrorist extremists. The report makes clear that our enemy has not given up its fight and has only recommitted to pursuing attacks against our country. “The report is a reminder that we have more to do to stem the tide of extremist activity as the threat continues to evolve. The bottom line is that we cannot retreat in the face of this threat. The consequences are far too grave. “I am committed to ensuring we do everything possible to defeat the grave threat posed by Al Qaeda and extremists who want to do us harm. My number one priority is to make sure this country and the American people are safe.” ###
06.27.2007	June 27, 2007 Granger: House Republicans Stand Behind Pledge to Secure Our Borders WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) issued the following statement after voting with the House Republican Conference to adopt a resolution expressing its opposition to the Senate immigration bill: “Americans across this country have sent a resounding message that securing our borders is the number one priority. Yesterday, House Republicans stood united behind the message of the American people and recommitted their effort to strictly enforce the laws we have on the books to make the border more secure. "As a representative from the border state of Texas, I know first hand that securing our borders isn't just about stopping the flow of illegal immigration. It's about the much broader national security threat from international terrorists who wish to harm American families. "The men and women who work to secure our borders and protect our country deserve all the support and resources necessary to fulfill their jobs. House Republicans are committed to the success of our border security officers and the security they provide to this country."
06.21.2007	June 21, 2007 Granger Introduces CJ's Home Protection Act Caitlin Carroll/ Steve Dutton (202) 225-5071 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today introduced legislation along with Reps. Brad Ellsworth (D-IN), Dennis Moore (D-KS), and Spencer Bachus (R-AL) to require manufactured mobile homes to be equipped with weather radios to warn residents of severe weather. “As we have recently experienced here in Tarrant County and the surrounding areas severe weather can strike quickly and with little notice,” said Granger. “Advance notice is a critical lifeline to protecting our communities.” CJ’s Home Protection Act would change the Federal manufactured home construction and safety standards to require every manufactured home delivered for sale to be supplied with a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) weather radio. Weather radios provide immediate broadcasts of severe weather warnings and civil emergency messages, including tornado and flood warnings, AMBER alerts for child abductions, and chemical spill notification. Prices vary from $20-$80. “The built-in technology this bill provides would ensure that people are getting the information they need before a severe storm hits,” said Granger. “This will help save hundreds of lives and prevent needless, tragic deaths.” The bill is named after CJ Martin, a two-year-old boy, whose life was taken by F3 tornado in southwest Indiana in 2005. His mother, Kathryn, turned her grief into a state-wide advocacy campaign that resulted in an Indiana law requiring NOAA Weather Radios to be installed in all new mobile and manufactured housing, which then prompted the federal initiative. ###
06.14.2007	June 14, 2007 Granger Honors WWII Monuments Men Steve Dutton (202) 225-5071 Washington, D.C. – This morning, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) paid tribute to a heroic group of World War II veterans at a ceremony on Capitol Hill. “The Monuments Men,” as they are known, were tasked with recovering priceless pieces of art from the Nazis. Congresswoman Kay Granger introduced H.Con.Res. 48 to honor these men. During the Armed Services Committee markup last month of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, Congressman Robin Hayes offered the resolution as an amendment to the authorization bill. The amendment was approved by the Committee, and the resolution was included the Defense Authorization Act that passed the House by a vote of 397 to 27 on May 17. Today the Senate is expected to pass the resolution introduced by Senator James Inhofe (R-OK). Granger hosted a press conference after the ceremony to highlight the achievements of these heroes. Below are some of her comments. “This is a remarkable story of heroic and selfless acts that has saved timeless pieces of art from being lost. “I find it fitting to hold the ceremony today as we remember the sacrifices that were made 63 years ago today on D-Day. “At a time when we find ourselves at war once again I think it’s important to remember the past and those that have served this country in so many different ways. “This is an amazing story that deserves to be told and I am glad to be one of the many voices praising the job well done by these men.” ###
04.09.2007	April 9, 2007 Joint Academy Day Five members of Congress who represent Tarrant County will hold a joint “Academy Day” on Saturday, April 21, 2007 to give students who are interested in attending one of the five U.S. Military Service Academies an opportunity to learn about the schools and how to apply. The offices of Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn, along with Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Congressmen Joe Barton (TX-6) and Michael Burgess (TX-26), will host the Academy Day at the Tarrant County College’s Northeast campus located at 828 Harwood Drive in Hurst. Academy Day will take place from 8:00am until 12:00 noon in the Fine Arts Theatre, room NFAB1205. Academy Day is open to all middle and high school students, particularly juniors, and their parents, who are considering applying to one of the service academies. Representatives from each of the military service academies will make a presentation on their respective institutions. The institutions that will have representatives are: the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. Congressional district representatives will outline the nomination process, have nomination packets for interested applicants and will be available to answer questions. Academy representatives will also be available to answer questions. If you need additional information, please contact Marcia Etie or Sally Burt at 817-338-0909. Joint Academy Day Flyer
03.15.2007	March 15, 2007 Granger Statement on Khalid Sheikh Muhammad Testimony WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today released the following statement in response to the released testimony of terrorist mastermind Khalid Sheikh Muhammad. “Khalid Sheikh Muhammad’s testimony and admitted involvement in over 30 terrorist plots and attacks worldwide over the past two decades unflinchingly illustrates the terrorist mindset our country is faced with. Terrorists have a complete disregard for human life and, by Sheikh Muhammad’s own testimony, will continue to plan and attempt to carry out attacks against American civilians both in this country and abroad. “We must allow our troops and the Iraqi army the time to squelch the terrorist insurgency in Iraq and Afghanistan and give the new plan time to work. Al Qaeda’s pervasive presence in Iraq and worldwide can only be diminished if we allow our troops the time to fight and defeat the threat. “The Democrats’ supplemental would cut short our mission in Iraq and sets our troops, the U.S., its allies, and Iraq up for failure. It moves to micromanage the war and would put our troops in harm’s way. “We must never take lightly the threat we are facing. They will continue their fight, even if we quit.”
02.15.2007	February 15, 2007 If Democrats Cut off Funding for Iraq Mission; They Bear Responsibility for Results to Troops, Iraq, Middle East WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today released the following statement in response to Congressman Jack Murtha’s (D-PA), Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, plan to cut funding for the mission in Iraq. “As a former Member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and as someone who fully supports funding our mission in Iraq when we have troops in harm’s way, I think Mr. Murtha’s plan to set conditions on how the military can conduct the war will put our service men and women’s lives at risk. “The American people demanded we change course in Iraq in order to turn the situation around. That doesn’t mean cutting off funding for our troops and undermining the mission, which would spiral the Middle East into chaos. “If Democrats support this proposal, they will be actively undermining our efforts to turn the situation around in Iraq. They will also bear responsibility for the catastrophic results that occur in Iraq, to our troops and to the region.”
02.14.2007	February 14, 2007 Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) gave the following remarks on Iraq and the War on Terror on the House floor this morning. To view her address, you can click on the video links below. Caitlin Carroll Press Secretary (202) 225-5071 CSPAN: Rep. Kay Granger Click here for video REP. KAY GRANGER: Mr. Speaker, Sunday afternoon, I drove about 20 miles to the home of Mr. and Mrs. Paul Balint in willow Park, Texas. I had the honor of giving them the medal of commemorating their son, Paulie. The captains -- the parents of captain Balint talked about the pride of their son and his lifetime desire to serve in the military. They have never waffled in their belief that the war in Iraq is our nation's commitment. They experienced a loss no one ever wants to share while he was fighting to preserve our freedom and our way of life. As I wish them well and turned to leave, they asked me to bring a message back to Washington. They said to tell you to stay firm because we need to finish the job in Iraq. So I’m speaking today in memory of Paulie -- Paulie and his mother and father and those still fighting for us and listening to what we have to I will not speak by calling say into question anyone's patriotism or motives. All of us, republicans and democrats alike, recognize that much is at stake in Iraq and undoubtedly we all feel passionately about doing our duty to move forward and address what I consider to be the issue of our lives. The worldwide war against terrorists and a battleground of that war which is Iraq. This responsibility in this war has within discussed during this debate and I believe it's an important issue when addressing Iraq and addressing this resolution. Certainly in the change of direction the president has presented, the Iraqis have a clear responsibility to meet the goals of securing their own future. Likewise congress has a clear responsibility to produce meaningful legislation to provide effective oversight of our government's actions. Especially during time of war. Put another way our citizens hold their elected representatives accountable to craft legislation that results in meaningful and positive change. That is precisely what is so disappointingly unacceptable about this nonbinding bill which fails to do anything, which holds no one accountable, and does not move our country forward on this critical issue. Frankly those many who criticized the administration for staying the course too long are now presenting us with a bill that is a stay the course piece of legislation that both advocates failure and a position of status quo. More specifically the bill ignores two of the most important parts of our nation's role in Iraq, the consequences of failure and the principle support that we should provide our troops during times of war. Let's say we do redeploy, which means quit. Or let's say the congress takes the next step that's being talked about and that's stopping the funding in Iraq. Let's look clearly at the consequences of a failed state in Iraq, not only for America but for the world. Let there be no mistake, Iraq is but one front in a long war against a fanatical enemy who does not value human life and who seeks to destroy those who do. Failing to secure Iraq will result in massive instability in the Middle East which will undoubtedly spill over to the rest of the world. Consider the fractured nature of the Middle East and the nature of the dangerous threat we face. Iranian television stations routinely broadcast commercials that are designed to recruit would-be terrorists. In one ad specifically for children, cartoon characters entice them to be suicide bombers. Imagine a society that views indoctrinating 10-year-olds in the joys of martyrdom as a positive action. Yet that's precisely the hate filled enemy we face in this war where Iraq is just a battle. A failed Iraq would provide international terrorists fertile ground to sow the seeds of just that kind of hatred and thought. These terrorist groups are cold and brutal and fully dedicated to our destruction. In a failed Iraq terror organizations would employ the populace who is distrustful of person democracies, who turned their backs on them. These people would be ripe for terrorist recruitment. Just yesterday many of us met with the ambassadors of jordan and equipped who warned us of the consequences should we take the step steps -- next steps that have been hinted at during this debate and meetings held in congressional offices. America can't afford to repeat the mistakes of the past by withdrawing from a direct confrontation with radical terrorists. Should we retreat, the enemy will continue to intensify their attacks against America just as they did following the 1983 bombings of the marine barracks in Beirut, the first world trade center bombing in 1993, the 1996 attack on the khobar towers in Saudi Arabia, the U.S. Embassy bombings in Africa in 1997, and the brazen attack against the U.S.S. Cole in 2000. Click here for video Many of the speakers of this resolution have cited the widely accepted Iraq study group report which showed the consequences the world would face should we fail in Iraq. What they choose to ignore is that the bipartisan authors of this report stimulated that they would agree with a short-term surge of American forces to bolster security and train Iraqi forces, which is precisely what our new strategy does. Two weeks ago the national intelligence estimate on Iraq was published and it largely concurred with the findings of the study group of the results that failure in Iraq would bring. Retreat from Iraq would result in pervasive instability in the Middle East, encourage rogue regimes and give terrorists a secure base in which to launch attacks against free nations everywhere. No one disagrees that the situation in Iraq has become more dangerous. But let me be perfectly clear. The consequences of failure in this fight would be catastrophic. Not only for America but for the entire world. While this war is certainly a test of our resolve, America’s faced tough decisions during critical war years in the past. In 1862 debate over the civil war threatened the success of campaigns that our troops were engaged in. During the opening days of World War II while the troops were engaged in the fight for their lives, the pacific, congress bickered over strategies of isolationism based in fear. Now in 2007 we find ourselves in a fight of our generation. With all my heart I believe we stand at a crucial crossroad where the decision we make will affect not just us but our children and their children and generations to come. Our enemies have demonstrated that they are willing to kill us, even if they have to die themselves. Thankfully our service men and women are willing to bravely defend our freedom as we in congress go through the semantics of debating a nonbinding resolution. For this reason and all the other reasons I have outlined today I will not support a resolution that sends anything less than a clear message of support for our troops who are deployed in harm's way. As senator Joe Lieberman stated last week in the Senate, this bill is a resolution of irresolution. If you believe the president's new strategy is unsound, then offer a better solution to win. If that's where your convictions lie, then have the courage to act decisively and be ready to accept the consequences of your convictions. Now, that would be a resolution. The nonbinding resolution before us is at best confusing, at worst immoral. It pledges to support the troops in the field but washes its hands of what they are doing. We can't have it both ways. And we can't say that our military men and women have our full support while disapproving of their mission on the eve of their battle. The bill does not resolve to do anything. It doesn't offer a solution. It only offers political expedient top cover. It would be nice to play the game of nonbinding actions, but our soldiers and marines in Iraq don't have that option. And neither should we. In fact, the troops in Iraq if they cared to watch what we were doing in congress this week they would be outraged. Fortunately for us they have more important things to do and they live in a world where bullets are real and words alone carry little meaning. I'll close by asking all of you to picture yourself as an 18-year-old or 19-year-old marine or soldier preparing for eminent battle in Baghdad. This very moment you would be fueling your humvee, loading your ammunition, checking your gear and equipment, taking time out to pray a private, quiet prayer. If you're lucky you might be able to call family and friends to tell them how much you love them. All the while the back ever your hair is standing up and the back of your neck is itching because the support you feel that's necessary from your government is lacking. As you prepare for battle, the best of your elective representatives back home can do is debate a nonbinding resolution that has no real significance except to call in question the nation are you about to embark on. Quit? Unthinkable. Stop the funding while they are fighting, immoral. Stay the course and do nothing, outrageous. What the nation and our troops deserve is our best thinking and our best support. Thank you.
01.18.2007	January 18, 2007 Granger Starts Anti-Terror Caucus WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, recently formed the Anti-Terror Caucus, along with Reps. Sue Myrick (R-NC), Bud Cramer (D-GA), and Ben Chandler (D-KY) to educate Members about the threat of terrorism at home and abroad. The first Caucus meeting was held last week, and the second meeting was held this morning. "This is a bipartisan effort to educate Members of Congress about the very real, very grave threat we're facing from terrorism," said Granger. Granger and the other co-chairs will be holding monthly caucus meetings at which leading terrorism and counter-terrorism experts will brief Members on the current status of terrorist threats to the nation and communicate details of the evolving threats worldwide. Much of the meetings' content will have a direct correlation to on-going terrorist activity in Iraq and Afghanistan. Caucus meetings also will help keep Members abreast of the ideology motivating the terrorists and tactics being used by the terrorists in order to allow Congress to better respond to terrorist threats. "The caucus meetings will provide Members with the most current and reliable information on terrorism and help Members connect the dots as to why attacks are happening and what we can do to better prevent them," Granger explained. At the second caucus meeting held today, Mary Habeck, a professor of Strategic Studies at Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies and a terrorism expert, discussed the issues surrounding jihadism and extremist organizations in the Middle East. She discussed some of the root causes of jihadism and also noted that eighty percent of Muslims are moderates who value peace. Currently there are 55 Democrat and Republican members. By better understanding the ideology, strategy and tactics of the terrorists, Members of Congress will be able to remain one step ahead of the enemy. The Anti-Terror Caucus will be an important tool in preserving a safe and secure America.
01.24.2007	January 24, 2007 Granger: Republican Economic Policies Keep Working to Reduce the Deficit WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today issued the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its January forecast. "The CBO's report indicates that the economic policies Republicans put into place are going to lead to a $76 billion dollar deficit reduction for this year. The report also shows that the economy is strong and continuing to create jobs. What more proof does anyone need to believe that raising taxes would hurt this economy? "Indeed, this latest CBO report only further proves what we've known for over two years now - that the tax cuts implemented by Republicans helped bring the country out of a recession, strengthen small businesses and create jobs. In fact, these policies helped lead to the creation over 7.2 million new jobs. "I can tell you that there are a majority of people from my district, and I know Americans across the country, do not want to have their taxes raised. Let's keep these economic policies in place.
01.18.2007	January 18, 2007 Granger Statement on Democrats' Energy Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today released the following statement in response to the passage of the Energy Bill (H.R. 6). "The Energy Bill passed today will do nothing to decrease our dependence on foreign oil or encourage domestic investment in alternative energy sources. In fact, it will actually end up increasing our home heating and gas prices and threaten manufacturing jobs because companies will take their business overseas. "Only by advancing our own alternative fuel sources and developing domestic production will we be able to wean ourselves off foreign sources of oil. This was a missed opportunity to address our real energy independence needs."
01.17.2007	January 17, 2007 Granger Statement Supporting Johnson's Bill to Oppose Cutting Funding for Troops WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today issued the following statement in support of Rep. Sam Johnson's (R-TX) bill that would prohibit Congress from cutting off funding for troops currently on the battlefield. "I support this bill and urge my colleagues to support it as well. This bill ensures that Congress will not cut off funding for our troops while they remain on the battlefield, including troops currently being sent to fight in Iraq. "While there have been many thoughtful proposals for a way forward in Iraq, cutting off troop funding is not a responsible one. If my Democrat Colleagues disagree with the options that have been proposed, they have a duty to offer a serious and detailed proposal for victory. The consequences are too significant to do otherwise."
01.10.2007	January 10, 2007 Granger Supports a Minimum Wage Increase that Protects American Workers, Jobs and Businesses WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today criticized Democrats for voting against Republican efforts to protect workers and business owners alike when increasing the minimum wage. "I support an increase to the minimum wage but only with protections for small businesses that will help ensure that workers do not lose their jobs. "Businesses do not want to be placed in the position of having to fire good workers because the government suddenly mandates they pay their workers an increased wage and they can't afford it. And unfortunately, that's exactly what will happen if we raise the minimum wage without protections for small businesses. As a small business owner for over 20 years, I can tell you that without putting these checks and balances in place, you are going to end up hurting the worker you're trying to help. "Any increase to the minimum wage needs to be balanced with tax and regulatory relief to protect the jobs of American workers who rely on the minimum wage. An increase to the minimum wage will result in much needed raises for about nine percent of the total workforce. But without the small business protections in place supported by Republicans, most economists agree that the increase to the minimum wage will increase unemployment. "Senate Democrats have agreed to include these protections in their minimum wage bill to move it forward. I urge my Democrat Colleagues in the House, many of whom have voted before for worker protections, to consider including language into the final bill sent to the President that will help our workers instead of hurt them."
01.10.2007	January 10, 2007 Granger Statement on President's New Iraq Plan; Calls for Bi-Partisan, Bi-weekly Briefings on Progress of New Plan WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, tonight released the following statement in response to President Bush's address to the nation in which he outlined his new Iraq strategy. "While there is disagreement on many of the aspects of the war in Iraq, most Members of Congress and our constituents agree that the Iraqis must take a much stronger position in establishing security and stopping the violence. The President has responded both to the seriousness of the situation and to the call for increased participation by the Iraqis tonight. Therefore I will support the increased troops as backup to the Iraqi plan for security in the Baghdad region with the benchmarks he has laid out. "This increase in troops must be in response to the verified Iraqi commitments outlined by the President. We cannot continue this war without the commitments the President has required of Prime Minister Maliki and his government. "In order to verify these benchmarks and our progress, I call on the Administration to brief Congress on the progress in Iraq starting as soon as 10 days after the initial phase begins and continuing on a bi-weekly schedule throughout the progress on this new plan. These meetings should be bi-partisan and classified and include senior leaders from the Department of Defense, Department of State, National Security Council and the intelligence communities." "I also agree that we need to increase the size of our military to continue to fight the war on terror and meet future threats."
01.05.2007	January 5, 2007 Granger Statement on Beginning of the 110th Congress WASHINGTON, D.C.-Republican Conference Vice Chair Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) issued the following statement today regarding the beginning of the 110th Congress. "Tomorrow will be an historic day as Congress witnesses the election of its first female Speaker. I extend my congratulations to Democrat-elect Speaker Nancy Pelosi on this momentous achievement. "I stand ready with my Republican Colleagues to work with Democrats in a bi-partisan manner to get the job done for the American people. This is what the American people asked for on November 7 and this is what Democrats promised would happen if elected. "Thus far I have been disappointed by press reports of the Democrat-elect leadership's about-face on the promises they made. They will not be allowing for a full and open debate on legislation being introduced in the first 100 hours. This is not bi-partisanship nor is it what they promised they would do. However, it is not too late to reverse course and be inclusive. I encourage the Democrat leadership to do so, both to stay true to their ardent promises and also because that is what the American people asked us to do. "Additionally, I applaud President Bush's call to balance the budget and reduce the deficit in five years. I believe we can do this if we work together. The economic policies put into place by the Republican-led House over the past five years have resulted in the current economic success. I hope that Congress continues to support this growth."
01.05.2007	January 5, 2007 Granger Says Democrats Missed an Opportunity to Help Small Business Owners and Working Families WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, today released the following statement in response to Democrats' voting to exclude Small Business Health Plans from their legislative agenda. "As a small business owner for over 20 years, I can tell you how important having an affordable group health care plan is to a business trying to succeed. Sometimes it can make or break a business. Right now there are more than 46.5 million people in the United States without health insurance. This legislation would have provided affordable health coverage for millions of working families while helping businesses reduce the cost of health benefits by as much as 15 to 30 percent. "This was a missed opportunity for Democrats to help small business owners and working families. It's also disappointing that the 33 Democrats who supported these reforms in the past changed their position in the name of partisan politics. Small business owners and families end up suffering as a result."
Granger Introduces Resolutions Commending WWII	
12.06.2006	December 6, 2006 Granger Statement on Iraq Study Group Report WASHINGTON, D.C.-Newly-elected Conference Vice Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today released the following statement in response to the released Iraq Study Group report. "I appreciate the hard work of the esteemed panel that put this report together. I think we need to carefully and seriously consider all of the ideas proposed while keeping in mind the goal of helping Iraq become a stable country able to provide for its own security. I look forward to discussing the report with my colleagues, along with the reports being drafted by the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the National Security Council. We need to consider the various options going forward during this process to reach the best possible solution for Iraq and for our nation." Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
11.17.2006	November 17, 2006 Rep. Granger Wins Conference Vice Chair Position; Only Woman in Republican House Minority Leadership WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) was elected this morning to the Conference Vice Chair position by a 124 to 63 majority of her House Republican Colleagues. Granger is the only woman on the new leadership team. "I am honored and deeply humbled by the overwhelming support of my colleagues. I'm ready to get to work for the Conference to help us regain our majority," said Granger. Rep. Eric Cantor (VA-07) gave Granger's nominating speech and Reps. Mike Rogers (MI-08) and Todd Tiahrt (KS-04) gave her seconding speeches. In an address to her colleagues yesterday, Granger said that she was running for leadership with one goal in mind: "getting our majority back." She told her colleagues that as a mother, business owner, former teacher and mayor, her wide-ranging background would serve as an asset to the Conference. Granger, who currently sits on the Deputy Whip team and was NRCC Finance Chair for the 2006 election cycle, noted that she's also been a strong spokeswoman for the Party. She's appeared as a frequent guest on national television and radio shows to discuss a number of important issues, including National Security, Iraq and the War on Terror. As part of her bid for Conference Vice Chair, Granger proposed setting up a rapid response system by which to get Members important or breaking information within minutes or hours. Granger has experience running a rapid response effort as she chaired the War on Terror team, a rapid response team, during the 109th Congress. Granger wrote in a letter to her colleagues last week that "Ten years ago I arrived in Washington determined to put principle over politics. I ran on a platform that promised to 'attack problems, not people.' I came to Washington devoted to changing the status quo and challenging America to be an even greater nation. ...Yet [last] Tuesday's vote makes it clear that many people see us not as part of the solution but as part of the problem. We must change that. Before we can reclaim the majority, we must reclaim our party and rededicate ourselves to the timeless principles that will keep America strong and build a brighter future." "I think most of us understand that we didn't get the job done for the American people the way we needed to, and in response, the American people sent us a message," said Granger, who thinks that Members have since gotten the message and embraced the changes that need to be made. "I think it's safe to say: we got the message. Republicans are ready to move forward and return to the principles that originally put us in the majority. I'm excited to be a part of the team that will lead us there." Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations and Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Subcommittees. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
11.08.2006	November 8, 2006 Granger Announces Bid For Vice Conference Chair Post WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) today announced her candidacy for Vice Conference Chair position and is currently seeking the support of her colleagues. "I am pleased to announce that I am running for the Vice Conference Chair position and am asking for my colleagues' support," said Granger. Granger, who is now serving her fifth term in Congress, is a former mayor, teacher and business owner who also possesses a strong background in defense and national security issues. Granger believes her wide-ranging experience will serve as an asset to the Conference and in her potential role as Vice Conference Chair. "I think it would benefit the Conference to have someone in this position who brings with them a diverse background from which to credibly speak while representing the Conference well in the process," said Granger. Granger is a frequent guest on Fox News, MSNBC, CNN, and National Radio Shows, and has given interviews on an array of subjects including national security, immigration, border security, the economy, women's issues, values and ethics. Granger has believed for some time that the Conference would benefit from a rapid response system by which to get Members information quickly. Granger has had experience doing this already in her role as Chair of the War on Terror Team. If elected, Granger envisions transforming the Vice Conference Chair position into a rapid response center that will provide Members with the information they need within minutes or hours instead of weeks. "I am running to serve the Conference and play my part in helping us return to a strong majority. To do this, I think we need to set up a system by which to better communicate our message," added Granger. Granger is the first Republican to hold her seat, a seat previously held by Speaker Jim Wright. Granger won reelection by 67 percent of the vote in 2006. In 2004 she won reelection by 72 percent of the vote, and in 2002, she won by 92 percent. Bush carried the 12th district in 2004 by 67 percent and in 2000 by 64 percent. "I think it's important that we have Members in leadership positions who sit in stable seats. We need to have Members who are able to do the job well for the Conference," added Granger. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations and Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Subcommittees. She served as NRCC Finance Chair this election cycle and also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas.
10.05.2006	October 5, 2006 Granger Responds to Speaker Hastert's Press Conference WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) issued the following statement in response to a press conference held today by House Speaker Dennis Hastert. “I commend Speaker Hastert for his leadership today in calling for an outside investigation into the Foley matter and to get to the bottom of who knew what, and when they knew it. We need to do this as quickly and as thoroughly as possible,” said Congresswoman Granger. “Once we have all the facts, we need to get them out and let the chips fall where they may. “This is not a partisan issue. We have a responsibility to parents to ensure their children are working in a safe environment here in Washington. I believe Speaker Hastert is taking the right steps in this matter,” Granger added. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations and Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Subcommittees. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
10.04.2006	October 4, 2006 Granger Announces Grants to Area Fire Departments Fort Worth, Texas—Congresswoman Kay Granger announced that the Department of Homeland Security has award three District 12 communities “Assistance to Firefighters” Grants. The Greenwood Rural Volunteer Fire Department in the Weatherford area has been awarded $28,120 for operations and safety needs. The Haltom City Fire Rescue Department has been awarded $44,415 for operations and safety needs. The Paradise Volunteer Fire Department has been awarded $204,250 for vehicle acquisition, operations and safety needs.
09.28.2006	September 28, 2006 Granger Praises Passage of Military Commissions Act WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today praised the passage of the Military Commissions Act (HR 6166). “Congress did the right thing today by voting to authorize the use of military commissions to try terrorists like Khalid Sheik Mohammad, one of the original masterminds of the September 11, 2001 attacks. The families who lost loved ones on 9-11 deserve for justice to be served,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. The bill, which passed by a vote of 253-168, creates a judicial system to try terrorists captured in the War on Terror. It also protects American troops and intelligence agents fighting in the war by safeguarding them from frivolous lawsuits. The bill further codifies the definition of torture and adheres to international treaty requirements. Granger was a cosponsor of the original House version of the bill. “As we have heard many times, this is going to be a long war, and those of us in Congress must continue to provide the tools necessary to fight and win this war,” Granger added. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations and Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Subcommittees. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
09.18.2006	September 18, 2006 Granger Issues Strong Support of Terrorist Tribunal Bill WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) issued the following statement in response to President Bush's press conference this morning at which he addressed the need for Congress to pass the Terrorist Tribunal bill. "The most important responsibility for the Congress and the President is protecting the American people and providing for our national security. The Terrorist Tribunal bill that passed out of the House Armed Services Committee this week, and that the House will vote on next week, provides clear guidelines for our intelligence officials to follow while dually allowing the U.S. to try terrorists accused of brutally killing and plotting to kill innocent Americans. This is an important piece of legislation that Congress needs to pass immediately. "America holds herself to the highest moral standard possible. The terrorists do not. And they continue to plot to kill Americans and free people around the world. The Terrorist Tribunal bill will further provide our intelligence officials the tools necessary to fight and win this War on Terror." Granger sits on the Appropriations Committee and serves on the Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Subcommittees. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
09.11.2006	September 11, 2006 Granger Commemorates Fifth Anniversary of 9-11 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today observed the fifth anniversary of September 11 terrorist attacks. “Today, as we honor those who lost their lives on September 11, 2001, we are reminded of the terrorist’s intense and determined hatred of Americans’ belief in freedom, and the devastation they caused because of their hatred. We must continue to show our strength of character and resolve as we fight terrorism both here and abroad. We must defeat the terrorists and their ideology. The future of Western Civilization depends on it.” Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations and Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Subcommittees. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
07.19.2006	July 19, 2006 Granger Co-sponsors Resolution Supporting All-Women Iraqi Radio Station WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today co-sponsored House Resolution 784, which commends the efforts of Iraq’s first and only radio station for women, Al-Mahaba. “The creation of Iraq’s all-women radio station, Al-Mahaba, is a very positive development. It’s crucial that women have a strong voice in Iraqi society, especially as Iraqis form a democracy. Radio Al-Mahaba provides women with a vehicle to have that voice,” said Granger. “Al-Mahaba is a great example of the courage of Iraqi Women.” Radio Al-Mahaba first went on the air on April 1, 2005. The station is an educational tool for women, broadcasting in three different languages and giving women freedom to voice their opinions and hear other opinions. The programming is dedicated to women’s rights and issues, such as: parenting, healthcare, relationships and other social topics. Articles about Radio Al-Mahaba have appeared in the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Chicago Tribune and USA Today. A spokeswoman for Al-Mahaba said more and more Iraqi women are calling into the station, which is a sign that democracy is working in Iraq. She said the station eventually hopes to broadcast into Iran in order to let Iranian women know that freedom can be achieved but only if they stand up for their rights. Rep. Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) was the original sponsor of the resolution. Original co-sponsors include: Reps. Tom Osborne (R-NE), Ellen Tauscher (D-CA), Hilda Solis (D-CA), Gary Ackerman (D-NY) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL). Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
07.12.2006	July 12, 2006 Granger Introduces Legislation to Help Medicare Beneficiaries Gain Access to Home Infusion Therapy WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today introduced the Medicare Home Infusion Therapy Consolidated Coverage Act. The bill would require Medicare to cover all aspects of home infusion therapy under Part B—the drugs, supplies, equipment and professional services necessary to provide home infusion therapy in a safe and effective manner. Patients suffering from cancer, congestive heart failure, serious infections, and other conditions often require infusion therapy, which involves the administration of drugs directly into the bloodstream via a needle or catheter. Decades ago, this type of treatment could only be provided in hospitals. For the past twenty years, however, patients with private health coverage have been able to receive this treatment in the home with outstanding results and at much lower cost than hospital care. Unfortunately, due to policies that deny coverage for the professional services, specialized equipment and supplies required to properly administer home infusion drugs, Medicare patients have not been able to take advantage of home infusion therapy. Instead, they are being forced into hospitals and skilled nursing facilities for treatment at great inconvenience to the patient and at increased cost to Medicare and the taxpayers. Congresswoman Granger’s bill would correct this situation by ensuring that home infusion equipment, supplies and services are properly covered and paid for under Medicare Part B. “This bill would enable Medicare beneficiaries to avoid hospitalizations and obtain safe and cost-effective treatment in their homes while giving Medicare the opportunity to achieve the same efficiencies and positive outcomes that home infusion therapy has brought to private sector patients for decades,” said Granger. Furthermore, the bill would reduce the risk to Medicare beneficiaries of receiving drugs from entities that do not meet well-established standards of care. Complex intravenous therapies that require extensive clinical services, care coordination, equipment and supplies should be administered in adherence to stringent quality standards of care. By consolidating coverage of home infusion therapy under Part B of Medicare, Congresswoman Granger’s bill would ensure that beneficiaries are protected by the quality safeguards and standards commonly used by commercial health plans. Granger is joined by Representatives Eliot Engel (D-New York), Randy Kuhl (R-New York) and Tammy Baldwin (D-Wisconsin) in introducing this legislation. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations and Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Subcommittees. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
07.18.2006	July 18, 2006 Granger Presents Congressional Award Bronze Medal to Three Fort Worth Youth Fort Worth – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) Monday awarded the highest honor bestowed upon America’s young people—the Congressional Award for good work done for the betterment of the community and for attaining personal development goals. Granger awarded the Congressional Award Bronze Medals to Joshua Gregory, Daniel Gregory and Zachary Welborn, all of Fort Worth, in a ceremony in her office. Joshua volunteered more than 100 hours on a variety on public beautification projects through his Boy Scout troop and served as scribe for the troop. For personal development, he improved his guitar and basketball skills. Daniel volunteered more than 100 hours through his Boy Scout troop, served as troop patrol leader and troop guide as well as a troop projects coordinator. For personal development, he improved his classical guitar skills and earned his yellow and gold belts in American Karate. Zachary volunteered more than 100 hours at his neighborhood library, shelving books, assisting patrons and helping librarians. For personal development, he improved his guitar skills and learned the first 10 moves of Kata martial arts to earn a second don black belt. The Congressional Award was established in 1979 by Public Law 96-114. More than 6,500 awards have been earned, representing more than 1.5 million volunteer hours performed in community service across America. The award is non-competitive. Recipients do not win the award. They earn it. Bronze, silver and gold medals are presented to all young people who meet the requirements, regardless of physical, mental or socioeconomic circumstances. To register to earn the Congressional Award call 1 888-80-Award or visit the web site at www.congressionalaward.org.
07.12.2006	July 12, 2006 Granger Introduces Bill Authorizing Funding Colorectal Cancer Screenings WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today introduced the Colorectal Cancer Early Detection, Prevention, and Treatment Act which would provide funding for colorectal cancer screenings specifically geared toward lower income and uninsured individuals. If passed, the bill would authorize Congress to direct $50 million for fiscal year 2007, and additional funds necessary for future fiscal years, to state and local health centers and agencies for screenings and referrals for treatment. Similar funds are currently being directed for other types of cancer screenings for lower income people such as breast and cervical cancer. “As a nation, we need to invest more in preventative care, which is a crucial part of good healthcare,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. “By investing in screenings and early detection for colorectal cancer, 30,000 to 44,000 lives a year could be saved if everyone over 50 got screened.With odds like these, there is no reason to keep these barriers preventing people from being healthy in place.” Colorectal cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer and the second most common cause of cancer death in the United States. In 2006, an estimated 148,610 new cases will be diagnosed and an estimated 55,170 deaths will be caused by colorectal cancer. The real tragedy is that many of these cancer cases and cancer deaths occur needlessly, as they could be prevented if more people took advantage of colorectal cancer screening. When colorectal cancer is diagnosed at the localized stage, the five year survival rate is 90 percent. However, when cancer is not diagnosed until the distant stage, the five year survival rate is only 10 percent. Furthermore, the disease can even be prevented through the early identification and removal of pre-cancerous polyps, detectable only through colorectal cancer screenings. Of the 55,170 people expected to die of colorectal cancer in 2006, 50 to 80 percent could be saved if they were tested. Colorectal cancer screening, treatment and outreach programs need to be developed to address the access and treatment disparities experienced by the uninsured and under-insured. It is time that all states rise to the challenge of establishing these life saving colorectal cancer screening and treatment programs to beat back one of the most easily preventable cancers. Colorectal Cancer Early Detection, Prevention, and Treatment Act: Establishes demonstration projects to provide screenings for colorectal cancer. Screening services are targeted toward individuals between 50 - 64 years of age (the pre-Medicare population), or those under 50 years old but with high risk of such cancer. Low-income and uninsured individuals who would not otherwise have coverage for colorectal cancer screening, diagnostic follow up, and/or treatment will be given priority. Provides case management and referrals for medical treatment of screened individuals. Ensures the full continuum of cancer care for individuals screened, including the appropriate follow-up for abnormal tests, diagnostic and therapeutic services, and treatment for detected cancers. Provides education and training for health professionals in the detection of colorectal cancer. Develops and disseminates findings and outcomes data in order to evaluate the program for cost, effectiveness and reach, which will inform future community screening and treatment efforts. Granger is joined by Rep. Albert Wynn (D-MA) in introducing this legislation. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations and Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Subcommittees. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
07.11.2006	July 11, 2006 Granger, Bono Re-Introduce Measure to Combat Obesity WASHINGTON, D.C.-Recently, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) co-sponsored comprehensive legislation with Congresswoman Mary Bono (R-CA) aimed at reducing obesity, particularly among children and adolescents. The Improved Nutrition and Physical Activity (IMPACT) Act (H.R. 5698) recognizes the serious health issues that arise from obesity and seeks to reduce those problems by using proven and innovative programs to encourage healthier lifestyles. "Obesity is one of our most preventable public health problems, but it is also one of our fastest rising, affecting every segment of our population," said Granger. "Poor nutrition and physical inactivity don't simply cause cosmetic harm. Obesity directly increases the risk of deadly diseases and drains valuable resources from our health care system." The prevalence of obesity is increasing among all age groups. Government statistics show that almost 65 percent of adults in the U.S. are overweight; about 31 percent of adults are obese, which is 30 or more pounds over a healthy weight. There are twice the number of overweight children and three times the number of overweight adolescents as there were 30 years ago. Texas is no exception to the national trend. From 1991 to 2001, obesity in adults in Texas increased from 13 to 25 percent. On average, 20 percent of Texas kids between the ages of 11 and 17 are overweight. According to the Department of State Health Services, the cost of obesity per school district in Texas is $95,000 a year. Overweight individuals have an increased risk for the two leading causes of death in our country, heart disease and cancer. These individuals also have an increased risk for diabetes and musculo-skeletal disorders, such as osteoarthritis. An estimated 300,000 deaths per year are associated with being overweight or obese. Given the many health risks associated with obesity, the IMPACT Act would fund several strategies with demonstrable success in improving diet and lifestyle. The bill would increase training for health professionals to diagnose, treat, and prevent obesity. It would also provide funding to states and communities to help them create nutrition programs, increase recreational options, and raise public awareness about the health risks of being overweight. "The IMPACT Act represents a commonsense approach to reverse the obesity epidemic," said Granger. "Better information, improved nutrition and increased physical activity can help make us a leaner, healthier America." Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
06.19.2006	June 19, 2006 Granger Introduces Social Security Legislation to Protect Personal Information of Veterans, Medicare Recipients WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) last week reintroduced the Social Security Number Privacy and Protection Act (H.R. 5636). The bill would require the federal government to remove social security numbers from Medicare, Medicaid, State Children's Health Insurance Program (children's Medicaid) and Veterans' health care cards. "Having a social security number visible on a health care or identification card poses an unnecessary risk to an individual's personal information. This bill would remove that threat from ever being realized," said Congresswoman Granger. Granger's bill comes on the heels of a recent computer theft from the home of a Veterans Affairs employee. The stolen computer contained the personal information of over 26.5 million veterans that could be used to gain access to everything from bank accounts to health information. Granger added, "With all the technological advances we have these days, there's no need to put Americans' personal information in jeopardy. Why not remove these risks and protect people when and where you can?" Granger's bill would also require the Selective Service to develop a new registration card that protects the registrant's social security number and would encourage private insurance companies to remove social security numbers from their identification cards. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
06.08.2006	June 8, 2006 Granger Congratulates Local F-16 Defense Workers on Job Well Done WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today released the following statement in response to the fact that it was an F-16 fighter plane that carried out the bombing raid that killed al-Qaeda terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi in Iraq. “I want to congratulate the defense workers in our community on a job well done,” said Congresswoman Granger. “Today we celebrate a major victory in Iraq and in the War on Terror, a victory that is a direct result of the work you do. I always say that we have the best workforce in the world. Today, you made America proud.” Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
06.08.2006	June 8, 2006 Granger Says Killing al-Zarqawi Huge Victory in War on Terror; Sign that Iraq will Not Tolerate Terrorism WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today praised Iraqi and U.S. Forces for the successful intelligence gathering and subsequent bombing raid that led to the death of al-Qaeda terrorist leader in Iraq, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. Zarqawi, one of the most wanted terrorists in Iraq and the War on Terror, was responsible for the planning of hundreds of attacks that led to the deaths of American and Iraqi civilians. "The death of terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi is a major blow to al-Qaeda in Iraq and a major victory for Iraqis and Coalition Forces in Iraq and in the War on Terror," said Congresswoman Granger. "His death sends a clear message to terrorists in Iraq and in the region: Terrorism in Iraq will not be tolerated. Individuals who participate in acts of terrorism will be hunted down and arrested or killed." In addition to the death of al-Zarqawi, Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki announced the long-awaited appointment of the Defense and Interior Ministers to his Cabinet in what marked a momentous day in Iraq. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
05.24.2006	May 24, 2006 Reps. Granger, Tauscher Applaud Appointment of Four Women to Permanent Iraqi Cabinet; Members Cite A Good Step Forward for Iraqi Women WASHINGTON, D.C.-Chairwomen of the Iraqi Women's Caucus, Reps. Kay Granger (R-TX) and Ellen Tauscher (D-CA), today cited Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's appointment of four Iraqi women to his permanent Cabinet as a good step forward for women's rights in Iraq. "Having four women named to Cabinet posts in the new permanent government is a positive step forward for Iraqi women," said Congresswoman Granger. "No longer in a transitional government, these appointments give women a real opportunity to ensure women's rights are preserved under the constitution and in Iraqi society. I remain committed to supporting the women as they work to ensure their rights are recognized and maintained, along with all Iraqis." The four women elected to the Iraqi Cabinet are Mrs. Bayan Daza'i, a Sunni Kurd, Minister of Housing and Construction; Mrs. Narmin Uthman, a Kurd, Minister of Environment; Mrs. Wijdan Mikha'il, a Christian, Minister of Human Rights; and Mrs. Fatin Abd-al-Rahman Mahmoud, a Sunni, Minister of State for Women's Affairs. There are 40 permanent Iraqi Cabinet positions. "Preserving women's rights is a key aspect of ensuring a sovereign, democratic State eventually emerges in Iraq," noted Congresswoman Tauscher. "Having four women appointed to Cabinet positions is a definite step towards this important goal. My hope is that Iraq continues to recognize the contributions women can and will make to the future of their government so that we can begin to see a more stable and a safe Iraq for all parties involved." While historically women in Iraq have enjoyed relatively more rights than many of their counterparts in the Middle East, their rights under Saddam Hussein's regime were severely deteriorated. Since the U.S. led-invasion in Iraq, women's rights largely have been restored. This is partly due to a provision in the constitution that stipulates every third name on an election ballot be that of a woman. Iraq currently has the greatest political participation by women of any country in the Middle East. Iraqi women still have hurdles to overcome. The Iraqi Government will soon begin review of many key issues in the constitution, some of which could affect women's rights. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress. Tauscher serves on the House Armed Services Committee as well as the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. She also serves as the Chair of the New Democrat Coalition, a moderate coalition of forty-five pro-business, pro-defense, pro-trade Members of the United States Congress.
05.17.2006	May 17, 2006 GRANGER ANNOUNCES SUMMER 2006 MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY CADET APPOINTEES WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R – Fort Worth) announced Tuesday that thirteen District 12 residents have received Congressional appointments to one of the U.S. military service academies and one appointment to the U.S. Naval Prep School. “The important task of protecting our country and preserving democracy is entrusted to the men and women in the military,” Granger said. “Today, military leaders must excel in not only military matters, but also in technology, management and other areas. The women and men who have earned appointments to the military academies this year are the best we have to offer in District 12, and I am confident they will go on to be the military leaders of tomorrow who will continue to protect and defend the United States.” The appointments are for the class that enters in Summer 2006 and graduates in Spring 2010. The appointees from District 12 are as follows: • J. Spencer Brown U.S. Air Force Academy, R.L. Paschal High School • John Conine, U.S. Military Academy (Westpoint), R.L. Paschal High School • Benjamin Hill, U.S. Air Force Academy, R.L. Paschal High School • Michael Kelly, U.S. Naval Academy, Brewer High School • Christopher Ladehoff, U.S. Air Force Academy, Home school • Garrett Mays, U.S. Military Academy (Westpoint), Trinity Christian Academy • Joshua Miles, U.S. Military Academy (Westpoint), Trinity Valley School • William Sack, U.S. Military Academy (Westpoint), Crowley High School • Brian Thorn;, U.S. Air Force Academy, Home school • Cody Yenter, U.S. Air Force Academy, Northwest High School Students who have been attending an academy prep school who received an appointment are: • Karl Bohn, U.S. Air Force Academy • Kyle Rogers, U.S. Air Force Academy • Stephanie Schoeneman, U.S. Military Academy (Westpoint) In addition, Ian Rubi, a Central High School graduate, will attend the U.S. Naval Prep School. Individuals who are interested in obtaining a Congressional nomination for the next academic class, which begins in Summer 2007, must send a completed application package to Congresswoman Granger’s District 12 office no later than October 16, 2006. For additional information or an application packet, write to: Congresswoman Kay Granger 1701 River Run Road, Suite 407 Fort Worth, Texas 76107-6548 Or an individual can call the military academy coordinators in the office at (817) 338-0909. Interested individuals can also go to www.kaygranger.house.gov for nomination information.
05.03.2006	May 3, 2006 WWII Code Talkers Thank Granger for Sponsoring Code Talkers Bill WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) met Wednesday with descendents of World War I and II “Code Talkers” who thanked her for sponsoring H.R. 4597, the Code Talker Recognition Act. The bill awards the Comanche, Choctaw and Sioux Code Talkers, who used their native language to radio coded messages to American soldiers during World War I and II, the Congressional Gold Medal. The bill also includes a provision (Section 401) authorizing the President to award Congressional Gold Medals to any other Code Talkers identified by the Secretary of Defense. Granger first introduced the Code Talkers Bill in 2001 during the 107th Congress, which honored Comanche Code Talkers. The bill was combined with then-Rep. Wes Watkins’ bill honoring the Choctaw Code Talkers and Rep. John Thune’s bill honoring the Sioux Code Talkers. The bill passed the House but stalled in the Senate. Granger reintroduced a bill, honoring Code Talkers from all three above-mentioned tribes in the 108th Congress. On July 26, 2001, President Bush honored the Navajo Code Talkers for their contribution to the United States Armed Forces as radio operators in World War II. Like the Navajo Code Talkers, the Choctaw, Comanche and Sioux Code Talkers, served in both the Pacific and European fronts during World War II. Granger originally learned about the critical efforts of the Code Talkers through a friend and constituent of hers, Ben Tahmahkera. He wanted to make sure the sacrifices of the Comanche code talkers, and other code talkers, were not forgotten. Co-sponsors of the bill include: Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Howard Berman (D-CA), Heather Wilson (R-NM), Leonard Boswell (D-IA), Ed Case (D-HI), Eni Faleomavaega (D-AS), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), J.D. Hayworth (R-AZ), Stephanie Herseth (D-SD), Jay Inslee (D-WA), William Jefferson (D-LA), Patrick Kennedy (D-RI), Dale Kildee (D-MI), Ron Kind (D-WI), Jerry Lewis (R-CA), Thaddeus McCotter (R-MI), Juanita Millender-McDonald (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Edolphus Towns (D-NY), Frank Wolf (R-VA), Neil Abercrombie (D-HI), Phil English (R-PA), Barney Frank (D-MA), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Ralph Hall (R-TX), Robert Ney (R-OH), Stephanie Tubbs Jones (D-OH), Donald Manzullo (R-IL), Robert Wexler (D-FL), Barbara Cubin (R-WY), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Madeline Bordallo (D-GU), Ken Calvert (R-CA), Tom Cole (R-OK), Mike Conaway (R-TX), Michael Honda (D-CA), Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), Mark Kennedy (R-MN), James McGovern (D-MA), George Miller (D-CA), Dennis Moore (D-KS), Ed Pastor (D-AZ), Nick Rahall (D-WV), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Rob Simmons (R-CT), John Sullivan (R-OK), Lee Terry (R-NE), Jim Moran (D-VA), Fred Upton (R-MI), Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Ed Pastor (D-AZ). Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
04.27.2006	April 27, 2006 Granger Co-sponsors Resolution Supporting All-Women Iraqi Radio Station WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today co-sponsored House Resolution 784, which commends the efforts of Iraq's first and only radio station for women, Al-Mahaba. "The creation of Iraq's all-women radio station, Al-Mahaba, is a very positive development. It's crucial that women have a strong voice in Iraqi society, especially as Iraqis form a democracy. Radio Al-Mahaba provides women with a vehicle to have that voice," said Granger. "Al-Mahaba is a great example of the courage of Iraqi Women." Radio Al-Mahaba first went on the air on April 1, 2005. The station is an educational tool for women, broadcasting in three different languages and giving women freedom to voice their opinions and hear other opinions. The programming is dedicated to women's rights and issues, such as: parenting, healthcare, relationships and other social topics. Articles about Radio Al-Mahaba have appeared in the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Chicago Tribune and USA Today. A spokeswoman for Al-Mahaba said more and more Iraqi women are calling into the station, which is a sign that democracy is working in Iraq. She said the station eventually hopes to broadcast into Iran in order to let Iranian women know that freedom can be achieved but only if they stand up for their rights. <\p> Rep. Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) was the original sponsor of the resolution. Original co-sponsors include: Reps. Tom Osborne (R-NE), Ellen Tauscher (D-CA), Hilda Solis (D-CA), Gary Ackerman (D-NY) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL). Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
04.28.2006	April 28, 2006 Granger Launches Campaign to Name Ship USS Fort Worth FORT WORTH – Congresswoman Kay Granger Friday announced before a meeting of Downtown Rotary that she has launched a campaign to name one of the U.S. Navy’s new ships the USS Fort Worth in honor of the City of Fort Worth. Granger made her request in a letter to Secretary of Navy Donald Winter. The Secretary of Navy has personally selected the name of all new Navy ships since 1819 when Congress designated that responsibility to the secretary. “Fort Worth has a long history with the U.S. military as it protects America and defends freedom,” Granger said. “During the course of my work in the Congress on defense matters, I have observed that many communities throughout the United States have a U.S. Navy ship named in their honor. But Fort Worth is not one of those communities. “I believe it is time for a Navy ship to be named for Fort Worth in recognition of our long association with the U.S. military, the men and women from Fort Worth who serve in the military and the thousands of Fort Worth residents who work in the defense industry.” Granger has asked Secretary of Navy Winter to name a future Littoral class ship the USS Fort Worth. The Navy describes the Littoral Combat Ship as a “next-generation” ship that is designed to be a fast, highly maneuverable, networked surface combat ship that can operate close to shores because of a shallow draft. Littoral class ships will have equipment to support anti-mine and special forces missions, plus robotic air, surface, and underwater vehicles. Granger said naming a ship the USS Fort Worth would recognize Fort Worth’s long and proud relationship with the U.S. military. The city was founded by the U.S. Army as a frontier outpost. Throughout its history, Fort Worth has been associated with the military. Today, Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base, Fort Worth, formerly Carswell Air Force Base, is a valued part of Fort Worth. Lockheed Martin Aeronautics and Bell Helicopter-Textron are Fort Worth companies that build the best military aircraft in the world. In addition Fort Worth citizens, many of who are retired from the military, are strong supporters of the military. The Navy lists six active-duty ships which are named for Texas cities. They are listed by type of ship:USS Austin Amphibious Transport Dock Ship USS Corpus Christi Submarine USS Dallas Submarine USS Houston Attack Submarine USS San Antonio Amphibious Transport Dock Ship USS Waxahachie Harbor Tug Granger said Fort Worth residents can help by writing Secretary Winter a letter urging him to name a ship the USS Fort Worth. Letters can be mailed to: The Honorable Donald Winter Secretary of Navy 1000 Navy Pentagon Washington, DC 20350-1000 Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress. Artist Rendering of Littoral Ship at https://peoships.crane.navy.mil/lcs/Lockheed.htm
04.21.2006	April 21, 2006 Granger Commends the Community Learning Center for Gaining National Recognition for AITP program WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today commended the Fort Worth-based Community Learning Center (CLC) for gaining national recognition for its Aerospace Industry Training Partnership (AITP), a program that provides training for dislocated workers, job seekers and incumbent workers in the Fort Worth and surrounding region. The AITP program will be featured as a model for successful union and management training partnerships nationwide this Thursday and Friday in Irving, Texas, at the Advanced Manufacturing Workforce Strategies forum hosted by the Department of Labor and AFL-CIO Working for America Institute. Since 2000, AITP has trained more than 1,500 people and placed 90 percent of them in aerospace, advanced-manufacturing jobs and other industries in the Dallas/Ft. Worth area. “I applaud the Community Learning Center for earning national recognition for their Aerospace Industry Training Partnership program. The AITP program has been critical in training and relocating our talented aerospace industry workforce, and as such, has become a significant asset to our community and economy,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. The forum will highlight practices that address the serious workforce challenges facing the U.S. manufacturing sector. Forum participants, including representatives of labor, business and public workforce development organizations, will address the challenges of recruitment, training and competitiveness in unionized manufacturing. Delegates from unions and various industries will explore the possibility of replicating successful training programs like AITP in their own plants and communities. Also featured will be ten other successful job training programs from around the country. The forum will be held at the Sheraton Grand in Irving, Texas. One hundred-fifty representatives of labor, business and the public workforce development systems from around the country are expected to attend. This event is invite-only and is open to the press. For more information, or to attend, contact Bea Edwards at 202-841-1391. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
03.29.2006	March 29, 2006 Granger Statement on Border Security Bill Provision making it a felony to aid illegal immigrants WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) released the following statement in response to the outpouring of opposition to the provision passed in the House Border Security Bill that makes it a felony to aid people who are here illegally. “The intent of the provision passed in the House was aimed at combating alien smuggling gangs, not penalizing clergy members or other good Samaritans for helping those in need. Immigration is a very sensitive issue. America is a nation founded and made strong by immigrants, and that history continues today. We do need to address the increasingly dangerous situation at our borders with the hundreds of people coming here illegally from countries that aid and harbor terrorists and who could potentially smuggle biological or chemical weapons into the country. I agree with President Bush that while Members of Congress debate solutions to the many complexities of this issue, they should do so through a civil and thoughtful debate.” Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
04.05.2006	April 5, 2006 Granger Prepares Care Packages for Soldiers WASHINGTON, D.C.--Last Thursday, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) joined fellow Members of Congress to stuff care packages for U.S. service men and women at the United Service Organization’s (USO) 4th Annual Congressional Care Package Stuffing Party on Capitol Hill. Granger, along with fellow Members of Congress, stuffed over 1,500 care packages now being mailed to U.S. troops deployed for operation Iraqi freedom and operation enduring freedom. Care package items include: dop kits, body wipes, cameras, playing cards and other items. Granger has traveled to Iraq twice since the fall of Saddam Hussein’s regime. When in Iraq, she met with U.S. soldiers who consistently told her how proud they were of the progress being made in Iraq. As Chair of the Iraqi Women’s Caucus, Granger has also worked extensively with Iraqi Women to help prepare them for elected office as they lead their country toward a stable and free Iraq. On February 4, the USO celebrated its 65th birthday. The organization currently has more than 33,000 volunteers and employees who proudly serve America’s men and women in uniform and their families at more than 120 USO centers around the world. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
03.29.2006	March 29, 2006 Congresswoman Granger Promotes Robert Head to Chief of Staff WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) has promoted Deputy Chief of Staff and Fort Worth native, Robert Head, to be her new chief of staff. “Robert has been a dependable and trusted member of my staff for a long time. He possesses an expertise on legislative issues, especially on defense, that makes him a valuable asset to me and to the 12th District,” said Granger. “He also has a wonderful, even-keeled temperament that makes him terrific to work with. I am thrilled he has accepted the position and know he will make an excellent Chief of Staff.” Head grew up in Fort Worth and went to high school at Fort Worth Country Day. After graduating in 1996, he attended Southern Methodist University in Dallas. During the summer of 1999, Head interned for Ms. Granger in Washington, D.C. By the end of the summer, Head decided he wanted to work in Washington after graduating. Head received his bachelor’s in History and in Political Science from SMU in May 2000, and shortly thereafter was hired by Ms. Granger as a Legislative Correspondent. Since 2000, Head has held almost every position on Ms. Granger’s staff. He was promoted to Legislative Assistant in late 2000, moving up several years later to handle defense and military issues. In June 2004, he was promoted to Legislative Director and served in this role until December 2004 when he was again promoted to Deputy Chief of Staff. Head’s primary legislative responsibilities include defense, homeland security, and energy and water issues. “I am honored that Congresswoman Granger has asked me to serve as her Chief of Staff, especially as a native of the12th District of Texas. After working in this office for almost six years, I am excited about the opportunity to serve the District in my new capacity,” said Head. He and his wife, Brenna, are expecting their first child in August.
Republican Members of Congress call Sen. Feingold's Resolutions	
03.08.2006	March 8, 2006 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Former mayor of Fort Worth and now Congresswoman, Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), today made the following statement in response to Southwest’s unreasonable demand for local authorities to reach a local solution on the Wright Amendment in 30 days: “Southwest’s demand for local authorities to reach an agreement within 30 days is both unrealistic and unreasonable. Love Field’s role in Fort Worth/Dallas’ commercial aviation was debated for four years and when Southwest decided it want to fly interstate after the federal airline deregulation law was enacted, it took a year to craft the compromise known as the Wright Amendment. This decision is not on the timetable of any one airline but is on the timetable of local authorities who are carefully vetting the potential economic ramifications of altering the Wright Amendment in any way. We must not forget that repealing the Wright Amendment equals a potential job loss of up to 200,000 jobs. I stand firmly against any decisions that would alter the Wright Amendment in any way.” Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
03.07.2006	March 7, 2006 Granger Hosts Iraqi/Afghan Women Legislators Breakfast; Under Secretaries Karen Hughes and Paula WASHINGTON, D.C. — as part of International Women’s Day, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) this morning hosted a roundtable breakfast for Iraqi and Afghan delegates, many of whom are current Cabinet and Parliament Members in Iraq and Afghanistan. After the breakfast, Members of Congress will be shadowed by a specific Iraqi or Afghan delegate. The purpose of the breakfast was to have a dialogue with the women leaders about the status in Iraq and Afghanistan regarding women’s issues, to hear the women’s concerns and to continue to develop the relationship between U.S. Members of Congress and Iraqi and Afghan women leaders. “The relationship between Iraqi and Afghan women and U.S. Members of Congress is an important one that we will continue to strengthen,” said Granger. “This is an historic moment. These women leaders, who come from different religions and backgrounds, are working together to help shape the future of their countries and the future for women in their countries. I, along with fellow my colleagues in Congress, stand firmly behind these courageous women leaders and say to them, and all Iraqi and Afghan women: America supports you.” Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs Paula Dobriansky asked Congresswoman Granger to host the Iraqi and Afghan women delegate’s breakfast based on her extensive involvement and experience with Iraqi women leaders. Granger has led two congressional delegations to Jordan to help train Iraqi women leaders and continues to work with them as Iraq transitions to a democracy. Last January, Granger led a delegation to Jordan where she discussed aspects involved in running for office and what her experience as a U. S. Congressional member has been like with 20 Iraqi women candidates. Granger has said the trip was the most incredible of her eight years in Congress and the female candidates were some of the bravest, most courageous women she’s ever met in her life. Granger led a second delegation to Jordan last April, which was attended by 150 Iraqi women legislators and leaders. Today, Granger will first be shadowed by Nesreen Barwari, Minister of Municipalities & Public Works, and then later in the day by Mona Noor H. Zalzala, a member of the Iraqi Unified Coalition list. Born in Baghdad, Nesreen Barwari became a political prisoner along with her family in 1981 at fourteen years of age and again, ten years later, following the 1991 war. She went on to receive her undergraduate degree in architectural engineering and urban planning at Baghdad University in1991, and earned a graduate degree in public policy and management from Harvard’s University's Kennedy School of Government in 1999. She has worked extensively in emergency relief, reconstruction and resettlement efforts in Iraq. Barwari served as Minister of Reconstruction & Development in the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) from 1999 to 2003. She currently serves as one of the only female Iraqi Cabinet Members as the Minister of Municipalities & Public Works. Mona Zalzala was elected to the new Council of Representatives in December. She lived for a few years in Denmark and returned after the fall of the former regime. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
03.01.2006	March 1, 2006 Granger and Hoyer Team Up to Battle Childhood Obesity WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) and House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD) reintroduced the “Childhood Obesity Reduction Act” (H.R. 4860) today in the House of Representatives to create a two-year Congressional Council to address one of the most pressing health epidemics facing America – juvenile obesity. “Obesity is rapidly becoming one of the most pervasive health threats to our society,” said Granger. “We now have 15 percent of our children considered to be obese. This is a huge red flag signaling a major problem that needs addressing. Intervention in our schools will equip young people with the knowledge to prevent obesity and live healthier and happier lives.” “America loves to think of itself as a youthful nation focused on fitness,” said Hoyer. “But behind the exciting media images of robust athletes and Olympic dream teams is a troubling reality. Statistics portray a generation of young people that are, in large measure, inactive, unfit, eating poorly, and at an alarming rate, becoming obese.” The Congressional Council on Childhood Obesity would consist of eight members, including House and Senate Majority and Minority leaders or their designees, and four experts in child health, nutrition, or physical activity who evaluate and develop plans for elementary and middle schools that reduce and prevent childhood obesity. The Council would also highlight successful obesity reduction plans and would provide critical support to schools that seek to participate in these plans. Schools that have promoted successful, innovative strategies for obesity prevention or reduction will be rewarded with grants for strategy implementation. This bill would authorize $2.2 million in fiscal year 2007 to establish the Council. More than 15 percent of American children and teens ages six through 19 are overweight, which is quadruple the rate of the early 1970s. Being overweight or obese increases the risk of heart disease and cancer – the two leading causes of death. These conditions also increase risk for diabetes and musculoskeletal disorders, such as osteoarthritis. U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R–TN) and Senator Ron Wyden (D–OR) introduced the Senate version of the Childhood Obesity Reduction Act last June.
02.15.2006	February 15, 2006 House Select Committee Releases Report on Government's Preparation for and Response to Hurricane Katrina WASHINGTON, D.C.- Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) and the ten other Members of the House Select Committee to Investigate the Preparation for and Response to Hurricane Katrina released the committee's final report today. The report is a result of an exhaustive investigation that began last fall conducted by the Select Committee in the weeks after Katrina hit New Orleans and the Gulf Coast. The report, more than 500 pages long, details what went right and what went wrong with the local, state and federal preparations for and response to Hurricane Katrina. The purpose of the report is not to assign individual blame, but to identify lessons learned to ensure our government can fulfill its commitment protect and serve the American people. "I was honored that Speaker Hastert asked me to sit on the Select Committee to review the response to Hurricane Katrina at all levels of government," said Congresswoman Granger. "With Chairman Davis' leadership, we conducted an extensive investigation and took an honest assessment of where the system failed -- at what levels and at what points. I believe this report provides the foundation for Congress and the Administration to make the necessary changes to our system so this doesn't happen again. Americans must be able to depend on the government's response, at all levels, to any major disaster." The report identifies numerous failures that include: Late and ineffective execution of the National Response Plan An under-trained and under-staffed FEMA who was overwhelmed by the event The Department of Homeland Security acted too slowly in many instances Lessons were not learned and implemented from previous hurricane exercises Late and incomplete mandatory evacuations in New Orleans A complete breakdown in communications Inadequate emergency shelter and housing plans The report does identify some positive actions including the work done by the National Weather Service and National Hurricane Center. Their forecasts were incredibly accurate and detailed, providing decision makers the best information possible leading up to landfall. Additionally, the Coast Guard's heroic search and rescue efforts are noted in the report. "It is clear the system was overwhelmed. This report should be the beginning of serious action by this Congress and Administration to fix these systematic problems. I plan to beginning working with my colleagues immediately to make whatever changes are required for our emergency response system to work the way it is supposed to for the American people," said Granger. "We cannot afford any delay as the 2006 hurricane season is approaching within a matter of months." Before coming to Congress, Granger served as mayor of Fort Worth for five years. As mayor, Granger led the City Council in setting policy that enabled the city's professional staff to create effective emergency management systems. Within the emergency management field, the city of Fort Worth is considered to have one of the best emergency response systems in the country. Fort Worth has been tested in several disasters, including a rampage by a gunman in 1999 that killed seven people and injured seven others and by a tornado that struck six months later in downtown Fort Worth. The tornado caused extensive damage and forced city officials to shut down parts of downtown for weeks. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
02.10.2006	February 10, 2006 Members of Congress Applaud Certification of Iraq Election Results WASHINGTON, DC - In response to today's certification of Iraq's election results, Reps. Kay Granger, Geoff Davis, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Joe Wilson, Jeb Bradley, Mike McCaul, Bill Shuster, Rodney Frelinghuysen, Jeff Miller, Lincoln Diaz-Balart, John Kline, Tom Tancredo and Ted Poe, members of the Congressional War on Terror Team, issued the following joint statement: "Today's certification of Iraq's election results marks yet another successful milestone in Iraq's transition to democracy. America salutes Iraqis for their continued courage to fight for a free and democratic Iraq. Members of Congress are looking forward to working with our new partners in the Iraqi Parliament as we fight together to win the Global War on Terror." Dec. 15 Iraqi election results certified, key step in forming government 10 February 2006 Associated Press Newswires (APHO) BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) - Iraq's election chief announced the final certified results for the country's Dec. 15 parliamentary polls on Friday, starting the clock on the long-awaited formation of a new government. The announcement gave legal confirmation to initial results released last month for those who won the 275 seats in Iraq's first post-Saddam Hussein parliament with a four-year mandate. With Friday's certification parliament must convene within two weeks. Adil al-Lami, head of the Independent Electoral Commission of Iraq, said 128 seats were won by the dominant Shiite coalition, the United Iraqi Alliance. Two Sunni Arab blocs, the Iraqi Accordance Front and the Iraqi Front for National Dialogue, received 44 and 11 seats respectively. Their combined 55 seats sees Sunni Arabs increase their representation by more than threefold on the outgoing parliament. The Kurdish Coalition of parties led by President Jalal Talabani and Kurdish leader Massoud Barzani were the other big winners, claiming 53 seats. Intense negotiations are ongoing to form a national unity government comprising Shiites, Sunni Arabs and Kurds in a bid to end Iraq's rampant violence. Under Iraq's new constitution, Talabani now must convene the new assembly within two weeks. Under the law, parliament then has 30 days to elect a new national president. The new president has 15 days to name a new prime minister from the ranks of the Shiite religious parties. The prime minister-designate then has 30 days to present his Cabinet to parliament for approval by majority vote. If the Iraqis take the maximum time allowed for each step, it would be May before a government is in place. Vice President Adil Abdul-Mahdi, a Shiite widely mentioned as possible prime minister, has said he expected to finish the talks by mid-March.
02.09.2006	February 9, 2006 Granger Statement on Wright Amendment News Stories WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today responded to media reports about Senators Hutchison and Cornyn working on a proposal that would affect the Wright Amendment. "The suggestion of a regional transportation authority has been mentioned for nearly a decade. What everyone should keep in mind in this whole discussion is the economic health of our communities and this region. Anything that hurts DFW Airport hurts our economy. Furthermore, we have two airlines -- American and Southwest -- headquartered here. The airport and those two airlines account for over 200,000 jobs. We would be crazy to endanger those jobs. Those of us who serve in the Congress and Senate should work with the local leadership to make sure we strengthen, not dilute, our economy before we consider any change." Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
02.02.2006	February 2, 2006 Granger to Give Blunt's Nominating Speech WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) will give Rep. Roy Blunt’s nominating speech for his run for the Majority Leader post at the closed-door, special GOP Conference session scheduled for noon today. Blunt asked Granger to give his main campaign speech because of her firm support of him and her leadership and hard work on the Whip Team. “I have known and worked closely with Roy for eight years and was honored when he asked me to give his nominating speech,” said Granger. “This is a tough, tough job. The person has to be able to juggle absolutely everything and also be available for and responsive to Members. And Roy’s done it. In fact he’s been doing the Majority Leader and Whip jobs at the same time. I’ve seen firsthand how effective he is – he’s there getting the job done when we need to get the votes, when it’s crunch time -- and know he’s the kind of solid, steady leader we need to lead us forward.” Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
02.02.2006	February 2, 2006 Granger Re-Introduces Bill to Help Truckers Save Money on Fuel; Reduce Air Pollution WASHINGTON, D.C. - This week, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) re-introduced legislation that would provide tax credits for the trucking industry to buy equipment that would help reduce air pollution while also helping truckers save money on diesel fuel. "These tax credits will help truckers with exorbitant fuel prices while also reducing air pollution," said Congresswoman Granger. "After seeing fuel prices sky rocket in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we need to take every step we can to become less dependent on foreign sources of oil and ease the financial burden on our citizens. This bill also takes a serious step toward further improving our air quality." The "Idling Reduction Tax Credit Act of 2006" would allow a 25 percent tax credit of up to $1,000 for the purchase of "idling reduction devices." These units service essential truck functions such as cabin heating or cooling systems that are normally powered by the truck's main diesel engine. Truckers would manually switch over to the device for power when a truck is stopped rather than running a truck's main engine. Overall, the U.S. Environmental Protection Administration (EPA) estimates that idling trucks emit 5,000 tons of particulate matter per year. The EPA says that idling reduction devices could reduce ozone and particulate emissions (soot), as well as greenhouse gas emissions, by roughly 80 to 90 percent. Under Congresswoman Granger's legislation, the EPA and the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Energy would certify which of the alternative idling reduction devices meet appropriate standards to qualify for the tax credit. If passed, the bill could help reduce demand for diesel fuel in the United States. The Federal Highway Administration's 2004 Highway Statistics report found that trucks consume 36.4 billion gallons of diesel fuel. Industry experts estimate that 26.2 million trucks registered and used for business purposes operate in the U.S. Many of these trucks will benefit the most from tax credits proposed by Granger. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
02.01.2006	February 1, 2006 Granger Statement on President's State of the Union Remarks WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) released the following statement following President Bush’s State of the Union speech tonight. “I was pleased to hear the President unwavering in his commitment to lowering healthcare costs. Families can’t afford coverage and the cost to businesses escalates yearly. It’s a national problem when you’ve got businesses having to choose between closing their doors or providing healthcare coverage to their employees,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. Granger added, “There’s also no doubt about this President’s determination to winning the global war on terror and the war in Iraq. It inspires my confidence to have a commander-in-chief who won’t run when the going gets tough and who will do whatever it takes to protect this country from present and future threats.” Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
12.19.2005	December 19, 2005 War on Terror Team Hails Yet another Victory for Iraq Iraqis Head to Polls with Extraordinarily Low Violence; Sunni Turnout Higher Than Ever Before WASHINGTON, D.C. – Members of the Congressional War on Terror Team today praised the millions of Iraqis who came out to vote to elect Members of Iraq’s new Parliament, called the “Council of Representatives.” Iraqi officials expect voter turnout to exceed 60 percent, an even higher turnout than in the last election, with Sunni participation dramatically higher than ever before. Initial reports tell of Iraqi enthusiasm, with many polling stations running out of ballots early on due to the high number of Iraqis pouring out to vote. The day is being described by The New York Times as “remarkable for the absence of large-scale violence.” “Today’s election in Iraq marks a major milestone. Millions of Iraqis voted for the third time this year for freedom and democracy, defying terrorist threats to achieve that goal,” said Rep. Kay Granger (R-TX), Chair of the War on Terror Team and a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. “In addition to the Iraqi Security Forces increasingly taking over responsibility for their country’s security shows Iraqis are solidly on the road to establishing a free and democratic Iraq.” “Today’s election begins the end of the military phase of our involvement with Iraq and begins the political stage, permanently. We are very proud of what’s going on in Iraq and today is another great accomplishment for the people of Iraq, the United States, and all of the Coalition Forces,” said Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA), Vice-Chairman of the House Republican Conference. “An historic day is setting on Iraq and its people and a historic era is dawning for the whole Middle East and the world. Today’s vote was a watershed moment in Iraq’s transition from a brutal dictatorship to a modern democracy and the Iraqi people will reap the benefits of their courageous stance,” said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), a member of the International Relations Committee. “Today’s vote was a confirmation by the Iraqi people of our mission and of our goals of bringing freedom and democracy to oppressed peoples around the globe. My step son and his fiancée are serving as Marines in Iraq and their devotion to their mission has never wavered or was never in doubt. Today, the Iraqi people have stated through the ballot box and not through violence that they too believe in what our men and women in uniform are doing. A great day indeed!” “Today, the Iraqi people struck the most powerful blow to the terrorist and rejectionist elements of the Iraqi insurgency to date. By voting for their first permanent, democratically elected government, Iraqis have determined their own destiny and reached an important benchmark drawing the U.S. closer to victory in Iraq,” said Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the Armed Services Committee. “A democratic Iraq is absolutely essential to winning the global War on Terror and a free Iraq has the potential to gradually transform a region that has been adversely affected by tyranny and ideological corruption for decades. Today’s elections mark a major turning point in the war for freedom in Iraq and for the Iraqi people.” “I commend the citizens of Iraq for standing tall against tyranny as a new and free government unfolds before their eyes,” said Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX), a member of the International Relations Committee. “The people of Iraq boldly flocked to the polls to elect their leadership. They bravely spoke out against the past oppression of Saddam Hussein and his dynasty of dictatorship and spoke loudly for freedom and democracy.” “Large numbers of Iraqi citizens have responded to the call for freedom, forgoing possible harm and violence for the chance to democratically elect new leadership. This is a historic occasion for the Iraqi people and yet another step in the country’s long-march to freedom and democracy,” said Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-PA), a strong supporter of the War on Terror. “When millions of Iraqis courageously cast their ballots today, they demonstrated their enthusiasm about living in a society where each voice matters and each person has a stake in the future of their country,” said Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02), a member of the Armed Services and International Relations Committees. “Conducted by Iraqi Security Forces, the parliamentary elections were a political milestone and a clear symbol of the transfer of responsibility from U.S. and Coalition soldiers to Iraqi troops. Democracy in Iraq will ensure that Iraq does not become a permanent haven for terrorists, who ultimately seek to attack American families and citizens of all free nations. “The Iraqi people should be congratulated and commended for their dedication to helping democracy grow in the nation. Despite the terrorist’s deadly attempts to derail freedom in Iraq, the democratic process is moving forward, and the goal of a free Iraq is that much closer because of these elections,” stated Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX), a member of the Armed Services and International Relations Committees. “Fair, democratic and successful elections in Iraq are the best way to make sure our armed forces return home as soon as possible” IRAQ FACTS: Last year there were only a handful of combat-ready Iraqi battalions. Today… 97 battalions of Iraqi Army soldiers are conducting security operations throughout the country. 8 battalions of special police are distributed around the country, providing a bridge between combat operations and civil police operations. The Iraqi Navy is guarding its coastline and protecting the offshore oil platforms. The Iraqi Air Force is moving supplies throughout the country, including some of the materials necessary for the upcoming elections. Iraqi Border Police are manning 170 border forts and 22 ports of entry. 75,000 Iraqi policemen are patrolling Iraqi cities. Another 5,700 are in training. At this moment, Iraqi and Coalition instructors are training: 2,700 Iraqi soldiers 500 Iraqi Army officer cadets 286 police officer cadets In the January ’05 elections, approximately 130,000 Iraqi Security Forces secured the polling sites. When the December 15, ’05 elections occur, 225,000 Iraqi Security Forces will secure the polling sites. Over 30 Iraqi Army battalions have assumed primary control of their own areas of responsibility. These include some of Baghdad’s toughest neighborhoods. 30 bases have been handed over to the Iraqi government or military, including Saddam’s former palace in Tikrit. (Source: The Department of Defense)
12.22.2005	December 22, 2005 Granger Statement on Passage of Border Security Bill WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) released the following statement in response to Friday night’s House passage of H.R. 4437, the “Border Protection, Antiterrorism and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005”: “The passage of this bill – the most extensive piece of border security legislation in over a decade -- is significant. It also tackles two areas of border security that have had me concerned the most: it beefs up the number of agents we have at the border and curbs the ‘catch and release’ practice of detaining people coming here illegally,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. “We know that there are people coming into the U.S. illegally from countries known to harbor terrorists such as Syria, the Sudan and Iran. Given this situation, we cannot afford to risk having porous or weakly guarded borders. Border security is a national security issue.” Granger co-sponsored two of the bill’s provisions. One, led by Rep. Culberson (R-TX), funds a border sheriff deputy program, and the other, sponsored by Rep. Mike McCaul (R-TX), increases funding for more detention center space. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving her fifth term in Congress.
12.09.2005	December 9, 2005 Granger Hosts Bi-Partisan Meeting with Secretary Rumsfeld on War on Terror; Granger Says America Needs to Finish the Job in Iraq WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today hosted a meeting with the U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Pace and Members of Congress. Other Members who attended the meeting were: Reps. Sam Johnson (R-TX), Jim Marshall (D-GA), Todd Tiahrt (R-KS), Mac Thornberry (R-TX) and Marsha Blackburn (R-TN). The Secretary discussed the progress America and Iraqis are making in Iraq and in the War on Terror; specifically talking about the capability of the Iraqi Security Forces and addressing the false rumors about their ability. "We had a very informative meeting with Secretary Rumsfeld and General Pace this morning. It's important that I and other Members have the most up to date information coming out of Iraq so that we are able to tell people what's going on," said Congresswoman Kay Granger. "I believe this is a very critical time in Iraq. It's important to remind people of the significant progress that has been made. Iraqis have held two successful elections, adopted a new constitution and have 210,000 trained and equipped security forces. That is solid success no matter how you cut it." There were concerns voiced in the meeting that calls for immediate troop withdrawal from Iraq hurts troop morale, especially the morale of military families. "I've met with servicemen and women in Iraq and when they come back and hear people saying we're not making any progress and we need to pull out immediately, they ask me: 'do Americans get any good news over here? Do they still support this war?' I heard a story about one soldier who came back from Iraq who said he didn't realize how bad the war was until he came home. That story really captures what we've got going on in a nutshell - most of the good news out of Iraq is simply not being reported." Congresswoman Granger was asked to host the meeting. Granger has had numerous meetings with Secretary Rumsfeld, including a breakfast meeting that she had at the Pentagon with the Secretary the morning on September 11, 2001. Granger, who sits on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, has been to Iraq twice and has led two delegations to Jordan to train Iraqi Women leaders. She also chairs the Congressional War on Terror Team. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. She is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
12.09.2005	December 9, 2005 Granger, others to meet with Rumsfeld on war on terror By: SUZANNE GAMBOA WASHINGTON - Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has scheduled a trek to Capitol Hill to meet with allies who support the administration's stand on the war in Iraq. Rumsfeld was to meet with a handful of lawmakers at the office of Rep. Kay Granger, R-Texas, Thursday morning amid efforts by the administration to blunt criticism of the war and calls by Democrats for troop withdrawal. Granger's office said she was asked to hold the meeting - expected to last about 15 minutes - because Rumsfeld wanted to meet with key leaders in the war on terror. Rumsfeld plans one other meeting with a group of House members and was scheduled to meet with Sen. Joe Lieberman, D-Conn., before the Granger meeting. "He's coming to give a report on the progress we're making," said Caitlin Carroll, Granger's spokeswoman. Other House members invited to the meeting are Reps. Sam Johnson, a Texas Republican who was a prisoner of war for seven years in Vietnam; Mac Thornberry, another Texas Republican who serves on the Armed Services and Select Intelligence committees; Marsha Blackburn, R-Tenn.; Jim Marshall, D-Ga.; and Todd Tiahrt, R-Kan. Granger is a member of the House Appropriations Committee defense subcommittee. She has been to Iraq twice, including once to help train Iraqi women to run for political office. She also is chairwoman of the Iraq Women's Caucus. The meeting follows two recent speeches by President Bush to respond to criticism and questions about the U.S. war in Iraq. Bush's approval ratings are at the lowest in his presidency, and he and administration officials are trying to boost public support for the war before the Dec. 15 vote in Iraq to pick a permanent government. Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said Rumsfeld meets regularly with members. Some members he'll meet with have recently returned from trips to Iraq, while others don't often get the chance to meet with him, he said. Bush defended his war policy Wednesday and spoke of economic progress in Iraq. Rumsfeld said Tuesday the Iraqi elections will spawn increased violence, while Vice President Dick Cheney on Wednesday rejected calls for a speedy withdrawal of troops. Blackburn said she will speak against troops leaving Iraq in the meeting with Rumsfeld. "We're in this war to win, but too many in Washington are trying to claim otherwise. The assertion that there's no progress and comparisons to Vietnam are based less on historical fact than political maneuvering," Blackburn said. Support for the war has waned as the U.S. death toll in Iraq surpassed 2,000 and after longtime hawk Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa., announced that U.S. troops should be pulled out of Iraq.
12.09.2005	December 9, 2005 Rumsfeld raises possibility of dropping U.S. troop levels By: LIZ SIDOTI Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld on Thursday raised the possibility of reducing U.S. troop levels in Iraq next year below the 137,000 level of the summer. Between meetings with lawmakers on Capitol Hill, including three from Texas, Rumsfeld told reporters that if next week's elections in Iraq go well he expects U.S. troops levels, which were boosted to nearly 160,000 in advance of the election, to return to the 137,000 level. "If conditions permit, we could go below that," he said. Later he stressed that a decision to go below 137,000 would depend on conditions after the election and the recommendation of senior U.S. commanders. The Pentagon started building up troop levels this fall to 160,000 for extra security during Iraqi elections in October and in December. Rumsfeld went to Capitol Hill as part of the administration's effort to communicate more with Congress about the war in Iraq. Some lawmakers, including Republicans, had been pressing for more information on the war. Rumsfeld and Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, had breakfast at the Pentagon with Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn., who has supported the administration on Iraq in recent weeks, and then met with rank-and-file House members. All but one of the House members were Republican, even though other Democrats had been invited. One of the meetings was in the office of Rep. Kay Granger, R-Fort Worth. She was joined by Reps. Mac Thornberry, R-Clarendon, and Sam Johnson, R-Plano; Marsha Blackburn, R-Tenn.; Tom Tiahrt, R-Kan.; and Jim Marshall, D-Ga. All support the administration's war policies. Thornberry said the meeting helped the lawmakers see the broader trends in Iraq. "If you study unconventional warfare ... you know that the key target of the folks on the other side is the political will of the opponent," Thornberry said. Rumsfeld and Pace also went to the White House for a meeting with congressional GOP leaders on defense issues. Expected to come up at that meeting was a proposed ban on the "cruel, inhuman and degrading" treatment of foreign prisoners in U.S. custody and legislation standardizing interrogation techniques. The Senate overwhelmingly supports the provisions, which were sponsored by Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., and included them in its two defense measures. The House bills omit the provisions, and lawmakers from both chambers are trying to write final bills. Negotiations between the White House and McCain were continuing in hopes of reaching a compromise that would satisfy administration concerns. "I haven't seen the latest draft, but my guess is they'll end up working something out," Rumsfeld said. On Iraq, the Pentagon chief also said an increase in violence is expected around the Dec. 15 parliamentary elections in Iraq because "the terrorists have a great deal to lose, if the election is successful, which it will be." "Thereafter, the hope is that the conditions will permit some drawdowns in troops," he said. Asked about news reports that he plans to step down, Rumsfeld told reporters, "Those reports have been flying around since about four months after I assumed my post" in 2001. "I have no plans to retire," he said. On Wednesday, defense officials said the Pentagon has tentative plans to halt the scheduled deployment of two brigades to Iraq and instead to send smaller teams to support and train Iraqi forces in what could be an early step toward an eventual drawdown of U.S. forces.The proposal comes amid growing pressure from Congress and the public to pull troops out of Iraq. Details are still under discussion, and the plan would largely depend on the military and political conditions there after the parliamentary elections next week, said the officials.
10.13.2005	October 13, 2005 Granger Introduces Bill to Help Truckers Save Money on Gas; Reduce Air Pollution “Gas prices have been high for months now and Hurricanes Katrina and Rita haven’t helped the situation. These tax credits will help truckers with exorbitant gas prices while also reducing air pollution,” said Congresswoman Granger. “In the wake of Katrina and Rita, we are doing what we can to help ease the burden on our citizens with issues such as high gas prices. This bill would also take a serious step toward further ensuring improving our air quality.” The “Idling Reduction Tax Credit Act of 2005” would allow a tax credit of up to $3,500 for each truck outfitted with equipment described as “idling reduction devices.” The units are small, electrically or otherwise powered units that service essential truck functions such as cabin heating or cooling systems and trailer refrigeration units that are normally powered by the truck’s main diesel engine. Truckers would manually switch over to the device for power when a truck is stopped rather than running a truck’s main engine. Overall, the Environmental Protection Administration (EPA) estimates that idling trucks emit 5,000 tons of particulate matter per year. The EPA says that idling reduction devices could reduce ozone and particulate emissions (soot), as well as greenhouse gas emissions, by roughly 80 to 90 percent. Under Congresswoman Granger’s legislation, the EPA and the Secretary of Energy would certify which of the alternative idle power devices meet appropriate standards to qualify for the tax credit. If passed, the bill could help reduce demand for diesel fuel in the United States. The Federal Highway Administration’s 2003 Highway Statistics report found that unit trucks consumed 40 percent of all fuel consumption in the country, passenger vehicles consuming 44 percent. Industry experts estimate that 15.5 million trucks operate in the U.S., with 1.9 million classified as tractor-trailer trucks that will benefit the most from tax credits proposed by Granger. The American Trucking Association is strongly supportive of Granger’s bill. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
09.23.2005	September 23, 2005 Congresswoman Granger Named to Bi-Partisan Committee to Review Katrina Response WASHINGTON, D.C.—Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert (R-IL) today named Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) to sit on the bipartisan House Select Committee tasked to review the federal, state and local response to Hurricane Katrina. “I am honored that the Speaker has asked me to sit on this bi-partisan, select committee to review the response to Hurricane Katrina at all levels of government,” said Congresswoman Granger. “I believe it’s important that we take an honest look at where the system failed -- at what levels and at what points -- and make any necessary adjustments immediately. Americans must be able to depend on the government’s response, at all levels, to any major catastrophe be it a natural disaster, a terrorist attack or other incident.” The committee, called the “Select Bi-Partisan Committee to Investigate the Preparation for and Response to Hurricane Katrina,” will be comprised of eleven Republicans and nine Democrats. Rep. Tom Davis (R-VA), Chair of the Government Reform Committee, will chair the select committee that has been slated to begin its review on XX. Other Republican Members of the committee include: Reps. F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-WI), Harold Rogers (R-KY), Christopher Shays (R-CT), Rep. Henry Bonilla (R-TX), Steve Buyer (R-IN), Sue Myrick (R-NC), Mac Thornberry (R-TX), Charles W. “Chip” Pickering (R-MS) and Bill Shuster (R-PA). Before coming to Congress, Granger served as mayor of Fort Worth for five years. As mayor, Granger led the City Council in setting policy that enabled the city’s professional staff to create effective emergency management systems. Within the emergency management field, the city of Fort Worth is considered to have one of the best emergency response systems in the country. Fort Worth has been tested in several disasters, including a rampage by a gunman in 1999 that killed seven people and injured seven others and by a tornado that struck six months later in downtown Fort Worth. The tornado caused extensive damage and forced city officials to shut down the central business district for weeks. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
09.23.2005	September 23, 2005 Granger Announces Grants Fort Worth – Congresswoman Kay Granger has announced the award of grants to two Tarrant County agencies. The Department of Housing and Urban Development awarded $198,400 to the Fort Worth Housing Authority to help housing authority residents to become self sufficient. The “Graduation Incentive Bonus Program” award goes to public housing authorities, such as the Fort Worth Housing Authority, that have a proven record of helping their residents become self sufficient and less dependent on public housing. The U.S. Justice Department awarded Tarrant County $165,700 to help the county analyze backlogged forensic DNA samples that are needed to prosecute crimes involving sexual assault, homicide and kidnapping. The county can use the funds to enhance its lab capabilities or it can hire private accredited firms to do the testing on the backlog of samples.
09.15.2005	September 15, 2005 Congresswoman Granger Introduces Legislation to Aid Military Families hit with higher energy, gas prices as a result of Hurricane Katrina WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today introduced legislation entitled, the “Military Family Assistance Act of 2005,” that would give the Secretary of Defense the authority to temporarily adjust the monthly housing and cost of living allowance for military personnel affected by sudden increases in energy and gasoline prices. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, a number of areas in the Gulf Coast and other regions across the country will likely be hit with increased energy prices in the coming months. Most of the country is already experiencing above-average gasoline prices. “Our military men and women are sacrificing their lives for this country. Their families are experiencing financial and emotional stress. So when a natural disaster like Katrina hits, it can make things even harder on them,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. “This bill says, ‘We recognize your sacrifice. We appreciate it. We know gas prices are hitting you hard right now and this natural disaster is likely to increase your heating costs this winter. Here’s a little extra money to help you with the increased energy costs for the next few months.” The bill specifies the rate adjustment would be altered only for a temporary period of time to be determined by the Secretary and could not exceed six months. The Secretary also would have to provide written notice to Congress of any rate adjustment(s) made and the reasons for the adjustment(s). U.S. consumers have been faced with higher-than-normal gasoline prices in recent months. Hurricane Katrina does not help. USA Today reported this week that experts are saying Americans will feel the economic effects of Katrina for months, noting that “natural gas prices will be a big challenge this winter.” Reports from the Energy Department indicate that natural gas prices could rise up to 71 percent in some parts of the country this fall, which will increase the possibility of higher heating costs this winter. “Hurricane Katrina has been devastating to individuals, families and businesses across the Gulf Coast region, including military families. We’re now seeing its damaging ripple effect across the country,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. Granger’s bill is part of a multi-pronged effort by the Bush Administration, Members of Congress and Americans across the country to help victims of Hurricane Katrina. “Many of the men and women sent to help clean up Katrina have just come back from Iraq. They are tired and want to see their families, many of whom haven’t seen them in six months or longer. The families feel that strain,” said Granger. “A disaster like Katrina is going to hit an already-strained military family, and this bill will give them some relief.” Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She also serves as a Majority Whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
08.31.2005	August 31, 2005 If you would like to assist victims of Hurricane Katrina, the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) suggests contacting the following organizations: For Cash Donations: American Red Cross (800) HELP NOW (435-7669) English; (800) 257-7575 Spanish or www.redcross.org America's Second Harvest (800) 344-8070 For Cash Donations and/or Volunteer Work: Adventist Community Services (800) 381-7171 Catholic Charities, USA (703) 549-1390 Christian Disaster Response (941) 956-5183 or (941) 551-9554 Christian Reformed World Relief Committee (800) 848-5818 Church World Service (800) 297-1516 Convoy of Hope (417) 823-8998 Lutheran Disaster Response (800) 638-3522 Mennonite Disaster Service (717) 859-2210 Nazarene Disaster Response (888) 256-5886 Presbyterian Disaster Assistance (800) 872-3283 Salvation Army (800) SAL-ARMY (725-2769) Southern Baptist Convention -- Disaster Relief (800) 462-8657, ext. 6440 United Methodist Committee on Relief (800) 554-8583 Operation Blessing (800) 436-6348 For those individuals looking for the latest information on federal and state responses to Hurricane Katrina, please utilize the following agencies: Federal Emergency Management Agency www.fema.gov National Hurricane Center https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/ Emergency Management Assistance Compact www.emacweb.org Alabama Emergency Management Agency (205) 280-2200 (205) 280-2495 FAX https://www.ema.alabama.gov/ Florida Division of Emergency Management (850) 413-9969 (850) 488-1016 FAX www.floridadisaster.org Louisiana Office of Emergency Preparedness (225) 925-7500 (225) 925-7501 FAX https://www.ohsep.louisiana.gov Mississippi Emergency Management Agency (601) 352-9100 (800) 442-6362 Toll Free (601) 352-8314 FAX https://www.mema.state.ms.us
08.10.2005	August 10, 2005 Undermining Iraqi women By Kay Granger and Ellen Tauscher August 10, 2005 Caitlin Carroll Press Secretary (202) 226-7963 Washington Times TODAY'S COLUMNIST The final version of the Iraqi constitution is set to be completed by Aug. 15, and drafts currently circulating the country include proposals that could significantly weaken the status of women in Iraq. As co-chairs of the Congressional Iraqi Women's Caucus, we are particularly distressed by these developments. We believe strongly that Iraq cannot move toward a more democratic system of government without recognizing fundamental rights for women who make up 55 percent of the Iraqi population in its constitution. We have been proud to see Iraq's recent, progressive attitude toward the rights of women in society. Under the Transitional Administrative Law (TAL) that guided the Iraqi election in January, one-third of the candidates running for parliament office had to be women. TAL mandated that 25 percent of those elected had to be women, in contrast to the House of Representatives, where we serve, which is only 15 percent female. In January, we traveled to Amman, Jordan, to meet with many of the women running for election to Iraq's interim parliament. We were impressed by the level of commitment and personal sacrifice on the part of these women. They put themselves and their families at considerable risk — facing death threats and assassination attempts — as they sought to make an historic change in the future of their country. Their courage deserves a society that honors their bravery and sacrifice. But according to recent media reports, drafts of the soon-to-be established constitution would put basic human rights for women in jeopardy and, in addition, would eliminate requirements that ensure women are included as 25 percent of Iraq's parliament. Some of the drafts include fundamentalist Sharia law, which would require that issues like marriage and divorce be subject to the law of each family's religion or sect. Sharia law would preclude Iraqi women from holding jobs, serving in high office and traveling without a male relative. Instead of a nationwide law protecting women's rights in these matters, the women of Iraq would be subject to the dictates of varying religious beliefs. This standard flies in the face of the more reasonable TAL guidelines that suggest that religion can be one source of law, but not the only foundation. In addition, we have been alarmed to hear that some drafts of the constitution would eliminate the current requirement that women make up a quarter of the Iraqi parliament. Instead of reducing the participation of women in government, we have called on the Iraqi National Assembly to increase the number of women on the constitution-drafting committee so that it mirrors the overall proportion of women in the legislature. We believe that the fate of the Iraqi women is closely tied to the future of their country. If their rights are restricted and their freedoms withdrawn, Iraqis will be turning back the clock on women's rights for their country and the region. In recent weeks, hundreds of Iraqi women have protested the actions of the constitution-drafting committee and said they would lobby to remove the restrictions the draft of the current constitution places on them. We believe that the Administration should do all it can through the State Department or other appropriate contacts to provide advice and recommendations on the substance of the constitution to the drafting committee, so that this landmark document does not discriminate against women. We've been successful in generating support for this position in the House of Representatives, which passed a resolution we offered, urging equitable treatment of women in the constitution. Our Senate counterparts are also taking up this call — but we must act promptly, before a draft constitution is selected and finalized. We cannot standby while Iraqis limit freedom to only half their population; we must assist these courageous women. We hope that the brave efforts of the women who ran for office in Iraq and those who have sought opportunities for democracy will not be in vain. Reps. Kay Granger, a Texas Republican, and Ellen Tauscher, a California Democrat, co-chair the Iraqi Women's Caucus. They recently sponsored a resolution that encourages the Iraqi National Assembly to adopt a constitution that grants women equal rights under the law. The resolution passed a 435-0 vote.
07.28.2005	July 28, 2005 Congresswoman Granger Awarded to Legislative Honor Roll in Economic Achievement for Second Consecutive Year WASHINGTON, D.C.—The Southern Economic Development Council (SEDC) awarded Congresswoman Kay Granger to its 2005 Honor Roll of Legislative Achievement in Economic Development for the second consecutive year. The award is granted to legislators who have contributed to strengthening economic development in the Southern region. SEDC, the oldest and largest regional economic development association in North America, named 123 legislators to this year’s honor roll. This is the ninth year the council has awarded legislators to their honor roll. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful defense appropriations subcommittee. She also serves as a majority whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
07.26.2005	July 26, 2005 Granger Introduces Resolution Urging Iraqis to Preserve Women’s Rights in New Constitution WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) today introduced a resolution that encourages the Iraqi National Assembly to adopt a constitution that grants women equal rights under the law. The Iraqi Constitutional Committee, charged with drafting Iraq’s Constitution, last week released a draft of the constitution which relies on Sharia law, or traditional Islamic law, as the main source of legal precedence. If the language in the current draft is left unchanged, loopholes would exist in the constitution that would put basic human rights for women in jeopardy. “The current draft of the constitution puts women’s basic rights in grave danger. This resolution is intended to send a message to the Iraqi people that the United States strongly encourages them to adopt a constitution that ensures women have equal rights,” said Congresswoman Granger. “The rights the Iraqi women are asking for are not ‘women’s rights,’ but fundamental human rights and freedoms enjoyed by free people around the world.” The resolution expresses the sense of Congress that “in visits with legislators and officials of the government of the United States, Iraqi women have raised perceived limitations on their rights in a current draft of the Iraqi constitution”; that “the central principles of a true democracy, ‘liberty and justice for all,’ ‘equal justice under law,’ and ‘government of the people, by the people and for the people’ apply equally to women”; and whereas “Congress recognizes the commitment and dedication of the United States to ensure that the full rights of women are granted in the Iraqi constitution.” “By ensuring that men and women have equal rights under the constitution, Iraqis are guaranteeing that all of their citizens will be able to participate fairly in their country’s democracy. In taking these steps, Iraq can only inspire other democratic movements in the region,” added Granger. Granger has been very involved in helping train Iraqi women leaders and has become a leading advocate for ensuring women’s rights under the constitution. She has led two congressional delegations this year to Jordan to meet with Iraqi women leaders and has been in continuous contact with both Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice and the Bush Administration regarding the ensuring of women’s rights in Iraq’s constitution. Granger is also in the process of forming a group to support Iraqi women’s rights with EU Parliamentary Member, British Baroness Emma Nicholson. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful defense appropriations subcommittee. She also serves as a majority whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
07.14.2005	July 14, 2005 Granger Wins Seat On House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee WASHINGTON, D.C.—Appropriations Committee Chairman Jerry Lewis (R-CA) today announced the appointment of Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) to one of the two much-coveted open seats on the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. Granger will be the first woman--Republican or Democrat--to serve on the Defense Subcommittee, which directs roughly half of the Appropriations Committee’s total annual budget. Pat Svacina Communications Director (817) 338-0909 “I am extremely pleased to have Kay as the newest member on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee,” said Appropriations Chairman Jerry Lewis. “Kay brings a wealth of defense knowledge and her perspective as the first female subcommittee member will be invaluable.” Granger is a former member of House Armed Services Committee and has served on the House Appropriations Military Construction Appropriations Subcommittee for six years. The Congresswoman is a former Mayor of Ft. Worth--a major defense community with the Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base, Lockheed Martin Aeronautics, Bell Helicopter Textron and many other defense companies that work on important military programs all based there--and also co-chairs the Iraqi Women’s Caucus. Granger recently returned from Jordan where she led a congressional delegation to help train Iraqi women candidates for the Iraq election. Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert appointed Granger to the Air Force Academy’s Board of Visitors earlier this year and House Majority Whip Roy Blunt asked her to co-chair the Defense Aerospace Working Group that began in the winter of 2003/2004. “I am very excited about being asked to serve on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and am honored that Chairman Lewis has placed his faith in me,” said Congresswoman Granger. “Given the current times, there is no issue of more importance than ensuring our country is safe against terrorist threats and that our military has all the resources it needs to win the war on terrorism. I am looking forward to working with Chairman Lewis and my fellow subcommittee members to undertake this important task.” In 2003, Texas accounted for 10.6 percent of total active military personnel nationwide, with 228,737 military personnel located in Texas. The state of Texas ranks third among all states, only behind California and Virginia, in total number of active military and civilian personnel. Other members of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee include: C. W. Bill Young, (R-FL), Norman D. Dicks, (D-WA), David L. Hobson, (R-OH), Martin Olav Sabo, (D-MN), Henry Bonilla, (R-TX), Peter J. Visclosky, (D-IN), "Duke" Cunningham, (R-CA), James P. Moran, (D-VA), Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, (R-NJ), Todd Tiahrt, (R-KS), Roger F. Wicker, (R-MS), Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA). Granger was also reappointed to the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Subcommittee. Granger is a member of the U.S. House of Representatives’ leadership, serving as a Deputy Whip. -30-
07.14.2005	July 14, 2005 NRCC names Granger as New Finance Chair for 2005-2006 Cycle WASHINGTON, D.C.—The National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC) has announced that Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) will be their new executive committee finance chair for 2005-2006. The finance chair is the No. 2 leadership position at the NRCC. “This is an exciting and important time for the party and for the House,” said Granger. “When Chairman Tom Reynolds asked me to serve as the NRCC’s finance chair for this cycle, I accepted without hesitation. Much has been done for me, and I look forward to returning that help by assisting in whatever way I can so that we can retain and grow our House majority.” As finance chair, Granger will be in charge of helping members meet their fundraising goals. Granger joins 10 other chairs who make up the executive committee. The choice of Granger highlights the leadership’s respect and trust in the Texas Republican. Granger also was appointed recently to serve on the prestigious and much-coveted Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. In addition to the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Granger serves on the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee and is a member of the U.S. House of Representatives’ leadership, serving as a deputy whip.
07.14.2005	July 14, 2005 Granger Returns from Jordan; learns of widespread domestic abuse against women in Iraq; Some Iraqi Security forces operating on their own WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) returned yesterday from Iraq and Jordan where she led a congressional delegation to help train and coach Iraqi women leaders on different aspects of setting up a democracy and also met with top U.S. military officials in Iraq. Granger attended a conference with 150 Iraqi women leaders, including Narmin Othman, the current Minister of Women’s Affairs; Ala Talabani, an activist and the new Kurdish Prime Minister’s niece; and Safia al-Souhail, the new Iraqi Ambassador to Egypt. At the conference, Granger learned from the women of the widespread problem of domestic violence against women in Iraq. Granger was told of a man who was convicted of a crime and who was able to send his wife to jail in his place, which is legal to do in Iraq. There was another incident of a husband cheating on his wife and as his punishment; Iraqi tribal leaders determined his sister should be raped. The women asked Granger for her help. Granger will be setting up a group that will address the issue of violence against women with British Baroness Nicholson, a member of the EU Parliament, who was also in attendance at the conference. Granger believes that there is no better time to ensure that the Iraqi women have a sufficient voice in their government and in society than now when the new Iraq Assembly drafts a constitution, which will determine the future of women’s rights in Iraq and which will have an impact on the region. Twelve-hundred women sent in applications to attend the conference in Jordan, but only 150 were selected to attend. The vast amount of women wanting to attend the conference is evidence of the Iraqi women’s desire to have a stronger voice in their government and in society. The Iraqi women made the point of how grateful they were to the American people for all of their support and also discussed other roadblocks they are finding in establishing a democracy and concerns they have for women’s rights. In Iraq, Granger met with U.S. Army General George Casey, the Commanding General of multi-national forces in Iraq, and General Petraeus, who is in charge of training the Iraqi Security Forces. Gen. Petraeus said that they were turning the tide with the Iraqis and that they have over 150,000 Iraqi military and security forces trained. He said many of them are performing well in combat and/or security situations and that some of them are operating virtually on their own. Granger has become a leading advocate for Iraqi women and wants to extend her support to women in neighboring Middle Eastern countries such as Afghanistan and Iran who are fighting for a stronger role for women in government and society. Granger feels the success of women having a voice in Iraq’s government is not only crucial to the success of Iraq’s democracy but also to the success of potential democracies in the region. Granger also feels it is crucial for the United States and its allies to continue to show their strong support for these women in the coming months while Iraq drafts a constitution and lays the framework for the principles and laws of their country. Recently, Granger led a delegation to Jordan to help train Iraqi women candidates before the January 30 election. During the January trip, Granger discussed some of the aspects involved in running for office and what her experience as a U. S. Congressional member has been like. Granger has since been in touch with many of the Iraqi women including, Narmin Othman, the current Minister for Women’s Affairs, and Salama al-Khafaji, a very popular Shia leader and a newly-elected member of the Iraqi Parliament. These women have shown incredible courage in the face of personal death threats against them and their families and represent the future for women’s rights in Iraq and the Middle East. Other members of the delegation include Reps. Judy Biggert (R-IL) and Susan Davis (D-CA). Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful defense appropriations subcommittee. She also serves as a majority whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
07.14.2005	July 14, 2005 FORT WORTH HEALTH CENTER RECEIVES FEDERALLY QUALIFIED HEALTH CLINIC STATUS, GRANT FUNDING WASHINGTON—Forth Worth Northside Community Health Center has been designated a Federally Qualified Health Clinic (FQHC), along with nine other new designees in the state, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn and U.S. Rep. Kay Granger announced Tuesday. Cornyn and Granger worked together to help secure the status and funding and said the designation will allow the center to better provide access to healthcare for many people who would otherwise be without primary care. Caitlin Carroll Press Secretary (202) 225-5071 As part of its new status, Forth Worth Northside Community Health Center will receive a grant of $650,000 to provide health services to local low-income and uninsured Texans. The funding comes through the U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services (HHS) and is part of an effort to create new health care centers and expand the range of services offered by existing facilities. This project will create a new access point for the provision of comprehensive primary and preventive health care services. “This funding will help ensure that area doctors and health care providers have the needed resources to continue providing preventive and comprehensive care for patients,” said Cornyn, a member of the Senate Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured. “I’ll continue working in the Senate to make health care more accessible and affordable and to seek more support for community health centers. Helping the uninsured maintain a healthy lifestyle today is a lot cheaper than treating them in the emergency room tomorrow.” “Serious health problems such as diabetes and heart disease which often result in obesity are a growing problem in Texas and Fort Worth. At the same time, the number of uninsured citizens is growing,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. “Texas has the highest uninsured rate with 25 percent of its citizens without health insurance.” Granger continued: “I recently visited with University of North Texas Health Science Center researchers who are working with the Hispanic community on the North Side to finds ways to prevent diabetes and help those who already have the disease. The most valuable component of their diabetes research is the work the Northside Community Health Center because it is a state of the art health facility in the midst of the neighborhood.” The Northside Community Health Center is the only community health center in my district, and the new federal funding will be vitally important to providing and expanding quality health care to constituents in Tarrant County who have serious health problems or who are uninsured. Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Granger continue to help community health centers receive funding by working with them and HHS during the application process. Their offices regularly meet with federal, state and local officials, as well as community leaders to highlight the importance of more FQHCs in Texas. Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Granger have sent letters in support of Texas FQHCs and this round of funding. Sen. Cornyn has visited community health care centers across Texas and both the Senator and the Congresswoman support increasing their numbers while ensuring that the existing centers receive the funding they need to serve Texans well. “The great thing about community health centers is they provide clinical—that is, non-emergency room—access to health care in your neighborhood, where you pay based on a sliding scale, based upon your ability to pay,” Cornyn said. “These are actually designated health centers by the federal government. They have access to a number of important programs, for example, the Federal 340B Drug Discount Program. The task force recommends that the program be expanded to more people, so we can bring down the price of prescription drugs.” Within HHS is the Health Resources and Services Administration’s Consolidated Health Centers (CHCs) grant program, which provides for primary and preventative health care services in medically-underserved areas. The FQHC designation allows community health centers to qualify for federal funding from this administration, apply for reduced physician’s insurance and larger Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and participate in a low cost prescription drug program. Access to these programs and funding will strengthen the state’s primary health care infrastructure and will expand health care and social service programs to better serve the health care needs of the state. ###
07.14.2005	July 14, 2005 Granger and Wynn Introduce SAVE Act; Legislation Would Provide Health Coverage to 45 million Uninsured WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) along with Congressman Albert Wynn (D-MD) today introduced comprehensive legislation, as part of “Cover the Uninsured Week,” to provide health coverage to the more than 45 million uninsured Americans. The Securing Access, Value, and Equality (SAVE) in Health Care Act would offer an immediate tax credit to individuals and families to choose an affordable health plan that fits their needs. Cover the Uninsured Week was designated to focus national awareness on the urgency of the uninsured problem. “Having 45 million total uninsured Americans in a nation where we have the most advanced health care technology in the world is unacceptable,” Granger said. “The SAVE Act will give every American the coverage they deserve at a price they can afford.” The SAVE Health Care Act will provide each individual with a pre-payable, fully refundable tax credit toward the purchase of health insurance. Similar to the proposal made by President Bush, the credit would provide $1,000 for individuals, $2,000 for married couples, and $500 per dependent up to $3,000 per family. The credit goes beyond the President’s proposal by providing fifty percent of any additional premiums to assist those with higher costs. The legislation also expands eligibility requirements to allow all low and moderate income earners to have access to coverage. “The SAVE Act would help ease the burden on small businesses who often lack the resources to provide health insurance for their employees. It would also assist low-incomes working families in getting the healthcare coverage they deserve. I am proud to join Congresswoman Granger in this bipartisan effort,” said Wynn. Statistics show that the number of uninsured is growing. Nearly twenty percent of uninsured Americans – 8.4 million individuals – are children, up from 15.2 percent in the previous year; and 15.6 percent of the total U.S. population were uninsured in 2003, up from 15.2 percent in the year before. “The SAVE Act will provide access to coverage for those who are shut out of our current health system, give patients more choices and create a level playing field by offering all Americans – regardless of employment status –an option to get the care they need,” said Granger. The SAVE Act enjoys the support of Representative Nancy Johnson (R-CT), Chairwoman of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, along with five other members. Last year the bill garnered strong bi-partisan support with 43 co-sponsors. The bill has also received the support of a broad coalition of grassroots organizations representing hospitals, business, educators, doctors and other health care professionals. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful defense appropriations subcommittee. She also serves as a majority whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
07.14.2005	July 14, 2005 Congresswoman Granger Flies Sex Trafficking Victim from Eastern Europe to Texas for Medical Treatment WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) has arranged for a 19-year-old Moldovan girl who was a victim of sex trafficking to be flown from Moldova to Texas this Saturday for medical treatment. Granger recently traveled on a fact-finding delegation to Albania, Moldova, Italy and Greece where she was briefed on the growing epidemic of sex trafficking among women and children. Trafficking in persons is modern day slavery, involving victims who are forced, defrauded, or coerced into labor or sexual exploitation. While in Moldova, Granger met this young woman who had been abducted while working in a Turkish marketplace and sold into sex slavery. After a period of time, the girl escaped from the building where she was being held hostage by climbing out a 7th story window. She lost her grip on the sixth story balcony and fell to the street. Turkish authorities found the girl with a broken back and numerous other health problems and admitted her to a hospital in Turkey. Currently, the girl is paralyzed and needs spinal surgery. Attempting the type of surgery she needs at the severely inadequate medical facility in Moldova is the equivalent of a death sentence. Moved by the girl’s story, Granger contacted the Texas Back Institute (TBI), the largest spine specialty clinic in the United States, in Plano, Texas. The physicians at TBI agreed to take on the case free of charge. The girl, whose name must be concealed for privacy purposes, will be arriving this Saturday in Texas where she will be immediately taken to TBI. At TBI, specialists will assess her medical needs and determine the best course of medical treatment. With good medical attention, there is hope that the girl will be able to walk and lead a healthy, normal life. Sex Trafficking is among the fastest growing criminal activity, occurring both worldwide and in individual countries. Annually, at least 600,000 - 800,000 people, mostly women and children, are trafficked across borders worldwide. Roughly 75 percent of all victims of human trafficking are trafficked for sexual exploitation. Albania and Moldova are source countries for women and children trafficked for the purposes of sexual exploitation and forced labor, mostly to Greece and Italy, and to a lesser extent, the United Kingdom, France and The Netherlands. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful defense appropriations subcommittee. She also serves as a majority whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
07.14.2005	July 14, 2005 Granger Lauds Pentagon’s Affirmation of NAS JRB; Rumsfeld Suggests Base Expansion WASHINGTON, D.C.--The Secretary of Defense this morning submitted to Congress and the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) his recommendations for military facility closures and realignments. The Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth, Carswell Field (NAS JRB), was not on that list and in addition, the Defense Secretary recommends the realignment of over 400 personnel, four C-130H aircraft and depot maintenance expansion to NAS JRB Fort Worth. “I’m extremely pleased to learn that DoD has directed the realignment of additional missions, personnel and aircraft to NAS JRB,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. “We have always felt we had a very compelling case to expand NAS JRB’s missions should the Pentagon decide to do so.” The Pentagon recommends the realignment of over 400 personnel to NAS JRB; that aircraft and necessary personnel, equipment and support from NAS Atlanta, which was recommended for closure, be realigned to NAS JRB Fort Worth, NAS New Orleans and NAS Robins in Georgia; and the relocation of depot maintenance Aircraft Components, Aircraft Engines, Fabrication and Manufacturing, and Support Equipment in support of F/A-18, C-9 and C-12 be realigned to NAS JRB Fort Worth. Additionally, four C-130H aircraft are recommended for realignment from the Will Rogers’ Air Guard Station in Oklahoma to NAS JRB Fort Worth. “Having lived through the painful realignment of Carswell Air Force Base in the early nineties as mayor, my thoughts and best wishes go out to those communities who have been selected in this BRAC round,” said Granger. For the past 18 months, the Fort Worth’s BRAC Strategic Task Force conducted an in-depth analysis that indicated NAS JRB could absorb additional aircraft and personnel smoothly and easily. The base also has one of the few 12,000 ft. runways in the country and over 5.3 million square feet of ramp space. “The community welcomes the expansion of NAS JRB’s roles and missions,” said Fort Worth Mayor Mike Moncrief. “We look forward to welcoming those units, personnel and their families to the greatest city in the country and offer them a hearty Fort Worth welcome.” The number one proposed criteria established for determining which bases are likely to be retained under the “Selection Criteria for Closing and Realigning Military Installations inside the United States” is military value, based on current and future mission capabilities and the impact on operational readiness of the Department of Defense’s total force, including the impact on joint war fighting, training and readiness. “When the Pentagon outlined its criteria for 2005 the number one criteria was joint training and joint war fighting—that is what we do at NAS JRB better than anywhere else in the country,” said Granger. The Navy itself has long stated that joint bases are the way of the future and the North Central Texas is a prime location for a joint base. In fact, the Air Force identified the region as having the best recruitment demographics for the reserve mission in the nation. This was part of the rational behind the original realignment of the NAS Dallas, Memphis and Detroit base to create the joint Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base in Fort Worth. Additionally, the NAS JRB, with its 10,000 personnel and numerous missions, also creates an economic benefit of $1.4 billion annually to the local economy. NAS JRB is the only truly joint military facility in the United States with 1,857 active duty military personnel, 1,936 civilian employees, 6,736 reservists and 10,539 total personnel. It also houses a mix of 68 aircraft including fighters and transporters, and could absorb up to 186 additional aircraft and related personnel. NAS JRB directs over 50,000 flight operations each year. After receiving the recommendations today from the Secretary of Defense, the BRAC Commission will now spend the next few months reviewing the Secretary’s recommendations, and add or remove bases from the list. By September 8th, the Commission will submit to the president their final recommendations which the president has to accept or reject in full. Once the president approves the Commission’s recommendations, the list is submitted to Congress for final approval. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful defense appropriations subcommittee. She also serves as a majority whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
07.14.2005	July 14, 2005 Reps. Granger, Barton, Burgess, Marchant come out in strong opposition to Wright Amendment Repeal Bill WASHINGTON, D.C.--Representatives Kay Granger (TX-12), Joe Barton (TX-06), Michael Burgess (TX-26) and Kenny Marchant (TX-24) said today at a press conference that they strongly oppose proposed legislation introduced by Congressmen Sam Johnson and Jeb Henserling to repeal the Wright Amendment. Rep. Granger said: “Rep. Johnson this morning said at a news conference that this was an issue of airlines being able to have the freedom to fly wherever they wanted. He’s dead wrong. This isn’t a freedom issue. It’s a local economy issue. There’s an answer to this and it isn’t repealing the Wright Amendment. The answer is Southwest Airlines moving to D/FW where they will have room to expand and no restrictions. “The precious state of the aviation industry since the 9/11 terrorists’ attacks, the added pressures of record high fuel prices and a $2.7 million capital expansion at D/FW to maintain its competitive edge among airports makes this the absolutely wrong time to change the North Texas aviation rules,” added Granger. Rep. Barton said: “I’m proud to join this important fight to protect the North Texas economy and ensure low air fare costs by upholding the Wright amendment. The law has served all of us well and has fostered an environment in which two robust and profitable airlines have built a strong base for their operations. Wright has been fair and beneficial to businesses and consumers; repealing it now would be bad policy leaving two weakened airports in its wake. “I’m not willing to jeopardize thousands of reliable jobs only to provide a risky gamble for an antiquated airport that has no room for growth. I’ll take up this fight every time,” added Barton. Rep. Burgess said: “Almost three decades ago, the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth made an agreement to have one regional airport. If change is to occur to that agreement, it must come from the local level and not from Washington. If the mayors and county officials on both sides of the Trinity River can unanimously agree to change the agreement, then, and only then, should Washington become involved. “Our community is fortunate to have two thriving airports that serve millions of satisfied customers and employees hundreds of thousands of North Texans. We should not jeopardize that which is working well already,” added Burgess. Rep. Marchant said: “As the only Republican from the Dallas-Fort Worth region on the Transportation Committee, which has jurisdiction over the issue, I will do everything possible to prevent repeal of the Wright Amendment. I have briefed Chairman Don Young on the topic many times, and I continue to believe that this was a local decision made in good faith by two cities in 1979. If a change is to be made, it must be done by these two cities, NOT the U.S. Congress. “Everyone is saying how complex this is, but it’s actually quite simple. This is about protecting the 16,000 jobs and the billions of dollars that D/FW Airport pumps into the region. D/FW Airport is the economic engine of North Texas, and I intend to do everything I can to protect it,” added Marchant. The four Members pointed out that the circumstances that led to the Wright Amendment have not changed. The federal agency that regulated commercial passenger airports—the Civil Aeronautics Board--ordered an end to the years of bitter fighting between Dallas and Fort Worth by demanding that the two cities designate a single airport for the region. That was in 1964. A 1968 agreement between the two cities resolved the situation: Both cities would close their existing airports to commercial passenger service. Fort Worth closed Greater Southwest, and tore it down. Dallas pledged to close Love Field to commercial passenger service. A single regional airport would be built. That plan suffered a setback in the 1970s when a new regional airline, Southwest, won a court battle that allowed it to offer passenger service from Love Field. To insure D/FW remained the major commercial passenger airport, the two cities and D/FW agreed on a plan to allow limited commercial passenger service at Love Field that would not harm D/FW. Southwest was convinced to join the agreement and, in 1979, the agreement was written into legislation by House Speaker Jim Wright. Hence, it is called the Wright Amendment. Members also point to the three glaring reasons for why the Wright Amendment must remain in place and why repealing the Wright Amendment would cripple the local economy. Firstly, D/FW recently made necessary expansions that increased their debt substantially. That reality, coupled with Delta Airline’s decision to pull out virtually all its service from D/FW puts the airport in a position where it must increase rather than decrease service. Also, the high cost of flying from D/FW Airport is not to have more Southwest flights out of Love Field. Spreading commercial air passengers over several airports drives up air fares because D/FW Airport’s operating costs cannot be reduced by an amount that is correspondent to the drop in passenger volume. Finally, Southwest has always had the option of coming to D/FW to expand. By coming to D/FW, Southwest would not only expand its service, but also help the economy as opposed to hurting it. All four North Texas Members have vowed to fight to defeat the Johnson/Henserling bill.
07.14.2005	July 14, 2005 Congresswoman Kay Granger meets with Rumsfeld To Discuss Guantanamo Base WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth), Chair of the Congressional War on Terror Team and Defense Appropriations Committee Member, met with Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld this morning to discuss the US Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay and the importance this base plays on the global War on Terrorism. Twelve of Granger’s colleagues, House Armed Services Chair Duncan Hunter, amongst others, were also present at the Rumsfeld meeting. "One of the issues discussed today with Secretary Rumsfeld at the Pentagon was the issue of Guantanamo Bay. I want to reassure those concerned that the detainees at Guantanamo Bay are treated with their rights protected under the Geneva Conventions," said Congresswoman Kay Granger. "However, let us never forget we are dealing these people while our country is at war. They are being detained to protect are troops and our country." Added Granger: "Twelve detainees who were released because they were thought not to be a danger were later picked up in the field after attempting to harm our troops. They proved a danger to our men and women fighting for our safety and freedom." Detainees at Guantanamo are there because they have been accused of terrorism against our country and although they are in prison, they are being treated with dignity. From the intelligence the military has retrieved from detainees at Guantanamo Bay, numerous terrorist attacks have been prevented and terrorist networks dismantled. There are almost a dozen incidents where detainees have been released from Guantanamo and then taken part in anti-Coalition activities in Iraq. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful defense appropriations subcommittee. She also serves as a majority whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
07.14.2005	July 14, 2005 House Republicans Demand Apology from Sen. Durbin; Senate Democrats Should be Outraged by Inappropriate Comments Made about U.S. Military Men and Women WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today Reps. Kay Granger (R-TX), Sam Johnson (R-TX), Joe Wilson (R-SC), John Kline (R-MN) and Geoff Davis (R-KY) called on U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) to apologize for his remarks smearing the reputation of America’s military men and women, likening them to Nazis. The Associated Press reported, “During a speech Tuesday, the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat quoted from an FBI agent’s report describing detainees at the Naval base in Guantanamo Bay… ‘…You would most certainly believe this must have been done by Nazis, Soviets in their gulags, or some mad regime - Pol Pot or others - that had no concern for human beings,’ Durbin said.” Several House Republicans called on Senator Durbin to apologize for his disparaging remarks against the men and women who are bravely serving in the U.S. Armed Forces: “Sen. Durbin’s comments yesterday, where he likened U.S. servicemen and women to Nazis, is outrageous, disrespectful and anti-American,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX). “Our men and women in the military are putting their lives on the line every day to protect this country at home and abroad and are working tirelessly to help stabilize Iraq and Afghanistan so that democracy will flourish in the Middle East. It’s despicable for a U.S. Senator to speak this way and so show such lack of respect for their work and lack of regard for the truth.” “Why did Dick Durbin say this and why aren’t Democrats outraged? They should demand an apology from one of their most-vocal leaders. Aren’t they ashamed for him and embarrassed that he’s smearing the reputation of our brave men and women in uniform? Dick Durbin’s comments were reckless and irresponsible and he should apologize,” said Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX). “By likening US soldiers to brutal dictators, Senator Durbin is empowering terrorists who seek to murder thousands of innocent Americans. His irrational and careless remarks undermine the important service of America’s soldiers and encourage terrorists who seek to damage the United States,” said Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC). “I am appalled by that a member of the Senate minority leadership would make such comments. He should be embarrassed and should apologize immediately.” “The comments of Senator Durbin on the floor of the United States Senate are an outrage,” said Congressman John Kline (R-MN). “By comparing the questioning and treatment tactics employed by our men and women in uniform to the genocide and atrocities committed by the “Nazis, Soviets in their Gulags, or some mad regime – Pol Pot or others that had no concern for human beings,” he has dishonored our servicemen and women, and has diminished the true suffering of the victims of those regimes of terror. "Senator Durbin's regrettable comments about the conditions at Guantanamo have led to a predictable backlash by people who don't agree with our nation's policies in the first place,” said Congressman Geoff Davis (R-KY). "The detainees being held at Guantanamo are suspected terrorists who would like nothing better than to continue the heinous acts that began Sept. 11, 2001. The detainees are in jail -- not at Club Med -- and should expect to be treated as such. But they receive three healthy meals a day, beds in which to sleep and prayers are announced five times a day. They are living better than our men and women in uniform who are fighting for freedom and liberty in the desert.” From the intelligence retrieved at Guantanamo Bay, the military has been able to prevent numerous attacks planned against the U.S. and dismantle vast terrorist networks. Detainees at Guantanamo Bay include terrorist trainers and financiers, recruiters and bomb-makers, and body guards of Usama Bin Laden. Since September 11th, more than 70,000 detainees have been captured in Afghanistan and Iraq, the majority of whom have been released. Approximately 800 suspected Al Qaeda or Taliban operatives have been sent to Guantanamo, including an intended 9/11 hijacker, and of that approximately 520 remain, 235 have been released or transferred to other countries and 61 are awaiting release or transfer. Each case is reviewed at least annually for possible release. There are almost a dozen incidents where detainees have been released from Guantanamo and then taken part in anti-Coalition activities in Iraq.
07.13.2005	July 13, 2005 Congresswoman Granger Calls Democrat Attacks on Rove Partisan Gamesmanship Congresswoman Kay Granger released the following statement in response to Democrat demands for Karl Rove’s resignation for his talking to a Time magazine reporter about an undercover CIA agent: “The President and Karl Rove are doing exactly what they should. They are cooperating fully with the pending investigation. Mr. Rove has explained that he was not divulging information to the reporter. He was trying to discourage the reporter from writing a story using information that was not accurate. He knew then that much of what Joe Wilson was saying was untrue. The calls for Mr. Rove’s resignation are simply partisan gamesmanship.” Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful defense appropriations subcommittee. She also serves as a majority whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
07.07.2005	July 7, 2005 House Members Express Support for British People; Reiterate Resolve in Defeating Terrorism WASHINGTON, D.C.—Members of the Congressional War on Terror Team expressed their support and sympathies for the British people who were victimized by today’s cowardly attacks on London. The only goal of terrorism is to terrorize people and instill fear in society. America and her allies have been successful in dismantling terrorist networks worldwide both financially and militarily, and will continue fighting and defeating terrorism. Members of the team released the following statements: “I join President Bush in expressing my condolences to the individuals, and their families, who were injured or killed in the savage attacks in London today,” said Chairwoman of the Congressional War on Terror Team Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX). “As the British stood with America on 9/11, so America stands with Great Britain today. Today’s attacks on London are an unfortunate reminder that the war on terrorism, despite the great successes we’ve made, continues. As chair of the Congressional War on Terror Team, my resolve to fight and defeat terrorism is only strengthened by today’s brutal attacks.” “This morning’s heinous attacks remind us all of the grave dangers inherent in not confronting terrorists who think nothing of murdering innocent people to further their cause,” said Vice Chair of the Congressional War on Terror Team Congressman Geoff Davis (R-KY). “The fact that these attacks occurred while world leaders are meeting to discuss solutions to the AIDS epidemic and ways to achieve a cleaner environment shows the terrorists care nothing for the greater world around them.” “I extend my deepest sympathy to the victims of this heinous act, their families and the whole British people,” said Congressman Tom Tancredo (R-CO). “The British are our closest allies in the War on Terror. As they mourned with us on 9/11, and as they fight with us in Iraq, so will we mourn with them today and continue our fight against Islamic terrorists worldwide.” “The devastating terrorist attacks in London this morning underscore the need for our continued vigilance in the War on Terror,” said Congressman John Kline (R-MN). “We offer our prayers and condolences to the individuals and families affected by today’s attacks as we assure them – and our allies throughout the world – that our commitment to ending terror is unwavering.” “Our thoughts and prayers are with our friends and allies in London today,” said Congressman Jim Gerlach (R-PA). “These disgusting attacks on innocent people are further proof of just how far terrorist groups will go to advance their extremist agendas. We need to support our friends in their hour of need, just as they supported us in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States.” “The cruel and cowardly terrorist bombings in London today remind us that America is threatened each day by international terrorism, and that the only possible strategy against terrorists is one of constant offense,” said Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL). “My prayers and condolences are with all the people of London and, in particular, those individuals and families directly impacted by this most recent terrorist attack,” said Congressman Scott Garrett (R-NJ). “Only by continuing our efforts to defeat terrorists around the world can we end the threat of terrorist attacks at home. Out of the tragedy in London today, the message to terrorists remains loud and clear: You will not break our resolve with cowardly attacks on the innocent. We will not yield and you will be brought to justice.” “Today’s attack in London reminds us that the war on terror is on-going, and all free nations must stand together to defeat it,” said Congressman Virgil Goode (R-VA).
06.23.2005	June 23, 2005 Congresswoman Granger Responds to Democrat Attacks on Deputy White House Chief of Staff Karl Rove; Granger Asks: “Where are the Democrats?” Washington, D.C.—As Chair of the Congressional War on Terror Team, a group established to provide accurate information about the progress on the War on Terror, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) released the following statement in response to Democrat attacks of recent comments made by Deputy White House Chief of Staff Karl Rove: “The war in Afghanistan is ‘over?’ The war in Iraq is a ‘grotesque mistake?’ Calling for an investigation of the treatment of detainees because a UN Human Rights “expert” says there’s a problem? Does anyone remember when Libya was the chair of the UN Human Rights Commission? Where is the reality? Where is the respect and appreciation for our troops and their families for sacrifices they’ve made? Where is the outrage for the terrorists who struck at our very core on Sept.11? This Administration stands by our troops and is doing what needs to be done to ensure our safety and defeat our enemies.” Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the defense appropriations subcommittee. She also serves as a majority whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
06.30.2005	June 30, 2005 Congresswoman Granger Announces Funding for Fort Worth Community Learning Center WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth) announced that the Department of Labor this week awarded the Fort Worth Community Learning Center (CLC), Inc. with a $970,566 grant for a new job training program for youth offenders. The grant is one of 16 being awarded this week out of 168 grant applications submitted to the Labor Department. "I’m pleased that the Department of Labor recognizes the Fort Worth Community Learning Center’s abilities," said Congresswoman Granger. "With this grant, young kids who would otherwise be left out of the system will now have a way back in to not only better themselves but also to contribute to the community in a positive way." The Community Learning Center has proven to be an invaluable asset to the 12th District. Since its inception in 2000, the Center has trained approximately 1,500 individuals with barriers to employment including; low income, dislocated, underemployed and unemployed workers from the Dallas-Fort Worth area, successfully placing over 90 percent in aerospace, advanced-manufacturing job and other industries. The awarding of the grant is a testament to the effectiveness of CLC’s programs. With this funding, CLC will provide 150 youth offenders, aged 16 to 21, with training and subsequent employment and provide 50 youth offenders with a post-secondary education track. Key components of the program include referral, assessment, supportive services, basic skills remediation, technical skills training and job placement or post-secondary education enrollment. Partners include the local county juvenile justice system, Tarrant County Workforce Investment Board, employer, labor and industry representation, Tarrant County College and other educational/training partners and community/faith-based organizations. Technical skills training opportunities resulting in industry-recognized credentials will be offered in the high growth/high demand aerospace assembly, automotive, skilled trades and construction industries. The advanced manufacturing training will be implemented using CLC’s Labor Department-recognized Aerospace Industry Training Program (AITP) training curriculum. The pre-apprenticeship (worker readiness training) and apprenticeship training in construction, building and skilled trades, will be offered by union locals of the Central Labor Council of Tarrant County, an AFL-CIO affiliate organization. In addition, a broad array of training and educational services training will be provided from the Gulf Coast Trades Center. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful defense appropriations subcommittee. She also serves as a majority whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
06.07.2005	June 7, 2005 Granger Secures Funding for North Texas Defense Programs in Defense Appropriations Bill WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Kay Granger (R--Fort Worth) announced Wednesday that the Defense Appropriations Bill that passed out of full Appropriations Committee Tuesday included significant funding for important North Texas defense programs. The bill is scheduled for a vote in the House next Tuesday. The bill includes $4.3 billion to procure 24 F/A-22’s and the continued development of the program; $1.6 billion to procure 11 V-22’s and continued development of the program; $4.86 billion for the continued development of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program; and $360.8 million to upgrade 10 AH-1Z attack helicopters and UH-1Z utility helicopters for the Marine Corps. The $360.8 million allocated to upgrade the AH-1Z and the UH-1Z, part of the H-1 Upgrade helicopter program, is $10.8 million above the President’s request for the program. “I want to commend the chairman, ranking member and other and the committee members for helping secure continued funding for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, F/A-22 Raptor, the V-22 Osprey and the H-1 Upgrade helicopter programs,” said Granger. “These programs are important to help transform our military and to ensure that the U.S. is prepared to the best of her abilities to meet the unforeseeable events of the future. Our country’s best defense is making sure we are strong offensively. “This is also good news for the thousands of North Texas workers who work on these programs. I will continue to work with committee members throughout the rest of the appropriations process to ensure that these and other important North Texas defense programs receive needed funding,” Granger added. If passed, the Defense Appropriations Bill would provide $408 billion for needed equipment, training and other resources for United States military forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as funding for important defense programs. Granger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the powerful defense appropriations subcommittee. She also serves as a majority whip. Granger is the first and only female Republican to serve in the Texas House delegation. Granger represents the 12th District of Texas and is currently serving in her fifth term in Congress.
05.26.2005	May 26, 2005 Reps. Granger, Barton, Burgess, Marchant Come Out In Strong Opposition To Wright Amendment Repeal Bill WASHINGTON, D.C.--Representatives Kay Granger (TX-12), Joe Barton (TX-06), Michael Burgess (TX-26) and Kenny Marchant (TX-24) said today at a press conference that they strongly oppose proposed legislation introduced by Congressmen Sam Johnson and Jeb Henserling to repeal the Wright Amendment. Rep. Granger said: "Rep. Johnson this morning said at a news conference that this was an issue of airlines being able to have the freedom to fly wherever they wanted. He's dead wrong. This isn't a freedom issue. It's a local economy issue. There's an answer to this and it isn't repealing the Wright Amendment. The answer is Southwest Airlines moving to D/FW where they will have room to expand and no restrictions. "The precious state of the aviation industry since the 9/11 terrorists' attacks, the added pressures of record high fuel prices and a $2.7 million capital expansion at D/FW to maintain its competitive edge among airports makes this the absolutely wrong time to change the North Texas aviation rules," added Granger. Rep. Barton said: "I'm proud to join this important fight to protect the North Texas economy and ensure low air fare costs by upholding the Wright amendment. The law has served all of us well and has fostered an environment in which two robust and profitable airlines have built a strong base for their operations. Wright has been fair and beneficial to businesses and consumers; repealing it now would be bad policy leaving two weakened airports in its wake. "I'm not willing to jeopardize thousands of reliable jobs only to provide a risky gamble for an antiquated airport that has no room for growth. I'll take up this fight every time," added Barton. Rep. Burgess said: "Almost three decades ago, the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth made an agreement to have one regional airport. If change is to occur to that agreement, it must come from the local level and not from Washington. If the mayors and county officials on both sides of the Trinity River can unanimously agree to change the agreement, then, and only then, should Washington become involved. "Our community is fortunate to have two thriving airports that serve millions of satisfied customers and employees hundreds of thousands of North Texans. We should not jeopardize that which is working well already," added Burgess. Rep. Marchant said: "As the only Republican from the Dallas-Fort Worth region on the Transportation Committee, which has jurisdiction over the issue, I will do everything possible to prevent repeal of the Wright Amendment. I have briefed Chairman Don Young on the topic many times, and I continue to believe that this was a local decision made in good faith by two cities in 1979. If a change is to be made, it must be done by these two cities, NOT the U.S. Congress. "Everyone is saying how complex this is, but it's actually quite simple. This is about protecting the 16,000 jobs and the billions of dollars that D/FW Airport pumps into the region. D/FW Airport is the economic engine of North Texas, and I intend to do everything I can to protect it," added Marchant. The four Members pointed out that the circumstances that led to the Wright Amendment have not changed. The federal agency that regulated commercial passenger airports-the Civil Aeronautics Board--ordered an end to the years of bitter fighting between Dallas and Fort Worth by demanding that the two cities designate a single airport for the region. That was in 1964. A 1968 agreement between the two cities resolved the situation: Both cities would close their existing airports to commercial passenger service. Fort Worth closed Greater Southwest, and tore it down. Dallas pledged to close Love Field to commercial passenger service. A single regional airport would be built. That plan suffered a setback in the 1970s when a new regional airline, Southwest, won a court battle that allowed it to offer passenger service from Love Field. To insure D/FW remained the major commercial passenger airport, the two cities and D/FW agreed on a plan to allow limited commercial passenger service at Love Field that would not harm D/FW. Southwest was convinced to join the agreement and, in 1979, the agreement was written into legislation by House Speaker Jim Wright. Hence, it is called the Wright Amendment. Members also point to the three glaring reasons for why the Wright Amendment must remain in place and why repealing the Wright Amendment would cripple the local economy. Firstly, D/FW recently made necessary expansions that increased their debt substantially. That reality, coupled with Delta Airline's decision to pull out virtually all its service from D/FW puts the airport in a position where it must increase rather than decrease service. Also, the high cost of flying from D/FW Airport is not to have more Southwest flights out of Love Field. Spreading commercial air passengers over several airports drives up air fares because D/FW Airport's operating costs cannot be reduced by an amount that is correspondent to the drop in passenger volume. Finally, Southwest has always had the option of coming to D/FW to expand. By coming to D/FW, Southwest would not only expand its service, but also help the economy as opposed to hurting it. All four North Texas Members have vowed to fight to defeat the Johnson/Henserling bill.
01.11.2005	January 11, 2005 Congressional Delegation Returning from Training Iraqi Assembly Candidates WASHINGTON— The co-chairs of the Iraqi Women’s Caucus, Representative Kay Granger (R-TX) and Representative Ellen O. Tauscher (D-CA) led a trip to Amman, Jordan along with their colleagues Representatives John Shimkus (R-IL) and Judy Biggert (R-IL). The purpose of this trip was to observe and participate in the training of a group of Iraqi women candidates for the January 30th elections in Iraq. The Congressional delegation spent two full days discussing the different aspects of campaigning and the skills necessary to become a successful legislator. During the discussions, it became clear that the three major concerns were security, lack of infrastructure to conduct the election, and insufficient information about parties, candidates, and election procedures. The Iraqi women all expressed the need for a national dialogue between all parties in Iraq to address the challenges surrounding the political transition in Iraq, from power-sharing to addressing the needs of each group. The make-up of the 20 participating Iraqi women candidates was diverse. Participants from most major parties were present as well as candidates from most religious and ethnic groups. Despite the end of Saddam Hussein’s brutal regime, a number of the women candidates continue to suffer under the current occupation and have been personally affected by the insurgency because of their willingness to participate in making Iraq a free democracy. Several candidates have been threatened, while some have had family members kidnapped and held hostage. In the worst cases, some candidates have had family members assassinated. During the trip, the Congressional delegation facilitated and moderated an exercise to give the Iraqi candidates the skills to debate and achieve consensus for launching a national dialogue among all groups in Iraq. They also discussed and agreed on a set of objectives and conditions for a proposed dialogue. As the two-day meeting progressed, the discussions became frank and open exchanges on very difficult and sensitive issues. All of the Iraqi women candidates expressed appreciation to the Congressional delegation for what was, for many of them, their first exercise in democracy. The Congressional members who traveled to Jordan will be meeting today with future National Security Advisor to the President Stephen Hadley to discuss the trip to Jordan, the upcoming elections, and future efforts to promote democracy in Iraq. Representative Kay Granger stated: "Those of us in the U.S. Congress who participated are seasoned campaigners, but none of our experiences match the experiences of women literally risking their lives and the lives of their families to participate in this historic election. These are educated, articulate, successful women who are putting it all on the line for their countrymen and women. We went there to help and encourage them. This was an experience I will never forget, and I will never forget them and their stories." Representative Ellen O. Tauscher stated: "There is no denying the sacrifice and bravery exhibited by these Iraqi women candidates. They are painfully aware of the dangers to themselves and their families of their participation in the effort of self-government but they are fearless and committed. I look forward to supporting their efforts and will work with my colleagues and the Bush administration to deliver better security and public diplomacy to help them achieve our common goal: Iraqi self-governance and security." Representative John Shimkus stated: "In our Declaration of Independence, our Founding Fathers pledged…’their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor.’ These brave women are doing the same. We should honor and support their sacrifices." Representative Judy Biggert stated: "We came away from the conference with the hope and confidence that the women of Iraq will have the ability to make the first step toward democracy and will positively influence the national election for the good of the country." The Congressional delegation is committed to continuing its dialogue with the Iraqi women leaders throughout the political transition in Iraq through meetings and possible future trips.
12.01.2004	December 1, 2004 STATEMENT BY CONGRESSWOMAN KAY GRANGER On Dr. Bernard Weinstein & Dr. Terry L. Clower Analysis of Economic and Fiscal Consequence of Delta Shutdown Of the DFW Airport Hub When Delta Airlines’ announced its decision to close its hub at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport and to fly only a few flights out of the airport, it was clear that move would have serious ramifications for the airport and North Texas. We knew more than 3,500 Delta jobs were in jeopardy and that DFW would be left with scores of gates unused. The analysis by Drs. Weinstein and Clower measures the economic impact to the airport and to North Texas and it shows that Delta’s departure is grave. The loss of $35 million in landing fees, rental income and concession fees is 7 percent of DFW’s budget. In today’s financially stressed air travel industry, a 7 percent shortfall is virtually impossible to offset the impact quickly. The ripple effect on the area economy is just as grave. A decline in economic impact of $782 million is substantial. Dr. Weinstein’s and Dr. Clower’s conclusion that it could be years before DFW recovers from Delta’s shutdown clearly demonstrates that we should enhance, not undermine, DFW’s position, that this is not the time to weaken or eliminate the Wright Amendment. The state of commercial passenger aviation in North Texas is in the most precarious situation since DFW Airport opened in 1975 for reasons that are easy to understand for the following reasons: The aftermath of 9/11 and the heightened airport security around the world, rising fuel costs that are eliminating any positive effects of airline cost cutting moves and the need for DFW to maintain a competitive advantage with state-of-the art facilities. Circumstances just don’t allow for major changes in how commercial passenger service is provided to North Texas. DFW must remain the primary commercial passenger service airport of North Texas. I again urge Southwest Airlines to reconsider its decision not to offer service from DFW. Southwest can make North Texas commercial airline service the best in country by offering service from DFW. The flying public, DFW and Southwest would win.
11.30.2004	November 30, 2004 Trinity River Uptown Gets Congressional Approval FORT WORTH, TEXAS– Congresswoman Kay Granger announced Sunday that Congress approved federal participation in the Trinity River Vision Master Plan project, also called "Trinity Uptown," which will transform the Trinity River into a centerpiece of Fort Worth and surrounding communities. Over the weekend, Congress authorized $110 million in U.S. Army Corps of Engineers construction funding for the Trinity Uptown project. This was a vital step in assuring that the $360 million vision becomes a reality for the citizens of Fort Worth and Tarrant County. The authorization was part of the $388 billion federal appropriations bill passed by Congress for the upcoming fiscal year. This vote makes the Trinity Uptown vision an official project for the Corps of Engineers over the next few years. The Corps of Engineers is now authorized to participate in financing an urban waterfront north of downtown Fort Worth in an area that is called the Trinity Uptown. The project will include flood control, urban waterfront areas, continuous public access trails, environmental restoration, open spaces and transportation improvements. Locally, the Tarrant Regional Water District has financed and coordinated the Trinity Plan. The Streams and Valleys Committee has provided support and vision for the plan. The City of Fort Worth, Tarrant County, and Tarrant County College have been supportive and involved in the planning, and now in the implementation of the project. Granger hails the vote as an "endorsement" by Congress of local efforts to transform the Trinity River. "What makes Fort Worth and Tarrant County so successful is the willingness of all of these local governments to cooperate and work together for the good of the citizens," Granger said. "This is what distinguishes Fort Worth from most other communities and is the major reason why Congress was willing to be a partner in the project." "The Trinity Uptown Plan is now an official plan of city, county and federal governments," she said. "This is a community plan to make the river an integral part of our city. Now the federal government has joined with the City of Fort Worth, Tarrant County, the Tarrant Regional Water District and a host of others to make a dream a reality," Granger added. "The Trinity River Vision Master Plan offers a rare opportunity. It will bring much needed economic development opportunities and it will transform the river into a natural asset that all Tarrant County residents can enjoy," she stated. "In 20 years, I expect the unsightly and mostly vacant land between Downtown Fort Worth and Northside Drive to be replaced by a vibrant area where people live, work, play, learn, and shop," Granger predicted. "The downtown that we know and love today will double in size and it will be a great place, positively influencing every part of Fort Worth. Throughout the rest of the community, the river will be an amenity rather than a blight." Senator John Cornyn, R-TX, a key Senate supporter of the Trinity River Vision Plan said, "This important project will provide both flood control and increased economic development to Fort Worth and I’m encouraged by the decision to authorize its funding. Congresswoman Kay Granger was a tireless advocate of this effort to grow good jobs. She recognized the benefits of this plan from the beginning and we will continue working together through its completion." The larger Trinity River Vision Master plan is described as "a master plan for the Trinity River and its tributaries in the Greater Fort Worth area." The plan’s goal "is to preserve and enhance the river corridors so that they remain as essential greenways for open space, trails, neighborhood focal points, wildlife, and special recreation areas." The plan says the river "corridors are critical elements in preserving environmental quality and a high quality of life that attracts people to locate and stay in Fort Worth. Downtown waterfront initiatives will help accomplish a renaissance of the greater Downtown area that results in a sustainable mix of people living, working, playing, and learning in the Central City area." Granger said by employing a variety of techniques, "we will, at once, maintain our river flood management capacity, while also restoring much of the river back to a natural look." Planned improvements include: · Building 60 new miles of trails to compliment the 40 or so miles in place or under construction · 32 trail heads give resident easy access to the river · 40 neighborhood links · Five canoe landings · An urban lake · 1,400 acres of nature interpretive areas · And 4,800 acres of naturalized areas The local portion of the funds for the Trinity Uptown improvements will come from a tax increment finance district created by the City of Fort Worth last year and which includes Tarrant County, Tarrant County College and the Tarrant Regional Water District. The regional water district also has allocated $44 million for improvements to the river over the course of the next few years. In addition to authorizing the Corps of Engineers to proceed with the project, Congress’ Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill included more than $2 million for various aspects of the project. Specifically, the bill includes $500,000 to continue improving neighborhood access to the Trinity River and $725,000 in economic development funds to go towards design and construction. The bill also includes $950,000 for the Corps of Engineers’ Upper Trinity River Basin study. Much of this funding will provide for design, planning, and completing the environmental impact statement for the Trinity Uptown Project.
10.05.2004	October 5, 2004 Senate Takes Up Granger-Wynn Bill To Help Uninsured Crisis Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) Tuesday hailed Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) for joining an effort launched by Granger and Congressman Albert Wynn (D – MD) to provide health care coverage for the more than 45 million uninsured Americans. Murkowski announced Tuesday that she is introducing the Securing Access, Value and Equality (SAVE) in Health Care Act in the Senate. Granger introduced SAVE in the House in March 2003, and the bill is co-sponsored by more than 40 House members. The bill offers an immediate federal tax credit to individuals and families so they can choose an affordable health plan that fits their needs. Under SAVE, persons who are uninsured and those who depend on employer health insurance are both treated equally in the eyes of the tax code; this proposal is similar to health care plans touted by President Bush. The federal tax credit would provide $1,000 for individuals and $2,000 for married couples and $500 per dependent up to $3,000 per family to purchase health insurance of their choice. If premiums for health care insurance exceed these amounts, 50 percent of the additional premiums would be eligible to be paid with the tax credits. “I have heard the message that Americans want and need help with obtaining affordable, quality health care insurance,” Granger said. “I applaud Senator Murkowski for joining us in a common sense solution to the health care cost crisis. SAVE makes good medical sense, and it makes good financial sense. People who seek medical treatment early are less likely to become seriously ill. Medical treatments are cheaper when detected early rather than when treated in emergency rooms as a serious health problem.” Granger noted that 50 large U.S. companies early this year recognized that their pool of part-time, temporary, contract, retirees, and other employees were having severe problems obtaining health care insurance and formed a consortium to offer these employee groups access to health care insurance. This is one more indicator of how serious this problem has become. SAVE offers significant advantages over the current system: Secures the nation’s health care system and closes the gaps in coverage Provides access to health coverage to those who shut out now Provides value by giving more choices to people Brings equality to the health care system by allowing all individuals to have tax incentives regardless of their employment status SAVE is currently pending before the House Ways and Means Committee. Granger notes that private organizations, as well as the health care community, join her and her SAVE co-sponsors in calling for SAVE’s quick passage. SAVE will most benefit the most people by taking enormous steps towards solving the problems of the uninsured.
10.04.2004	October 4, 2004 Granger Accepting Applications for U.S. Military Academies (R-Fort Worth) is accepting applications from students seeking nomination to the U.S. military academies. Applications will be accepted until November 15, 2004. “The U.S. military academies are outstanding institutions of higher learning that are seeking the best students from around the country,” Granger said. “As a former teacher, I know that intellectual ability, leadership skills, and character are vitally important traits.” Any high school student who lives in the 12th Congressional District and who is in their junior year of high school is eligible to apply for a nomination. The 12th District includes the northeast and western portions of Tarrant County and all of Parker County. Granger makes nominations to the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, and the Merchant Marine Academy. Each academy makes the final selection. Information and application forms are available on the Granger web site, www.kaygranger.house.gov. Click on the “Constituent Services” hot button on the right. On the Constituent Services page, choose “Service Academy Nominations” for the forms and information. Interested students also may contact the District Office at (817) 338-0909 and ask for information about appointments to military academies. Applicants will be interviewed by a panel of community representatives. Granger is a member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee and an original member of the Select Committee on Homeland Security. She sits on three important Appropriations Subcommittees: Homeland Security, Military Construction, and Labor/Health and Human Services/Education. She is one of the House of Representatives’ leading defense experts. Granger is also the co-chair of the influential House and Senate Working Group on Aerospace and Defense. She is member of the U.S. Air Force Academy Board of Visitors, an outside oversight board for the President and Congress. She also serves on the boards of the Texas A&M Development Council and Southwestern University.
09.10.2004	September 10, 2004 Rumsfeld Presents Granger With Global War On Terrorism Coin WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Kay Granger (R – Fort Worth) received the first Global War on Terrorism Coin by Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld at a breakfast meeting and press conference Friday morning to mark the third anniversary of September 11, 2001. Nine Members of Congress assembled to talk about progress in the Global War on Terrorism and what challenges lay ahead. Additionally, they discussed how the military’s infrastructure and weapons systems are transforming so the United States continues to rise and meet the challenges of war in the twenty-first century. Congresswoman Granger attended a similar breakfast meeting with Secretary Rumsfeld on September 11, 2001, just before the third airplane piloted by terrorists hit the Pentagon. Rumsfeld called that meeting to discuss new and evolving threats around the world and why transformation of our military forces was needed. Today’s meeting brought together those who were present that day, and Secretary Rumsfeld presented them with the first Global War on Terrorism coins. The massive medallion-like gold Global War on Terrorism coin was presented to Congresswoman Granger in a solid oak casing with a gold plaque inscription from the Secretary. Secretary Rumsfeld created the coin to recognize Members of Congress for their leadership in the Global War on Terrorism and unwavering support for our men and women in uniform. "We are safer today than we were on September 11, 2001. We have declared a global war on terror and showed the courage to fight that war and not stand down," said Granger in this morning’s press conference. "We’re fighting that war over there so we don’t fight it here. "The War on Terror is a war we must win, and September 11, 2001, is a day we must not forget," Granger told the press conference attendees. Granger is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittees on Homeland Security and Military Construction. She also serves on the House Select Committee on Homeland Security. For more information, contact Pat Svacina, Communications Director, at (817) 338-0909 or Rachel Carter, Assistant Communications Director, at (202) 225-5071.