01.11.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) today issued a statement on the announced select committee to explore climate change policy: “I applaud Speaker Pelosi in agreeing to form a select House committee on climate change. As I stated earlier, we need to work harder and faster to become a carbon-neutral nation and world. The consequences of waiting any longer are too great, not just for our environment, but our economy and security. If we are going to have a select committee, we should do it right. I am disappointed the select committee wasn’t given the teeth it needs to address one of the most pressing issues of our time. This includes subpoena and legislative powers, which are granted to all other select committees and are needed to expose information that may be suppressed by our current Administration. I respectfully urge House leadership to reconsider the terms of this new committee.”
01.09.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger voted to pass legislation funding the U.S. Department of the Treasury and IRS for fiscal year 2019 to remove all doubt that hard-working Marylanders will receive their tax refunds in full and on time. Each year, about 2.35 million Maryland households receive an average tax return of about $2,860, which will remain in jeopardy as long as President Trump and Senate Republicans refuse to end the partial government shutdown and fully re-open the IRS. Last week, the Trump Administration announced that the IRS – currently operating with just 12 percent of its workforce – will be unable to issue tax refunds during the shutdown. Then, after House leaders announced plans to pass legislation fully funding the IRS, the Administration said it would bring back some furloughed employees in order to process refunds on-time. “The only way to prevent confusion and ensure that all Americans will receive their tax refunds without delay is to fully re-open the IRS and bring all IRS employees back to work,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We must end this senseless shutdown today.” The U.S. House of Representatives has already passed a complete funding package known as a “minibus” to re-open the government. Senate leaders refuse to bring that bill up for a vote, despite having previously passed identical legislation. Now, over the coming days, the House is taking action to re-open all government agencies that are affected by passing individual, bipartisan appropriations bills. “I believe in governing responsibly and will not allow hard-working Marylanders or the American people to be held hostage by the President’s demand for a border wall,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We can debate border security funding and strategy, as soon as the government is reopened."
01.09.2019	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, together with U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), John P. Sarbanes (MD-3), Andy Harris, M.D. (MD-1), Anthony Brown (MD-4), Jamie Raskin (MD-8) and David Trone (MD-6) announced today that Maryland has been awarded $10.6 million through the Preschool Development Grants Birth through Five program to conduct a statewide, comprehensive birth through age five needs assessment for Maryland’s children. In October 2018, Maryland’s full Congressional Delegation urged Secretary Alex Azar of the Department of Health and Human Services to support the Maryland State Department of Education’s grant application. “This is the type of common sense investment Americans want and expect,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Research suggests that Pre-K can improve a child’s chance of success in school and in life – children who attend Pre-K are more likely to graduate from high school, earn more as adults and avoid involvement in our criminal justice system. This is an investment in our future.” Maryland is one of 45 states to receive a Preschool Development Grant Birth through Five Initial Grant, which were designed to target a comprehensive statewide birth through five needs assessment, strategic planning, parent choice and knowledge about mixed deliver systems, and sharing best practices prior to implementation of any quality initiatives states identify in a strategic plan developed based on what they identify through their statewide birth through five needs assessment. Maryland is one of nine states that received the maximum award. According to the Maryland State Department of Education, the grant will cover the cost of: 8 Regional Town Halls across Maryland to conduct a Statewide Prenatal to Age 5 Needs Assessment to improve access and quality to early childhood education programs with a focus on our most vulnerable children Funding for all 24 local Early Childhood Advisory Councils Training and coaching for 200 early childhood educators on Maryland's new 4-year-old integrated curriculum Modernization of Maryland's early childhood data system Supports for early childhood programs to reach higher quality tiers in Maryland EXCELS Technical assistance to support the growing population of Dual Language Learners An inventory of Higher Education early childhood programs Investments in family engagement activities Grants for libraries to support children without access to early childhood programs. “I’m proud that the Maryland State Department of Education has secured $10.6 million in federal funds to conduct a statewide assessment of what must be done to ensure that Maryland students have quality childhood education programs,” said Senator Cardin, a member of the Senate Finance Committee. “The federal funds announced today will strengthen existing and future federal-state investments in childhood education, and go a long way toward helping students excel when entering kindergarten.” “To best prepare our children for the future, we have to start early,” said Senator Van Hollen, a member of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committees. “This investment in Maryland’s children will help ensure that they get the care they need and the education they deserve in order to succeed. I was proud to support this funding – grants like this benefit all Marylanders and are key to our children’s success.” “I’m very pleased that the state of Maryland has again received funding through the Preschool Development Grants program,” said Congressman Hoyer. “As we have seen in past years, this federal investment will help improve upon our existing early childhood infrastructure including, Judy Centers, which provide comprehensive services and education to children and families. These new funds are an important step in ensuring the success of children and families in Maryland.” “I often say that our children are the living messages that we send to a future we will never see, and nurturing a student’s early development is crucial to fostering their future success. I applaud the Maryland State Department of Education for securing $10.6 million in federal funds to assess childhood education programs statewide so that we can ensure every young student has access to the skills needed to excel when entering kindergarten,” said Congressman Cummings. “This new federal investment in Maryland’s children will help improve early childhood education and services across our state,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “I was proud to work alongside my colleagues in the Maryland Congressional Delegation to secure these important funds.” “I want to thank this administration for granting funds to help ensure Maryland’s preschool children in need receive a high quality education. Thank you to Secretary Azar for his response to the Maryland delegation’s request – assuring these federal funds will help benefit preschool children who need strong education programs,” said Congressman Harris. “One of the greatest sources of inequality in our country is the inability for every American family to access early childhood education,” said Congressman Brown. “When we give every child the opportunity to succeed, every child can succeed, and set themselves down the path toward long-term achievement. This federal funding is a significant step to ensure more of Maryland’s families have the opportunity to set their children up for success, and a reminder that our work is not done until we realize our goal of universal pre-K.” “I’m thrilled that Maryland was chosen to receive this money to conduct a statewide study of early childhood needs. We are committed to getting the information and following through with the policies we need to guarantee all kids are ready to excel when they get to kindergarten,” said Congressman Raskin. “There is nothing more important than investing in the next generation, and that starts with early childhood education,” said Congressman Trone. “This federal funding will help ensure that we do everything we can to set up our children for success at an early age.”
01.03.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Hours after being sworn into his ninth term representing Maryland’s Second District in the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger tonight voted in support of legislation to end the government shutdown – now heading into its third week – and to provide 30 days to negotiate border security funding levels. He issued the following statement: “Today, I was pleased to make it my first order of business in the new Congress to vote in favor of two bills to reopen the government, ensuring our dedicated federal workers get the paychecks they’ve earned and restoring essential services to all Americans. The effects of such senseless government shutdowns are particularly severe in Maryland, which is home to more than 60 federal agencies and 146,700 federal workers. The bills passed the House thanks to support from lawmakers on both sides of the aisle who reject President Trump’s efforts to hold the nation hostage to his vanity project – the border wall boondoggle he said Mexico would finance. We all support border security, but it must be done strategically. The only things a wall stops are migrant families seeking a better life. ag, we should invest in manpower, technology and more federal judges to reduce immigration court backlogs. These bills reopen the government and give Congress 30 days to negotiate border security funding levels. Unfortunately, Senate leaders have indicated they will not consider these critical bills, despite the fact that the Senate passed identical legislation by more than 90 votes and, or, in Committee unanimously. It seems Senate Republicans refuse to take ‘yes’ for an answer. Responsibility for the ongoing shutdown rests squarely on their shoulders."
12.21.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after Defense Secretary James Mattis announced his resignation effective at the end of February 2019: “I am a Defense Appropriator who has met with Secretary Mattis many times. For the past two years, I've told family, friends, colleagues and constituents that I sleep better at night knowing that James Mattis is the Secretary of Defense. Last night, I had nightmares. Many of us have relied on Secretary Mattis to be someone inside the Trump Administration willing to speak truth to power. He has worked hard not only to prevent the use of force, but to ensure that our troops are equipped and ready if we must. Secretary Mattis once said that if we continue to deplete the State Department’s budget, he’s ‘going to need to buy more ammo.’ I have quoted this often. Frankly, the world is safer with Secretary Mattis behind the wheel at the Defense Department. The President's recent decision to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria – for the wrong reasons and in the wrong way – is an example of the sort of decision we can expect from the White House without Secretary Mattis in the room. This makes it all the more important for Congress to debate our current Authorizations for Use of Military Force, and determine what role the United States Armed Forces will have overseas moving forward. I look forward to tackling this critical issue with my colleagues as soon as possible. Secretary Mattis' expertise has been invaluable during the most dangerous times our country has ever seen, with threats coming from China, Russia, North Korea, Iran, terrorists and cyber criminals. We are indebted to Secretary Mattis for his 50 years in public service.”
12.19.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) today issued a statement in support of a select committee to explore climate change policy proposals: “Recent assessments completed by both the United States government and the United Nations have determined that bold and immediate action must be taken to mitigate the effects of climate change that are wreaking havoc on our planet. I could not agree more, which is why I have decided to support a select committee to consider solutions including the proposed Green New Deal. We need to work harder and faster to become a carbon-neutral nation and world. The consequences of waiting any longer are too great, not just for our environment, but our economy and security. My support of a select committee is in keeping with a strong record on climate change and environmental protection. I have supported aggressive anti-carbon measures in the past, including landmark efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by creating a cap-and-trade system. I have vocally opposed gas and oil exploration off the Atlantic coast and in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. I’ve asked President Trump to formally recognize the findings of the most recent National Climate Assessment and continue to urge him to re-sign the Paris Climate Agreement. Recently, I fought for a new windfarm off the coast of Ocean City, Maryland, which will create “green” jobs for Second District families, where the wind turbines will be manufactured. We need to do this on a national and global level, which is the heart of the New Green Deal proposal. I want to thank my many colleagues who have been working on climate policy for years. I would hope the select committee will work in concert with the existing committees of jurisdiction that will have the ultimate legislative authority.”
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, along with Baltimore Mayor Catherine E. Pugh and Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger, Andy P. Harris, M.D., Anthony G. Brown and Jamie B. Raskin, met Thursday at the U.S. Capitol with CSX CEO Jim Foote to discuss a path forward on replacing the Howard Street Tunnel, which has widely been described as “ancient.” The meeting comes almost exactly one year after Foote met with the Maryland delegation to review why the project had been abandoned by the former CEO. During today’s meeting, Foote laid out the research done by CSX personnel over the last year and committed to re-engage in the project – with $91 million toward the overall cost. “We are pleased that CSX has reversed its position on the Howard Street Tunnel project and is once again supportive and willing to participate,” said Senator Cardin. “Replacement of the Howard Street Tunnel is in the economic interest of Baltimore and the region, as well as safety for the immediate area. It’s now incumbent on all stakeholders – federal, state, local and others in the private-sector who would benefit from this project – to come together to update the finance plan for getting this done in the most efficient and safe manner possible.” “The Howard Street Tunnel is central to the success of the Port of Baltimore and the region’s economy. We were deeply concerned when CSX appeared to be walking away from the deal to expand the tunnel, and we’re pleased to hear they’re back at the negotiating table and are committing $91 million to the project. We will remain in close contact with all of the partners in this critical project to ensure we are able to move goods and freight across the state to support our workers and our economy,” said Senator Van Hollen. “I am grateful to the CSX leadership for recognizing how vital it is that we create a new Howard Street Tunnel once and for all,” said Mayor Pugh. “We can no longer neglect essential infrastructure improvements in our City and we welcome this partnership with CSX to get the job done with regard to the Tunnel. This will not only remedy a serious safety hazard, but it’s an investment in our City’s longer-term competitive interests.” “Last year, my colleagues and I asked CSX to re-examine the value of the Howard Street Tunnel project on which our state and delegation have worked for so long. I am pleased that CSX kept its word and has now concluded that there is significant value in this project and the company is again willing to participate financially,” Congressman Cummings said. “I look forward to working with the delegation and all stakeholders to see how we can advance this project, rebuild the Howard Street Tunnel, and support the continued growth of our economy.” “My spirit is up after meeting with CSX’s CEO today. They are willing to contribute $91 million to raising the clearance of the Howard Street Tunnel,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “This will allow us to double stack containers, reducing the cost of doing business at the Port of Baltimore while generating 34,000 jobs and $2.9 billion for the region. I hope the coalition of stakeholders can come together to bring this worthy project to fruition.”
12.12.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after voting to support a rule advancing the compromise Farm Bill: “I supported today’s rule because my vote was needed to counter the effort by the Freedom Caucus to derail the Farm Bill, which contains critical investments for priorities ranging from bioenergy to the opioid crisis to the Chesapeake Bay restoration. The nutritional assistance program funded by the Farm Bill (SNAP) is a lifeline for 42 million Americans. I want to be clear that I support the House having a full, complete, and open debate on U.S. military support for the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen, especially in light of recent events. I am supporting a resolution to withdraw our troops from Yemen. I have also voted to repeal the current AUMF that the President is using as legal justification for the war in Yemen.”
12.10.2018	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) today announced that Congressman Steve Stivers of Ohio will serve as the Republican co-chair of the bipartisan House Municipal Finance Caucus in the next Congress. Stivers, who serves on the House Financial Services Committee, has been a licensed securities trader and bank executive and has been active on municipal policy throughout his time in office. “Municipal bonds are the single most important tool in the country for financing new schools, hospitals, roads, fire stations and more,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Steve has already championed efforts to refine municipal advisor regulations and I look forward to working with him to protect common sense, job-creating tools that our communities need.” “The Municipal Finance Caucus advocates for states and local communities across the country, ensuring they have access to critical financing to build hospitals, schools, roads, and other important projects,” Congressman Stivers said. “I am proud to join Congressman Ruppersberger to lead this Caucus, and look forward to working to advance municipal finance policy in the 116th Congress.” Congressman Ruppersberger founded the Municipal Finance Caucus with out-going co-chair Congressman Randy Hultgren of Illinois in 2016 as a forum to discuss the opportunities and challenges for states and local governments to independently fund initiatives that strengthen their communities, and to advocate for bipartisan policies that enhance their access to capital markets. Key issues that merit strong consideration include: protecting the tax exempt status of municipal debt, understanding how financial regulations treat such debt, and ensuring there is a robust market for municipal securities. Both Congressmen Ruppersberger and Stivers thanked Hultgren for his leadership. “Congressman Hultgren’s experience at the federal, state and local levels proved invaluable in our efforts to shine a light on municipal issues in Congress,” they said. The new leadership team was applauded by stakeholder groups including the State Treasurer’s Association and Municipal Bonds for America. "The National Association of State Treasurers would like to congratulate Rep. Steve Stivers on his new position as the incoming Republican co-chair of the bipartisan Municipal Finance Caucus. As State Treasurers, we rely on strong partnerships with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle in all levels of government to secure low-cost funding for critical public infrastructure projects,” said Beth Pearce, NAST President and Vermont State Treasurer. “The Municipal Finance Caucus has established a strong alliance unified by the common purpose of ensuring the future of municipal bonds as a vital resource to support enhancements to state and local infrastructure. NAST looks forward to continuing our work with the Caucus and co-Chairs Rep. Steve Stivers and Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger to expand the use of tax-exempt debt to meet future infrastructure financing thresholds,” added David Damschen, incoming NAST President and Utah State Treasurer.
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, along with Congressmen Dutch Ruppersberger, Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, John P. Sarbanes, Andy P. Harris, M.D., John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie B. Raskin have announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded $6,554,575 in federal funding for the Maryland Port Authority. The grant will be used to construct a second berth capable of serving ultra large container ships and cargo, as part of the Port of Baltimore’s Seagirt Marine Terminal modernization project. The expanded wharf will dramatically increase Baltimore’s shipping and trade capacity, bringing added economic opportunities and jobs to Maryland. “These federal funds are an investment in Maryland and all our working families, who deserve a stable job market and a healthy local economy. This grant will keep the Port of Baltimore competitive among deep-berth ports and will provide continuing economic dividends for Baltimore’s workforce and across the state. We appreciate Secretary Chao working with us on this important issue -- Team Maryland stands united to use every opportunity to ensure these kind of investments in Maryland’s economy continue through the next Congress,” the lawmakers said. The funds come from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Better Utilizing Investment to Leverage Development (BUILD) grant program. In July, the full delegation sent a letter to Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao requesting that the Maryland Port Authority be fully considered for a grant, writing: “Baltimore’s multimodal port supports nearly 34,000 jobs, produces $2.9 billion in personal income, and generates $2.2 billion in business revenue […] This project would significantly benefit the nation, mid-Atlantic region, and the State of Maryland.”
12.07.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced that a team of seniors from Eastern Tech High School in Essex has won the fifth-annual high school “App Challenge.” The academic competition, which is open to all high school students in Maryland’s Second Congressional District, requires students to create an original software application for mobile, tablet or other device on a platform of their choice. The winners – Jeffrey Cai, Paulo Manalo, Samuel Kabui, and Asenath Yaptangco – created a mobile game called “Space Hops” that requires players to navigate a rocket that has run out of fuel through space, avoiding asteroids. Over the course of several months, the students learned computer coding, designed graphics, developed the game and created a marketing and advertising plan. Contest participants were required to submit a video demonstrating and explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process. You can see the winning team’s video here. “The App Challenge was created because our country has been falling behind on the STEM and computer-based skills essential for economic growth and innovation,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We need exceptional students like Jeffrey, Paulo, Samuel and Asenath if we want to stay competitive – not to mention the valuable skills they’ve learned through this contest will prepare them for high-paying, high-demand jobs. I congratulate each of them, and all of this year’s participants, on a job well done.” By some estimates, the U.S. may be short by as many as 1 million programmers by 2020. The Congressional App Challenge is the most prestigious prize in student computer science. Participation in the challenge has grown exponentially since it was first established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2014, with more than 1,700 submissions received in 2017. Winners from across the country are invited to showcase their apps to Members of Congress and the tech community at #HouseOfCode, a reception on Capitol Hill held each spring. Their work is eligible to be featured for one year on permanent display in the U.S. Capitol Building and on the House.gov website. Each winning student also receives $250 in Amazon Web Service credits.
12.06.2018	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen and Congressmen Steny Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger, and John Sarbanes yesterday met with the University System of Maryland (USM) Board of Regents Chair Linda Gooden and USM Chancellor Bob Caret. The meeting was requested in the aftermath of the Board’s investigation into and recommendations regarding the football program at the University of Maryland, College Park (UMD). After the meeting, the members released the following joint statement: "In the wake of the tragic and avoidable death of Jordan McNair, it is critical that the entire University System of Maryland implements reforms to keep students safe. In our meeting, Chair Gooden and Chancellor Caret reiterated their commitment to following the recommendations of the independent commission. But promises are not enough, and the congressional delegation will push for continued oversight to ensure health and safety remain their primary focus. In the aftermath of the McNair tragedy, it's also clear that the Board of Regents acted outside of the bounds – we support Dr. Loh and believe universities' presidents must have the authority to implement personnel and operational decisions on their own campuses. Together, we will work to make sure that USM delivers a high-quality education and provides for the health and safety of every student."
12.05.2018	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen and Congressmen Steny Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (All D-Md.) met Wednesday evening with General Motors Chair and CEO Mary Barra in an effort to gain clarity and reverse the decision to close the GM facility at White Marsh. The lawmakers released the following joint statement on the meeting: “This evening, we met with General Motors (GM) Chair and CEO Mary Barra and again reiterated our shock and dismay at the company's plans to end production at its White Marsh facility, home to 350 dedicated employees and contractors. We urged her to reconsider the company’s decision, as the plant is large, modern and situated in a community that wants to keep up its hard work. The company’s stated ‘realignment’ to focus on light-duty trucks, sport utility vehicles (SUVs), and self-driving and electric vehicles makes the White Marsh decision incomprehensible because the plant makes light-duty truck transmissions and electric motors. “More importantly: the American people came to the aid of GM in a time of crisis. Now, GM is turning its back on workers who helped the company weather the storm. In addition to a $50 billion taxpayer bailout and a tax cut from the Republican tax law, GM has received nearly $115.5 million in federal, state and local grants exclusively for its White Marsh facility. The company is now seeing tremendous growth and, if it insists on laying off the employees who helped it rebound from near-bankruptcy, GM should return these grants to the taxpayers by providing re-training and new opportunities to affected employees. Additionally, absent a change of heart, we asked Chairman Barra to help find a new tenant for the facility that offers a manufacturing future for the community of White Marsh. We look forward to continued conversations with a singular focus on the lives and livelihoods of our constituents.”
12.03.2018	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, along with Congressmen Elijah Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes and Jamie Raskin (all D-MD) have sent a letter to General Motors Chairman and CEO Mary Teresa Barra requesting a meeting to discuss the company’s decision to terminate operations at its White Marsh facility, calling it an “example of extremely poor corporate citizenship.” The company announced it will cease production at the transmissions plant in Maryland, which employs 400 hourly, salaried and contracted workers. The state-of-the-art 580,000 square-foot facility has received hundreds of millions of dollars at the federal, state and local levels since it opened its first White Marsh plant in 2000 and its second in 2012. The plants are home to a top-tier workforce based on GM’s own corporate metrics. “We believe that White Marsh’s highly skilled workforce, modern facility and experience with production lines, from electric motors to transmissions, can and should be repurposed to meet GM’s new business objectives,” the lawmakers wrote. “GM has a responsibility not just to its shareholders but to its workforce and the taxpayers who provided the company with so much financial support.” General Motors has received more than $245 million in grants from state, federal and local governments to grow its operations and a $50 billion taxpayer bailout. The White Marsh closure is part of a larger restructuring plan that will eliminate 15 percent of the company’s North American workforce and shift much of its production to China and Mexico. Click here to read the full letter.
10.26.2018	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, along with U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, as well as Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, John P. Sarbanes, Anthony G. Brown and John K. Delaney (All D-Md.) announced that the Maryland State Police will receive a grant of $2,544,800 through the Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) to support law enforcement agencies in combating the illegal manufacturing and distribution of methamphetamine, heroin, and prescription opioids. The funds come from the Anti-Heroin Task Force Program (AHTFP), a competitive grant program that provides two years of funding directly to law enforcement agencies in states with high per capita levels of primary treatment admissions for heroin and other opioids. Maryland was one of 17 states awarded funding this week. According to DOJ, these grants will support the location or investigation of illicit activities related to the distribution of heroin or the unlawful distribution of prescription opioids. AHTFP grants are managed and dispersed through COPS, the component of the U.S. Department of Justice responsible for advancing the practice of community policing through information sharing and financial assistance. “As an Appropriator, I fought the White House’s efforts to gut the COPS program, successfully restoring full funding in the Commerce, Justice and Science funding bill,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Now, Maryland is getting a piece of the pie, helping our state law enforcement crack down on heroin manufacturing and distribution in our communities. The COPS program is the type of investment in the basics that our constituents want us to prioritize.” Earlier this week the President signed into law H.R. 6, the “Substance Use Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act,” also known as the “SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act.” The legislation reauthorized a number of key law enforcement programs important to Maryland through the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), such as the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA), drug courts, the COPS Anti-Meth Program, and the COPS Anti-Heroin Task Force Program. “There is no simple answer to the opioid crisis, which has touched every corner of our state, but we do know that it takes partnership at all levels of government, and all available resources, to stem this tide of opioid addiction and abuse,” said Senator Cardin. “The COPS Program continues to actively support Maryland and our communities in need. I’ll keep fighting to ensure the federal government remains an aggressive partner in Maryland’s fight to combat the opioid epidemic.” “As Maryland and states across the country work to combat this public health crisis, they need a partner in the federal government. This funding will help our state combat opioids and will provide crucial resources to fight this epidemic. That’s why I have strongly supported this funding and will continue fighting for this program in the Senate. But we are only getting started. Together, we must keep fighting for prevention, treatment, and recovery services for individuals struggling with substance abuse and other mental health issues. We won't stop until we've ended this scourge and addressed the terrible personal and economic toll that the opioid epidemic and substance abuse takes on our communities," said Senator Van Hollen, a member of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committees. “I’m pleased that the Department of Justice has awarded this grant funding to the state of Maryland,” said Congressman Hoyer. “These funds are an important step in addressing this crisis and will further help our law enforcement agencies tackle the heroin and opioid epidemic, which has affected thousands of families in our state. I am a strong proponent of the Community Orientated Policing Services Program, which brings together law enforcement and health providers, a critical partnership in addressing the drug epidemic. I look forward to continuing to work with our local law enforcement, health care providers, and other stakeholders to better address the opioid crisis.” “As a lifelong resident of Baltimore, I’ve seen the destructive nature of opioid and heroin addiction, which destroys lives and tears apart families and communities,” said Congressman Cummings. “The over $2.5M in grant funding for the Maryland State Police will be vital in combating the illegal manufacturing and distribution of heroin and prescription opioids in Maryland.” “This new federal grantmaking commitment will help boost Maryland’s efforts to tackle the opioid epidemic,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “In addition to providing local and state law enforcement with the resources they need to reduce the availability of heroin and other opioids, we must continue fighting this terrible crisis by expanding addiction treatment and recovery services in communities across Maryland and around the country.” “There isn’t a zip code in Maryland that hasn’t been harmed by opioids and giving law enforcement the resources they need to crack down on illicit and illegal activity is an important part of ending this terrible crisis. There is strong bipartisan support for this program because it delivers federal assistance to the local agencies so that they can do their essential work,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “I applaud the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services’ decision to send over $2.5 million to Maryland's police to help stem the flow of illegal opioids to our state. Like much of the country, my district is suffering from this epidemic, and relies heavily upon federal aid for local and state law enforcement officers who are working on the ground, in our communities,” Congressman Brown said. “I am proud to support this federal funding and the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services; they are essential partners in our fight against the opioid epidemic.”
09.26.2018	(Washington, DC) – Earlier today, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined Representatives Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05), Elijah Cummings (MD-07), John P. Sarbanes (MD-03), John K. Delaney (MD-06), Anthony Brown (MD-04), and Jamie Raskin (MD-08) along with Representatives Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Don Beyer (VA-08), in meeting with representatives from federal employee unions. Representatives from the National Treasury Employees Union, the American Federation of Government Employees, the National Federation of Federal Employees, the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, and the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers were in attendance. During the meeting, the Members and union representatives discussed the negative impact of continued attacks by the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans on our federal civilian workforce, including the Administration’s Executive Orders undermining the right of federal employees to engage in union activities on official time and making it easier to fire employees, as well as President Trump’s decision to cancel a scheduled pay increase for federal workers. The Members also discussed their commitment to increasing pay for federal employees and opposing efforts to attack retirement benefits. “We are not going to sit idle while the President refuses to give federal employees even a modest pay raise, cuts pensions, threatens bargaining rights, reduces flexibility and even attacks their credibility,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I represent more than 171,000 federal employees, from entry level to top management. All of them say the Administration’s full-court press against the federal workforce is having a chilling effect on recruitment, retention and morale. It’s got to stop.” “I appreciated the opportunity to meet with representatives of our federal civilian workforce today to discuss the ways we can continue to support our hardworking federal employees,” said Congressman Hoyer. “When Republicans seek to undermine our federal civilian workforce, they are making it more difficult for our government to function efficiently and provide the American people with the services they expect. I was glad to join with my colleagues from the National Capital Region to reaffirm our commitment to federal employees and discuss how we will work together to ensure fair pay and workplace protections.” “The nation’s two million federal employees live in every Member’s district, but we in the National Capital Region have a special obligation to speak up not only for our own constituents, but for all federal workers,” said Congresswoman Norton. “The best bulwark against the repeated attacks from the Trump administration and congressional Republicans are our elected federal employee unions and the collective bargaining system necessary to seek fair working conditions, as well as the modest pay increases federal employees are due. Hostility to civil servants by the Republican majority has left them with only the rule of law and the federal courts to protect them. Last month a federal judge blocked three Trump executive orders, which we were not able to block in committee, that sought to diminish the labor rights of federal workers, including their right to use official time, which is necessary for the representation of federal workers who need to use the grievance process authorized by statute. I thank our federal employees for their continued dedication to serving their country in the face of tremendous adversity.” “Federal employee unions play a crucial role in supporting federal workers, who dedicate their lives to protecting our national security, our environmental safety, and our health and wellness,” Congressman Cummings said. “The Trump Administration and Republicans in Congress have been relentless in their efforts to strip federal workers of their hard-won rights. We cannot allow that to happen. I look forward to continuing to work with our federal unions to ensure that hard-working Americans can earn a living wage and provide for their families.” “Amid the Trump Administration’s ongoing attacks on our nation’s civil servants, Democrats from our region’s Congressional delegation will continue to stand up and fight for the women and men who proudly serve our country,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “After a productive and thoughtful conversation today with representatives from our federal civilian workforce, we remain united in our effort to protect the workplace rights, employee protections and hard-earned, modest compensation that our federal workers deserve.” “President Trump and Republicans in Congress continue to denigrate and attack our dedicated federal workers,” said Congressman Connolly. “Pay freezes, government shutdowns, the Holman rule, and weakening worker protections doesn’t help our federal workforce meet its mission or inspire the next generation of public servants. Instead of attacking federal employees, we should be honoring their service.” “Congress should stand with federal employees instead of attacking and undermining them. These are the men and women that keep us safe and make necessary programs work. Tearing down your employees is just about the worst management strategy available, yet all too often that appears to be what this White House and some in Congress want to do,” said Congressman Delaney. “Federal employees run a gauntlet of taunts and intimidation daily, thanks to the hostile Trump Administration. It is undercutting their benefits and cutting earned raises,” said Congressman Beyer. “My district is home to more feds than any other district and my colleagues in the National Capital Region and I will continue to do everything possible to strengthen protections for these hard-working public servants.” “Federal employees have dedicated their careers to serving this country, and it’s imperative that we have their back,” said Congressman Brown. “President Trump and Republicans in Congress are committed to their radical partisan agenda to attack federal employees and leave working people with no champions. We are not going to stand by and allow this to happen. As we look forward to next Congress, I, along with my Democratic colleagues, will continue to fight for increased federal pay, strengthened collective bargaining power, and guaranteed parental leave.” “The administration’s continuing attacks on the federal work force are also an attack on our local communities,” said Congressman Raskin. “I’m thrilled to have colleagues who stand up both for an efficient federal government and a well-trained and effective federal work force. We are not going to let the president demolish our workers, their unions or our government.” ###
09.20.2018	(Timonium, MD) — U.S. Representative C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement regarding a shooting at Harford County’s Enterprise Business Park in the Second District: “I am proud to represent Aberdeen in Congress – it is a close-knit community of patriotic families. Once again, a mass shooting hits too close to home. I want to acknowledge the professionalism of the Harford County Sheriff’s office: they were on the scene within five minutes and resolved the situation without firing a shot. They were supported by other federal, state and local law enforcement in the type of coordination we hope we never have to see. I also want to thank the emergency medical workers for their response. We don’t know all of the facts and must now let investigators do their jobs. But one thing I know for sure: people who go to work every day should be guaranteed the right to return home to their families. These shootings should never become routine. I want to express not just my condolences but my commitment to finding a solution to our country’s gun epidemic to today’s victims and their loved ones.”
09.17.2018	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, along with Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, John P. Sarbanes, John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie Raskin, released the following statement after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced its denial of Maryland’s Clean Air Act 126(b) petition to reduce harmful emissions from power plants in upwind states. Maryland's full Congressional delegation had urged the EPA to reconsider its denial of Maryland’s petition and take action to provide relief against out-of-state air pollution. “Regrettably, the EPA has denied the petition from Maryland requesting reductions in emissions of ozone-forming nitrogen dioxide from 36 power plants in 5 upwind states—Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Today’s decision is a dereliction of duty that fails to protect Marylanders from the harmful pollution emitted from power plants in upwind states. These emissions create dangerous ground-level ozone pollution that make it harder for Maryland to protect vulnerable populations, like our children and older adults. The EPA fails to recognize that pollution does not stop at state border lines and fails to ensure that all states are good neighbors. “For decades, Maryland has been working hard to reduce harmful emissions that contribute to its ozone problem. Marylanders have a right to breathe healthy air, which means upwind, polluting states must be good neighbors, every day. EPA must hold these states accountable for these harmful emissions, and Maryland is simply asking their neighbors to run already-installed pollution control technology in order to better protect our residents. We urge the state to take all measures possible to appeal and overturn this decision.
09.12.2018	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, along with U.S. Representatives John Sarbanes and Elijah Cummings in announcing $432,627 in federal funding over three years for "What Lies in the Harbor," an environmental education program sponsored by a partnership between Baltimore’s National Aquarium and Baltimore City Public Schools. The program will provide the opportunity for all City Schools 6th graders to visit the National Aquarium and conduct hands-on scientific investigations of Baltimore’s Inner Harbor. Students will learn about watershed ecosystems and functions in the classroom, then conduct pH, salinity, turbidity and other tests at the National Aquarium before analyzing results and writing up environmental recommendations back in the classroom. Thirty-five schools have registered to participate this fall. Funding comes from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) Bay Watershed Education and Training (B-WET) grant program, which was established by Congress in 2002. “I was proud to successfully fight efforts to eliminate funding for programs including B-WET,” said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger, who advocated for the grant as a member of the Appropriations Committee. “Now, the children of Baltimore City will reap the benefits at the world-renowned National Aquarium, learning how to become stewards of our oceans and the Chesapeake Bay and maybe even be inspired to pursue careers in STEM fields. This is exactly the type of investment in education the federal government should prioritize.” What Lies in the Harbor represents the National Aquarium’s largest B-WET funded program to date. At full implementation, it welcomes more than 5,000 students each year. “Providing hands-on experience is absolutely critical to creating an engaging, quality learning environment, and that’s precisely what this program accomplishes. It allows City Schools students to connect directly and passionately with our Chesapeake Bay, and to see firsthand how our handling of natural resources impacts our world and our communities,” said Senator Ben Cardin, who was key in passing the Chesapeake Bay Science, Education, and Ecosystem Enhancement Act of 2009, which strengthened and expanded B-WET. “I applaud the good work City Schools and the National Aquarium are doing, and am proud to have had a hand in helping to create the B-WET grant program. It has proven its merit time and again, with this latest round of funding for What Lies in the Harbor being yet another tremendous example of its value to Maryland students.” “This program is a win-win – it helps our students learn about science in a creative, engaging way and teaches these children about the importance of environmental stewardship,” said Senator Van Hollen, who worked to secure significant funding for the B-WET program in fiscal year 2018 as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, despite the president’s budget eliminating the program. “Showing students the real-life applications of learning is one of the best ways to inspire their success, and I know these kids will have fun getting their hands wet. I will continue working to promote hands-on educational opportunities and environmental education for Maryland students.” “This federal grant funding will help provide enriching outdoor learning experiences for more than 5,600 Baltimore students and go a long way toward inspiring the next generation of Chesapeake Bay stewards,” said Congressman Sarbanes, who strongly backed the National Aquarium’s grant request and who — as author of the No Child Left Inside Act — has long championed efforts to improve environmental education. “The National Aquarium plays a critical role in connecting young students to the natural world and is well positioned to partner with Baltimore City Public Schools and local universities to create an immersive environmental education program for middle schoolers in our city.” “This NOAA B-WET grant will help give Baltimore City students a remarkable opportunity to learn firsthand about the environment, the harbor ecosystem, and career opportunities in STEM fields,” said Congressman Cummings. “I commend the National Aquarium for creating this unique program to enhance and reinforce classroom learning in a meaningful way.” “We are grateful for the support of Maryland’s federal delegation in securing this important B-WET grant,” said John Racanelli, CEO of the National Aquarium. “It provides critical support that will allow us to reach even more Baltimore City students with an exciting and new educational offering. As our mission promises, we are committed to inspiring a passion for conservation and creating opportunities for young scholars to envision themselves in careers in science, technology, engineering or math. This will help spark that connection.” “Our future scientists, environmental advocates, and leaders learn best when they explore real-world problems in hands-on ways. This generous grant means that all of our 6th-grade students can have that kind of learning experience,” said Dr. Sonja Brookins Santelises, CEO of Baltimore City Public Schools. “In working side by side with National Aquarium staff and college students, our young people also see what future careers in science and research can involve – and the focus on protecting our city's beautiful harbor and the Chesapeake Bay makes the learning all the more powerful.”
09.07.2018	(Washington, DC) – Today, the Maryland Democratic Congressional Delegation wrote a letter to CSX Corporation President and CEO James Foote requesting an update on the status of the Howard Street Tunnel Project. The project, which has been under discussion for years, would expand the tunnel, allowing for increased shipment to and from the Port of Baltimore, a regional economic hub. In addition to Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger, the letter was signed by Senators Chris Van Hollen and Ben Cardin, as well as Congressmen Steny Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, John Sarbanes, John Delaney, Anthony Brown, and Jamie Raskin. In the letter, the Members write, “We are writing to request an update on the status of your plans for the Howard Street Tunnel project in Baltimore City, Maryland.” They continued, “It has been over eight months since you met with the Congressional Delegation and representatives from the Maryland Department of Transportation on the cancellation of this project. During that meeting we expressed our frustration at the abrupt announcement cancelling the program without adequate explanation and after years of effort by Maryland’s Congressional Delegation to secure federal funding for this project.” In closing, the Members stated, “As the Port of Baltimore continues to see record growth both in international cargo value and volume, a solution to the Howard Street Tunnel bottle-neck is more important than ever. We hope that you agree and look forward to hearing from you regarding CSX’s plans for the Howard Street Tunnel Project.” The full text of the letter is available here and below: Dear Mr. Foote: We are writing to request an update on the status of your plans for the Howard Street Tunnel project in Baltimore City, Maryland. It has been over eight months since you met with the Congressional Delegation and representatives from the Maryland Department of Transportation on the cancellation of this project. During that meeting we expressed our frustration at the abrupt announcement cancelling the program without adequate explanation and after years of effort by Maryland’s Congressional Delegation to secure federal funding for this project. Following that meeting, you agreed to keep an open mind about the project and committed to re-examining the decision to cancel it. You also committed to continuing dialogue with the Delegation on your thinking about possibly reviving the project. Recent press reports indicate that there may be some favorable movement on the part of CSX to revisit the project. A July 29, 2018 article in the Journal of Commerce states that, “CSX, for example, appears to be rethinking its decision to pull back on expanding the Howard Street Tunnel Project, something the Port of Baltimore needs in order to achieve double-stack access and thereby extend its inland reach.” Additionally, the Baltimore Sun recently published an editorial titled, “Howard Tunnel Revival Still Possible.” We couldn’t agree more. As the Port of Baltimore continues to see record growth both in international cargo value and volume, a solution to the Howard Street Tunnel bottle-neck is more important than ever. We hope that you agree and look forward to hearing from you regarding CSX’s plans for the Howard Street Tunnel Project. Sincerely,
07.24.2018	WASHINGTON – The Maryland congressional delegation is calling on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to reconsider its denial of Maryland’s petition requesting that action be taken to provide relief against out-of-state air pollution stemming from neighboring states. In particular, the delegation’s letter to the EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler noted 36 electric generating units located upwind of Maryland’s border that – due to prevailing wind patterns – are disproportionately impacting Maryland’s air quality and public health. “In November 2016, Maryland filed a petition concerning air pollution emitted by 36 electric generating units located in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. The petition demonstrates that nitrogen oxides emitted by these power plants impede Maryland’s efforts to attain and maintain federal health-based air quality standards,” the delegation wrote in their joint letter to Acting Administrator Wheeler. “Specifically, nitrous oxide emissions from the electric generating units has resulted in increased concentrations of ground-level ozone in Maryland. This air pollution from out-of-state power plants reacts with other atmospheric pollutants to form ozone, and move on the prevailing winds into Maryland. “On June 8, 2018, the EPA proposed to deny Maryland’s petition, nearly two years after receipt despite a 60-day deadline,” their letter continued. “We urge you to reconsider and grant Maryland’s petition. Maryland’s evaluation, using best practices and all available EPA guidance, shows that the 36 power plants are significantly contributing to exceedances of air quality standards in Maryland […] We urge you to immediately provide Maryland with relief by approving its Section 126(b) petition and requiring the 36 upwind electric generating units in 5 states to use controls that are already in place to reduce harmful emissions that significantly contribute to Maryland’s ozone burden.” The full congressional delegation, including Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Andy Harris, M.D., John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie Raskin, noted that Section 126(b) of the Clean Air Act gives one state the authority to ask the EPA to set emissions limits for specific sources of air pollution in other states that significantly contribute to nonattainment or interfere with maintenance of national air quality standards in the petitioning state. The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to respond to these petitions within 60 days of receipt. The full letter follows and can be found here. The Honorable Andrew Wheeler Acting Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Acting Administrator Wheeler: We strongly urge the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to withdraw its proposed denial of Maryland’s petition under Section 126(b) of the Clean Air Act regarding 36 upwind electric generating units in 5 other states and instead grant the petition and expeditiously provide Maryland with relief from downwind air pollution. For decades, the State of Maryland has worked diligently to address transported pollution to meet air quality standards and to protect the health of our constituents. The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to set national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) to protect public health and welfare. Congress recognized the need for the EPA to work collaboratively with states to address pollution sources generated in one state that adversely impact another state. Section 126(b) of the Clean Air Act gives one state the authority to ask the EPA to set emissions limits for specific sources of air pollution in other states that significantly contribute to nonattainment or interfere with maintenance of NAAQS in the petitioning state. The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to respond to these petitions within 60 days of receipt. In November 2016, Maryland filed a petition concerning air pollution emitted by 36 electric generating units located in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. The petition demonstrates that nitrogen oxides emitted by these power plants impede Maryland’s efforts to attain and maintain federal health-based air quality standards. Specifically, nitrous oxide emissions from the electric generating units has resulted in increased concentrations of ground-level ozone in Maryland. This air pollution from out-of-state power plants reacts with other atmospheric pollutants to form ozone, and move on the prevailing winds into Maryland. The EPA has linked ozone exposure to lung tissue damage and aggravation of existing conditions, such as asthma, bronchitis, heart disease, and emphysema. The pollution load also adds economic costs for Maryland businesses to compensate for the out-of-state contribution, and has fundamentally interfered with Maryland’s ability to comply with its NAAQS for ozone. On June 8, 2018, the EPA proposed to deny Maryland’s petition, nearly two years after receipt. In September 2017, Maryland brought civil action against the EPA to obtain an order requiring it to perform its basic statutory obligation under the Clean Air Act to act on a petition within 60 days. In January 2018, the EPA published a final rule extending the deadline for acting on Maryland’s petition to July 15, 2017. That deadline expired with no EPA action on the petition. It is unacceptable that the EPA failed to respond to Maryland’s petition until June 2018. This delay constitutes a clear violation of the time period intended by Congress. It is equally unacceptable that at this late date, the EPA is now proposing to deny the petition without providing an enforceable remedy to address Maryland’s ongoing air pollution challenges. In its proposed denial, the EPA claims Maryland did not provide enough information and that any remedy would be too costly. We urge you to reconsider and grant Maryland’s petition. Maryland’s evaluation, using best practices and all available EPA guidance, shows that the 36 power plants are significantly contributing to exceedances of air quality standards in Maryland. Further, the remedy sought in the petition is achievable today. The petition simply asks the EPA to require the 36 electric generating units to operate existing control equipment in a manner consistent with manufacturers’ specifications on the days when ozone reductions are needed. Granting the petition will also help Maryland and other states meet their commitments under the 2014 Chesapeake Bay Watershed Agreement. An estimated one-third of the nitrogen loads to the Chesapeake Bay comes from air pollution over the Chesapeake Bay Watershed. This airshed travels from a much larger area than the watershed itself. Nitrous oxides transported in the air deposit onto the tidal surface waters of the Chesapeake Bay and its tributary rivers and streams. In this way, air pollution generated out-of-state is degrading Maryland’s water quality in-state. We urge you to immediately provide Maryland with relief by approving its Section 126(b) petition and requiring the 36 upwind electric generating units in 5 states to use controls that are already in place to reduce harmful emissions that significantly contribute to Maryland’s ozone burden. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
07.23.2018	(Washington, DC) – Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) today introduced a bipartisan resolution that reaffirms to the American people and the world that the U.S. House of Representatives stands with the American intelligence community’s assessment that Russia interfered in the 2016 elections – despite recent assertions from President Trump to the contrary. At a joint press conference last week following his summit in Helsinki with Russian President Vladimir Putin, Trump refused to say if he believes American intelligence agencies, as well as his own Director of National Intelligence, who have concluded with high confidence that Putin ordered an influence campaign to undermine the 2016 presidential election. The resolution references the official IC assessment issued January 6, 2017, which states: “Russia blended covert intelligence operations — such as cyber activity — with overt efforts by Russian Government agencies, state-funded media, third-party intermediaries, and paid social media users or ‘trolls.’” “Our U.S. intelligence community has consistently affirmed that Russia deliberately interfered and influenced the 2016 election. In fact, 12 Russian intelligence officers were just indicted by the U.S. government for compromising our election,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, former Ranking Member on the House Intelligence Committee and the Member who represents the National Security Agency and U.S. Cyber Command. “Instead of taking Putin on, Trump discredited our own intelligence workers. So if he won’t stand up for our country and our democracy, the House of Representatives will.” “Our nation must never tolerate a Russian autocrat that seeks to interfere in our elections. As a former FBI Special Agent, I support our Intelligence Community, and I stand by their conclusions. Russia sought to undermine our democratic institutions and our 2016 elections. It’s clear that Russia continues to use cyber weapons to sow division and distrust both here and abroad,” said Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick, former FBI Special Agent, previously assigned to Ukraine. “We must hold these foreign actors accountable while strengthening the integrity of our Intelligence Community.” Click here for a PDF of the resolution.
07.19.2018	(Washington, DC)– Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined the rest of the Maryland federal delegation -- U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Senator Chris Van Hollen as well as Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, John P. Sarbanes, Andy Harris, John Delaney, Anthony Brown and Jamie Raskin in urging Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen to respond favorably to Maryland’s request for technical assistance to review and protect the state’s electoral systems. Governor Larry Hogan, Senate President Mike Miller and House Speaker Michael Busch jointly made the initial request to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) after it was revealed late last week that a Russian oligarch close to Vladimir Putin has an ownership interest in AltPoint Capital Partners, which is a majority owner of ByteGrid Holdings LLC. ByteGrid is the company that hosts Maryland’s statewide voter registration, candidacy, and election management system; the online voter registration system; online ballot delivery system; and the unofficial election night results website. The State of Maryland is seeking support in evaluating what if any systems may have been compromised given the Russian track record and continuing interest in interfering in U.S. elections. The full letter follows and can be found at this link. July 19, 2018 The Honorable Kirstjen M. Nielsen Secretary of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Nielsen: We are writing to express our strong support for the State of Maryland’s request for federal assistance regarding the Maryland State Board of Elections, pursuant to the letter of July 13, 2018 from Governor Larry Hogan, Senate President Mike Miller, and House Speaker Michael Busch. Given the unanimous assessment of the Intelligence Community that Russia interfered in our 2016 presidential election, all levels of our government must take every necessary precaution to preserve the security and integrity of America’s free and fair elections. American elections are a hallmark of our democratic system and a cornerstone of the rule of law. We understand that federal law enforcement officials briefed the Maryland Board of Elections regarding a vendor contracted to provide voter registration infrastructure and other services, and that company had been acquired by a parent company with financial ties to a Russian national. We therefore strongly support the State of Maryland’s request that the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Cybersecurity and Communications provide the State of Maryland with technical assistance to evaluate the network utilized by the Maryland State Board of Elections. Specifically, DHS can help assist the State of Maryland in evaluating network security, auditing network integrity, and providing additional support and services deemed necessary and appropriate by the Maryland State Board of Elections. We thank you for your expeditious consideration of our request and look forward to continuing to work with you to safeguard American elections. Cc: Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein FBI Director Christopher Wray U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland Robert Hur FBI Special Agent in Charge for Maryland Gordon Johnson Maryland Governor Larry Hogan Maryland Senate President Mike Miller Maryland House Speaker Michael Busch Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh Maryland Board of Elections Administrator Linda Lamone
07.16.2018	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger tonight issued the following statement in response to comments made by President Donald Trump at a joint press conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin earlier today: “Our U.S. intelligence community has consistently affirmed that Russia deliberately interfered and influenced the 2016 election. In fact, 12 Russian intelligence officers were just indicted by the U.S. government for hacking our election. This was the opportunity for President Trump to stand up for our country and democracy and tell Putin that if you interfere with our country, there will be hell to pay. Trump did nothing and, worse, discredited our own intelligence workers. I am disgusted and outraged. It is time for President Trump to end his bromance with Vladimir Putin, hold Russia accountable for its actions, and start putting America first.”
07.16.2018	(Washington, DC) — Today, members of Maryland’s Democratic Congressional delegation urged President Donald Trump to consider Wendi Winters – a victim of the mass shooting in the Capital Gazette newsroom last month – for the Presidential Medal of Freedom. The nation’s highest civilian honor, the Medal of Freedom is awarded by the President to men and women who have made meritorious contributions to the security of the United States, to world peace, to culture or to other significant endeavors. Winters was among the five Capital Gazette employees killed in the June 28 shooting in Annapolis, Maryland. According to eyewitness accounts from survivors, Wendi armed herself with the closest weapons at hand – her trash and recycling bins – and charged the shooter, shouting for him to stop. It is believed that Wendi’s actions distracted the shooter enough to enable several of her coworkers to escape. “Previous Presidents have awarded the Medal of Freedom posthumously on dozens of occasions and we believe Wendi is a hero deserving of the same,” the delegation wrote. “She died not only protecting her colleagues, but in defense of the First Amendment.” A recent editorial from the Capital Gazette outlined Winters’ heroic acts and called on President Trump to award her the Presidential Medal of Freedom, which was established by President Truman in 1945 and was revived by President Kennedy in 1963. To date, President Trump has not yet awarded any Medals of Freedom. Maryland’s House delegation led a moment of silence on the House floor in honor of the Capital Gazette victims. U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen led a Senate resolution– passed unanimously – in honor of the victims: Gerald Fischman, Rob Hiaasen, John McNamara, Rebecca Smith and Wendi Winters. The letter was signed by Maryland Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen as well as Representatives Steny Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes, John Delaney, Anthony Brown and Jamie Raskin, all Democrats. The full text of the letter follows: July 16, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you are aware, it is the authority of the President of the United States to award the nation’s highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom. The President historically bestows this honor to men and women who have made especially meritorious contributions to the security and safety of his or her fellow citizens. As Senators and Representatives for the State of Maryland, we urge you to consider Wendi Winters for this great distinction. As you may know, Wendi was among the five victims who lost their lives in the mass shooting at the Capital Gazette newsroom on June 28, 2018, in Annapolis, Maryland. According to eyewitness accounts from survivors, Wendi armed herself with the closest weapons at hand – her trash and recycling bins – and charged the shooter, shouting for him to stop. It is believed that Wendi’s actions distracted the shooter enough to enable several of her coworkers to escape. In addition to dedicating her career to the betterment of her community, Wendi’s family is rooted in military tradition. She was the daughter of a Naval Academy graduate and the mother of three Navy officers. She sponsored numerous midshipman over the years. A Girl Scout leader, she also volunteered with the Red Cross and as a youth adviser at her church. Previous Presidents have awarded the Medal of Freedom posthumously on dozens of occasions and we believe Wendi is a hero deserving of the same. She died not only protecting her colleagues, but in defense of the First Amendment. Again, we enthusiastically recommend Wendi Winters for the Presidential Medal of Freedom and we look forward to your expeditious response.
07.10.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after President Donald Trump nominated Judge Brett Kavanaugh to replace retiring Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy: “President Trump’s nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court could have a profound impact on American life for the next generation. Our founding fathers created the Supreme Court to be a check and balance against the other two branches of government. Justices are beholden to the Constitution and must use judicial precedent and existing law to make decisions – not political leanings or personal ideology. It is vital that my colleagues in the Senate review every decision, dissent and legal writing in Judge Kavanaugh’s extensive background so that we have a full understanding of his legal philosophy before he is confirmed. The current Administration has launched a relentless assault on immigrants, Muslims, worker protections, healthcare, the environment and consumer protections. The increasingly conservative Court recently rubber-stamped the White House’s racist travel ban and ruled against American laborers. With so much at stake, we must make sure each Supreme Court justice can fulfill his or her Constitutional duty to strictly interpret the law and not serve as pawns of the Executive Branch.”
07.03.2018	(Washington, DC) – The Maryland Congressional delegation today praised the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for issuing a disaster declaration for the devastating storm and flooding that hit Ellicott City, broader Howard County and Baltimore County, in late May. A request for a disaster declaration for Baltimore City for the same storm is still pending. “Disasters like the flooding our state experienced in late May demand that we come together as one united community, and that’s what Team Maryland has done,” the delegation said in response. “The storm that ravaged Ellicott City, Howard County and Baltimore County caused incredible damage and put countless Marylanders in crisis. Partnering with local governments and nonprofits was a critical first step in our rebuilding efforts, but this federal disaster declaration was necessary to secure the resources our communities so desperately need.” In a joint letter Friday, the full congressional delegation, including Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Andy Harris, M.D., John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie B. Raskin, requested President Trump approve the federal assistance “given the massive impact that this flooding had on state and local resources in Maryland.” In addition to the tragic loss of life, estimates for public infrastructure damages and repair caused by the storm at more than $10.5 million in Howard County and $8.6 million in Baltimore County – which far exceed local Public Assistance thresholds. Based on the disaster declaration for the May 27-28, 2018 severe storm and flooding, federal public assistance funding is available to state and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and to access federal public assistance funding for emergency work and the repair or replacement of damaged buildings and infrastructure. Funding is now also available through the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, which provides grants to states and local governments to implement long-term hazard mitigation measures after a major disaster declaration, in order to reduce the loss of life and property in future disasters.
07.02.2018	(Washington, DC) – The Maryland Congressional delegation sent a joint letter to President Trump on Friday urging the Administration to move swiftly to approve the state’s request for federal major disaster declaration and supplementary assistance following the mid-May flash-floods that devastated Howard County, Baltimore County and Baltimore City. “We are writing to express our strong support for Maryland Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the declaration of a major disaster for Howard County, Baltimore County, and Baltimore City…” the delegation wrote. “Given the massive impact that this flooding had on state and local resources in Maryland, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve the provision of supplementary federal assistance, pursuant to the Stafford Act.” The full congressional delegation, including Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Andy Harris, M.D., John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie B. Raskin, noted that the May 27-29 storm overwhelmed water and transportation infrastructure, causing severe damage to residences and small businesses in the region. In Howard County, Ellicott City’s historic Main Street – which suffered $23 million in damages from a major flood in 2016 – felt the largest impact. Flooding there ravaged streets, sidewalks and buildings, leading to the tragic death of a Good Samaritan and veteran, and the displacement of business owners and residents. Flood waters also caused critical damage to Baltimore’s Frederick Avenue, and left residents with ongoing damages to their homes. In Baltimore County, several bridges will need to be fully replaced, while sewer and water systems are in need of extensive repairs. The congressional delegation cited initial estimates for public infrastructure damages and repair caused by the storm at more than $10.5 million in Howard County, $8.6 million in Baltimore County, and $3 million in Baltimore City – all of which far exceed local Public Assistance thresholds. The Disaster Declaration would allow state and local government officials and certain private non-profit organizations to access federal public assistance funding for emergency work and the repair or replacement of damaged buildings and infrastructure. The Hazard Mitigation Grant Program would provide grants to states and local governments to implement long-term hazard mitigation measures after a major disaster declaration, in order to reduce the loss of life and property in future disasters. The full letter follows and can be found here. June 29, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our strong support for Maryland Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the declaration of a major disaster for Howard County, Baltimore County, and Baltimore City, due to strong storms, heavy rain and flash flooding between May 27 and May 28, 2018. Given the massive impact that this flooding had on state and local resources in Maryland, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve the provision of supplementary federal assistance, pursuant to the Stafford Act. In Howard County, historic Ellicott City experienced significant flooding for the second time in two years, and led to one tragic death. The largest impact was along Main Street, which suffered severe damage to infrastructure, including streets, sidewalks, and buildings. The flooding displaced a large number of residents including business owners, and caused power outages and extensive damage to the sewer and water system. In Baltimore County, flash flooding overwhelmed roads, storm drain infrastructure, and sewer outflows, and damaged other county infrastructure and buildings. First responders performed several water rescues of stranded motorists. Several damaged bridges will have to be fully replaced, and recreational trails will need repairs. In Baltimore City, flash flooding in the southwest portion of the city caused significant damage to Frederick Avenue, including a slope failure. Residents confronted flooding basements, sewage backups, and power outages, and have ongoing concerns about mold remediation. State and local officials took appropriate action under Maryland law, declaring states of emergency where appropriate. The Maryland Emergency Management Agency, in conjunction with local officials and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, conducted joint-preliminary damage assessments which confirmed widespread damage. We agree that this event was of such severity and magnitude that effective recovery is beyond the capabilities of the State of Maryland and Howard County, Baltimore County, and Baltimore City alone. MEMA estimates that the damages in the affected counties will far exceed the per capita Public Assistance threshold. The initial estimate for public infrastructure damages and repair in Howard County is more than $10.5 million, over ten times the county threshold. Baltimore County estimates damages of $8.6 million, more than three times the county threshold. Baltimore City estimates damages of $3 million, which is over the city threshold. We therefore strongly support Governor Hogan’s request for a major disaster declaration and for supplementary federal assistance, including all categories of Public Assistance for the affected jurisdictions, in addition to statewide Hazard Mitigation assistance. We therefore urge you to expeditiously review Governor Hogan’s request and declare a major disaster for Howard County, Baltimore County, and Baltimore City. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Cc: Regional Administrator Mary Ann Tierney, FEMA Region III
06.28.2018	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Defense Appropriator Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger supported the $674.6 billion Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Bill that passed the House of Representatives in an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote. The bill funds a 2.6 percent pay raise for troops, restores force readiness, promotes modernization and innovation and increases the end-strength of our Active Duty and Guard/Reserve forces by 16,400. The bill provides $245.9B for critical training and maintenance to ensure our troops are able to fight today and $92.4B in research and development programs – like those at the Second District’s Aberdeen Proving Ground or the Army Research Lab – to prepare our Armed Forces for the fight of tomorrow. In addition to the largest pay raise for troops in nine years, it provides critical funding for research on traumatic brain injury, PTSD and spinal cord injury. It also funds sexual assault prevention and response efforts within the military. Congressman Ruppersberger’s district is home to not only APG, but Fort Meade, several National Guard facilities and dozens of private-sector defense partners. He serves on the board of the U.S. Naval Academy and is co-chair of the bipartisan House Army Caucus. He emphasized that, without a new budget deal, our Armed Forces will again be subject to sequestration next year. “In each of these roles, every time I meet with a leader of our Armed Forces, budget certainty has come up,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Our troops should trust that elected officials will support them and do their job to fund the government. Just as we trust them to accomplish the mission assigned to them.” Congressman Ruppersberger successfully sponsored an amendment to block efforts to move jobs away from the Fort Meade-based Defense Information Systems Agency, which employs more than 4,000 government civilian workers, active duty military and contractors. DISA is located in what is now Anne Arundel County’s largest office complex.
06.21.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after House majority leaders postponed a vote on a “consensus” immigration bill: “There’s no question our immigration system is broken, but to achieve true comprehensive reform that both strengthens border security and creates a sensible legal immigration system, everyone needs a seat at the table. Both the ‘conservative’ bill that failed in the House of Representatives today as well as the ‘compromise’ bill that was pulled from consideration were non-starters because they reflect the extreme values held by only a fraction of the American people. Neither bill provides a permanent solution for Dreamers – in fact, one bill disqualifies 82 percent of Dreamers who currently qualify for legal status under DACA. Neither bill addresses family separation at the border and both make it harder for migrants fleeing violence and poverty to claim asylum. Both bills include more than $25 billion for a vanity project known as ‘The Wall’ instead of investing in more efficient and cost-effective border security measures such as surveillance technology. And both bills make it harder for legal American citizens to reunify their families. My focus over the past several weeks has been on family separation. The President’s Executive Order signed yesterday was a welcome acknowledgement that the American people do not stand behind the Administration’s zero-tolerance policy leading to the separation of more than 2,300 children from their parents at the southwest border. I remain concerned that the Executive Order does not indicate where or when these families will be reunified. Likewise, the House bills end child separation for first-time offenders only and do not apply to families seeking asylum at ports of entry. They allow for families to be detained for an indefinite period of time and eliminate the safety and sanitary requirements – including access to toilets, clean water and medical care – currently in place for child detention. Nobody gets everything they want in a compromise. I am prepared to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the coming days to draft a true consensus bill. Only then can our country begin to heal and move forward."
06.14.2018	(Washington, DC) — U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, along with Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, and John K. Delaney (all D-MD), yesterday asked federal regulators to provide assistance and flexibility to Maryland seafood retailers – mostly small businesses that sell steamed crabs – that have been hit with new restrictions on the use of nutrition assistance benefits. Under new rules, retailers are only allowed to accept Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) vouchers if less than half of their sales are prepared foods, like steamed crabs, otherwise they are classified as restaurants, which are not qualified to make SNAP transactions. Additionally, some seafood retailers must offer a variety of other food staples. The changes also require retailers to submit new sales documentation to verify SNAP eligibility. The rollout of the new rules ignores the unique nature of crab carryout businesses, the lawmakers said in a letter addressed to United States Department of Agriculture Regional Administrator Patricia Dombroski. They are asking Dombroski to consider temporarily reinstating SNAP eligibility for affected Maryland retailers and providing a grace period to collect required sales data. “Maryland is known for its seafood industry,” they said. “These products are often sold out of ‘crab shacks’ that are long-standing, family-owned ‘mom and pop’ shops, which may not have possessed the technology to track sales to determine whether they surpass the “Restaurant Threshold” when the rule was first implemented. With this in mind, we request that USDA provide some reasonable flexibilities for Maryland seafood retailers to help them better prepare for these requirements.” Click here to see the letter, the full text of which follows. June 13, 2018 Ms. Patricia Dombroski Regional Administrator Food and Nutrition Service United States Department of Agriculture 300 Corporate Boulevard Robbinsville, New Jersey 08691 Dear Ms. Dombroski: We write today to request that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) address issues with implementation of its final rule, “Enhancing Retailer Standards in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP),” which amended SNAP regulations at 7 CFR §§ 271.2 and 278.1(b)(l)(iv) (“rule”), for affected Maryland seafood retailers. We support the intent of this rule to ensure SNAP recipients’ access to a wide variety of nutritious food, as well as reduce opportunities for waste, fraud, and abuse within the program. It has come to our attention, however, that this rule has the potential to have an unforeseen adverse impact the viability of small business seafood retailers and the crab fishing industry in Maryland, as well as the ability for SNAP recipients to access high-quality, locally-sourced, and nutritious seafood. Maryland is known for its seafood industry. These products are often sold out of “crab shacks” that are long-standing, family-owned “mom and pop” shops, which may not have possessed the technology to track sales to determine whether they surpass the “Restaurant Threshold” when the rule was first implemented. With this in mind, we request that USDA provide some reasonable flexibilities for Maryland seafood retailers to help them better prepare for these requirements. Specifically, we ask USDA to consider temporarily reinstating SNAP retailer eligibility for these affected Maryland retailers – those that sell crabs steamed and sold hot, or sold live and then steamed by the retailer on-site – and permitting them a grace period of at least six months to collect sales data to comply. We also request that USDA waive the documentation requirement for those retailers until after the grace period to allow retailers that lost their status to accept SNAP during this year’s crab season and prepare for implementation of the rule. During the grace period, we strongly urge USDA to issue more detailed guidance regarding the inventory, sales, and other business records that retailers have been asked to provide. This guidance should include technical assistance on tracking sales data and outreach specific to crab retailers’ unique business model, as well as a dedicated point(s) of contact to direct questions and receive timely answers. We urge USDA to conduct at least one stakeholder workshop in Maryland to identify gaps in retailer capability and reporting tools that need to be focused on for further development. Small businesses that serve Marylanders need more clarity than is found in the notice to retailers. Thank you in advance for your consideration of these requests and for any efforts to engage with Maryland seafood retailers to help them comply with the rule. We look forward to hearing from you. CC: The Honorable Sonny Perdue Secretary U.S. Department of Agriculture 1280 Maryland Ave SW Washington, D.C. 20250
06.12.2018	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today released the following statement on the historic meeting between President Donald Trump and North Korea’s Kim Jong Un last night in Singapore: “I encourage and respect all efforts toward diplomacy that could lead to the denuclearization of North Korea. I have said from Day One of this Administration: if Trump succeeds, America succeeds. In this case, if Trump succeeds, the world succeeds. But we have no reason to trust Kim Jong Un and I am concerned that President Trump has agreed to early compromises without a clearly-defined path forward. The United States should do nothing until we have a complete, verifiable and irreversible agreement in place that will reaffirm North Korea’s pledges to stop testing and, ultimately, destroy their nuclear arsenal. North Korea must also agree to humanitarian concessions that significantly improve the living conditions of its people. I am also extremely concerned about any deal that weakens our alliance with South Korea and its impact on China. We need to remain extremely vigilant about China’s involvement in negotiations moving forward."
06.08.2018	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will present an “Export Achievement Award” to a Second District manufacturer that exports its products to 26 countries. The awards are bestowed by the U.S. Commercial Service – a unit under the U.S. Department of Commerce – to small and mid-sized businesses that utilize its international trade services. The agency helped Edgemere-based Chesapeake Specialty Products open doors in Germany, Russia, Thailand, Vietnam and Turkey since 2015. The company’s abrasives and additives have been used on the Key and Bay Bridges, as well as other bridges and overpasses along the East Coast. The company’s iron additives are contained in popular garden fertilizers like Scotts Miracle Gro. Its sand additives are used in car production by brands including Ford, GM and BMW. “The math is simple – if only 5 percent of the world’s population is American, 95 percent of the potential customers for our goods and services are in other countries,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We need to do everything we can to help U.S. businesses reach new markets, increase sales and create new jobs through exporting. With the help of the U.S. Commercial Service, the Second District’s own Chesapeake Specialty Products is proof of the success that can come when companies go global.” Maryland firms exported more than $10 billion in goods in 2017, supporting more than 45,000 jobs in the state. Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Colleen Fisher, Director, U.S. Commercial Service Ken Sanchez, CEO, Chesapeake Specialty Products When: Monday, June 11, 2018 10: 00 AM Where: Chesapeake Specialty Products 5055 North Point Boulevard Baltimore, Maryland 21219
06.07.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger today announced a legislative strategy to stop border agents from separating children and parents at the United States border. An Appropriator, Ruppersberger will submit language preventing the Administration from using funds allocated to the Department of Homeland Security to separate immigrant families after apprehension, absent an immediate threat from the caretaker to the child. The proposal aims to encourage alternatives such as the now-terminated family case management program, ankle bracelets or the parole system, and family detention centers as a last resort. “As a father and grandfather, I can’t imagine anything more horrific than a child being ripped from his or her parent’s arms. This is an atrocity that contradicts everything we stand for as Americans,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Under no circumstance should a child be punished for the actions of an adult, especially when fleeing violence and poverty.” “The President says he opposes family separation. If that’s the case, he can stop it today without changing any laws.” Top White House officials have described family separation as a “tough deterrent” to illegal immigration. Since October 2017, at least 1,350 children have been separated from an accompanying adult, including more than 100 children under the age of four. More than 700 children were separated from their parent in May alone. A backlog has kept hundreds of children detained at border stations for longer than the 72-hour limit, according to the Administration for Children and Families. The irreparable damage caused by the trauma and emotional stress of family separation – sometimes indefinitely – is well documented. Both the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Medical Association have strongly condemned the practice. The House Appropriations Committee is expected to consider the Department of Homeland Security funding bill next month.
06.04.2018	(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) announced today that three students at Joppatowne High School took first, second and third place in the 2018 Congressional Art Contest for Maryland’s Second District. Junior Nicholas Galie, of Joppa, won with his prisma color submission of a pool table entitled, “Cueing Up.” The piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol complex for one year, providing inspiration to more than 12,000 Capitol visitors and Members of Congress as they make their way to the House floor for votes each day. The winners and their families were invited to breakfast this morning with Congressman Ruppersberger, who presented Galie with a Congressional Certificate for his achievement. “All of the entries we received this year were incredible, but the submissions from Joppatowne High dominated the field,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Nicholas’ piece is a great example of the talent we have in Maryland’s Second District. I want to thank him and all of the students who participated in the contest this year and wish them much luck in the pursuit of their passion for the arts.” Sponsored each spring by the Congressional Institute, the Congressional Art Contest is a national high school visual art competition that recognizes and encourages artistic talent in the nation. Since it began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated in the contest. Galie’s piece, among 42 other entries submitted by high school students across the Second District, was selected by a panel of local artists and art teachers appointed by Congressman Ruppersberger. Ashley Pena from Edgewood and Emma Flanary of Joppa took second and third place, respectively. .
05.22.2018	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today issued the following statement amid reports that the Trump Administration is moving forward on a deal to ease sanctions placed against Chinese telecom company ZTE in April: “When the United States enacts sanctions, we should stand behind them. We are a nation of laws. The rules of the game are simple: conduct your business pursuant to the law. Renegotiating the terms of sanctions in place against ZTE sends a dangerous message that we are weak and yielding under the right circumstances. The whole point of sanctions is to hit countries and companies who break the law where they hurt – their wallets. Money talks. But in the case of Chinese telecom company ZTE, these sanctions also threaten a tool in their government’s intelligence collection efforts. Our own intelligence community has long suspected that ZTE is subsidized by the Chinese government – which already facilitates as much as $600 billion a year in intellectual property theft from American companies, according to the U.S. Trade Representative – and is used to spy on Americans through the cell phone components and devices they manufacture. When they have their hardware in American technology, the Chinese have the ability to listen to American phone conversations or access our emails. We know they are already doing this in other countries. It’s no wonder that President Xi is working so hard to convince the Trump Administration to ease these sanctions. ZTE was sanctioned in April after it was caught shipping American-made goods to Iran and North Korea. Then the company violated a deal with the U.S. by not penalizing the executives who were responsible and lying about it. This is unacceptable. The good news is that both Republicans and Democrats seem to agree – my amendment blocking President Trump’s ZTE bailout passed the Appropriations Committee unanimously last week. Just today, the Senate Banking Committee overwhelmingly passed an amendment to do the same by a 23-2 margin. I encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to continue pursuing efforts to maintain strict sanctions against ZTE using all legislative vehicles at our disposal. Nobody should get a free pass, least of all a foreign company that ignores embargoes and could be used to infiltrate the devices and networks that are indispensable to American life.”
05.17.2018	(Washington, DC) — An amendment blocking President Trump’s bailout of Chinese telecom company ZTE offered by Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) unanimously passed the House Appropriations Committee today. The amendment will be included in the Fiscal Year 2019 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill when it comes under consideration by the full House of Representatives next month. Congressman Ruppersberger has long suspected ZTE is used by the Chinese government to spy on Americans through the cell phone components they manufacture. He traveled to Hong Kong and interviewed ZTE executives before co-authoring a bipartisan report on the threat as then-Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee in 2012. ZTE was sanctioned in April after it was caught shipping American-made goods to Iran and North Korea. President Trump earlier this week, however, announced that he is directing the U.S. Commerce Department to help the company, citing Chinese job losses. “This amendment, which passed with the unanimous support of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, shows that, when the United States enacts sanctions, we stand behind them,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It will also prevent a foreign company that is beholden to its government – and that ignores embargoes – from infiltrating the devices and networks that are now indispensable to American life.” Congresswoman DeLauro was a co-lead on the amendment. “I am proud that today’s amendment maintaining penalties on the shady Chinese cellular company ZTE received unanimous support in the Appropriations Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee,” she said. “We, as the Congress, need to step up to protect American workers, and American national security, from a company that experts inside and outside government agree endangers American interests. This is not a company that President Trump should be trying to save. He promised to protect American jobs and claims to be all about ‘America First.’ I suppose not—this move is clearly China First.” Specifically, the amendment prevents the U.S. Commerce Department from renegotiating sanctions on ZTE, preventing them from receiving support from the U.S. vendors on which they depend. The full text is available here.
05.17.2018	(Washington, DC) – During the height of National Police Week, Team Maryland gathered as a bipartisan delegation Wednesday for a dialogue with federal law enforcement partners based in Maryland, including the newly-confirmed U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland, Robert K. Hur. Also joining the meeting were the Maryland Special Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), along with Maryland Public Safety and Correctional Services Secretary Stephen Moyer, Maryland’s Director of Homeland Security Peter Landon, and the Director of the [Baltimore] Mayor’s Office on Criminal Justice, Andrew Vetter. At the top of the agenda was a discussion of the spike in violent crime in Baltimore City, as well as the federal-state-local partnership to combat drugs and illegal guns statewide. There was a thorough review of the specific challenges communities are facing due to gang activity. Across all topics was an overwhelming call for strong partnership among all levels of government and law enforcement. “If we are going to tackle issues like Baltimore City’s crime rate and our state-wide gang problem head-on, we need seamless coordination between our state and federal law enforcement partners,” Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger said. “My focus is on how I can best assist our new U.S. Attorney and our local field offices of the FBI, ATF and DEA as a House Appropriator.” “I thank all of our law enforcement leaders for their service and the sacrifices they make to keep Marylanders safe. It is abundantly clear that we must work to maintain strong partnership at the federal, state, and local levels to achieve significant reductions in crime for Baltimore and statewide. It is unacceptable to me how many lives are lost, and how many families are destroyed and scarred forever, due to deadly violence,” said Senator Ben Cardin. “As a federal delegation, we delivered a clear message to our law enforcement partners that we will continue to strongly support their needed funding for federal, state, and local law enforcement programs to combat gun violence, gang violence, and drug and opioid addiction. We also must do everything possible to promote a constructive dialogue between law enforcement and the communities they protect.” “Our federal law enforcement team in Maryland helps ensure the safety and security of our communities. Working together across all levels of government is crucial to addressing crime, violence, opioid abuse, and other challenges Maryland faces,” U.S. Senator Chris Van Hollen said. “I am committed to continuing to work with our local, state, and federal partners to move forward on these issues. And in my role on the Senate Appropriations Committee, I will keep fighting for the resources Maryland needs to get this done.” “The mission of the United States Attorney’s Office is to reduce crime and to make our communities safer. Strong partnerships and close collaboration with our state, local, and federal law enforcement partners are critical to achieving our goals. My office is committed to continuing and strengthening these partnerships,” said Robert K. Hur, U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland.
05.14.2018	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s announcement that he is directing the U.S. Commerce Department to help sanctioned Chinese tech company ZTE. The company was subjected to an export ban after it was caught shipping American goods to Iran and North Korea. “I have been sounding the alarm bells about ZTE since 2012, when then-Chairman Mike Rogers and I issued a bipartisan report as leaders of the House Intelligence Committee declaring the company a major threat to our national security. ZTE has known ties to the Chinese state and could be used to spy against Americans, or worse, with access to our telecommunications infrastructure. I traveled to Hong Kong and interviewed ZTE executives – their responses were incomplete, often evasive and did nothing to alleviate our concerns. And it wasn’t just us. The CIA, NSA and FBI have all reached similar conclusions. Six years later, Congress and the FCC are finally taking notice. A bipartisan bill in the House will take ZTE out of the federal supply chain. Similar provisions were included in the National Defense Authorization Act. The FCC is poised to ban the use of taxpayer money for the purchase of ZTE-made gear. Now, just two months after blacklisting and fining ZTE, President Trump wants to grant them a reprieve, citing Chinese job losses. I never thought I would hear these words from the “America First” president. What is our country getting in return? And why is the President so concerned about job losses in China? He should be focused on making sure American companies – who aren’t beholden to the government and ignoring embargoes – have a fair market. China continues to rob American companies of their intellectual property at a cost of somewhere between $225 and $600 billion annually, according to the U.S. Trade Representative. And helping these adversarial companies that threaten American security will only add to their market share, closing access to American jobs in these industries and increasing prices for U.S. consumers. The stakes here are high. Chinese telecommunications companies are producing far more equipment than their foreign competitors and the very nature of the industry could have widespread impacts on other defense efforts. President Trump must increase pressure on companies long-deemed a security threat, not give them a free pass.”
05.10.2018	(Timonium, MD) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today issued the following statement on the death of Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz: “I was shocked and incredibly saddened to hear the news this morning of Kevin’s passing. None of us know when the moment might come, but for Kevin, it was way too soon. He had so much more to offer and was in the prime of his career. Some might say that Kevin was his own brand. But I was proud to call him my friend always. He was exceptionally smart, extremely principled and always did what he felt was in the best interest of his community. He did a tremendous job as Baltimore County Executive over the last eight years, making historic investments in the basics of good government, like public safety and education – and doing it all without raising tax rates. He held regular roundtables with all of the former county executives, both Republican and Democrat. He wanted to hear different perspectives and opinions from those of us who have been in his shoes. I admired that and looked forward to our lively discussions. But Kevin was a lot more than a hard-working politician. He was an involved dad, a dedicated husband and a loyal friend. My heart is broken for his wife, Jill, and their two sons, Karson and Dylan. I’m asking all of my constituents to join me in prayers for his family in the difficult days ahead.”
05.10.2018	(Washington, DC) .—As the nation commemorates Public Service Recognition Week, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) today introduced the RECOVER Act (Reducing the Effects of the Cyberattack on OPM Victims Emergency Response Act) to provide free lifetime identity protection coverage to current, former and prospective federal employees and contractors whose Social Security Numbers were compromised by Office of Personnel Management (OPM) data breaches in 2015. Following the data breaches, Congress approved a version of the Norton-Ruppersberger bill as part of a fiscal year 2017 appropriations bill. However, OPM is only required to provide the identify protection coverage to affected individuals through fiscal year 2026. The Norton-Ruppersberger bill requires OPM to provide the coverage for the remainder of the life of the affected individuals. “The personal records stolen by hackers have no shelf life – so the identity theft protection offered to the victims shouldn’t, either,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “As we celebrate Public Service Recognition Week, providing these dedicated and hard-working men and women with a little well-deserved peace of mind is the least we can do. I am proud to again support this effort.” “Although at our urging Congress took a first step to protect the identities of federal workers affected by the OPM data breaches, only lifetime identity protection coverage will give them the complete peace of mind they deserve,” Congresswoman Norton said. “There is no limit to the duration of when the compromised personally identifiable information can be used. The federal government is responsible for the nerve-racking breaches and Congress has an obligation to make affected employees whole by passing our bill.”
05.08.2018	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s decision to effectively walk away from the landmark Iran nuclear agreement known as the JCPOA. “President Trump’s decision to abandon the agreement – without a better one in its place – is shocking in its recklessness and benefits nobody but Iran. If the plan dissolves, the Middle East could become a nuclear powder keg with our closest ally – Israel – in the middle. Countries like Saudi Arabia and Turkey may actively pursue nuclear bombs of their own. The JCPOA is our best shot at preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapons and by all accounts from the IAEA – the United Nations agency charged with babysitting nuclear programs – it was achieving that goal. In fact, the agreement gave the agency the world’s ‘most robust,’ real-time verification system in place in Iran, according to its director general. He also said that Iran has complied with every request made by his inspectors so far and confirmed that Iran has shipped out or eliminated 95 percent of its enriched uranium stockpile and dismantled two-thirds of its centrifuge machines. Now, that verification system is in jeopardy – which is why all of our allies as well as countless American national security experts have urged President Trump not to abandon the deal. As former CIA Director Michael Hayden said, we know more about Iran’s program with the deal than without it. President Trump has invited Iran to pursue a bomb in secret. This agreement was never designed to address outstanding issues like Iran’s ballistic missile program or their sponsorship of terrorism. We have sanctions separate from the JCPOA to address these – and they should be used aggressively – but actions in these areas are not violations of the JCPOA as President Trump has continued to claim. It is not Iran who has violated the agreement – but the United States. President Trump has chosen to make good on a campaign promise at the expense of our national security and the credibility of our country. I hope President Trump realizes that, as he begins conversations with North Korea to end its nuclear program – he has turbo-charged Iran’s nuclear ambition.”
04.30.2018	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday released a new report aiming to strengthen the protection of government agencies and the American private sector against increasingly aggressive cyber attacks. The report makes recommendations to the House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee regarding long-standing challenges hampering the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s cybersecurity efforts. The Department is charged with both providing cyber security to civilian federal agencies and empowering industry to protect itself, among many other missions critical to our physical and economic security. An Appropriator who serves on the Homeland Security Subcommittee, Congressman Ruppersberger is encouraging his colleagues to flex their oversight muscles and work more closely with the authorizing Committees to ensure the Department is positioned to tackle cyber threats, which today range from election security to attacks on our electric grid. “We all agree the digital threat is one of the most dangerous and prolific of modern times and I think it needs to be made a higher priority,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We are spending billions of dollars a year on the Department of Homeland Security’s cybersecurity mission and the threat is only getting worse. From finally having our first-ever, cyber-specific budget hearing to considering a wholesale reorganization of the government’s cyber efforts, I hope these recommendations better position us to protect ourselves and American companies.” “The men and women tasked with executing the Department of Homeland Security’s many and critical missions are hard-working patriots. The goal of this report is to empower them and give them the resources they need to continue protecting us all.” Congressman Ruppersberger hosted more than 50 related briefings, meetings and roundtables over the last year. The report highlights the need for close collaboration between the government and private sector, which operates more than 80 percent of the country’s networks. The report includes seven specific recommendations to the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Appropriations: The Subcommittee should hold its first cybersecurity-specific budget hearing during Fiscal Year 2019. The Subcommittee should focus on the Department’s efforts to protect against the threats posed by the leak of exploitable vulnerabilities. The Subcommittee should focus on the Department’s efforts to protect against threats targeting industrial control systems, for example, the energy grid. The Subcommittee should evaluate the merits of shifting funding for cyber research and development from the Science & Technology Directorate to the National Protection and Programs Directorate, as proposed in the President’s Budget for FY2019. The Subcommittee should focus on the Department’s efforts to improve the way the government and private sector share information about potential and confirmed cybersecurity threats. The Subcommittee should explore alternative organizational structures within the government to better execute the cybersecurity mission The Subcommittee should evaluate the Department’s implementation of President Trump’s National Infrastructure Advisory Council recommendations. Please click here for the complete report.
04.25.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) today announced his support for federal legislation requiring gun dealers to conduct instant background checks before selling ammunition. Congressman Ruppersberger has signed on as a cosponsor of H.R. 5383, The Ammunition Background Check, which is a bicameral proposal that will simply enforce existing law with no effect on law-abiding gun owners. Federal law already prevents anyone prohibited from purchasing a firearm – violent felons, domestic abusers and the severely mentally ill – from also purchasing ammunition. But retailers have no way of determining which customers are legally barred from buying ammunition. Criminals who have illegally obtained a firearm can walk out of a store with unlimited rounds of ammunition without even providing their name. “The NRA has repeatedly requested that we ‘enforce the laws already on the books,’ and that’s exactly what we are trying to do,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It takes both guns and bullets to end a life. This is a common sense bill that will close a dangerous loophole, ensuring both stay out of the wrong hands.” Nearly three-quarters of Americans support the idea, according to a 2016 Morning Consult poll. And one study estimated that universal background checks for ammunition purchases could reduce the national firearm mortality rate by 81 percent. The announcement comes amid a particularly deadly strike in Baltimore, including four murders and five injuries in the last three days alone. Police suspect some of the bloodshed is a result of warfare between gang members. “We have gone far too long without action,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This bill is one component of what must be a broader strategy to reduce gun violence in America, including mental health treatment, banning bump stocks, high-capacity magazines and assault weapons.”
04.18.2018	(Washington, DC) – Today, U.S. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (IL) and Marco Rubio (FL) as well as Representatives Mike Quigley (IL-05), Tammy Duckworth (IL) and John Culberson (TX-07) in introducing the bipartisan, bicameral Flood Mapping Modernization and Homeowner Empowerment Pilot Program Act of 2018 to improve urban flood mapping and prevent associated damage. The legislation will help give cities and towns the tools they need to address flooding in a local context and then encourage the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to apply lessons learned nationwide. “This is a meat-and-potato, bipartisan bill that will help cities like Baltimore avoid major problems when flash floods, storm surges and snow melt overwhelm the capacity of aging drainage systems,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It’s exactly the type of investment that taxpayers want and expect the federal government to make because it can help prevent property damage and sewage backups when floods inevitably occur.” Urban flooding frequently occurs outside the regulatory floodplain, and FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) do not always accurately indicate flood risk in these areas, resulting in uncertainty of the hazards at hand. The Illinois General Assembly conducted a study in June 2015, which examined flood insurance claims in the state and revealed that more than 90 percent of urban flooding damage claims from 2007 to 2014 were outside the FIRM floodplain. By providing demonstration grants for cities to invest in innovative mapping technologies, the Flood Mapping Modernization and Homeowner Empowerment Pilot Program Act of 2018 allows constituents the opportunity more accurately assess their flood risks. The legislation also allow them to develop better communication tools, urban design measures, and flood mitigation policies that would put them in a stronger position to protect their communities. Once each pilot program expires, the information gathered and lessons learned would be sent to Congress and FEMA to fully assess each city’s best practices and to apply them to FEMA’s National Flood Mapping Program. “From coast to coast, urban flooding has a unique and powerful ability to wreak havoc in our communities, leaving constituents feeling helpless in the aftermath,” said Rep. Quigley. “Whether it results in property damage, severe economic challenges, health and safety risks, or all of the above, residents are often unaware of the dangers they face during these extreme weather events. In order to help cities, like Chicago, better defend themselves against flooding disasters, our bipartisan legislation will equip them with the research and resources they need to proactively plan ahead.” “For many homes in urban areas, just a few inches of rain can cause thousands of dollars in damages,” said Senator Durbin. “And the truth of the matter is, we don’t have much data on the flood risk from the kind of weather that turns our cities streets, businesses, and homes into a flooded mess, let alone the information we need on how we might better prepare for these catastrophes in the future. This legislation will remedy that by helping local governments understand the scope of the problem and develop solutions. With storms growing stronger and more common year after year, we need to gain a better understanding of flooding in our cities.” “It is past time for the federal government to take a more proactive approach in addressing the underlying risk affecting flood prone communities like the ones in my home state of Florida,” said Senator Rubio. “By equipping local communities with the knowledge and resources necessary to accurately assess flood risk, this legislation will help homeowners better protect against future flooding and economic hardships.” “Every year, communities in Illinois and across the country struggle to plan for and recover from urban flooding,” said Senator Duckworth. “One of the best things we can do to protect our cities and towns is ensure they have the tools, resources and research they need to prepare for urban flooding. This legislation and the pilot program it establishes will do just that, leading to a better understanding of flood risks and how we can prevent and mitigate damage caused by urban flooding.” “After Harvey’s devastation caused the largest housing disaster in the history of the country, I worked relentlessly to ensure that Congress provided the necessary funding for our communities to recover. Our neighbors and local businesses are rebuilding, but also remain extremely vulnerable to a future flooding event as we move into the 2018 hurricane season,” said Rep. Culberson. “This bill will help communities update their flood maps and allow individuals to better understand their risk of flooding. We need to upgrade the information we use to plan our flood mitigation strategies and improve coordination at all levels of government. This is another step forward to improve Houston’s preparedness and every other community across the nation.”
04.12.2018	(Washington, DC) — U.S. Representative C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, a State Department Appropriator, today issued the following statement after President Trump announced he will be replacing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson with current CIA Director Mike Pompeo: “I have always said that intelligence is the best defense against terrorism, but diplomacy is a close second. Now more than ever, we need qualified and consistent leadership at the State Department. Mike Pompeo is a solid legislator, but he has no experience in international diplomacy. By all accounts, morale at the Department is at an all-time low – and for good reason. Its budget has been slashed. Veteran ambassadors are leaving. Key ambassadorships remain vacant. Meanwhile, we are living in some of the most dangerous times we have ever seen, facing threats from North Korea, Russia, Iran, China, extremists and cyber terrorists. The President needs leaders who speak truth to power and who can deftly navigate foreign policy. The constant chaos and drama inside the Oval Office is hurting America’s credibility. Our country is not reality television. If President Trump wants the rest of the world to take the United States seriously, he must stop Tweeting and start leading.”
04.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman John Sarbanes (D-Md.) today joined Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, along with Congressmen Steny Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John Delaney, Anthony Brown and Jamie Raskin (all D-Md.), in sending a letter to Governor Larry Hogan, pressing him to allocate the required state matching funds to improve Maryland’s election infrastructure ahead of the 2018 midterms. “As you know, the Maryland State election system was the target of an attempted intrusion by hostile actors during the 2016 election,” the Members wrote. “While there is no indication the perpetrators were successful in breaching the state election network, federal officials have made clear they expect continued assaults on our election infrastructure in 2018 and beyond. In response, we in Congress have acted swiftly to better understand the threat and to appropriate the resources needed to harden our election systems.” The Members continued: “With the 2018 midterm elections fast approaching, we hope you work quickly and collaboratively with the Maryland State Board of Elections to ensure Maryland has access to this critical federal funding.” The Members requested a response from Governor Hogan by April 20, 2018. See below for full text of the letter. * * * April 9, 2018 The Hon. Lawrence J. Hogan Jr. Governor State of Maryland 100 State Circle Annapolis, Maryland Dear Governor Hogan: We write to encourage you to quickly take the necessary steps to access the $7,063,699 in federal resources recently made available to the Maryland State Board of Elections by Congress for the purposes of enhancing election technology and instituting election security improvements. As you know, the Maryland State election system was the target of an attempted intrusion by hostile actors during the 2016 election.[1] While there is no indication the perpetrators were successful in breaching the state election network, federal officials have made clear they expect continued assaults on our election infrastructure in 2018 and beyond.[2] In response, we in Congress have acted swiftly to better understand the threat[3] and to appropriate the resources needed to harden our election systems.[4] Specifically, Congress - as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (P.L. 115-141) - directed an additional $380,000,000 in Election Security Grant funds to be dispersed to state election officials immediately. Maryland is entitled to receive $7,063,699 based on the grant formula. To access these funds, Maryland is obligated to allocate a modest 5 percent state-provided match – or $353,185 – to be provided within two years of receiving the federal funds. We urge you to dedicate the requisite state matching funds promptly. The federal funds must be deployed for purposes of election security and are to be used consistent with the requirements of Title III of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (P.L. 107-252) (HAVA). As you know, the State Administrator of Elections is responsible for the deployment of HAVA funds. Recognizing that the State Administration ultimately has the clearest insight into the election-related security needs, we are hopeful these funds be used for the following much needed security upgrades and investments to the Maryland State election system: Creation of Chief Information Security Office for the Maryland State Board of Elections to oversee all cybersecurity efforts, liaise with appropriate officials to monitor and respond to credible threats and to maintain information security and technology for the Maryland State Board of Elections; Implementation of comprehensive post-election audit and recovery systems; Expansion of two-step security verification for all state and local election systems; and Comprehensive best practices and ongoing security training for state and local election officials to harden election system defenses. We are confident that the State Administrator will, as she has done with prior HAVA funding, create a short-term and long-term plan to prioritize the needs of the State to enhance election technology and institute election security improvements. With the 2018 midterm elections fast approaching, we hope you work quickly and collaboratively with the Maryland State Board of Elections to ensure Maryland has access to this critical federal funding. To that end, we request a response from your office by April 20, 2018 detailing the State’s plan to allocate the required matching funds. We appreciate your attention to this matter. Sincerely, ###
03.22.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – U.S. House of Representatives Appropriator Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement on the $1.3 trillion Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018, which passed today in a 256-167 vote. “After months of inaction, the House today had an opportunity to come together and make a real difference and I am glad that we took advantage of that,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Legislation is always better when Republicans and Democrats negotiate together. This bill – as well as last month’s bipartisan budget agreement and even last year’s omnibus – are good examples of that.” “This is the most basic responsibility we have – to fund the government – and this bill delivers on priorities without unnecessary poison pills. This should be the norm, not the exception.” The omnibus serves as the funding vehicle for 12 different appropriations bills. The bill provides $117 billion more in nondefense discretionary funding than President Trump requested, including robust funding to fight the opioid epidemic, strengthen election security and rebuild American infrastructure. It includes a pay raise for both active-duty and civilian military employees and language that will, finally, allow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to study the effects of gun violence across America. The bill must now be signed into law by the President. It includes several items of particular importance to Congressman Ruppersberger and his fight for Maryland’s Second District, such as: $73 million to protect the Chesapeake Bay At least $36 million in national security funding that supports thousands of jobs in the Second District $3 billion increase for Maryland-based National Institutes of Health Language preventing the construction of a new FBI Headquarters in Washington, DC, so that alternative sites, including in Maryland, can be evaluated $1.9 million for the Chemical Security Analysis Center at Aberdeen Proving Ground, the only center able to offer first responders immediate guidance 24-7
03.13.2018	Ruppersberger is former Baltimore County Executive and Council Member (Washington, DC) — U.S. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today accepted the 2018 President’s Award from the National League of Cities (NLC) before more than 2,000 mayors, city council and county council members from across the country. Ruppersberger and Congressman Randy Hultgren, an Illinois Republican, were selected for their bipartisan work protecting critical financing tools used for local infrastructure projects. Ruppersberger and Hultgren, who chair the House Municipal Finance Caucus, authored legislation to preserve the tax exemption for municipal bonds and successfully fought to protect the exemption during tax reform negotiations. Nearly two-thirds of infrastructure investments across the country – including roads, police stations, libraries and parks – are financed with municipal bonds. Proposals submitted by federal officials have capped the value of tax benefits for municipal bonds, or eliminated the tax exemption on municipal bond interest altogether. “I couldn’t be prouder to accept this award today on behalf of all American communities who are trying to do the right thing by investing in infrastructure, creating jobs, and spending tax dollars as efficiently as possible,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “These are the types of meat-and-potato issues that have a direct impact on communities and taxpayers across the country and Congressman Hultgren and I both believe they are too important to get caught up in party politics.” Ruppersberger and Hultgren are currently sponsoring legislation to reverse a change in the tax reform bill and make sure local governments can refinance their infrastructure debts at lower interest rates. The NLC is the oldest, largest and most representative organization serving municipal governments and today represents 49 state municipal leagues, more than 1,900 member cities, and more than 19,000 cities through membership in state municipal leagues. NLC’s primary mission is to help city leaders build better communities. NLC represents cities of all sizes.
03.13.2018	Ruppersberger is former Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee (Washington, DC) — U.S. Representative C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement following the House Intelligence Committee Republicans’ announcement that they have concluded their Russia investigation: “I am increasingly concerned that Majority leadership on the House Intelligence Committee has lost sight of our primary responsibility as Members of Congress, which is oversight. We have a duty to follow the facts wherever they lead and provide the checks and balances critical to our democracy. Findings like those announced yesterday would be easy to accept if reached after a serious, thorough and apolitical investigation. Instead, in ending its investigation into Russian interference in our elections without taking advantage of all the tools at its disposal, the Committee’s Majority leadership has failed the American people. The Majority is calling it a day with so many questions unanswered. In direct contradiction to the U.S. intelligence community’s conclusions, the Committee majority has decided that the Russians were not, in fact, trying to help the Trump campaign. Meanwhile, more than one dozen Russians have been indicted under the Special Counsel’s investigation. So have several Americans, including the President’s national security advisor, his campaign chair and deputy campaign chair and one of his foreign policy advisors. Three have pled guilty. I hope yesterday’s announcement from the Committee’s Majority only strengthens the resolve of Special Counsel Mueller to pursue justice based on facts and facts alone.”
03.12.2018	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today visited with local high school students investing a hypothetical $100,000 in the stock market as part of a national competition promoting financial education. The students at Dulaney High School in Maryland’s Second District are competing in the Stock Market Game™ Capitol Hill Challenge (CHC), a 14-week financial education competition that pairs members of Congress with public schools in every Congressional district nationwide to teach middle and high school students about saving, investing, and government. Dulaney High has two teams currently in the top 13 and seven teams ranked in the top 200 out of 2,500 teams nation-wide. “It is absolutely critical for students to learn as early as possible how to be smart with money,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I couldn’t be more impressed with how serious the students at Dulaney are taking this competition, which is a fun and exciting way to learn the importance of saving and investing. I want to congratulate all schools that are supporting this project.” The competition uses the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Foundation’s curriculum-based Stock Market Game™, a program to help students develop a better understanding of fiscal policymaking, the role of the capital markets, and global economic trends. The program is proven to raise student scores on tests of mathematics, economics and financial knowledge and to improve students’ personal financial behavior. Students from Randallstown High School, also located in the Second District, are also competing. Since the Capitol Hill Challenge began in 2004, the program has made more than 4,100 matches of U.S. representatives and senators with schools, reaching more than 115,000 students. Middle and high school students from all 50 states, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia are participating in this year’s competition. The top 10 teams will be recognized at an awards reception in Washington, D.C., in June.
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, along with U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen (all D-MD), today announced that Baltimore County will receive $20 million in federal funding through the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program to help TradePoint Atlantic redevelop the former Sparrows Point steel mill site in southeastern Baltimore County. This project is expected to bring more than 21,000 jobs to the Baltimore area and will create even greater economic opportunities for the region. The Members also thanked Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao for working with them on this important project. In October, Senators Cardin and Van Hollen wrote a letter urging support of the project to Secretary Chao. Congressman Ruppersberger also led the House delegation in a letter on the issue in October. “The scale of this project cannot be overstated - it will transform Sparrows Point into a 21st-century transit hub, creating more than 21,000 jobs in the Baltimore area and increasing access to consumer goods for one-third of the American population,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, whose district is home to Sparrows Point. “I am proud to have helped bring these dollars back home to Baltimore County. This is exactly the jobs-producing investment that our constituents want and expect from the federal government.” This project will help increase commerce and create jobs locally, regionally, and nationally, Specifically, TradePoint will make structural upgrades to the terminal’s East-West Berth, add an upgraded crane rail system to allow direct transfer of cargo from vessels to rail or trucks, design changes to facilitate transfer of liquid commodities, strengthen the bulkhead, and dredge the turning basin and approach channel, in addition to other improvements. The TIGER Discretionary Grant program allows the Department of Transportation to invest in road, rail, transit, and port projects that promise to achieve national objectives. Since 2009, Congress has dedicated nearly $5.1 billion for eight rounds of TIGER grants to fund projects. Senators Cardin and Van Hollen and Congressman Ruppersberger have strongly supported full funding for the TIGER program throughout their time in Congress. “Sparrows Point was at the center of Baltimore's economic history, and this grant will enable redevelopment that helps ensure that the site is central to the city's economic future. This strong federal investment in TradePoint Atlantic will bring with it greater economic growth, new shipping capacity and job creation,” said Senator Cardin, Ranking Member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee. “I am proud of the continued federal-state partnership that has supported Maryland and made targeted investments in our infrastructure a priority.” “Creating good-paying jobs in Maryland is our number one priority, and this significant federal investment in Sparrows Point will allow us to do just that. This project will expand commercial opportunities around the Port of Baltimore, and ultimately grow our state and local economies,” said Senator Van Hollen, a member of the Budget and Appropriations Committees. “Infrastructure investments such as these are crucial to moving our country forward, and I will continue to fight for full funding for critical programs like the TIGER grants.”
02.27.2018	“We urge you to consider the voices of our constituents and their elected representatives and remove Maryland from the five-year plan.” WASHINGTON – Pushing back on the Trump plan for risky oil and gas drilling off the Chesapeake Bay and Maryland’s coastline, U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, with Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes, John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie Raskin (all D-Md.), have sent formal comments to the U.S. Department of the Interior and Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) in strong opposition to the plan that would open up coasts nationwide to oil and gas exploration. On January 4, 2018, the Interior Department announced a Draft Proposed Program for Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas leasing for 2019-2024, which would replace the Obama Administration’s current leasing plan for 2017-2027 that left the Mid-Atlantic Coastline free from such new activity. The Trump plan looks to open all areas of the country’s coast to offshore drilling. “Maryland’s inclusion in the draft proposal is heavily opposed in our state, as it threatens the livelihood of countless businesses and communities with significant interests in our fisheries and tourism industries,” the lawmakers wrote. “Should oil and gas development be permitted in these waters, a potential oil spill could do untold harm to our fisheries, tourism industry, and environment … We believe that when you have had a chance to consider the consequences of this proposal on our military, the State’s economy, and the environment, you will reach a similar conclusion.” The lawmakers urge other Marylanders to submit their comments before March 9 deadline. Interior Secretary Zinke specifically said that he would take “into consideration the local and state voice” when finalizing plans for off-shore drilling. The full letter can be found at this link and below. Comments to BOEM can be submitted at this link through March 9, 2018. February 27, 2018 The Honorable Ryan Zinke Secretary, U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street Washington, DC 20240 Dr. Walter Cruikshank Acting Director, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management 1849 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Zinke and Dr. Cruikshank: We write in strong opposition to the Department of the Interior’s National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2019-2024, announced on January 4, 2018. The draft proposal would allow lease sales for offshore oil and gas drilling for over ninety-percent of the Outer Continental Shelf, including the Mid-Atlantic region. We request that Maryland be exempted from any new oil and gas leases as the Department takes steps to finalize the Plan. Maryland’s inclusion in the draft proposal is heavily opposed in our state, as it threatens the livelihood of countless businesses and communities with significant interests in our fisheries and tourism industries. Furthermore, oil and gas development in the Mid-Atlantic region is opposed by our military, as they have found it threatens military readiness maneuvers and could interfere with missile tests the Navy relies on to protect our coasts. The NASA Wallops Flight Facility located on the Eastern Shore, which supports a burgeoning commercial space industry in our region, has expressed similar concerns that oil and gas development in these waters could undermine aerospace test activities, resupply missions to the International Space Station, and other future commercial space flight activities. Should oil and gas development be permitted in these waters, a potential oil spill could do untold harm to our fisheries, tourism industry, and environment. Indeed, confidence in the Department’s ability to assure our constituents that oil and gas development in these waters can be done safely and responsibly was drastically undermined when you rolled back reasoned safeguards put in place following the Deepwater Horizon spill in April 2010, which cost the lives of eleven workers and did lasting damage to the fisheries and ecosystems of the Gulf Coast. As you know, commercial oil and gas development in the Mid-Atlantic region has been proposed and defeated previously for many of the same reasons outlined above. We believe that when you have had a chance to consider the consequences of this proposal on our military, the State’s economy, and the environment, you will reach a similar conclusion. For all of these reasons, we urge you to consider the voices of our constituents and their elected representatives and remove Maryland from the five-year plan. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, ###
02.23.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger has been named a finalist for a new award recognizing Congressional offices that promote a work-life balance and professional development for their staff. The honor is part of the first-ever “Democracy Awards” for non-legislative achievement and performance by the Congressional Management Foundation, a nonpartisan nonprofit whose mission is to build trust and effectiveness in Congress. “As a finalist in "Life in Congress"- Workplace Environment for a Democracy Award, Congressman Ruppersberger’s office is clearly one of the best in Congress,” said Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of the Congressional Management Foundation. “This designation demonstrates that Congressman Ruppersberger has made a significant commitment to being the best public servant for his constituents in Maryland. Congressman Ruppersberger and his staff are to be congratulated for not only being a model for colleagues in Congress, but for helping to restore trust and faith that our democratic institutions can work.” Congressman Ruppersberger was selected for his family-focused approach. He encourages professional development, has offered flexible schedules to employees who want to pursue degrees and serve the military, and provides paid sick and maternity benefits. Four of the Congressman’s 15 staffers have been with him since he was first elected to Congress in 2003. “You are only as good as your team,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I try to do what I can to provide my employees a healthy work-life balance and I believe my constituents are the real beneficiaries because I am able to attract and retain one of the best teams in Congress.” In Washington, Congressman Ruppersberger is championing policies that will make daily life easier for all working families, including paid sick and maternity leave, affordable child care, student loan reform and a tax structure that benefits the middle class. In his Timonium-based District Office, Congressman Ruppersberger encourages his team of caseworkers to treat each constituent, “as if they were your mother or father.” Twenty House and Senate offices were honored as finalists in four categories: Constituent Service, Innovation, Transparency and Accountability, and "Life in Congress"- Workplace Environment. House and Senate personal offices nominated themselves using an online questionnaire for the four office categories. CMF followed up with offices to gather documentation and assess the office's adherence to the established criteria. CMF staff selected the finalists based on the information provided by nominees. A committee comprised primarily of former Members of Congress and former congressional staffers will select the two winners (one Democrat and one Republican) for each of the categories. Winners will be announced in mid-May.
02.15.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after 17 people were killed in the latest school shooting in Parkland, Florida: “Every parent should be guaranteed that, when they put their child on the school bus, they will arrive home at the end of the day. My heart is broken for the families of Parkland, which joins the growing list of those devastated by gun violence at school. It doesn’t have to be this way – and it isn’t in other parts of the world. Americans are 25 times more likely to be killed by a gun than in other developed nations. There are common sense safety measures we should be implementing to keep guns out of the hands of bad guys - like background checks. I agree, to a certain extent, that it’s the shooter, not the gun. Mental health is a big part of it, and must be addressed. But we can reduce the carnage. Ban bump stocks. Ban high capacity magazines. Ban assault weapons. Doing nothing is an active decision, as our previous President once said. But that is the decision that current leadership, beholden to the NRA, is making. Remember, House Republicans have actually pursued looser gun laws this year - bills that deregulated the sale of silencers and would allow more people to carry guns without training. They have even gone so far as to stop the collection of data on gun violence in America. Republicans need to stand up to the gun lobby once and for all. Thoughts and prayers are good, but on behalf of all the victims of mass shootings, we must also choose to act.”
02.14.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today questioned why advisers to President Trump without full security clearances have been given access to highly classified documents. The former Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee and Member of the Gang of Eight sent a letter to Director Of National Intelligence Dan Coats to get answers. “I’m extremely alarmed that citizens who may ultimately be deemed unclearable may be accessing some of the most highly classified intelligence we have,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It’s common sense that the most classified information should be reserved for the most cleared individuals.” At least two members of the Trump Administration have had access to highly sensitive documents while maintaining only interim security clearances. One has extensive foreign business contacts – which he neglected to include in his original clearance application – and is alleged to be of particular interest to special counsel Mueller’s Russia investigation. The other has been accused of violent crime. The full text of Congressman Ruppersberger’s letter follows. February 13, 2018 The Honorable Daniel Coats Director of National Intelligence 1500 Tysons McLean Drive McLean, Virginia 22102 Dear Director Coats: As former Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee and a member of the Gang of Eight, I have been troubled by recent media reports regarding the current security practices at the White House regarding access to classified information, including but not limited to, the President’s Daily Briefing (PDB). I was alarmed to learn – and I think the American public was as well – that the quantity of those with access to this document and others at the White House may be expanding outside the scope of what is considered acceptable in other areas of the U.S. government or in past Administrations. Specifically, I am concerned that at least two members of the Trump Administration have had access to highly sensitive documents while maintaining only interim security clearances. One has extensive foreign business contacts – which he neglected to include in his original clearance application – and is alleged to be of particular interest to special counsel Mueller’s Russia investigation. The other has been accused of violent crime. I agree with your testimony this week that temporary clearance holders should only receive limited access to classified information. We live in some of the most dangerous times our country has ever seen – facing threats including China, Russia, Iran and North Korea – and the stakes are too high. I am asking that you provide as much insight as possible into the use of interim clearances within the Executive Office of the President (EOP). I have the following questions: How many individuals within the EOP currently have access to classified information without a security clearance that has been fully adjudicated by the relevant U.S. government departments/agencies? How many individuals within the EOP currently have access to the PDB without a security clearance which has been fully adjudicated by the relevant U.S. government departments/agencies? What is the average duration of an open security clearance application for individuals within the EOP who currently have access to classified information without a security clearance which has been fully adjudicated by the relevant U.S. government departments/agencies? How many individuals within the EOP have access to classified information without a security clearance which has been fully adjudicated by the relevant U.S. government departments/agencies who submitted their original security clearance application (SF-86) on or before January 20, 2017? To your knowledge, are there instances in which the Federal Bureau of Investigation or any other federal agency has recommended rescinding an interim security clearance or against approving a security clearance for an individual within the EOP that currently has access to classified information without a security clearance which has been fully adjudicated by the relevant U.S. government departments/agencies? I look forward to your response and working with you going forward to ensure the integrity of our security clearance process. Sincerely, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Member of Congress
02.13.2018	(Washington, DC) — U.S. Representatives Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and Randy Hultgren introduced legislation to help state and local governments take advantage of low interest rates to build essential infrastructure projects. The bill restores the tax exemption for advance refunding bonds that was repealed by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed by Congress in December. “I’m proud to lead this bipartisan effort on behalf of local governments in Maryland who rely on this tool to finance projects that benefit everyone,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We need to do what we can to help local governments create jobs while building roads, schools, hospitals, fire and police stations. When counties can issue an advance refunding bond, it saves taxpayers billions nationwide – and an average of nearly $37 million annually here in Maryland. This can translate into lower property taxes.” “States and local governments need flexibility for managing their finances so they can invest in infrastructure like roads, bridges, hospital, libraries and schools to support our communities,” said Rep. Hultgren, a Republican from Illinois. “In recent years, tax-exempt advance refunding bonds have saved Illinois taxpayers $80 million per year on average. Given that interest rates are expected to increase, this tool is especially important to states and local governments responsibly planning for the future.” While the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act protected the vast majority of municipal bonds—a key tool to finance infrastructure projects—the law repealed the exclusion of interest income earned on advance refunding bonds from federal income taxation. This change to the tax code makes it more expensive for states and local governments to take advantage of a favorable interest rate environment. Congressmen Ruppersberger and Hultgren fought to preserve tax-exempt private activity bonds and advance refunding bonds during consideration of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. While the law preserved tax-exempt private activity bonds, the tax-exemption for advance refunding bonds expired on December 31, 2017. Other original co-sponsors include Reps. Luke Messer (R-IN-06), Ed Royce (R-CA-39), Dan Kildee (D-MI-06) and Michael Capuano (D-MA-07).
02.09.2018	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger this morning issued the following statement after voting in support of the budget agreement that ended another government shutdown. The bill increases statutory spending caps and enables the Appropriations Committee to move forward with writing responsible spending bills. “Finally, Congress has passed a long-term budget agreement that lifts the spending caps that have jeopardized both our national security as well as the economic security of American families. As I have repeatedly said, you can’t get 100 percent of what you want 100 percent of the time. Both parties compromised on important priorities in negotiating this agreement. Democrats like me, for example, continue to await a solution to protect the Dreamers as promised by Republican leadership. These are people – not bargaining chips – and we will continue to demand Speaker Ryan bring a DACA fix to the House floor on behalf of the vast majority of Americans who support one. I will also continue to fight to end the sequester not for two years, but forever. As former Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, a current Defense Appropriator, and representative of a district home to two Army bases, I have heard from military leader after military leader who have all warned that these reckless spending caps endanger our troops at home and on the frontlines. In the meantime, I am pleased that this bipartisan bill contains reliable funding for programs critical to Maryland families, such as: $2 billion in additional funding for the Maryland-based National Institutes of Health for life-saving research $6 billion to fight the opioid epidemic 10 years in funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which covers nearly 138,000 kids in Maryland $4 billion to rebuild veterans’ hospitals and clinics $5.8 billion to make child care more affordable $20 billion for infrastructure Closure of the prescription drug donut hole and funding to improve customer service at the Social Security Administration.”
02.02.2018	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement following the declassification of a memo by House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes: “Today’s reckless release of the so-called Nunes memo is a disservice to all Americans who were seeking truth and justice in its pages. I read both the Nunes memo and the minority response. It’s clear to me that the surveillance warrant application for Carter Page was based on far more than the Steele dossier. In fact, Carter Page was under FBI radar since at least 2013 and was warned well before the FISA warrant request that he was being recruited by the Russians as an informant. A judge re-approved his surveillance three separate times – each with new evidence. This release is clearly a calculated political move with the single purpose of discrediting the investigation of Special Counsel Mueller into alleged Russian interference in our election. It sets a dangerous precedent that will hurt our relationships with our allies. Chairman Nunes is on a dangerous path for our country. It is the job of the House Intelligence Committee to provide oversight: not carry the President’s water. A healthy debate requires two sides, If Chairman Nunes and President Trump were truly interested in transparency, they would immediately release the minority response to this memo unredacted. And why didn’t they share this information with their Republican counterparts on the Senate Intelligence Committee? What are they afraid of? Ultimately, the real winners of this political infighting are our adversaries like Russia, North Korea, Iran, China and ISIS. I hope today’s events only strengthen the resolve of Special Counsel Mueller to pursue justice based on facts and facts alone. We are a country of laws – let law enforcement do their job.”
01.30.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after voting against the Fiscal Year 2018 Defense Appropriations Act: “Today, I voted against a defense spending bill for the third time this Congress. Because, as much as I care about the security of our nation, I understand that military spending alone won’t make Americans more secure. Our communities and my constituents also need funds for our schools, veterans, infrastructure and medical research. Families rely on programs like Head Start and Meals on Wheels to ensure their economic security. As a Defense Appropriator, former Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, and a Congressman whose district is home to two Army installations, it truly pains me to vote against a defense spending bill. For years, we have asked our troops and military leaders to continue defending our nation with insufficient resources. Our advantages over our enemies are eroding. Instead of this haphazard approach, we should be laser focused on a bipartisan budget deal that raises caps for both defense and nondefense investments. I am urging my colleagues to continue negotiating a budget deal that both protects the homeland and provides greater opportunity for the people who call it home.”
01.25.2018	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Thursday announced support for legislation to mitigate a sharp decrease in charitable giving expected under the new tax reform bill after meeting with nonprofit organizations serving his constituents. The Congressman spent the day touring Red Cross facilities in Baltimore and having coffee with local advocates from the Alzheimer's Association. More than 80 percent of all charitable giving comes from Americans who itemize their tax returns. The independent Tax Policy Center estimates that, of the 45 million households likely to have itemized last year, only about 7 million of them will do so under the new law, instead taking the now-larger standard deduction. Some experts believe charitable giving could decrease by $13 billion with the changes. “While Congress is in recess, my job is to be in the district, learning first-hand how my constituents are affected by federal policy,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Local charities who serve the Second District are very concerned about the standard deduction increase and its impact on their bottom lines. That’s why I am proud to announce support for legislation that will reverse some of these consequences at a time when our hospitals, universities and religious institutions need help the most.” This week, Congressman Ruppersberger will become the first Democratic cosponsor of a bill that gives charitable giving a special status as a “universal deduction” that could be claimed on top of the standard deduction, even by those who do not itemize. H.R. 3988, the Universal Charitable Giving Act of 2017, allows a deduction up to one-third of the now-doubled standard deduction, which equals about $2,100 for individuals and $4,200 for married couples. “The two charities I met with today rely almost exclusively on donations and they need Americans to give now more than ever,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This bill gives all Americans an incentive to donate to charity – not just the wealthy – and I am urging my colleagues to join in my support.”
01.22.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) tonight voted in support of a Continuing Resolution (CR) that re-opens the government and funds its operations through February 8. He issued the following statement: “Today, I voted for a CR that will fund the government through February 8 on behalf of the hundreds of thousands of federal workers and troops in Maryland who must support their families and can’t afford an indefinite furlough. I am supporting a two-and-a-half-week CR now, only after receiving on-the-record commitments to finally tackle tough issues like long-term funding for our military, critical domestic programs, DACA, the opioid crisis and much more. Senate leaders have pledged to do this in a bipartisan and fair process – and I hope that House leaders will follow suit in the best interest of our nation. Our constituents sent us to Washington to do our jobs and pass a long-term budget that gives our federal agencies and troops the certainty they deserve. Funding the government from month-to-month and from crisis-to-crisis is no way to lead. And, while band aid budgets are bad for everyone, they are especially dangerous for our military – but the only thing worse than yet another CR is a government shutdown. I care about Dreamers and we now have a clear path forward on this critical issue. I look forward to supporting a DACA resolution come February 8, when the Senate Majority Leader has committed to putting it on the floor for a vote as long as the government remains open. When you are in the minority party in both chambers of Congress as well as the White House, this is a victory. My message to Republicans this week has been simple: You can’t get 100 percent of what you want 100 percent of the time. The same is true for Democrats. I urge Congressional leaders to negotiate a truly bipartisan appropriations bill that lifts the sequester, provides long-term funding for our priorities and includes responsible immigration reform that protects the Dreamers."
01.20.2018	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on the government shutdown: “When one party has control of the House, the Senate, and the White House, you would expect that it would be easy to keep the government open. I am disheartened and frustrated that it has come to this. As we learned in 2013, the effects of this shutdown will be severe here in Maryland, which is home to more than 60 federal agencies and at least 140,000 federal employees and contractors. Many of these hard-working men and women – including my staff and constituents – are now facing indefinite furloughs, jeopardizing their ability to support their families, their communities and their country. But unlike in 2013 – when the government was held hostage by opponents of Obamacare – this shutdown has occurred for no other reason than discord within the Republican party. They had the votes to pass their own funding resolution with Democratic support and failed. To that end, I will continue to oppose stop-gap funding bills like the one that passed along party lines Thursday night. This was the fourth Continuing Resolution of this fiscal year. These band aid budgets rob our military of the certainty it needs and this most recent bill fails to fund even bipartisan efforts like disaster aid, the opioid epidemic and healthcare for our veterans. They are no way to govern. I encourage the leaders of both parties to continue negotiations and reopen our government as quickly as possible. In the meantime, I am supporting legislation to guarantee back pay for both furloughed workers and essential staff who work without pay through the shutdown.”
01.17.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) today applauded passage of the bipartisan Cyber Diplomacy Act of 2017 in the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Ruppersberger was an original cosponsor of the legislation, which creates an ambassador-level cyber coordinator at the State Department. Like other ambassadors, the new cyber envoy would be nominated by the President with consent of the Senate. The bill also establishes new cyber policies that require the President to secure international commitments on responsible behavior in cyberspace. “Cyber policy is currently buried in State Department bureaucracy. This bill fixes that,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Everyday, we face unrelenting attacks from Russia, North Korea, Iran and China. Adversaries are not only targeting our critical infrastructure and government secrets, but data from American companies. It’s time we treat cyber like the front-burner mission that it is.” The legislation is a check on an Administration-led push to dilute the State Department’s cyber efforts. The White House closed the Department’s primary cybersecurity diplomacy office last summer, folding it into the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs and eliminating the direct line to the Secretary. Its main cyber coordinator was forced to vacate his position. Congressman Ruppersberger urged his colleagues in the Senate to quickly pass the bill and send it to the President’s desk to be signed into law.
01.11.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to renew authorities to collect communications of foreign targets located overseas. The statutory authority for the program, known as Section 702, expires January 19. “Today, I voted in favor of the bipartisan FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act of 2017 because it makes critical reforms to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), especially Section 702, that will protect both American lives – especially our troops abroad – and our civil liberties. Section 702 is an important tool used to collect communications on foreign bad guys overseas. It can only be used to target non-Americans located outside our borders. It is not – and cannot – be used to intentionally target Americans, ever, either within the United States or abroad. Anyone claiming that Section 702 is broadly used to spy on American citizens simply does not understand the nature of this program, its limited scope, or how it is executed by the patriots that make up our intelligence and law enforcement communities. The courts have affirmed this program’s current authorization and operation – including the procedure for when a warrant is required – are legal and consistent with the Fourth Amendment. Just this week, the Supreme Court of the United States confirmed this when it rejected a Fourth Amendment challenge to Section 702. Congress has voted several times with bipartisan majorities to reauthorize it. While this program may already be one of the most heavily overseen programs we have, this bill includes several new privacy safeguards, including specific query procedures—separate from existing minimization procedures—that must be annually approved by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC). It also, for example, ends the collection of communications “about” a target (again, never an American) as opposed to communications “to” and “from” a target until the government develops new procedures, gains FISC approval for them, and briefs Congress. As former Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a current Defense and Homeland Security Appropriator and representative of the district home to NSA, I have always said – you can’t have security without privacy, and you can’t have privacy without security. I will continue to fight for proper balance between security and privacy when it comes to protecting Americans here at home.”
12.21.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after voting against a short-term Continuing Resolution: "Today, I made the difficult decision to vote against a continuing resolution (CR) that would fund the federal government. This is something I have done only rarely throughout my time in Congress and reflects the irresponsibility of the bill place before us today. Funding the government is the most basic responsibility of Congress, yet this is the third temporary Continuing Resolution we’ve seen nearly three months into the fiscal year with no full-year Appropriations plan in sight. I am especially concerned that the Department of Defense continues to operate under a CR – as adversaries like China and Russia continue to close in on us. Band aid budgets are bad for our national security. I am also very disappointed that this bill contains no long-term reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program, nor does it offer a solution for Dreamers. Failing to find a way for these residents – who serve our military, lead our communities and contribute taxes -- to stay in this country legally is inexcusable. I hope Senator McConnell means it when he says the Senate will vote on a DACA fix in January.”
12.19.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “This bill was a missed opportunity to provide meaningful tax relief for American families. I am disappointed that, today, the House passed a bill opposed by the majority of our constituents. And I am worried for the tens of millions of families who will eventually see a tax increase under it, according to the non-partisan Tax Policy Center. Instead, more than 80 percent of the tax cuts included in this bill will go to our country’s corporations and wealthiest 1 percent. Legislation is always better when both parties work together on behalf of our country. In fact, in the mid to late-1990s, our country saw strong economic growth, record job creation and even budget surpluses. It was achieved two ways: by structuring taxes to favor the middle class and by bringing both parties into the tent. Unfortunately, the tax reform bill passed today did neither. This bill caps the state and local tax deduction – which Maryland residents claim more than any other state in the Union – to $10,000. By offering a standard deduction instead, this bill is nothing more than a shell game that will cost most Marylanders the benefits it promises to the middle class. Further, it repeals the requirement for all Americans to buy health insurance, which will increase premiums another 10 percent. And it adds at least $2 trillion to the national debt over the next decade. While I was a strong “no” vote today, I want to thank my friend and colleague, Republican Congressman Randy Hultgren of Illinois, for our bipartisan work to protect the tax benefits of private activity and municipal bonds. These job-creating bonds are critical tools for local governments to build new roads, hospitals, fire stations, libraries and other infrastructure projects. I am pleased that they were spared in this otherwise terrible tax reform bill.”
12.14.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit V. Pai’s decision to hold a vote on the repeal of net neutrality rules today. “I am strongly against Chairman Pai’s hasty and misguided decision to move forward with a vote to repeal net neutrality rules. I am deeply concerned that Chairman Pai’s current path for the FCC will result in an Internet environment that devalues consumers, small businesses and others that depend on open Internet principles. Chairman Pai’s intentions to roll back net neutrality rules have been abundantly clear since he took over the FCC earlier this year despite millions of consumer statements in opposition during the open comment period. He has been unwavering in his pursuit of this goal. The Chairman should halt this vote immediately. While I do not approve of the FCC vote, it is clear that Congress must intervene and pass legislation. I have long urged the Congressional committees of jurisdiction to get to work to solve these problems for American consumers and businesses. Ultimately, we must make sure that ISPs cannot block, slow down or discriminate against lawful content on the Internet.”
12.11.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced that an all-girls team of students from Randallstown High has won his fourth-annual high school “App Challenge.” The academic competition, which is open to all high school students in Maryland’s Second Congressional District, requires students to create an original software application for mobile, tablet or other device on a platform of their choice. The winners – Aaliyah Philippe-Auguste, Re'Niya Avery, Saniya Holmes and Adaora Umeadi – created an app called “Health Care 4 U” that teaches users medical terminology through an interactive matching game. Over the course of several months, the 10th grade students learned computer coding, designed graphics, developed music and created a marketing and advertising plan for their game. Contest participants were required to submit a video demonstrating and explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process. You can see the winning team’s video here. “I am particularly proud that this year’s winners are all women, who are historically underrepresented in STEM industries,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Their creativity and technical expertise is remarkable and I see bright futures ahead for each of them. If they are any example, our community will be generating impressive talent that will help our country innovate and create jobs.” The contest is part of a national effort established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2014 to promote science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) innovation. Winners from across the country will be invited to showcase their apps to Members of Congress and members of the tech community at #HouseOfCode, a reception on Capitol Hill to be held in April 2018. Their work is eligible to be featured for one year on permanent display in the U.S. Capitol Building and on the House.gov website. Each winning student will also be awarded $250 in Amazon Web Service credits.
12.01.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after former National Security Advisor and Trump transition team member Michael Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about conversations with Russian officials: “We should all be concerned that one of President Trump’s top campaign consultants – and the man he eventually seated at the head of the National Security Council under his Administration – has now pleaded guilty to lying to federal investigators. That President Trump allegedly encouraged former FBI Director James Comey to drop his investigation of General Flynn, and later fired him, is all the more alarming. General Flynn is the fourth top Trump associate to be charged in connection with the investigation of a hostile nation that we know interfered with our election with possible collusion from Americans associated with our Commander in Chief. We can’t allow any country to attack our democracy. I urge Special Counsel Mueller and the Congressional Committees of jurisdiction to continue their pursuit of the facts. The American people deserve justice based on facts, not politics. Let’s get these facts as quickly as possible to determine if additional crimes have been committed or not. Only then can we move forward as a country once and for all.”
12.01.2017	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, Congressmen Elijah Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) released the following joint statement: “We support the request of Baltimore City Police Commissioner Kevin Davis for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to take the lead in investigating the murder of Detective Sean Suiter. We also have heard personally from Mayor Catherine Pugh, who requested federal support for an FBI investigation. We thank our federal partners at the FBI, DEA, ATF, and the U.S. Attorney’s office for their assistance thus far in this case. We now need the full resources and attention of the federal government brought to bear in order to solve this case, bring the suspects to justice, and provide answers to the public and Detective Suiter’s family.”
11.16.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The bill passed the House of Representatives 227 – 205 in a party-line vote. “Since last November, I have listened with hope to President Trump and Congressional Republicans’ promises for real tax reform. The goal of a simple and modern tax code focused on rebuilding the middle class is one that I share with many of my constituents and colleagues in Congress. Unfortunately, that goal is not achieved by the bill passed by the House today. Instead, its primary purpose is to lower the corporate tax rate at the expense of middle-class families, millions of which would see an immediate tax increase averaging $2,000. Maryland would be among the four hardest-hit states in the nation with a $430 million tax increase thanks to the repeal of the state and local tax deduction. Marylanders claim this deduction more than any other state in the Union. Scaling back the mortgage interest deduction would also hurt Marylanders in areas with high property values and discourage new homeownership and home building. The bill does not increase the child tax credit and standard deduction enough to offset the elimination of the personal exemption. I also oppose the removal of an exemption for bonds used by state and local governments to build hospitals, schools, housing and roads, including the Purple Line here in Maryland. Not only does this bill add $1.4 trillion to our national debt, it pays for steep cuts to marginal tax rates by deleting valuable incentives like the deductibility of student loans and moving expenses, reimbursements for teaching supplies, and repeal of the adoption, historic building, and electric vehicle tax credits. It eliminates the deductibility of medical expenses – which could devastate millions of seniors – and ends tax benefits for charitable giving, affecting hospitals, universities, churches and nonprofits across the country. I think we can do better when it comes to offsets. We all agree tax reform is necessary. I want to be clear that I did not vote against this bill simply because it was developed by Republicans, although I am angry Republican leadership refused to allow Democrats to participate in its drafting and debate. I sincerely want middle class families in my district to see some tax relief. I hope that my colleagues in the Senate can work together to improve this measure to provide meaningful tax reform for middle class families."
11.14.2017	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Thursday will be joined by Senator Chris Van Hollen at a town hall to hear from constituents who have benefitted from Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program. These programs cover 74 million low-income children, pregnant women, adults, seniors and people with disabilities, including nearly 1.3 million Marylanders. The House of Representatives earlier this year passed healthcare reform legislation that would have completely restructured Medicaid, leaving thousands without coverage. Deep cuts have also been proposed in the 2018 budget resolution. “These programs help American families every day and it’s their stories that will, hopefully, force my colleagues in Congress with different priorities to think twice,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “These programs save lives and it’s our responsibility to protect them.” A caseworker from Congressman Ruppersberger’s office who specializes in Medicaid and Medicare will be present to assist Second District constituents. The forum, which is open to the public, is sponsored by leading Maryland health organizations including the Baltimore County Department of Health, Health Care For All, MedChi, Health Care For the Homeless, NAACP, 1199 SEIU, HealthCare Access Maryland and Pew Charitable Trusts. Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Senator Chris Van Hollen Maryland Healthcare Organizations Local Constituents When: Thursday, November 16, 2017 6:30 PM Where: Ateaze Senior Center 7401 Holabird Avenue Dundalk, Maryland
11.01.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on the tragic terrorist attack in New York City. “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and families affected by this heinous and cowardly act of terrorism, and I would like to recognize the brave first responders who subdued the terrorist, and treated those who were injured. This perpetrator was obviously a coward who was radicalized by extremist ideology – his goal was to inflict as much terror as possible on innocent civilians. We still don’t have all the facts, and the investigation is ongoing. The perpetrator’s family members need to be interviewed to see if they were aware of his radicalization, and if they were, they need to be held accountable. We have to remember that vigilant and united communities are one of the most effective deterrents for these sorts of attacks. We need to do everything we can to make sure our intelligence community and law enforcement agencies have the resources they need and are able to share threat information as quickly as possible. You will never have a 100% guarantee that we can stop all attacks, citizens must remain vigilant and we need to do everything we can to fight back against extremist ideology. ISIS has lost virtually all of its territory in the Middle East, and they will be escalating their digital campaign against the West where they try to radicalize as many as possible through social media and other digital mediums. While this attack is tragic, we should be inspired by the resiliency of the citizens of New York City. Less than two hours after the attack, Governor Cuomo, Mayor de Blasio, and thousands of New Yorkers lined the streets to celebrate Halloween with family and friends. We must always remember that if we allow these attacks to change our lives, the terrorists have already won.”
10.30.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced legislation designed to promote transparency and regrow the middle class as the U.S. House of Representatives prepares to consider massive tax reform measures in the coming weeks. The Trump Administration has proposed a reform package that is expected to reduce taxes for the country’s wealthiest citizens, according to nonpartisan budget experts. Congressman Ruppersberger’s bill requires all major tax reform measures to be accompanied by a nonpartisan analysis of its long-term impact on income inequality. H.R. 4085, the Tax Policy Transparency Act, requires the report to be conducted by the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) and will provide Members of Congress with the data they need to cast objective and informed votes. This legislation has the support of leading good government, nonpartisan organizations, including Third Way and Common Cause. “There are very few Members of Congress who are experts in tax policy and many end up relying on the word of partisan think tanks – each with their own agenda, ” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I’d prefer to get my data from nonpartisan, professional number crunchers who can give us the hard data we need to know how our vote is going to affect our constituents’ wallets. This bill isn’t about where we raise taxes or cut them – it’s about having the best data we can get to make an informed decision. If my colleagues are true champions of America’s middle class, they will have no problem signing this common sense transparency bill allowing the nonpartisan JCT to analyze the tax reform proposal.” "As congressional Republicans try to push a secretive tax bill through the legislative process, special interests will likely have a feeding frenzy," said Aaron Scherb, director of legislative affairs with Common Cause, a nonpartisan government watchdog. "Americans deserve to know who is going to benefit and who is going to lose under this tax bill, and we commend Representative Ruppersberger for his common sense legislation that would provide much-needed transparency." The centrist think tank, Third Way, also supports the bill. “There’s simply no good reason for tax reform to transfer wealth from the poor or middle class to the wealthy,” said Gabriel Horwitz, Vice President of the Third Way’s Economic Program . “Doing so would fundamentally undermine economic growth. That’s why it is critical that any major tax bill receive a full distributional analysis by a respected, nonpartisan scorekeeper. We applaud Congressman Ruppersberger for leading this effort.”
10.19.2017	Gaithersburg, MD – The Alliance for Biosecurity presented Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) with the Congressional Biosecurity Champion Award this morning. The award recognizes the leadership and actions taken by Members of Congress to improve U.S. national security, preparedness, and response for biosecurity threats. “Public-private partnerships allow government and industry to work together to ensure the country is prepared for potential biothreats,” said Chris Frech, senior vice president for global government affairs at Emergent BioSolutions and co-chair of the Alliance for Biosecurity. “Because the biosecurity industry does not have a natural commercial market for its products, it relies on predictable and consistent funding from the government. We greatly appreciate Congressman Ruppersberger’s pledge to make Americans safer by enhancing our national preparedness and response capabilities for biological threats.” “Every day, our country faces new threats, from cybersecurity to biowarfare,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “As an appropriator, I know how important consistent and dependable funding is for innovation, especially when it comes to our country’s national security. Maryland is a hub of biotech innovation, and I am glad we have innovative companies like Emergent BioSolutions, an Alliance for Biosecurity member, hard at work here to protect Americans from emerging threats both at home and abroad.” In his role on the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Ruppersberger is committed to promoting increased support and funding for medical countermeasures through the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) and the BioShield Special Reserve Fund. The award presentation took place during the Congressman’s visit to Emergent BioSolutions' Center for Innovation in Advanced Development and Manufacturing. Established in 2012, the Center works through a partnership with BARDA to develop and manufacture medical countermeasures for public health emergencies. In keeping with the innovative nature of business members of the Alliance, the award is a unique one-of-a-kind design produced by a 3D printer.
10.13.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today issued the following statement on President Donald J. Trump’s decision to end cost-sharing subsidies, effectively undermining the Affordable Care Act. “It is hard to fathom what President Trump is trying to accomplish by singlehandedly causing the biggest hike in healthcare premiums for middle class and poor families while taking away essential protections. The people who are going to suffer the most are middle class families who will now see their monthly premiums skyrocket 20 percent according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO). This will cause chaos in the healthcare market and force the vast majority of Americans to choose junk insurance with few protections because they can’t afford to spend more on healthcare. With the signing of the Executive Order, premiums will rise for Americans with pre-existing conditions, essentially forcing many of them to go without vital health insurance. The Executive Order to End Cost Sharing Reduction Payment subsidies will place 76,429 Marylanders’ or 57% of our neighbors’ healthcare at risk. Ending these subsidies will make it hard to provide affordable healthcare coverage to many Americans and it will start a ripple effect that will devastate the ACA insurance market and cause premiums to skyrocket. Trump is going to sell cheaper insurance with less coverage, less protections. He is also going to end the $7 billion subsidy to insurance companies to help pay for the health insurance for 7 million low income Americans. This step will drive up premiums 40% and poorer and sicker people will not be able to afford insurance. In addition, Trump’s administration is also only allowing enrollment for a few hours on the ACA website to limit people signing up. A bipartisan effort in the Senate is working on a compromise fix for our healthcare system, but instead of encouraging a bipartisan solution that benefits all Americans, President Trump is focused on derailing these efforts. After 60 plus attempts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act and the failure of Trumpcare, I thought Congress was past efforts to take away healthcare from millions of people. Obviously I was wrong and our President is lashing out at middle class and poor families by removing the incentive for insurance companies to cover the most ill. Make no mistake – this executive order will not make healthcare cheaper or more accessible for the people of Maryland. After losing this battle time and again in Congress, the President issued this executive order to sidestep Congress and wipe out healthcare for millions of Americans. This is unacceptable.”
10.13.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today issued the following statement on President Donald J. Trump’s decision to decertify the landmark Iran nuclear agreement. “In my many years as an elected official, I have worked as a bipartisan leader who fights for solutions that are best for our country, and my constituents, especially when it comes to our national security. President Trump’s decision to decertify the JCPOA shows how fundamentally inept and inexperienced the President is in the fields of foreign affairs and national security. This is a bad decision, and it is one that could have long term negative consequences for the United States, Israel, and our allies. The purpose of the JCPOA was to stop Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. It was not designed to deal with Iran’s ballistic missile program or their state sponsorship of terrorism, yet President Trump continues to act as though Iran’s actions are violating the JCPOA. The “spirit of the deal,” as the President has called it, is explicitly designed to deal with nuclear issues only. The U.S. already has sanctions against Iran for their ballistic missile program and their sponsorship of terrorism. Make no mistake, President Trump’s decision to decertify the JCPOA threatens to draw us into yet another conflict in the Middle East, at a time where we need to focus on the national security issues throughout the world. Without the JCPOA, Iran is months away from developing a nuclear weapon they could launch on a missile, or simply give to one of the various terrorist organizations they support. If Iran gets a nuclear weapon, it will cause a ripple effect of destabilization in the region. Countries such as Saudi Arabia and Turkey will simply purchase these devastating weapons, and the Middle East will become a nuclear powder keg with our ally, Israel, in the middle. I simply cannot understand how it is possible for President Trump to come to this conclusion concerning the JCPOA, especially when Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis recently spoke before a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing and confirmed the JCPOA was in line with the national security interests of the United States. I find it troubling that the President would disagree with Secretary Mattis’ assessment, considering the President’s total lack of national security experience. To make matters worse, decertifying the JCPOA will damage the credibility of the United States with the international community. To decertify the JCPOA, for no valid reason, while we attempt to convince North Korea to come to the negotiating table, is a foreign policy blunder of disastrous proportions. President Trump’s decision to decertify the JCPOA is an attempt to keep a campaign promise he made with absolutely no knowledge or concern for the national security interests of the United States, Israel, or our allies. It is irresponsible and directly contradicts the expert assessments of those in President Trump’s administration with experience in this field. Simply put, decertifying the JCPOA puts the national security of the United States, Israel, and the rest of the world at risk, while demonstrating President Trump’s prioritization of a campaign promise over the national security interests of our country and the world.”
10.13.2017	(Washington, DC) – Representatives C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Don Young (R-AK), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), and Charlie Crist (D-FL) today introduced bipartisan legislation that will help local and state governments build coastal resiliency along the United States’ 95,000 miles of shoreline. Geospatial mapping information can be complicated, expensive to collect, and difficult to use without in-house expertise. In the wake of devastating recent Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, the need for spatial data on our coasts is critical to emergency preparedness and response efforts. The Digital Coast Act will provide coastal communities updated mapping data that can be used to prepare for storms, manage floods, restore ecosystems and plan smarter developments near America’s coasts, harbors, ports and shorelines. “America’s fragile shorelines are home to more than half of our country’s population and millions of businesses that supply most of our gross domestic product,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Yet current coastal maps and geospatial data are woefully inaccurate, outdated or even nonexistent. The Digital Coast Act will give local planners and managers the high-tech data they need to make accurate decisions and smart investments that could save people and property.” “No other state in the nation understands the need for coastal resilience and mapping more than Alaska,” said Congressman Don Young. “With more than 44,000 miles of coastline, much of which is not fully mapped, Alaska’s coastal communities rely heavily on our waterways and shipping channels to support all forms of social and economic prosperity: goods from the lower 48, critical transportation needs, search and rescue operations, and the state’s largest private sector employer – our fishing industry. The Digital Coast Act is an important step towards developing a system that supports our coastal communities with up-to-date and reliable information on our coastlines and weather conditions.” “Pinellas County, which I’m honored to represent, is a peninsula on the peninsula of Florida. Our community’s safety depends on coastal resiliency,” said Representative Crist. “The Digital Coast program provides invaluable data and digital tools to combat increasingly severe storms and rising sea levels which impact tourism and fishing industries – major drivers of our state and local economies. I’m proud to join in introducing this common-sense bill to bolster this critical program to protect people, property, and our economy.” “In the wake of natural disasters like Hurricane Maria, it is more important than ever that we provide communities with the resources they need to prepare for storm surge and encourage smarter development,” Representative Esty said. “The Digital Coast Act will leverage next-generation technologies to make detailed information on weather conditions and coastal regions in danger of flooding available to the local officials tasked with emergency response management, as well as the broader public. This data will give us tools to save lives and protect our families’ and businesses’ property in future storms.” The bill, H.R. 4062, formally creates the “Digital Coast” program at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), allowing it to begin a comprehensive mapping process and make the data available on its website for free and easy public access. NOAA will also train decision-makers at the local and state level on how to use the datasets to answer questions about storm surge, erosion, and water level trends. This is the fifth time Representatives Ruppersberger and Young have introduced the Digital Coast Act since 2010. They are joined by Representatives Esty and Crist this session of Congress. The companion bill passed with unanimous consent in the U.S. Senate earlier this year.
10.04.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) and Congressman John R. Carter (TX-31) today introduced the Securing Energy Infrastructure Act of 2017, a House companion bill to legislation by the same name introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Angus King (I-ME) and Senator James E. Risch (R-ID). Congressman Ruppersberger said, “The serious threats to our critical energy infrastructure continue to escalate in cyberspace at an alarming rate. We know our adversaries are exploiting vulnerabilities that exist at both large and small energy companies. In a world centered on technology, we must shore up systems that protect critical resources.” “Securing our country’s energy infrastructure is a national security priority. Understanding where our system’s weak spots are will only enhance efforts to support robust efforts to ensure we have the most stable and secure energy networks in the world,” said Congressman Carter. “Over the past several years, we have weathered numerous cyber-attacks that have targeted American businesses, people, and government agencies, with the potential for bigger and more damaging attacks growing by the day. That’s why strengthening major components of our national infrastructure – like our electric grid – is critical to our national security,” Senator King said. “By making our electric grid more resilient, we can mitigate the impact of major cyber-attacks on our country and protect American people. I am encouraged to see this common-sense bill has gained support in the House, and urge my colleagues in both the House and the Senate to move it through Congress.” “Recent cyber-attacks against the U.S. demonstrate how urgently we must act to better defend ourselves, our critical energy infrastructure and our control systems from potentially catastrophic threats,” said Senator Risch, a member of both the Senate Intelligence and Energy and Natural Resources Committees. “I appreciate Congressmen Ruppersberger’s and Carter’s leadership in introducing a companion version of our Senate bill in the House today. There is a clear need to develop techniques and technologies to secure our grid and I look forward to working with our partners in the House to see it through.” Grid attacks are yet another tool in the cyber toolkit of bad actors. This legislation leverages the unique assets of national laboratories to establish solutions to defend the U.S. energy grid from attacks and to ensure resiliency of operations during and after an event. The legislation: establishes a two-year pilot program to study covered entities and identify new classes of security vulnerabilities and research and test technology – like analog devices – that could be used to isolate the most critical systems of covered entities from cyber-attacks develops a working group to evaluate the technology solutions proposed and develop a national cyber-informed strategy to isolate the energy grid from attacks requires the Secretary of Energy to submit a report to Congress describing the results of the program, assessing the feasibility of the techniques considered, and outlining the results of the working group’s evaluations.
09.27.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) today released the following statement on the designation of the Fort George G. Meade World War I Memorial as one of the first 50 “WWI Centennial Memorials” through 100 Cities/100 Memorials. “Over 400,000 soldiers were trained at Fort Meade after they were drafted during World War I. It is an incredible honor for the monument to receive this designation which will help preserve the history of Fort Meade’s ties to the Great War. Over 62,000 Marylanders bravely served in the war and this monument belongs to them and the nearly 2,000 Marylanders who made the ultimate sacrifice for their country. I applaud efforts to preserve and protect this and similar monuments across the country for future generations.” The 100 Cities/100 Memorials project aims to highlight United States WWI memorials and encourage public access across America to the WWI Centennial Commemoration. Due to weather exposure, lack of maintenance, and in some cases, vandalism, many of the memorials highlighted by the Commission have begun to deteriorate. As a result, the Pritzky Military Museum & Library and the World War I Centennial Commission have contributed $200,000 in matching funds for future maintenance, with further support from the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign War. These restoration efforts will also help garner public awareness of our nation’s service members and the lasting effects of World War I on global society. All 100 recipients of Commission funds will receive a matching grant of $2,000 for restoration projects and be officially designated by the United States World War One Centennial Commission as a WWI Centennial Memorial.
09.14.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) today released the following statement on the introduction of the Cyber Diplomacy Act of 2017. “This bill establishes new United States international cyberspace policy guided by the ‘multi-stakeholder model’ that rejects Russia and China’s concept of government-led ‘cyber sovereignty.’ It specifies key objectives for the President to pursue in implementing such policy, such as securing commitments on responsible state behavior in cyberspace. This bipartisan bill would ensure cyber policy at the Department remains a priority,” said Ruppersberger. “The threat to U.S. companies, citizens, and government networks continues to grow as criminal organizations and foreign governments further develop tools and recruit and retain top talent to act, offensively and defensively, in cyberspace. The international community continues to seek a common framework for conduct in this arena and the U.S. can only continue to be a leader if we acknowledge the need and direct adequate resources towards this effort.” Additionally, the Cyber Diplomacy Act establishes an Ambassador level envoy, nominated by the President with the consent of the Senate. The previous Coordinator for Cyber Issues at the Department, Chris Painter, left in July after an Administration-led push to reorganize the diplomatic cyber mission team. “In July, I said the Department of State ‘better have a damn good reason’ for closing the Office of the Coordinator for Cyber Issues. The need for international engagement is growing, and I am happy this bill also provides for a new Ambassador with statutory authority to carry out that mission. As an original cosponsor, I applaud Chairman Royce and Ranking Member Engel on this effort. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, and the Administration, to ensure it is enacted.”
09.14.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement in response to the passage of the 2018 Minibus Bill debated on the House Floor Today. “Today I was forced to vote against a partisan spending package which passed with only one Democratic vote. Not only does this bill drastically slash funding for programs that mitigate coastal flooding, it pulls the plug on the Affordable Care Act, and grossly underfunds domestic investment in infrastructure, education, and healthcare. These cuts are all being made only to free up funds for a border wall and to create a mass deportation force – a fundamentally misguided approach to addressing our nation’s complex immigration challenges. Funding our government used to be a bipartisan effort. It is shameful to see House leadership put forth a bad spending bill which nearly half of its legislative body could not support.”
09.12.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, on Tuesday condemned the decision by House Majority leadership to block an amendment to H.R. 3354, the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act. The amendment, offered by Representatives Ruppersberger, Serrano, Khanna, Grisham, Jeffries, and Meng, would have offered $10 million in supplemental funding to state and local governments to dismantle and fight domestic white supremacist organizations. “It’s unbelievable that House leadership refused to even consider our common sense measure that would empower local police to identify and dismantle radical hate groups across the nation,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “In the last year, we’ve seen the resurgence of white supremacists and other hate groups in the public sphere who have hate in their hearts and the goal of hurting innocent Americans. The events in Charlottesville demonstrated the tragedy that can come at the hands of these well-organized and well-armed white supremacy groups. It’s unfortunate and beyond disappointing that my colleagues are unwilling to recognize this threat to our American values.”
09.08.2017	Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), former ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee, issued the following statement in response to a May data breach at Equifax, a popular credit monitoring company, which was discovered by the company in July and disclosed to the public Thursday. The breach has reportedly exposed the Social Security numbers, among other personal information of 143 million Americans – 60% of U.S. adults. “While I am not surprised that Equifax was a target for cybercriminals, I do not understand why it took the company 40 days to alert their customers of a breach that has compromised over 140 million records containing personal information of Americans,” Ruppersberger said. Some Members of Congress have questioned whether this breach will be the catalyst for data breach notification legislation, currently there is no federal requirement. “I will be closely monitoring the development of the government’s response to this breach to ensure we are prioritizing consumer privacy and protecting Americans from identity theft and further compromise.” “Cybersecurity needs to be a priority for every business, large or small.” A recent study by the SANS Institute found that in the last year 78% of organizations had experienced cyber-attacks and 12% of those attacks resulted in a significant breach. “The cyber threat is only accelerating as more and more criminal organizations and nation-states acquire sophisticated hardware, software and talent to carry out these attacks. As an appropriator, I continue to prioritize spending on cybersecurity resources by the federal government. We need to be a lot more aggressive in protecting our citizens from cyberattacks.”
09.05.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today released the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced the termination of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) initiative by the Trump Administration: “President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program does little to solve the very real problems inherent in our current immigration system. We need to prioritize immigration enforcement to the few bad apples that endanger the otherwise law-abiding immigrant community, going after gang members and criminal aliens – a group of which DREAMers are not part. That is why I have always advocated for priority immigration enforcement, and it is why I oppose this move by the Trump administration. Every single one of the more than 800,000 DREAMers in our country has a clean criminal record – it is a requirement of the program. DREAMers are expected to contribute $460.3 billion to our economy over the next ten years. America is the only place they call home and they contribute in immeasurable ways to the fabric of our great nation. To deport them would break up families, destroy the productive lives DREAMers have built in this country, and remove some of our most promising young people. This decision is not only inhumane, but also un-American. In my time in Congress, I have sponsored legislation to create a pathway to citizenship. My office has sent multiple letters to the administration asking to uphold the DACA program. However, as I said when the DACA program was first introduced by President Obama, comprehensive immigration reform is the responsibility of Congress – not the President. For years now, the House has had plenty of opportunities to pass bipartisan legislation to address the problems in our immigration system, yet current leadership has refused to even bring it to the floor. We cannot deport our way out of the complex challenges posed by immigration, nor can we fix them with a border wall. This is a clear wakeup call for my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, in Congress. It is long past time for both parties to come together to establish a permanent legislative solution to immigration, including a rigorous path to citizenship.”
08.18.2017	(Washington, DC) –Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) today applauded President Trump’s decision to elevate the U.S. Cyber Command – based at Fort Meade in Maryland’s Second District – to a full Unified Combatant Command. Our Armed Forces are currently organized into nine combatant commands – six are geographic plus three that focus on specialized capabilities: Special Operations, Nuclear or Strategic Forces, and Transportation. The Cyber Command, which was a sub-unified command under the U.S. Strategic Command, will now become the tenth combatant command. “Elevating CYBERCOM to a Unified Combatant Command recognizes the fact that cyberspace is the battlefield of the 21st century,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Warfare is not just on land, at sea, or in the skies and space – but in cyberspace. Just as our special operations command is able to quickly and deftly perform some of our toughest covert missions, it only makes sense to have a command that can respond nimbly to cyber threats and organize our offensive and defensive efforts.” Congressman Ruppersberger – who has represented the National Security Agency (NSA) for the past 15 years and spent 12 years on the House Intelligence Committee, including four as its Ranking Member – is considered an expert on cybersecurity. He championed a provision in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017 to elevate the command, which passed. The move will likely create new jobs at Fort Meade. “This is a great move for our country, for Maryland and for the Second District,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Demand for cyber warfare capabilities is only going to increase and this decision will give the Command the power and resources it needs to better protect our country.” Both the Cyber Command and the NSA, also headquartered at Fort Meade, are currently under the leadership of Admiral Mike Rogers. Congressman Ruppersberger looks forward to working with the Secretary of Defense as he provides recommendations on the future relationship between the two agencies.
08.18.2017	Today, Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger, along with U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen and Reps. Elijah Cummings, John Sarbanes and Anthony G. Brown, sent a letter to Kushner Companies LLC requesting documents relating to multiple reports that the company and its subsidiaries may be violating the requirements of a federally funded housing program operated by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). “If these reports are accurate, they raise very serious and troubling concerns about whether Kushner Companies and its subsidiaries are complying with HUD’s housing quality standards to ensure the safety and health of their own tenants,” the Members wrote. A new report this week in the Baltimore Sun found that Kushner Companies is “the most aggressive in Maryland in using a controversial debt-collection tactic: getting judges to order the arrest of people who owe his company money” and that it has sought the civil arrest of 105 former tenants. In addition, the New York Times and ProPublica recently documented how tenants who live in properties owned and managed by Kushner Companies entities have experienced “poor upkeep,” including appliance failures, mold, mildew, and rodent infestations. They also detailed how tenants who “lack checking accounts” are not allowed to pay with money orders, but instead must use a card linked to their account that requires residents to pay a $3.50 transaction fee. Kushner Companies, through its subsidiaries, owns several multi-family rental properties in Maryland in which tenants use HUD Housing Choice vouchers. According to HUD, the goal of the Housing Choice program is to provide “decent, safe, and sanitary” housing to very low-income families, the elderly, and people with disabilities. “Property owners that accept Housing Choice vouchers are required to ensure that their dwelling units meet federal housing quality standards,” the Members wrote. “HUD regulations specify that each ‘dwelling unit and its equipment must be in sanitary condition’ and ‘must be free of vermin and rodent infestation.’ ” The Members asked Kushner Companies to produce, by September 8, 2017, a wide range of documents and information related to properties owned or managed by the company and its subsidiaries. Click here to read today’s letter.
08.04.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, as well as Representatives Elijah Cummings and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) in responding to a letter Attorney General Jeff Sessions sent to Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis threatening to reject the city from the Public Safety Partnership (PSP) program, run by the Department of Justice and designed to help cities combat violent crime. “The Justice Department’s mission is to ensure public safety and control crime. It is unconscionable that Attorney General Sessions would threaten to withhold critical law enforcement funding to Baltimore and other cities that could reduce violent crime. “It is the intent of Congress that state and local government should receive assistance from the federal government as they seek to keep their communities safe, fight crime, and build stronger partnerships between police departments and the neighborhoods they serve. “Immigration enforcement is a matter for the federal government. The federal government should not trample on the rights of states and localities with unfunded mandates, in the absence of comprehensive immigration reform which would fix our broken immigration system. “The Justice Department recognizes the higher-than-average crime rates in Baltimore and the need for intensive assistance to help reduce violent crime. This should be the sole threshold for gaining such assistance. “We do not understand why the Justice Department views Baltimore’s eligibility for assistance as dependent on its answers to unrelated federal immigration enforcement questions. Rather than threatening Baltimore and other cities, the Justice Department should be eager to bring to bear all of the federal government’s resources to reduce violent crime.” The delegation members will be sending a letter directly to AG Sessions.
07.28.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement after the U.S. Senate failed to pass a limited repeal of the Affordable Care Act early this morning: “While I am relieved the so-called “skinny repeal” of the Affordable Care Act failed in the U.S. Senate last night, I share the frustration many Americans feel at the status quo. The ACA was not designed to reduce premium increases, but dramatically slow their rate of growth. Clearly, we have not achieved this to the extent we hoped. As an Obamacare enrollee, I know first-hand that improvements must be made. And we must make them together as Democrats and Republicans. Several bipartisan proposals already exist that would both reduce costs and preserve popular ACA measures like the minimum benefits requirements and protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions. We need to: 1.Offer a public option alongside private plans to promote competition and ensure access to a quality, affordable health plan. 2. Provide insurers with the certainty of permanent cost-sharing reductions. The mixed signals we are currently sending insurers are destabilizing the market. We must guarantee them the funding they need to reduce copayments and deductibles. 3. Address soaring prescription drug prices. The federal government must be able to negotiate drug prices like the VA. 4. Incorporate mental health and drug addiction treatment into primary care settings, which will reduce overall costs. 5. Increase financial assistance for those who enroll in the ACA by making more Americans eligible for premium tax credits and cost-sharing reductions when they purchase insurance on the individual market. 6. Offer greater support to small businesses affected by the employer mandate. I didn’t support the process under which Obamacare ultimately passed seven years ago and said so publicly. We should have passed healthcare reform section-by-section and explained every step to the American public as we went. The procedural maneuvering we’ve witnessed recently has been equally disappointing. As Senator John McCain said earlier this week, we must return to regular order. I hope to see the committees that oversee health policy hold hearings and draft a bill with input from both sides. I hope to see amendments, open debate and compromise. And I hope to see a bipartisan solution that works for more Americans.”
07.25.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger today urged his colleagues to support his amendment making any border wall funding contingent on enactment of bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform that passed the U.S. Senate four years ago. The House this week is set to vote on an Appropriations package made up of the Defense, Military Construction & VA, Legislative Branch, and Energy & Water Appropriations bills, including $1.6 billion to begin construction of President Trump’s wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. Congressman Ruppersberger has submitted an amendment that enacts what is known as the “Gang of Eight” bill into public law as soon as the first dollar is spent on a border wall. “I believe in real solutions to challenges like immigration and a $20 billion boondoggle of a wall is not one of them. Neither is trying to deport 11 million-plus people,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “So if my colleagues insist on proceeding with the wall and I can’t stop them, then I insist that it is accompanied by measures that will actually make us safer.” The Gang of Eight bill – S.744, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act – passed the Senate on a supermajority vote in 2013, but House leadership refused to bring it to the floor for consideration. The bill included strong border security measures, as well as a sensible pathway to citizenship for law-abiding immigrants with stipulations that they learn English, stay employed, pass a criminal background check, pay back-taxes and a fine. “The Gang of Eight bill included border security measures that would have actually worked – a 21st century ‘wall’ made of technology and manpower,” Ruppersberger said. “Their bill was both pro-growth and pro-law and order. Most importantly, it represented our American values.” The House Rules Committee will consider Congressman Ruppersberger’s amendment today. The Gang of Eight bill included funding for surveillance drones, 3,500 new customs agents and fencing. It required the Department of Homeland Security to achieve 100 percent surveillance of the southwestern border within five years of enactment. It also included: A requirement that U.S. companies implement e-Verify to ensure employers are not undercutting American workers. A merit-based visa system to recruit the best and the brightest into our country. Appropriate accommodations for those seeking asylum from gang violence and sex trafficking.
07.19.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger tonight spoke in strong opposition to White House plans to shutter the U.S. State Department’s primary cybersecurity diplomacy office. His comments come amid reports the department’s Office of the Coordinator for Cyber Issues – which coordinates cyber issues with other countries – will soon close at the direction of the White House and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. Current Cyber Coordinator Christopher Painter – a highly respected and capable leader who has worked tirelessly to protect our nation’s critical infrastructure – is set to vacate his position by the end of the month. Media has reported the Administration plans to fold the Cyber Office into the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs and eliminate the direct line to the Secretary. “Instead of closing this office and demoting its people, we should be elevating it and promoting them,” Congressman Ruppersberger said in support of an amendment to stop the closure during an Appropriations Committee mark-up of the State and Foreign Operations funding bill. “We’ve spent the last decade building a reputation as a world leader on cybersecurity – burying future efforts under layers of government bureaucracy makes no sense. We’ll be eating our competitors’ dust.” “I want to know why the Administration wants to close or re-organize a front-burner mission like cybersecurity. Frankly, they better have a damn good reason.” Congressman Ruppersberger is supporting efforts to establish an “Ambassador at Large for Cyber” to head a new cybersecurity bureau within the State Department. Everyday, we face unrelenting attacks from Russia, North Korea, Iran and China, Congressman Ruppersberger said. Adversaries are not only targeting our critical infrastructure and government secrets, but data from American companies. A global cyber attack will cost an average $54 billion – on par with the devastation left by Hurricane Sandy – according to a new Lloyd’s of London report.
07.13.2017	“The risk of biological and chemical agents being used is increasing. This is not the time to be weakening our defenses against such weapons.” Maryland lawmakers will be pursuing all options to reverse this decision by the administration WASHINGTON – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, with U.S Senator Ben Cardin, Senator Chris Van Hollen, and Congressman John K. Delaney, have written to President Trump urging him to prioritize protecting our nation from the real threats of chemical and biological weapons rather than diverting resources for a fruitless wall at our southern border. The lawmakers expressed their alarm not only that the administration was seeking to shut down the National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC) on Fort Detrick and the Chemical Security Analysis Center (CSAC) on Aberdeen Proving Ground, but also that budget officials were giving shutdown instructions based on the president’s Fiscal Year 18 budget, which does not have the force of law and would require congressional appropriations to be enacted. Congress fully funded both the NBACC and CSAC in the Fiscal Year 2017 appropriations that were signed into law by President Trump. The Maryland lawmakers will be pursuing all options to reverse this decision by the administration. “These actions are alarming and will put the American people at greater risk of a chemical or biological terrorist attack,” the lawmakers wrote. “The NBACC’s two centers – the National Bioforensic Analysis Center (NBFAC) and the National Biological Threat Characterization Center (NBTCC) – conduct technical analyses in support of federal law enforcement investigations and identify biological vulnerabilities and hazards to our nation. …CSAC plays a proactive role in identifying vulnerabilities in our nation’s infrastructure, effectively mitigating damages from accidental chemical discharge to terrorist attacks.” “We urge you to suspend any actions that would lead to the closure of these two facilities, both of which play vital roles in America’s national security and the safety of the American people which cannot be replicated elsewhere. Closing these labs will only serve to put our country at risk by creating chemical and biological vulnerabilities that terrorists and adversaries are anxious to exploit. The risk of biological and chemical agents being used is increasing. This is not the time to be weakening our defenses against such weapons.” A Blue Ribbon Study Panel on Biodefense chaired by Senator Joseph Lieberman and Governor Tom Ridge also has expressed concerns with the planned lab closure: “NBACC is the only facility in the United States with the bioforensics capability needed to assist the [Federal Bureau of Investigation] in its investigations. … The Panel is troubled that the President's own budget states that the lab's work supports intelligence assessments, preparedness planning, emerging threat characterization, and bioforensic analyses, and that its closure may impact DHS' ability to characterize high-consequence pathogens before and during a biological event.” The full letter is below and at this link. Copies were sent to Mick Mulvaney, Director, Office of Management and Budget; Secretary John Kelly, Department of Homeland Security; Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Department of Justice; and Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats.
07.11.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement in response to the Administration’s decision to cancel plans by the General Services Administration and the FBI to build a new FBI headquarters. The agencies had narrowed their list of potential sites to three, two of which are in Maryland’s Prince George’s County. “I can’t think of one good reason to cancel plans for a new FBI headquarters, potentially in Maryland. This decision by the Trump Administration will set us back years, jeopardizing jobs and our national security, as well as wasting hundreds of millions of federal, state and local tax dollars. The FBI desperately needs a new headquarters. The Hoover building is too small, scattering the FBI workforce among more than two dozen annex sites with costly leases. It is also literally falling apart and technologically obsolete. The men and women of the FBI – the frontlines of our domestic law enforcement and counter-terror efforts – deserve better. So do the American taxpayers: as the days go by, costs to maintain and repair the Hoover building will increase as the property value depreciates. It is surprising that a President whose background is real estate development is unwilling to see this deal through. The fact that the President declined to fund this project in his Fiscal Year 2018 budget speaks volumes about his priorities. We have to ask, “Why?” As a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I am very concerned that the funds previously granted to the FBI and GSA for this project will be re-allocated for other purposes. I will work to make sure that does not happen and that our first priority remains providing the FBI with a safe and secure working environment and equipping it with the resources it needs to protect the citizens of our country.”
06.30.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement following yesterday’s votes on key immigration-related legislation: “My votes yesterday reflect my goal of prioritizing immigration enforcement to the few bad apples that endanger the otherwise law-abiding immigrant community. I voted against legislation that targets sanctuary cities – including those in my district – who rightly refuse to take on the expense and public safety consequences of turning their police into enforcers of civil immigration law. The “No Sanctuary for Criminals Act” would unfairly withhold critical federal funds needed to fight crime and drugs and would only erode the trust we need between local police and the citizens they serve. It’s irresponsible and dangerous. Consistent with this vote, I also supported legislation to increase sentences for illegal immigrants with previous felony convictions who re-enter the United States after being deported. Of the 11 million-plus illegal immigrants in our country, these are the ones our immigration agents should be targeting – in fact, recidivist criminals need to be held accountable for their actions regardless of their citizenship status. This legislation in no way encourages new deportations – in fact, also yesterday, I spoke out and voted against the Administration’s plan to cancel enlistment contracts for foreign-born military recruits without legal status, setting the stage for the deportation of 1,000 immigrants serving our Armed Forces. My record in support of common sense, comprehensive immigration reform including a pathway to citizenship speaks for itself. It’s time to get serious about fixing our immigration system once and for all. We are a country built by immigrants seeking peace, freedom and opportunity and I believe our policies should reflect this heritage.”
06.28.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced his cosponsorship of legislation to reauthorize the Chesapeake Gateways and Watertrails program run by the National Park Service. The bipartisan, bicameral effort would continue a successful program that helps visitors appreciate the far-reaching role the Chesapeake Bay has had in our region's culture and history while boosting our tourism economy. The Chesapeake Gateways and Watertrails Network is a state, local, and federal partnership of 172 Chesapeake sites, parks, wildlife refuges and water trails that offer interpretation, education, youth employment, recreation, public access to the Chesapeake Bay and rivers, and trailheads for the Captain John Smith Chesapeake and Star-Spangled Banner national historic trails. Originally authorized as a pilot program in 1998, the program has been reauthorized several times since. The program was most recently reauthorized through 2013 in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 202. “As a House Appropriator and a Maryland native, this program is a no-brainer,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “These grants help attract volunteers and visitors to the Chesapeake Bay, both boosting Maryland tourism and cultivating a deeper appreciation of one of our nation’s greatest natural treasures. We are essentially recruiting new stewards to help conserve the Bay for generations to come.” Visitation at Chesapeake Gateways sites exceeds 10 million people annually, and the competitive grants program is oversubscribed every year. The National Park Service provides matching grants between $5,000 and $50,000 for projects that enhance public education of and access to the Chesapeake Bay. Only sites that have gone through a rigorous review process and have been formally selected as part of the Gateway and Watertrails Network are eligible for the competitive grants. The Chesapeake Bay is the largest estuary in North America, with a length of 200 miles and 11,684 miles of tidal shoreline, more than the entire U.S. West Coast. About 100,000 streams and rivers thread through the Chesapeake’s 64,000-square-mile watershed, which is home to almost 17 million people across Maryland, Virginia, Delaware, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New York and the District of Columbia. The legislation has been introduced by U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.), a senior member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, Representative John Sarbanes (D-Md.-03), a member of the House Committee on Energy & Commerce, and Representative Rob Wittman (R-Va.-01), a senior member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, in both the Senate (S. 1430) and the House of Representatives (H.R. 3063). Other original cosponsors of the Chesapeake Gateways and Watertrails reauthorization include: Tom Carper, ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, and Chris Coons (both D-Del.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Mark Warner and Tim Kaine (both D-Va.). In the House, original cosponsors include: Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.-05), Elijah Cummings (D-Md.-07), John K. Delaney (D-Md.-06), Bobby Scott (D-Va.-03), Gerry Connolly (D-Va.-11), Jamie Raskin (D-Md.-08), Barbara Comstock (R-Va.-10), Scott Taylor (R-Va.-02), Anthony G. Brown (D-Md.-04), Don Beyer (D-Va.-08). “The Chesapeake Bay is the economic, historical and cultural heart of our region. The Chesapeake Bay Gateways and Watertrails Network is instrumental to making the entire Bay experience accessible, attractive and enjoyable for Marylanders and all Americans," said Senator Cardin. "I am proud of our regional effort to continue federal support for this important program supporting the natural gateways to the Chesapeake Bay, despite the president’s efforts to zero out funding.” “The Chesapeake Gateways program is an important federal vehicle for safeguarding public parks, trails, wildlife refuges, museums and historic sites that are part of the Chesapeake Bay Watershed,” said Congressman Sarbanes, co-chair of the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Caucus. “These public spaces not only play a key role in the restoration and protection of the Bay, but also provide residents with more access and deeper connections to it. In order to inspire the next generations of citizen stewards and to ensure that the Bay remains an environmental treasure for future generations, we must support important initiatives like the Gateways program.”
06.02.2017	(Washington, DC) — Today, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined with his colleagues in the Maryland Congressional Delegation in announcing that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded a $9 million grant to the Maryland Transportation Administration (MTA) to install Positive Train Control (PTC) technology—a crash-avoidance rail-safety system that can automatically prevent collisions—along the MARC Train Penn Line, which connects Baltimore and Washington, DC: “Every day, thousands of Marylanders use the MARC trains to commute to work. This grant is a critical investment in Maryland’s infrastructure, which will allow the state to implement life-saving Positive Train Control technology on the MARC’s Penn Line and keep Marylanders safe," the delegation said in a statement. The PTC system will cover a total distance of 77 miles from the Perryville, Maryland, MARC Station to Union Station in Washington, DC.
06.01.2017	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today issued the following statement on President Donald J. Trump’s decision to withdraw the United States from the landmark Paris Agreement on climate change: “When the United States became one of the first countries to sign the historic Paris Agreement, we sent a strong message around the world that climate change is real, it is serious and it requires international cooperation. By turning our backs on this agreement today, we turn our backs on our future generations. It is a colossal mistake that will cost lives and livelihoods. The Paris Agreement established unprecedented global cooperation among the 195 countries who committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We all recognized that no country is immune to the escalating effects of climate change. Here in America – which produces more carbon than any other country but China – droughts are jeopardizing our food security and water supplies, sea-level rise threatens millions residing near our coasts, and wildfires are burning bigger and longer. These threats affect the U.S. economy, public health, and national security. As the Representative of a district that includes hundreds of miles of coastline, including 200 in Baltimore County alone, unchecked climate change will hit us hard. Today, we have walked away from our responsibilities as a world leader facing this challenging issue head-on, and encouraging other nations to follow suit. In withdrawing, America joins only two other countries who have declined to participate – Syria and Nicaragua, the first of which is in a protracted civil war and the latter of which refused because the agreement didn’t go far enough. Even the poorest countries, like Liberia and the Congo, have accepted liability for their role in global climate change. What’s our excuse? I hope that states, cities and the private sector will carry the torch in spite of this careless and potentially catastrophic decision by the Administration.”
05.25.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today introduced the “Oppose Oversharing by Presidents Act” – or “OOPS Act” – to mitigate disclosures of classified information from the President of the United States. The bill comes amid reports that President Donald Trump has revealed closely-guarded military information to foreign leaders. The OOPS Act directs the National Security Council, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence and the Attorney General, to create a mitigation process in the event of a disclosure of classified information by the President. Congress needs to ensure that procedures in place for the proper disclosure of classified information by government officials are applicable to the President, and that improper disclosures are reported to Congress. “So far, the President has reportedly revealed the location of nuclear submarines and disclosed intelligence shared by our allies to Russian operatives – and these are only the ones we know about,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Even disclosure of a small detail can sometimes complete a complicated intelligence picture for our adversaries. He was elected six months ago and the President still hasn’t learned that these missteps can have tremendous consequences on our national security.” “We must have the proper protocols and mitigation procedures in place by the Executive Branch to assess the damage should this happen again and ensure that any future disclosures by the President do not put Americans and our trusted allies at risk.” Already, Israel has changed its intelligence-sharing protocols with the U.S. after Trump disclosed information reportedly obtained through an intelligence-sharing arrangement between the two countries. Trump reportedly passed the information on to Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak during an Oval Office visit. Congressman Ruppersberger is former Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and a member of the “Gang of Eight,” privy to some of the nation’s most sensitive information. He is currently an appropriator on the Defense Subcommittee, which funds the intelligence community.
05.22.2017	(Timonium, MD) -- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) announced today that three students at Patapsco High School and Center for the Arts in Dundalk took first, second and third place in the 2017 Congressional Art Contest for Maryland’s Second District. Junior Alexandra Cargile, of Essex, won with her digital media submission of an “animal deity” entitled “Deity of Creativity.” The piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol complex for one year, providing inspiration to more than 12,000 Capitol visitors and Members of Congress as they make their way to the House floor for votes each day. “All of the entries we received this year were incredible, but the submissions from Patapsco High dominated the field,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Alex’s piece is a great example of the talent we have in Maryland’s Second District. I want to thank her and all of the talented students who participated in the contest this year and with them much luck in the pursuit of their passion for the arts.” Sponsored each spring by the Congressional Institute, the Congressional Art Contest is a national high school visual art competition that recognizes and encourages artistic talent in the nation. Since it began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated in the contest. Cargile’s piece, among 32 other entries submitted by high school students across the Second District, was selected by a panel of local artists and art teachers appointed by Congressman Ruppersberger. Patapsco sophomore Zachary Hunt and junior Sam Minard, both Dundalk residents, took second and third place, respectively. Please feel free to use the attached photos.
05.17.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined an effort to force the House of Representatives to vote on bipartisan legislation establishing an independent, outside commission to investigate alleged connections between the Trump Administration, his campaign and Russia. The move comes on the heels of revelations that President Trump may have tried to shut down an FBI investigation into the allegations. Recent polling shows 78 percent of Americans want an independent investigation. “The American people deserve justice based on facts, not politics,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Let’s get these facts as quickly as possible to determine if crimes have been committed or not. Only then can we move forward as a country once and for all.” Ruppersberger joined 218 other Members of Congress in signing a discharge petition that will force the House to vote on H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act. Thus far, House leadership has refused to schedule a vote on the bipartisan bill and House Republicans have voted seven times to block its consideration. In July, the FBI opened an investigation into possible collusion between Trump campaign officials and the Russian government. The President encouraged FBI Director James Comey to end the FBI investigation into former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn’s connections to Russia, according to the latest news reports. President Trump suggested on national television that he fired FBI Director James Comey, in part, because of “this Russia thing.” Also this week, several news outlets reported the President revealed highly-classified intelligence to Russian envoys in a private meeting inside the Oval Office the day after he fired Comey. In addition to an independent commission, Congressman Ruppersberger is calling for a bipartisan, bicameral Congressional committee to investigate, complementing the investigations already underway in the House and Senate Intelligence Committees. He is also urging the Department of Justice to name a special prosecutor to oversee the matter. “What I am calling for is a full-court press,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We need to follow the facts wherever they lead. If he has nothing to hide, the President should welcome the opportunity to be transparent and forthright so that he can put the controversy behind him and pursue his agenda.”
05.15.2017	(Timonium, MD) – Today, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) delivered Meals on Wheels to Second District seniors to highlight proposed cuts to domestic federal programs that benefit Marylanders. Congressman Ruppersberger helped load vehicles and met volunteers before departing on a 6-mile delivery route with stops at the homes of four Rosedale homeowners. He made his first delivery to Carol Bath-Stehle, who was rescued by a Meals on Wheels volunteer who was the first to arrive at her home more than 12 hours after she broke her hip in a fall in January. “Meals on Wheels doesn’t just provide healthy meals to homebound seniors - its volunteers provide daily friendly visits and safety checks that can prove critical, like we saw with Carol,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “These services enable seniors to live nourished lives with dignity.” Meals on Wheels, which is supported by federal funding under the Older Americans Act, serves more than 38,000 Maryland seniors. Congressman Ruppersberger is fighting a proposal in President Trump’s budget to eliminate the Community Development Block Grant program – a $3 billion program started in the Ford Administration that is used by many states and cities to fund Meals on Wheels. The President’s budget also calls for an 18 percent across-the-board cut to the Department of Health and Human Services, which is home to the agency that provides most of Meals on Wheels’ federal funding. That cut could cost Meals on Wheels in Central Maryland as much as $1 million annually. As the senior population grows, Meals on Wheels is a sound financial investment in our country’s future, saving billions in tax dollars by keeping seniors independent and at home longer, rather than in more expensive nursing homes and hospitals. In fact, Meals on Wheels can provide a senior food for an entire year for roughly the same cost as one single day in the hospital. “Our President wants to increase military spending, but at the expense of domestic programs that provide vital community services like Meals on Wheels,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. Today, we are reminding the Administration that military spending alone won’t make Americans secure.”
05.11.2017	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will deliver Meals on Wheels to local recipients and call attention to proposed cuts to domestic federal programs that benefit Marylanders. Media are invited as the Congressman helps load vehicles and meets volunteers before departing on a 6-mile delivery route with stops at the homes of four Second District constituents. The first stop is at the home of a constituent who was recently rescued by her Meals on Wheels deliveryman after suffering a traumatic fall. Meals on Wheels, which is supported by federal funding under the Older Americans Act, serves more than 38,000 Marylander seniors. As the senior population grows, this program is an investment that will save billions in tax dollars by keeping seniors independent and at home longer, rather than in a more expensive healthcare setting. Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Local Meals on Wheels Recipients Volunteers When: Monday, May 15, 2017 10:30 AM Where: Part 1: Meet volunteers and load vehicles St. Anthony's of Padua Catholic Church 4414 Frankford Avenue Baltimore 21206 Part 2: First delivery and Q&A with Congressman and Recipient Home of Carol Bath-Stehle 417 Elmwood Rd Baltimore, MD 21206
05.10.2017	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today issued the following statement on the White House’s termination of FBI Director James Comey: “The timing of Director Comey’s termination raises legitimate questions concerning a White House cover-up. His departure disrupts an already slow-moving investigation of a hostile nation committing crimes against our country with possible collusion from Americans associated with our Commander in Chief. I continue to echo the now-growing chorus of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle: Congress must immediately create a bipartisan and full-time committee to investigate any and all connections between the Administration and Russia. This will complement the investigations already underway on the House and Senate Intelligence Committees. Congress should also work to pass legislation creating an independent commission that could investigate this matter. Such a law could be veto-proof with a two-thirds majority of both houses. I am also calling on the Department of Justice to name a special counsel to carry the criminal investigation forward without further compromising its integrity. The rule of law and justice are backbones of our country and are what make us great now – not great ‘again.’ No one – not even the President – is above the law. The American people deserve justice based on facts, not politics. Let’s get these facts as quickly as possible to determine if crimes have been committed or not. Only then can we move forward as a country once and for all."
05.04.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act, more commonly known as Obamacare. Congressman Ruppersberger voted against the bill. “The passage of today’s Trumpcare legislation defies all odds: This version is even worse than the last one. The AHCA will cost more and cover less. In addition to charging seniors up to five times more for health coverage, this legislation allows insurance companies to charge Americans with pre-existing conditions far higher premiums and sell insurance plans that don’t cover much of anything. Americans overwhelmingly support the critical consumer protections provided under Obamacare. Yet this legislation gives states the choice to opt out of some of the most important protections, including the prohibition on charging sick people higher premiums and the minimum insurance benefits requirement, which guarantees coverage for basics like maternity care, prescriptions and emergency hospitalizations. Families will end up paying for insurance plans that don’t cover any of their day-to-day needs. Unexpected medical bills can easily bankrupt a family. The whole point of healthcare reform was to curtail the unsustainable premium increases American families are struggling with. You do that by getting more people covered. This bill does neither. I get my health insurance from Obamacare, and, while it is not perfect, I believe Congress should be focused on making improvements to increase competition and drive down costs.”
05.03.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – U.S. House of Representatives Appropriator Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement on the Fiscal Year 2017 Consolidated Appropriations Act, known as the omnibus, which passed today. “After months of inaction and irresponsible threats of a government shutdown, I am pleased that the House of Representatives came together to keep our government funded through the end of the fiscal year. This should be the norm, not the exception. This is what we are elected to do every year. Despite the President’s proposed budget cuts, this legislation makes strong investments in priority areas including medical research and the Chesapeake Bay. The bill includes a $2 billion increase for the Maryland-based National Institutes of Health and $73 million to maintain the Chesapeake Bay Program. It rightfully includes no money for a border “wall,” but instead invests in smarter and more efficient border security measures. It includes an additional $600 million to fight the opioid epidemic and restores access to year-round Pell Grants for college students.” The bill must pass the Senate and be signed into law by the President. This omnibus serves as the funding vehicle for eleven different appropriations bills. It includes several items of particular importance to Congressman Ruppersberger and the Second District, including: $5 million increase for Chemical/Biological Defense (APG) Nearly $21 million to dredge and remove drift from the Baltimore Harbor and Channels Nearly $2 million for the Chesapeake Bay Comprehensive Plan $70 million to research orthopedic, traumatic and spinal cord injury
04.25.2017	(Timonium, MD) – Today, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) presented a Congressional Badge of Bravery to a Baltimore City Police Officer who heroically acted to protect his partner during a dramatic shoot-out in November 2015. Detective Thomas Young and his partner were confronted by an armed gun suspect while conducting a narcotics investigation in the Park Heights neighborhood of Northwest Baltimore. Detective Young was shot three times in the leg while defending himself and his partner in the ensuing firefight. The suspect succumbed to his injuries. “Detective Young’s immediate reaction to the imminent threat quite possibly saved the life of his partner,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “His actions demonstrated extraordinary bravery and a willingness to save the lives of others, without regard for his own personal safety. It is my deepest honor to present him with this Congressional Badge of Bravery today.” Congressional Badges of Bravery are awarded annually to federal, state, and local law enforcement officers who engage in exceptional acts of bravery while in the line of duty. Recipients are selected annually by the U.S. Attorney General and medals are presented by their Congressional representatives. When Detective Young and his partner entered the area of Oakmont Avenue in their unmarked vehicle, both detectives observed a subject holding a black handgun. The subject appeared startled by their presence and dropped the handgun to the ground. He then quickly retrieved it and pointed it at Detective Young’s partner, who was seated in the driver’s seat of their vehicle. Fearing for their safety, Detective Young quickly exited the vehicle and drew his weapon. Detective Young identified himself as police, and ordered him to drop his weapon. The subject turned his gun on Detective Young and fired repeatedly. Both detectives immediately returned fire. The firefight between the subject and the two officers lasted approximately 90 seconds, at which point the subject collapsed to the ground. Shortly thereafter, he succumbed to his injuries. Detective Young was shot three times in the leg and was treated at the University of Maryland Shock Trauma.
04.21.2017	(Baghdad, Iraq) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, an appropriator who serves on the House defense subcommittee, last week traveled to Iraq, Turkey and Lebanon to meet with U.S. troops on the frontlines who are working with allies to combat ISIS. Congressman Ruppersberger was accompanied by Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen, the Republican Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on the week-long trip. Plans to cross the border into Syria were scrapped following U.S. military action in response to the recent chemical weapons attack. The trip came as Republicans and Democrats scramble to avoid a government shutdown when the current – and temporary – funding bill expires April 28. “I was in the Middle East to hear directly from military and diplomatic leaders about what’s working and what’s not,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “One thing is clear: The Department of Defense needs a full 2017 budget, and not another continuing resolution. We must fully equip our troops and maintain our diplomatic efforts. We never want our soldiers to walk into an unfair fight.” In Iraq, the pair met with Ambassador Douglas Silliman as well as service members from Maryland stationed at Qayyarah Airfield in Mosul, where they are advising and assisting Iraqi forces in their battle to retake their city from ISIS. In Baghdad, they met with Iraqi President Fuad Masaum and Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi. In Turkey, Congressman Ruppersberger visited a U.S. refugee resettlement facility in Istanbul and spoke with Syrian refugees about the extensive vetting process required to gain entry to the U.S. “As always, I was deeply humbled and proud to meet with servicemen and women on the frontlines and thank them for putting their lives on the line to protect our nation from the threat of terrorism,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. Congressman Ruppersberger is the former Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee and has met with American troops serving around the world. This was his second time in Iraq in less than a year. In August, Congressman Ruppersberger traveled to Afghanistan.
04.07.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after U.S. forces executed a missile strike targeting a Syrian government airfield believed to be the launch-point of a horrendous chemical weapons attack perpetrated by the Assad regime earlier this week. Congressman Ruppersberger was notified by the White House before the missiles were launched as a member of the Defense Appropriations Committee. “Chemical and biological weapons can't be tolerated anywhere in the world. The atrocities suffered by innocent civilians at the hands of al-Assad are despicable and impermissible. I credit our Commander in Chief and his national security team – including Secretary Mattis and H.R. McMaster – with sending an appropriate and strong message that we will stand up against such barbaric war crimes. And I salute the brave members of our Armed Forces on a mission well-executed. I am extremely frustrated, but not surprised, to hear Russia is continuing to support the Assad regime despite its ongoing attacks on its own citizens. I would hope that Russia and Iran would stand by the international community in condemning Assad's use of chemical weapons and cooperate in finding an appropriate way forward. We need a larger, comprehensive strategy to address the situation in Syria, including the defeat of ISIS and the protection of our troops and intelligence workers who are in the war zone today. Earlier this week, I attended a classified briefing with Secretary Mattis and we discussed Syria and other national security matters. I have full confidence in his understanding of the issues and his leadership in the days ahead.”
04.06.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today signed a petition to force the U.S. House of Representatives to vote on the release of President Donald Trump’s long-promised tax returns. The petition would require the U.S. House of Representatives to act on bipartisan legislation introduced by Rep. Anna Eshoo (Presidential Tax Transparency Act) to require President Trump and all future presidents and nominees to disclose their tax returns to the American people. A “Demand A Vote” petition – also called a discharge petition – requires 218 signatures of Members of the House of Representatives in order to force a vote on the U.S. House floor. “As a former investigative prosecutor, I know you have to follow the money,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “That is why I am once again calling on the President to release not only his personal tax returns but, perhaps more importantly, his corporate returns. The American public deserves to know the extent of any dealings with Russia and if these connections could affect our national security. Put it out there if you have nothing to hide.” After Watergate, all presidents, Republicans and Democrats, have released either their individual tax returns or summary tax data. Nearly 75 percent of Americans, including 50 percent of the President’s supporters, want the President to release his tax returns, according to a recent ABC/Washington Post poll.
04.04.2017	(Washington, DC) — U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen with Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) have written to Attorney General Jeff Sessions objecting to the request by the U.S. Department of Justice to delay finalizing the consent decree that was agreed to by DOJ and the City of Baltimore to address systemic civil rights violations. The agreement followed an exhaustive federal pattern-and-practice investigation. “We are gravely concerned that the Justice Department will retreat from its obligation to protect the federal civil rights of the citizens of Baltimore,” the members wrote in their letter. “We urge the Justice Department to withdraw its request for a delay in proceedings and to continue working with Baltimore City and BPD as scheduled. We stand ready as a Congressional delegation to work closely with the Justice Department to rebuild public trust in the Baltimore City Police Department through these much-needed and long-overdue reforms.” Full text of the letter is available at this link.
03.24.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement following House leadership’s cancellation of a vote on the American Health Care Act, which would repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, more commonly known as Obamacare. “The whole point of healthcare reform was to curtail the unsustainable premium increases American families are struggling with. You do that by getting more people covered. The AHCA did neither – if passed, 24 million fewer Americans would have insurance and most would see premium increases. Here in Maryland, families on average would see a $3,000 premium increase. It just didn’t make sense. Older Americans, many of which live and work in the Second District, could have seen premiums that are five times higher than what others pay, no matter how healthy they are. And some of the 260,000 Marylanders who have benefitted from the Medicaid expansion could have lost their coverage entirely. Worse, eleventh-hour amendments stripped the bill of the “essential services” requirement included in Obamacare. This meant insurance companies would no longer have to include basic services like maternity care, newborn care, emergency room visits and mental health care in their policies. I hope the events of today send a message to my friends on the other side of the aisle that Americans are starting to see improvements in their healthcare coverage and rates and that they like the consumer protections provided by Obamacare. There is no question that Obamacare can and should be improved and I stand ready to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make it better.”
03.16.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s proposed budget blueprint for fiscal year 2018: “I agree with the President that we must increase support for our Armed Forces and veterans – many of which live in and work at the two Army bases and Air National Guard base in the Second District. Funding our national security is Congress’s top responsibility. But military spending alone won’t secure all Americans. The President is calling his proposal a ‘skinny’ budget and clearly he’s been on an elimination diet. His proposal raids programs that support jobs, infrastructure and life-saving medical research to instead fund non-starters like the border wall and private school vouchers. The President’s budget is particularly disastrous for Maryland, where about 10 percent of our workforce is employed by a civilian federal agency. The proposal also eliminates federal funding for the Chesapeake Bay cleanup, an effort critical to the $1 trillion watershed economy. It slashes the budget of the National Institutes of Health – where more than 17,000 people conduct life-saving research at its Bethesda headquarters – by $6 billion. It eliminates nearly $500 million from the TIGER grant program, which Maryland relies on to fund roads, transit and other job-creating infrastructure projects. The President did not even spare the Community Development Block Grant program, which has been used to revitalize some of Baltimore’s toughest neighborhoods. While this budget, thankfully, stands little chance of ever becoming law, it reflects priorities that are deeply misplaced. Instead of putting America first, this budget puts politics first. It hurts my constituents, all Marylanders and all Americans. Republicans and Democrats must come together to pass budget bills that prioritizes services and programs that Americans rely on most.”
03.16.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Scott Taylor (R-VA) today introduced a bipartisan resolution calling on the United States to adopt a clear and comprehensive cybersecurity policy. The resolution (H.R. 200) aims to define an act of aggression, an act of war, and other related events in cyber space. The resolution also directs the adoption of a commensurate response to cyber aggression. “No longer does war take place on land, at sea, in the skies or in space –it’s about time we recognize that cyberspace is the battlefield of the 21st century,” Ruppersberger said. “Every day, terrorists, organized criminals even state actors such as Iran and North Korea are honing their cyber skills, threatening our critical infrastructure, safety and economy. It’s not ‘if’ an attack occurs – but when – and we must have a clear and comprehensive cyber strategy in place when that day arrives.” “The United States must be a world leader on the issue of cybersecurity,” Taylor said. “The cyber world has been the Wild West for too long. The potential cyber capabilities, for good or bad, that we possess now on our smartphones are greater than the most powerful computer just 20 years ago. Our nation must keep up with the ever-changing landscape to protect our citizens, our critical infrastructure, and our nation from being put at risk or attacked." Ruppersberger and Taylor serve together on the House Appropriations Committee. Ruppersberger is former Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee and represents a district home to the U.S. Cyber Command at Fort Meade, Maryland. Nine cyber “megabreaches” occurred in 2015, each resulting in the compromise of more than 10 million personal identities. One such cyber attack targeting the federal Office of Personnel Management compromised the personnel data of 22 million federal workers and retirees.
03.13.2017	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined U.S. Senators Chris Van Hollen and Ben Cardin (both D-Md) as well as the rest of the Maryland Congressional Delegation in urging Department of Transportation Secretary Chao to consider critical state infrastructure projects as part of the FASTLANE grant system. The lawmakers highlighted three projects, making clear that each are vital to improving the economy and transportation across the state: Howard Street Tunnel project, which is aimed at improving freight movement out of the Port of Baltimore Access I-95 Project, which will increase accessibility to growth and development in Baltimore City while ensuring efficient movement of traffic on the I-95 corridor I-81 Corridor Widening Project, which would increase capacity on a critical freight corridor that carries over 19,400 trucks per day and has seen its accident rate double between 2010 and 2015 “As members representing Maryland, a state with a diverse network of urban and rural environments and multiple modes of transportation in close proximity to our nation’s capital, we look forward to working with you to develop and implement innovative and effective ways to create 21st century transportation systems,” they wrote. In addition to Congressman Ruppersberger, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators Chris Van Hollen and Ben Cardin and Congressmen Steny Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, John Sarbanes, Andy Harris, John Delaney, Anthony Brown, and Jamie Raskin. The full text is below: Dear Secretary Chao, Congratulations on your new position as Secretary of the Department of Transportation. As members representing Maryland, a state with a diverse network of urban and rural environments and multiple modes of transportation in close proximity to our nation’s capital, we look forward to working with you to develop and implement innovative and effective ways to create 21st century transportation systems. As you know, Congress created an important tool for addressing large-scale transportation problems in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act). This new program for projects of national or regional significance, the Fostering Advancements in Shipping and Transportation for the Long-term Achievement of National Efficiencies (FASTLANE) grants, was authorized at $4.5 billion for fiscal years 2016 through 2020. Funds are already being used on projects across the country to reduce congestion, improve connectivity between modes, and move people and goods more efficiently. In October of 2016, the Department of Transportation announced a Notice of Funding Opportunity for a second round of FASTLANE grants. Maryland applied for three projects of critical significance to more efficient movement of freight and reduction of bottlenecks in our state that have implications on the national freight system. The Department of Transportation did not award these grants before the last Administration left office, and we urge you to review this program and these applications and make second round awards as quickly as possible. We believe Maryland has submitted highly-competitive applications for this program. The Howard Street Tunnel project is aimed at improving freight movement out of the Port of Baltimore, a productive port with deep water berths and on-dock rail service that can handle larger ships out of the Panama Canal. The Port’s major challenge is the 121-year-old Howard Street Tunnel, which cannot accommodate double-stack rail. For years, such modifications carried a price tag of over $1 billion, but technology advancements by CSX on other projects have reduced costs significantly, and CSX and the State of Maryland have committed to funding their share. Modernizing the Howard Street Tunnel will benefit 24 states and the District of Columbia who depend on the efficient movement of goods from the Port of Baltimore. The Access I-95 Project will increase accessibility to growth and development in Baltimore City while ensuring efficient movement of traffic on the I-95 corridor. The package of improvements is intended to accommodate increased traffic around the Port Covington redevelopment and ensure that it is connected to surrounded communities. It would add capacity to allow for near- and long-term economic development. The I-81 Corridor Widening Project would increase capacity on a critical freight corridor that carries over 19,400 trucks per day and has seen its accident rate double between 2010 and 2015. The project would add two travel lanes, rebuild bridges and overpasses, and make interchange improvements along the congested 12 mile segment between the West Virginia and Pennsylvania state lines. This will accommodate increasing freight traffic for decades to come and improve safety for all drivers. We urge you to consider these important projects and move expeditiously to award the second round of FASTLANE grants. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, ###
03.09.2017	(Washington, DC) – As Congress prepares to take on the issue of comprehensive tax reform, Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) and Randy Hultgren (IL-14), Co-Chairmen of the Congressional Municipal Finance Caucus, have again sent a bipartisan letter to leaders of the House Ways and Means Committee in support of a critical tool that helps local and state governments finance new roads, schools, hospitals, fire stations and more. Also signed by 154 of their colleagues (95 Democrats, 61 Republicans total), the letter asks leadership to reject any proposal to cap or eliminate the deduction on tax-exempt municipal bonds used to finance the vast majority of infrastructure projects in America’s communities. Nearly two-thirds of core infrastructure investments in the United States are financed with municipal bonds. Proposals previously submitted by federal officials have limited the value of tax benefits for municipal bonds, or eliminated the tax exemption on municipal bond interest altogether. As a former Baltimore County Councilman, Baltimore County Executive and president of the Maryland Association of Counties, Congressman Ruppersberger believes that tax-exempt bonds are among the most efficient ways to fund critical infrastructure projects that have created hundreds of thousands of jobs. “If the federal income tax exemption is eliminated or limited, states and localities will pay more to finance projects, leading to less infrastructure investment and fewer jobs,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Worse, they will be forced to shift costs to their main revenue source – property taxes – hitting the already-suffering real estate market and the wallets of American homeowners.” “Municipal bonds are a lifeline to local communities looking to expand a hospital or repair their infrastructure,” said Congressman Hultgren. “These tools of ‘fiscal federalism’ allow municipalities to raise their own funds tax-free, using their own expertise and avoiding the heavy bureaucracy of the federal government. We should preserve this Main Street financing tool for municipalities intimately connected to the needs of their communities.” Municipal bonds have funded more than $1.9 trillion worth of infrastructure construction. This financing went to the construction of schools, hospitals, airports, affordable housing, water and sewer facilities, public power utilities, roads and public transit. In 2015 alone, more than $400 billion in municipal bonds were issued to finance the projects that touch the daily lives of every American citizen and business. The full letter signed by all 156 Members of Congress is available here. Dear Chairman Brady and Ranking Member Neal: As Congress considers tax reform and infrastructure financing, we, the undersigned, write to express our strong support for an already potent tool already in hand – the tax-exempt municipal bond. For more than a century, states and local governments have depended on this reliable and efficient means of financing. Nearly two-thirds of core infrastructure investments in the United States are financed with municipal bonds. In 2015 alone, more than $400 billion in municipal bonds were issued to finance the projects that touch the daily lives of every American citizen and business. They are the roads we drive on, schools for our children, affordable family housing, water systems that supply safe drinking water, courthouses, hospitals and clinics to treat the sick, airports and ports that help move products domestically and overseas, and, in some cases, the utility plants that power our homes, businesses, and factories. These are the pro-growth investments which spur job creation, help our economies grow, and strengthen our communities. A combination of local control and local responsibility makes municipal bonds an incredibly effective and efficient tool. Voters throughout the country overwhelmingly support tax-exempt municipal bonds, which are either approved by locally-elected officials or directly through bond referenda – fiscal federalism at its finest. This must help explain why the default rate is less than 0.01%. Federal tax exemption reduces the cost of issuing municipal bonds, but it is these voters who will pay the interest and principle on this debt. As a result, over the last decade overall state and local borrowing has actually declined in proportion to the economy, while still financing more than $2 trillion in new infrastructure investments. And, if simply left alone, municipal bonds likely will finance another $3 trillion in new infrastructure investments by 2026. Furthermore, millions of Americans depend on municipal bonds for their economic security, and invest in them because of their low-risk nature. Nearly three-quarters of individual investors earn less than $200,000 per year and more than three-quarters are 55 or older. Businesses also rely on municipal bonds as a safe, stable, long-term investment. In conclusion, changes to the tax-code should recognize the vital role of tax-exempt municipal bonds. Any changes under consideration to the tax exempt status that would increase the cost of financing for states and local government should be provided very careful consideration. We believe the current tax-exempt status contributes to efficient economic growth that benefits all Americans. ###
03.02.2017	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement after it was reported that Attorney General Jeff Sessions spoke with Russia’s ambassador to the United States while serving as a Trump campaign advisor, contrary to testimony he provided under oath to the Senate Judiciary Committee during his confirmation hearings. “I am beyond disturbed by reports that Attorney General Jeff Sessions may have lied under oath to Congress, failing to disclose his communications with the Russian Ambassador during the Trump campaign. At the very least, the Attorney General must recuse himself from any investigation into Russian interference with our elections and communications with the Administration. This controversy once again underscores the need for a special and completely independent prosecutor to investigate any and all connections between the Trump Administration and the Kremlin. This includes obtaining a copy of the President’s tax returns. The President’s own son once said the family’s businesses “see a lot of money pouring in from Russia.” Calls for the President to release his tax returns and disclose all ties to Russia are not going to stop. The American public deserves to know the extent of these dealings and if these connections could affect our national security. The President promised to release his tax returns after an audit concluded. I am calling on him to finally make good on that promise – put it out there if you have nothing to hide.”
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Maryland’s bipartisan Congressional delegation, led by Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, with Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Anthony Brown, Elijah E. Cummings, John K. Delaney, Andy Harris, Jamie Raskin, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John P. Sarbanes have written to Rod Rosenstein, U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland, and his counterpart at the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), Gordon B. Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, Baltimore, to use “the full resources of the Justice Department to investigate and prosecute hate crimes and violence in the state of Maryland.” As recent as Monday, another wave of threats to Jewish day schools and institutions occurred across the country, including Jewish day schools in Rockville and Annapolis, and a Jewish Community Center in Owings Mills. The delegation wrote: “In Maryland, bomb threats have disrupted classroom activities as well as events at Jewish community centers, coupled with the rise of neo-Nazi propaganda. These hate-filled threats are intended to strike fear across the country and represent a troubling trend that we must bring to an end. … Each threat needs to be treated with the utmost seriousness as we band together to discourage such vicious language and activity.” The full letter is below and can be found at this link. March 1, 2017 Mr. Rod J. Rosenstein Mr. Gordon B. Johnson U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland Special Agent in Charge, Baltimore U.S. Department of Justice Federal Bureau of Investigation 36th S. Charles Street, 4th floor 2600 Lord Baltimore Drive Baltimore, MD 21201 Baltimore, MD 21244 Dear U.S. Attorney Rosenstein and Special Agent in Charge Johnson: We write to express our grave concern about the recent rise in the number of anti-Semitic and religious discrimination incidents in the state of Maryland and the need for a strong federal response. In Maryland, bomb threats have disrupted classroom activities as well as events at Jewish community centers, coupled with the rise of neo-Nazi propaganda. These hate-filled threats are intended to strike fear across the country and represent a troubling trend that we must bring to an end. Leaders from the national level to the neighborhood level must speak out forcefully against this kind of intolerance. This is not only a concern of Jewish communities. Religious-based threats, vandalism and threats of violence, whether anti-Semitic or targeted at Muslim-Americans or other religions, are not only criminal but fan the flames of extremism that tears apart societies. Each threat needs to be treated with the utmost seriousness as we band together to discourage such vicious language and activity. We ask you to use the full resources of the Justice Department to investigate and prosecute hate crimes and violence in the state of Maryland when jurisdiction exists to protect federal civil rights, including the resources available from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Civil Rights Division, and Community Relations Service. We urge you to work closely with state and local law enforcement authorities to ensure close cooperation on investigation and prosecution of hate crimes and to improve training and reporting of such crimes to the federal government. We pledge our full cooperation in these efforts. Thank you for your consideration. We look forward to your timely response and working closely with your offices to protect the civil rights and civil liberties of all Marylanders. Sincerely, Cc: Attorney General Jeff Sessions, DOJ Jim Comey, FBI Director Brian Frosh, Maryland Attorney General
02.23.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05) along with U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), John Sarbanes (MD-03), John Delaney (MD-06), Anthony Brown (MD-04), and Jamie Raskin (MD-08) sent a letter to Governor Larry Hogan, requesting his support for bipartisan, national redistricting reform. “All of us recognize the need for national redistricting reform. Given the reality that both parties have used the redistricting process to their advantage and neither party is willing to act unilaterally in a way that might be disadvantageous, we believe that any real reform effort must be national and bipartisan,” the Members wrote. “With your party now controlling both the legislative and executive branches at the federal level, you are in a strong position to put pressure on Congress and the White House to work on bipartisan, national redistricting reform.” The full text of the letter is below. The Hon. Lawrence J. Hogan Jr. Governor State of Maryland 100 State Circule Annapolis, Maryland Dear Governor Hogan: All of us recognize the need for national redistricting reform. Given the reality that both parties have used the redistricting process to their advantage and neither party is willing to act unilaterally in a way that might be disadvantageous, we believe that any real reform effort must be national and bipartisan. With your party now controlling both the legislative and executive branches at the federal level, you are in a strong position to put pressure on Congress and the White House to work on bipartisan, national redistricting reform. This week, Rep. Lofgren introduced H.R. 1102, the Redistricting Reform Act, legislation that some of us have cosponsored. Some of us have also cosponsored H.R. 712, the John Tanner Fairness and Independence in Redistricting Act. Both of these bills would move us closer to the kind of nationwide redistricting reform that would free our country of the ills of gerrymandering. The National Governors Association will convene in Washington for its Winter Meeting on February 24, providing a fitting opportunity for you to move the ball forward on this effort. Over the course of the meetings you and your fellow bipartisan group of governors have with the Congressional leadership and representatives from the Administration, we hope that you serve as a forceful advocate for moving quickly on national redistricting reform. This would be an excellent way to signal that Republicans are serious about “draining the swamp.” Democrats are ready to work with Republicans to achieve a real victory in this area for the American people. We look forward to hearing about your discussions at the National Governors Association and how they relate to our shared goal of fixing our redistricting process in a way that is fair, transparent, and democratic. Sincerely yours,
02.21.2017	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will host two “Congress on Your Corner” events Wednesday to field questions and concerns from constituents of the Second District of Maryland. Staff will also be available to assist constituents navigating federal red tape. “One of my most important responsibilities is to listen to my constituents and hear their opinions and ideas,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Over the last month, I have heard from thousands of constituents who are concerned about what is going on in Washington, and I need to be accessible and accountable to everyone I represent there.” Constituents who need help with a specific federal agency are asked to bring copies of any relevant documentation. 8 AM – 10 AM Randallstown Community Center, Activity Room 3505 Resource Drive Randallstown, MD 21133 410-887-0698 5 PM – 7 PM Towson Library, Wilson Room (Ground Level) 320 York Road Towson, MD 21204 410-887-6166
02.16.2017	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today sent President Donald J. Trump a letter in defense of our intelligence community, which the new Administration has subjected to a relentless barrage of unwarranted criticisms and unfair challenges. In recent days, President Trump has attacked the integrity of the FBI and NSA, even calling them “un-American” and saying they act “just like Russia.” Now, President Trump is reportedly planning to hire a billionaire financier and campaign donor with almost no national security experience to conduct a review of our American intelligence agencies. Ruppersberger, whose district in Maryland is home to the NSA, has said the President’s public attacks on U.S. intelligence agencies are affecting morale and NSA’s ability to recruit and retain high-quality employees. He invited President Trump to tour the facility with him to better his understanding of its mission and its workforce. The full text of the letter follows: February 16, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Mr. President, As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and the former Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, whose district is home to the NSA and many of its hard-working employees, I am writing in response to your relentless criticisms of our American intelligence workers. I find news reports that you plan to hire a billionaire financier and campaign donor with no intelligence experience to review our intelligence agencies extremely alarming. One media report even suggested you may appoint this person to lead one of our intelligence agencies. Regrettably, this wouldn’t be the first time you have challenged the competency of our intelligence workers. You discredited CIA findings that Russia hacked DNC emails and you have questioned the need for daily intelligence briefings. Yesterday, you attacked the integrity of the FBI and NSA, even calling them “un-American” and saying they act “just like Russia.” Today’s report that you plan to assign a friend with almost no national security experience to review our intelligence agencies is simply the colloquial straw that broke the camel’s back. If you follow through with this effort, I fear it will greatly damage our intelligence community’s required independence and stifle the exchange of sensitive information that may conflict with your policy positions. I think it is critical you visit the NSA and see first-hand the work these dedicated men and women do every day to protect our soldiers on the battlefield, as well as everyday Americans. I am confident this will give you a new understanding and appreciation of the essential services provided by our intelligence workers. As Commander in Chief, it is imperative you avail yourself the opportunity to experience the mission of the NSA up close and personally. I can assure you the employees at the NSA are smart, hard-working, extremely patriotic and law-abiding Americans. As I learned through my many years on the House Intelligence Committee, intelligence is the best defense against terrorism and the men and women of the NSA are indispensable to this defense. To that end, I invite you to join me on a tour of the NSA at your convenience. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Member of Congress
02.14.2017	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on the resignation of President Donald Trump’s national security advisor, Michael Flynn: “The resignation of Mike Flynn is good news for the security of our country. We live in a dangerous world and the President needs an honest National Security Advisor who isn’t under a cloud of suspicion. Americans now deserve to know if Flynn was operating under anyone else’s authority. As former Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, I am truly alarmed by reports that some intelligence agencies and our allies are withholding crucial sensitive information for fear that it will flow right back to Moscow. I am urging the FBI to intensify its investigation into any and all connections between the Trump and Putin administrations. I also ask my colleagues in House leadership to launch a bipartisan, independent Congressional investigation into Russia’s influence on the Administration and the election. And, I am once again calling on President Trump to remove his chief political strategist – Steve Bannon – from the National Security Council and reinstate the Director of National Intelligence and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to restore some semblance of respectability to the organization.”
02.02.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today received the Department of the Army Decoration for Distinguished Civilian Service award for his efforts during the 114th Congress to secure critical funding to ensure the Army can meet evolving threats and provide Soldiers with the tools they need. It is the highest civilian award the Army can present. “Working on behalf of our troops and Armed Services isn’t just a passion – it’s an obligation – and I am humbled to accept this award,” Ruppersberger said. “The Army deserves Congressional leadership that is willing to fight through the partisan politics to get our heroes the resources they need to keep us safe.” Congressman Ruppersberger’s district is home to two Army bases: Fort Meade and Aberdeen Proving Ground. He currently serves on the House Appropriations Defense Subommittee and is co-chair of the bipartisan House Army Caucus. “His unwavering support to the Army as Co-Chair of the Army Caucus was integral to the Army receiving the necessary resources to support combat, sustain the all-volunteer force, and improve the quality of life for Soldiers, civilians and families,” said former Army Secretary Eric Fanning. “He vigorously supported Army efforts and worked to solidify a strong coalition of Army support in order to overcome fiscal and political challenges inherent in funding the Army’s priorities.” Considered one of the Army’s preeminent civilian awards, the Decoration for Distinguished Civilian Service recognizes federal employees, policy officials, Army contractors and technical employees who serve the Army as advisors or consultants. The award was presented today in Congressman Ruppersberger’s Capitol Hill office by Acting Secretary of the Army, Robert Speer.
02.01.2017	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued a statement on the President’s reorganization of the National Security Council: “As a Member of Congress who served 12 years on the House Intelligence Committee – including four as its Ranking Member – I have said often and loudly that there is no room for politics when it comes to our national security. Unfortunately, the recent reorganization of the President’s National Security Council (NSC) sends a far different message. For the first time in any administration, a President’s chief political strategist will be included in meetings of the NSC and will be a member of the Principals Committee. I can think of no other role for a political strategist with no national security qualifications in the White House Situation Room other than to ensure the life-and-death decisions made there won’t hurt the President in the polls. That is of little consequence when it comes to Americans’ safety and the only advice that should matter is that offered by our experienced military and intelligence professionals. Yet, the President has decided that the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff will only be included in Council decisions upon request. As any successful businessman knows, you are only as good as your team. The President, who also does not have any previous national security experience, has access to the some of the best and brightest intelligence and military minds in our country. And I recommend that the President use them. To that end, I have agreed to become an original cosponsor of the “Protect the National Security Council from Political Interference Act of 2017,” which will be introduced later today. This bill will ensure that no individual whose “primary or predominant responsibility is political in nature” will serve as a member of the NSC or be allowed to regularly attend its meetings. It also ensures the DNI and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff can attend Principals Committee meetings. We live in a dangerous world and politics should never be a factor when it comes to our national security. The stakes are too high. Too many lives are on the line.
01.30.2017	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued a statement on the President’s Executive Order temporarily blocking immigration from seven Muslim nations and suspending the U.S. refugee program: “Last night, I was proud to join a rally at BWI Airport against President Trump’s recent executive action on immigration and refugees. This group of peaceful protestors – young and old, of every color and religion imaginable – exercising their right to be heard is what America is all about. I have told President Trump that I stand ready to work with him wherever possible and I have been selective in my criticisms throughout his first days in office. But this Executive Order, which temporarily bans immigrants from seven Muslim nations and suspends the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program – indefinitely for Syrians – goes too far. While I am pleased to hear that individuals holding green cards will now be permitted re-entry to the country, I am strongly opposed to other elements of the Order, including a religion-test for exemptions. And we simply cannot close our doors to the families fleeing violence, persecution and sometimes death at the hands of our mutual enemy. This will do little to protect our citizens, as our refugee vetting process is already the most stringent in the world. And you can be sure ISIS will be using this to recruit: already, jihad supporters are hailing the Order as a victory on social media. Finally, I am extremely concerned about the Administration’s careless implementation of this Order. According to media reports, some senior members of his Cabinet were not involved in drafting the Order or even fully briefed before the President signed it. It not only embarrasses the President, but our country. The President has access to the best legal scholars in the country. He should rely on those experts and not just the people in his inner circle that do not have experience in these areas. Mass confusion about the Order’s scope and even its constitutionality prove the Administration did not do its homework. I call on the Administration to comply with orders from federal judges to temporarily halt the travel ban until its legality is fully reviewed.”
01.12.2017	(Washington, D.C.) — Today, U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, along with Congressmen Elijah Cummings, John Sarbanes and Dutch Ruppersberger (all D-MD), issued the following statement after Baltimore City Mayor Catherine Pugh and U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch announced the finalization of a consent decree between the U.S. Department of Justice and Baltimore City Police Department: “Last summer’s DOJ report—which detailed systemic, repeated violations of the constitutional rights of Baltimore City residents—confirmed what many already knew to be true: the sacred trust between the Baltimore City Police Department and the people they are sworn to protect is in desperate need of repair. “We are very pleased to hear that the consent decree will be filed in court today, and applaud everyone who worked diligently these past several months to ensure that these negotiations move forward with the urgency they demand. “We look forward to learning more about the contents of this important document, and hope that it will provide the roadmap for reform the BPD needs. We must ensure that the basic human rights of every Baltimore City resident are respected and upheld by the police officers charged with keeping them safe. “In the months and years to come, it will be on us all to ensure that the BPD and the City fulfill their obligations. It will also be on us all to ensure that our brave officers in the BPD have the resources and support they need to best serve our City. We stand ready as partners with Baltimore City, the BPD and the people of Baltimore to begin a new chapter in the relationship between the police and the community.” Background On November 21, the Members sent a letter to Rawlings-Blake, Pugh and Lynch to inquire on the status of the consent decree negotiations after hearing growing concern from the community about the status of and delay in drafting the decree. The City began negotiating the consent decree with a stated goal of having it completed by November 1. In May 2015, all Democrats in the Maryland’s congressional delegation sent a letter to Lynch in support of then-Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake’s request to have the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division open a federal “pattern or practice” investigation of BPD.
01.10.2017	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in sending a letter urging President-elect Donald Trump to reconsider a freeze on hiring federal employees. Trump has publicly claimed that he will impose a hiring freeze on his first day in office on January 20, jeopardizing thousands of federal jobs in Maryland. It would also limit federal employees’ ability to provide timely and quality public services to all Americans, from caring for wounded warriors to delivering Social Security benefits to seniors. Maryland is home to 171,000 federal workers, active duty troops and postal workers and dozens of federal agencies. A freeze would have a devastating impact on facilities and agencies like the Social Security Administration and Fort McHenry. Depending on what – if any – exceptions the President-elect makes for our defense and public health – the freeze could affect staffing levels at the NSA, NIH and our military bases including Fort Meade and Aberdeen Proving Ground. “As a successful businessman, Donald Trump should know you’re only as good as your people and that across-the-board policies are never a smart strategy,” Ruppersberger said. “Management has to be able to prioritize based on the mission. Our dedicated federal workers have already been subjected to a relentless assault over the past several years, having endured pay freezes, a government shut-down, salary cuts and furloughs from sequestration.” The letter notes that federal employment levels have only increased by a modest 10 percent over the past several decades in comparison to the national population that has increased by 67 percent in that time period. The full text of the letter follows: President-elect Donald J. Trump Trump Tower 725 5th Avenue New York, NY 10022 Dear President-elect Trump: We are writing to respectfully request that you reconsider your proposal to implement a so-called “federal hiring freeze” across the federal government. On October 22, 2016, you announced that on your first day in office, the Trump Administration will pursue a “hiring freeze on all federal employees to reduce federal workforce through attrition...” While you indicated that your plan would exclude “military, public safety, and public health employees,” the nature and extent of these exemptions remain unclear. In support of this proposal, your presidential campaign issued a statement asserting that “[i]n the long term, a smaller federal workforce will mean a more honest and effective government, in which it is harder to hide corruption.” We are strongly concerned that a government-wide hiring freeze would have precisely the opposite effect for several reasons. Firstly, the impact of hiring freezes enacted during previous Democratic and Republican Administrations demonstrates that such measures have not, in fact, significantly reduced the size of our federal workforce or enhanced federal government operations. Rather, they have served to decrease efficiency, transparency, and accountability government-wide at the expense of the public safety and American taxpayer dollars. Similar to your proposal, these hiring freezes also included general human safety and other exemptions. In 1982, GAO issued a seminal audit report, entitled “Recent Government-Wide Hiring Freezes Prove Ineffective in Managing Federal Employment,” that is still referenced as an authority in federal workforce management today. In reviewing a series of hiring freezes implemented during the Carter and Reagan Administrations, GAO concluded that while the freezes “provided an illusion of control” over federal workforce levels, they were “not an effective means of controlling federal employment.” Agencies were simply forced to compensate for the inability to hire permanent staff by increasing their employment of temporary and part-time workers. They also resorted to an extraordinary reliance on private contractors. GAO also found that the inability to fill vacancies on a permanent basis severely prevented federal workers and agencies from doing their jobs. In particular, “[b]ecause they ignored individual agencies’ missions, workload, and staffing requirements,” the hiring freezes disrupted critical agency operations and diminished federal oversight of agency programs. Chief among agency efforts that were undermined by the hiring freezes were pipeline safety monitoring, nuclear safety regulations, and the provision of timely and quality veterans’ healthcare. One hiring freeze implemented during the Carter Administration facilitated a clerical staff shortage at a Veterans Affairs Medical Center that required healthcare professionals to perform administrative duties over core job functions; this led to increased patient waiting times and delays in the processing of medical examinations. Similarly, past hiring freezes restricted the independent oversight work performed by Federal Offices of Inspectors General to identify waste, fraud, and abuse in federal spending. In addition, a government-wide hiring freeze would exacerbate the serious workforce skills challenges facing a federal government that must continue to address a variety of evolving 21st Century issues including cybersecurity, terrorism, consumer safety, and environmental threats. Since 2011, GAO has identified the existence of several “mission-critical skills gaps” across the Federal Government that pose “a high risk to the nation because they impede the government from cost effectively serving the public and achieving results.” The federal jobs associated with mission critical skills gaps include those relating to cybersecurity, science, technology, math, engineering, technology, auditing and inspections, procurement, and other key trades. In order to close the skills gaps for at-risk occupations, GAO has recommended that federal agencies undertake immediate and robust efforts to hire employees with expertise in these areas, especially given that approximately one-third of full time federal workers on board as of the end of Fiscal Year 2015 will be eligible to retire by 2019. Furthermore, a federal hiring freeze would continue to stretch thin a dedicated federal workforce whose employment levels have remained relatively stagnant over the past several decades in comparison to the growing American public that it serves. Since the 1960s, our federal workforce has modestly increased by 10% to its current size of approximately 2.5 million employees while the American population has grown over 67% to over 323 million people. Over this same time period, our private sector workforce has increased by roughly 136%. Devastating sequestration cuts, related furloughs, and even a 16-day government shutdown have already strained our federal workforce in recent years. A federal hiring freeze would impose additional constraints on federal agencies and employees who are already operating under difficult budgetary limitations. For these reasons, we again respectfully urge you to reconsider your proposal to implement an across-the-board federal hiring freeze. We thank you in advance for your consideration of this letter. Sincerely,
12.12.2016	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, former Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, today issued the following statement on alleged Russian interference into U.S. elections: “Today, I am calling for a bipartisan Congressional investigation into conclusions by the U.S. intelligence community that Russia interfered with our Presidential election. We must determine the facts to protect the validity of future elections. I also support the declassification of as much information surrounding the investigation into Russia’s activities as possible. This isn’t about who won this year’s election. It’s about the possibility of another country – Russia or otherwise – compromising the integrity of our democracy. I would feel the same if Hillary Clinton had won in November. No one is accusing the President-elect or his campaign of wrongdoing and his derogatory comments about our intelligence agencies are unhelpful. Our country’s intelligence workers are in dangerous and remote hotspots around the globe, fighting to keep us safe just as our men and women in uniform are doing. I can think of few issues more important than protecting the credibility of the checks and balances that make our country great.”
12.09.2016	(Timonium, MD) — The U.S. House of Representatives yesterday passed bipartisan legislation that authorizes funding for our nation’s ports, harbors and waterways, including the Port of Baltimore. The “Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act” passed in a 360-61 vote and is now under consideration by the U.S. Senate. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement: “I applaud yesterday’s passage of bipartisan legislation, which includes investments that are absolutely critical to keeping the Port of Baltimore competitive and protecting the 122,000 jobs it supports. This bill makes it easier to deepen port berths – allowing some of the largest container ships in the world to call on the Port of Baltimore – and increases funding for fish and wildlife habitat projects in the Chesapeake Bay from $60 million to $100 million. These provisions will support a local effort to use dredged material to restore Chesapeake Bay islands. I am also pleased that the bill will continue to prevent raids of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund to offset other federal spending. This funding belongs with our ports and our ports alone. I am also happy to see that Congress is getting back into the habit of passing 2-year authorizations. This helps both our public and private-sector partners in long-term planning, which means projects stand a better chance at coming in on-time and under-budget. This is ultimately a jobs bill and I hope that we can continue working together on common sense investments in infrastructure to get Americans back to work. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to quickly follow suit and send this bill to the President’s desk.”
12.06.2016	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, along with U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski, as well as U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, John Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards and John Delaney (all D-Md.), announced Tuesday that Maryland has been awarded $15 million through the Preschool Development Grants program to provide high-quality preschool programs in 19 school districts across Maryland. In the past three years, Maryland has been awarded more than $45 million in federal funds to expand proven-beneficial preschool programs throughout the state. “This is the type of common sense investment Americans expect during these tough times,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “Research suggests that Pre-K can improve a child’s chance of success in school and in life – children who attend Pre-K are more likely to graduate from high school and earn more as adults. It is an investment in our future.” Maryland school districts receiving grant funding include: Allegany County Public Schools, Anne Arundel County Public Schools, Baltimore City Public Schools, Baltimore County Public Schools, Caroline County Public Schools, Carroll County Public Schools, Charles County Public Schools, Dorchester County Public Schools, Frederick County Public Schools, Garrett County Public Schools, Harford County Public Schools, Howard County Public Schools, Montgomery County Public Schools, Prince George’s County Public Schools, Queen Anne’s County Public Schools, Somerset County Public Schools, St. Mary’s County Public Schools, Washington County Public Schools and Wicomico County Public Schools, in addition to many community-based programs. Through these Preschool Development Grant awards, more than 35,000 additional children across 18 states will be served in preschool programs that meet high-quality standards in the third year of the program, an increase from 28,000 in the first award year in 2014. States receiving grants will develop or expand high-quality preschool programs in regionally diverse communities — from urban neighborhoods to small towns to tribal areas— as determined by the state. Since 2014, the Departments of Education and Health and Human Services have provided more than $750 million to states in Preschool Development Grant awards. Preschool programs help create the foundation for children to thrive in school and in life. Studies show that children who participate in quality preschool programs are more likely to graduate from high school, grow up healthy, avoid involvement in our criminal justice system and find good jobs. Maryland is one of 18 states to receive an expansion grant, which were designated for states that currently serve 10 percent of more of four-year-olds or have received a Race to the Top – Early Learning Challenge grant. States receiving expansion grants have ambitious and achievable plans to implement and sustain high-quality preschool programs that can reach and serve addition eligible children in two or high-need communities. Up to 5 percent of the expansion grant award may be used for state-level infrastructure and quality improvements. The Every Student Succeeds Act modifies the Preschool Development Grant program. For the first time, the nation’s education law includes provisions to promote coordination of early learning among local communities, alight preschool with early elementary school and build the capacity of teachers, leaders and others serving our young children to provide the highest-quality early learning opportunities. “We never get do-overs when it comes to our children’s early development, which makes this continued federal investment in Maryland to strengthen and expand our preschool programs incredibly important,” said Senator Cardin. “Our goal is to ensure that early learners have the chance to acquire the skills they need to be successful throughout their lives. With this federal investment, we will be able to provide additional opportunities to meet that goal, as well as meet growing demand to expand access to high-quality preschool programs. “Education is the opportunity ladder of this nation. Every child deserves their chance to get a foothold on that ladder,” said Senator Mikulski, senior member of the Senate House, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. “These funds in the federal checkbook will help ensure children across Maryland get the care and education they need and deserve so they and their families can have a better, brighter future.” “For our economy to succeed, we need to invest in education from day one,” said Senator-Elect Van Hollen. “Maryland’s workforce is second to none, because we are committed to making sure our children have the best schools – from preschool through college and job training. Federal grants like this are key to this effort, as we fight every day to make sure our state has a strong education system and a strong economy.” “I’m glad we were able to secure $15 million in grant funding from the U.S. Department of Education to support early childhood education in Maryland,” said Congressman Hoyer. “In the first two years of this four year grant, this funding has enabled our state to nearly double the number of Judith P. Hoyer Early Child Care and Family Education Centers, known as 'Judy Centers,' named for my wife who spent her career as an early childhood education administrator in Prince George’s County. Judy Centers help prepare children from low-income families for kindergarten and elementary school by providing early education and comprehensive health and social services under one roof, helping the child prepare for school and ensuring their family can support learning. I'm proud to be a champion of Judy Centers, which have delivered proven results and serve as a model for the country. All of our children deserve an opportunity to succeed and enter school prepared to learn and achieve.” “High-quality early childhood education is one of our best tools against poverty and income inequality,” Congressman Cummings said. “This grant will help our schools equip our youngest students with the foundation they need to be successful.” “The research is clear: Early childhood education improves future learning outcomes for our children and helps them succeed in the workplace,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “That’s why this new federal investment in Maryland’s education system is so important. It will help provide more high-quality preschool programs to young students across our state.” “Early education is one of the smartest investments we can make,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “High-quality preschool helps young learners prepare for elementary school, can have long-term benefits and can help reduce the achievement gap. These federal funds are good news for Maryland kids and good news for Maryland families.”
12.03.2016	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of General James Mattis as Secretary of Defense: “General James Mattis is a strong choice as our next Secretary of Defense and I urge my colleagues in Congress to work together to adopt a waiver to allow President-elect Trump’s nomination to move forward. In my longtime role on the House Intelligence Committee and, now, as a Defense Appropriator, co-chair of the House Army Caucus, Naval Academy Board Member and Congressional Representative for the National Security Agency, US Cyber Command and two Army bases, I have had the opportunity to meet with many military leaders. General Mattis has been among the best. Our Armed Forces are the strongest in the world under the leadership of the most capable military commanders like General Mattis, who can help us maintain our dominance on land, at sea, in the skies and throughout cyberspace. I respect his unwavering patriotism and his candor and I share his distaste for partisan politics –we both believe that there is no room for politics when it comes to the safety of American citizens. I look forward to working with General Mattis in this new role.”
11.30.2016	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement regarding the treatment of protesters and the controversy over the Dakota Access Pipeline: “Peaceful protest is a vital part of our Constitutional rights, and the reports of intimidation and injuries to unarmed protesters of the Dakota Access Pipeline are alarming. Army Corps of Engineers leaders have said they will not engage in forcible removal of protestors and I urge them to honor this commitment and take steps necessary to ensure protestors can continue to exercise their rights. After 17 years of experience in local government, I know that public involvement and transparency are critical to the success of any development project. In addition to environmental concerns associated with this project, any potential threat to sacred Native American land and cultural sites must be taken seriously. Army Corps officials earlier this month said additional analysis and consultation with the Standing Rock Sioux are warranted and that they will withhold a final permit while they engage further with the tribe. This is the right course of action. Construction should not begin until all of the tribe’s legitimate concerns are adequately addressed.”
11.22.2016	(Washington, DC) — Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger along with U.S. Senators Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin, Senator-Elect Chris Van Hollen and Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings and John Sarbanes (all D-MD) sent a letter yesterday to Attorney General Loretta Lynch, Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake and Mayor-Elect Catherine Pugh to inquire on the status of the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the City of Baltimore’s consent decree negotiations. The Members wrote, “We appreciate that it is no small task to ensure the decree fully addresses the DOJ recommendations and includes workable implementation steps. However, we are hearing growing concern from the community about the status of and delay in drafting the decree. We share those concerns. It is absolutely imperative that decisive, steady, urgent progress toward crafting a meaningful consent decree be made a top priority by all involved.” Following the release of the DOJ Civil Rights Division’s report on the “pattern or practice” investigation into the Baltimore City Police Department in August, the DOJ and the City began negotiating a consent decree with a goal of having the decree completed by November 1, 2016. The Members continued, “We are writing to request: (1) an update on the status of the consent decree; and (2) an updated timeline for its completion. We also write to strongly urge you to redouble your efforts to ensure that a meaningful decree is completed and approved as soon as possible.” The full text of the letter follows: The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 The Honorable Stephanie Rawlings-Blake Office of the Mayor 250 City Hall, 100 N. Holliday Street Baltimore, MD 21202 The Honorable Catherine Pugh 2901 Druid Park Drive, Suite 200C Baltimore, MD 21215 Dear Attorney General Lynch, Mayor Rawlings-Blake, and Mayor-Elect Pugh, We thank you for your ongoing commitment to ensuring that the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the City of Baltimore work together to improve policing in our community through the DOJ’s “pattern or practice” investigation. The findings released by the DOJ Civil Rights Division in its report this summer, as well as subsequent input from the Baltimore City community, have reaffirmed that the Baltimore City Police Department (BPD) is in dire need of reform and that the relationship between the BPD and the community is in disrepair. We understand that the City of Baltimore and the DOJ are negotiating a consent decree as the next step in the process of this investigation, and had been working toward a goal of November 1, 2016. However, that date passed almost three weeks ago, and a draft consent decree has still not yet been released. We appreciate that it is no small task to ensure the decree fully addresses the DOJ recommendations and includes workable implementation steps. However, we are hearing growing concern from the community about the status of and delay in drafting the decree. We share those concerns. It is absolutely imperative that decisive, steady, urgent progress toward crafting a meaningful consent decree be made a top priority by all involved. We are writing to request: (1) an update on the status of the consent decree; and (2) an updated timeline for its completion. We also write to strongly urge you to redouble your efforts to ensure that a meaningful decree is completed and approved as soon as possible. We appreciate the significant time and energy required to prepare for the transition of a mayoral administration, but it is absolutely necessary that the consent decree be a top priority for all at this crucial time. The safety of our community is at stake. Thank you again for your devotion to the people of Baltimore. We are eagerly awaiting an update. Sincerely,
11.16.2016	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement today on president-elect Donald Trump’s appointment of Steve Bannon as his Chief Strategist: “I am deeply troubled by President-elect Trump’s choice to appoint Steve Bannon as his Chief Strategist and Senior Counselor. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart News has published offensive comments about women, the LGBTQ community and minorities including the Jewish community. I always say, “you’re only as good as your team,” and I understand President-elect Trump’s desire to create a team of advisors he can trust. But Trump has pledged to bring this country together after a long and divisive campaign season. The appointment of Steve Bannon achieves the opposite, alienating and offending huge segments of our population. As President Obama has said, if Trump succeeds, we all succeed. I am committed to working with the President-elect and finding common ground wherever we can – on strengthening our national security, rebuilding our infrastructure, and defeating ISIS, for examples. My record reflects my willingness to put politics aside for the good of our country and I wish my first statement since Trump’s election was one of support and encouragement, and not alarm. That said, I am respectfully asking President-elect Trump to reconsider his choice of Steve Bannon as his chief strategist. If the President-elect truly wants to move our country forward, he needs to surround himself with people who believe our country is better off united, regardless of our differences.”
10.25.2016	(Washington, DC) —Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on requiring California National Guard service members to repay enlistment bonuses and other incentives: “I am requesting immediate action to halt the repayment of enlistment bonuses and other incentives given to some members of the California National Guard, many of them a decade after volunteering to go to war. When our men and women in uniform enlist and re-enlist in our Armed Services, they are making a commitment to our country. We must keep our commitment to them in return. Today, I joined colleagues in the House of Representatives in sending a bipartisan letter to the Secretary of Defense that: 1. Requests that recoupment efforts be halted immediately; 2. Requests the Secretary report to Congress if he needs additional authorities to do so; 3. Requests information on any ongoing and completed recoupments so that Congress can determine the full scope of the issue. If the Department of Defense requires a blanket waiver authority to provide relief to these service members and their families, Congress should act to provide one. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure our service men and women are treated fairly. It is my understanding that overpayments of this scale are limited to California, where one employee was imprisoned for fraudulently approving payment of enlistment bonuses. The National Guard has already implemented a program to prevent this again.”
10.18.2016	(Timonium, MD) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement on the passing of Baltimore legend John Paterakis: I join so many others in mourning the loss of a Baltimore giant today. John Paterakis used to say that his success was owed to luck and chance, but I don’t believe that to be the case. He earned his achievements through honest hard work and his incredible business acumen. He was generous with his time, his money and his friendship. John was known for taking big risks and he took one on me when I was a young Baltimore County Councilman in the 1980s. I have always been grateful for his support and advice. John was a visionary who understood the delicate balance between private business and government partnerships, working closely with longtime politician and former Governor of Maryland, William Donald Schaefer, to redevelop and reinvigorate what we now know today as the beautiful Harbor East. His commitment to Baltimore will be his legacy that will live on for generations to come.
10.06.2016	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski, with U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John P. Sarbanes (all D-Md.), have written to Howard County Sheriff James F. Fitzgerald asking him to resign his position in the wake of a detailed report from the Howard County Office of Human Rights. The full letter follows. October 6, 2016 Howard County Sheriff James F. Fitzgerald 8360 Court Ave Ellicott City, MD 21043 Dear Sheriff Fitzgerald: We were appalled to see the report from the Howard County Office of Human Rights detailing how you have created a hostile and abusive work environment for the nearly 70-person department you oversee. As federal elected officials with responsibilities for the people of Howard County, we urge you to prioritize the needs of the residents of the county you serve, as well as the officers under your command, and resign your office. The people of Howard County and its Sheriff’s office deserve leadership that understands that bullying, racism, sexism and anti-Semitism should have no place in American law enforcement. We find the behavior outlined by the Office of Human Rights unacceptable and an affront to the people who elected you and to the law enforcement officers of Howard County who serve this community with honor despite such toxic leadership. At a time when trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve has been strained in Maryland and nationwide, we hope you will do the right thing and allow the Howard County Sheriff’s Office to heal and move forward with new leadership that can demonstrate respect for all law enforcement personnel and the entire Howard County community. Sincerely, ###
09.23.2016	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement on the prospects of a Continuing Resolution for fiscal year 2017: “I couldn’t agree more with Secretary Ash Carter’s characterization of Congress’ use of stop-gap funding as “deplorable.” As we head toward a new fiscal year under a Continuing Resolution – for the eighth consecutive year – I share his concerns about its impact on our national security. Continuing Resolutions provide funding at current levels only, prevent new spending and prolong programs that have been discontinued. I remain astounded that some of my colleagues are willing to take such extraordinary risk with our defense budget as we face threats including Russia, Iran, China and ISIS. National security is not a Republican or Democratic issue. It is an American issue that requires us to put our heads together and find common ground. Yet I was the only Democratic appropriator on the Defense Subcommittee to vote “yes” on this year’s defense budget bill. We need more Members – especially those who have extreme ideologies on both sides of the aisle – to have the political fortitude to set aside their agendas on behalf of the greater country. Band Aid budgets are bad for everyone – our partners in industry, the American taxpayers and, most importantly, our Armed Forces. They result in our troops serving in locations where we do not need them, spending on weapons they do not want and an ever-shrinking head start over our enemies. Our troops and military families do their jobs each and every day on behalf of a grateful nation. Let’s do ours and pass a budget.”
09.16.2016	(Washington, DC) – C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, as well as U.S. Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Steny H. Hoyer, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, Andy Harris and John Delaney today applauded President Obama’s issuing of a federal Disaster Declaration for Howard County after the deadly and devastating flooding in Ellicott City. The President’s action follows the Delegation’s letter in support of Governor Hogan’s request for a major disaster declaration. “We have been united in urging President Obama to issue a Disaster Declaration for Howard County in the wake of this summer’s horrific flooding,” the Delegation said. “We are pleased that the President has recognized the full extent of the damage and the severe impact the flooding had on Ellicott City. Ellicott City, one of Maryland’s historic Main Streets, is a resilient community that will now be eligible for federal funding to help recover from this terrible flooding.” The Disaster Declaration makes federal funding available to the State and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe flooding in Ellicott City. Ellicott City suffered six inches of rain in a period of 90 minutes. The National Weather Service predicts that a rainfall of this magnitude should statistically occur only once every one thousand years. The subsequent flooding resulted in Governor Hogan declaring a state of emergency. The storm caused an estimated $23 million in damages.
09.15.2016	(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch along with U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski as well as Representatives Elijah Cummings and John Sarbanes (All D-Md.) today strongly lauded an announcement that Baltimore City Public Schools will receive more than $2.374 million in funding through the U.S. Department of Education Promoting Student Resilience grant program. The grant will allow city public schools to more effectively meet the behavioral and mental health needs of students in areas that have been most affected by the civil disturbance after the death of Freddie Gray last year. “In today's economy, this is exactly the type of common sense, basic government investment our constituents expect us to prioritize. I can think of few better uses of funds than to make sure our children - especially those that need behavioral and mental help - enter the classroom ready to learn,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “This is an investment in our students and our community.” The $2.374-million will provide for the hiring of a full-time mental health clinician at each of the 13 schools that have been most affected by last year’s civil disturbance, as well as a full-time Trauma Manager and two full-time trainers. In total, these funds will improve the capacity of services available more than 4,600 students. These funds will be utilized at Eutaw Marshburn Elementary School; William Pinderhughes Elementary/Middle School; Matthew A. Henson Elementary School; Harlem Park Elementary/Middle School; John Eager Howard Elementary School; Mount Royal Elementary/Middle School; Gilmor Elementary School; Samuel Coleridge Taylor Elementary School; Furman Templeton Elementary School; Booker T. Washington Middle School; Excel Academy Middle/High School; New Song Academy Elementary/Middle School; and Renaissance Academy High School. The U.S. Department of Education’s Promoting Student Resilience program provides funding to local education agencies to build and increase their capacity to address the comprehensive behavioral and mental health needs of students in communities that have experienced significant civil unrest in the past 24 months. This is the third Department of Education grant awarded to Baltimore City Public Schools since April 2015. The Department has awarded two Project School Emergency Response to Violence (SERV) grants, totaling nearly $645,000. Project SERV provides funding for local educational agencies and institutions of higher education that have experienced a significant violent or traumatic event and need resources to respond, recover, and re-establish a safe environment conducive to learning. The first Project SERV grant, totaling nearly $293,000, was awarded in January 2016. The grant was used to hire additional full-time social workers and psychologists to support the efforts to restore the learning environment at Matthew A. Henson Elementary School, Frederick Douglass Senior High School, Gilmor Elementary School, Harlem Park Elementary/Middle School and William Pinderhughes Elementary/Middle School. The second Project SERV grant, providing approximately $352,000, was awarded earlier this month to Renaissance Academy High School after the tragic deaths of three students over the course of the 2015 – 2016 school year. Project SERV funds will allow Renaissance Academy to contract with mentors who will provide support to students. In addition, the school will hire a dedicated door monitor for one of its entrances, as well as a staff person to make home visits to discuss attendance with chronically absent students who are too afraid or too angry to come to school because of violence. In addition, Renaissance Academy also will implement several training and development programs for faculty and staff that will cover topics such as restorative practices, trauma informed care, and mental health. “Immediately following Freddie Gray’s death, we sat with and listened to the Baltimore communities that were most affected by the resulting unrest and promised to work hard to help them rebuild. The Obama Administration also pledged its unflagging support. We already have seen several examples of the strength of that support from the Department of Education, and this latest grant further underscores the strength of the federal commitment to helping Baltimore,” said Senator Cardin. “This funding will increase the ability of Baltimore City Public Schools to meet the behavioral and mental health needs of students affected by trauma so they have the opportunity to enter the classroom ready to learn. I’m proud to have led the members of Baltimore’s congressional delegation to urge the Department of Education to provide these critical funds for city students.” “Education is the opportunity ladder of this nation. Every child deserves their chance to get a foothold on that ladder,” said Senator Mikulski. “After the unrest in Baltimore last year, I stood shoulder to shoulder with our community leaders in Baltimore, my colleagues in Congress and the Administration to come up with comprehensive solutions to systemic problems in our city and across the country. These federal dollars will make sure that Baltimore schools have the resources and tools necessary to address the behavioral and mental health needs of students affected by trauma after last year’s unrest. I will continue fighting to make sure Baltimore’s students and families have access to quality education and care they can depend on in order to succeed.” “Unfortunately, some of our young people in Baltimore are exposed to violence, loss and other traumatic experiences at a very young age,” said Congressman Cummings. “Thanks to the Department of Education’s grant award, these schools will have the resources needed to provide our most vulnerable young people with critical mental and behavioral health care.” “This new grant funding will help Baltimore schools provide better behavioral and mental health services for students affected by last year’s unrest,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “We must make the necessary investments to strengthen our city’s communities and I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Maryland Delegation and with the Obama Administration to secure adequate resources for Baltimore City schools.”
09.14.2016	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement on a Memorandum of Understanding between the United States and Israel expected to be signed later today: “I applaud the Administration for finalizing an unprecedented agreement that will provide the government of Israel with a total of $3.8 billion a year in security assistance over the next decade. The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) represents the most aid the United States has ever provided to any country. This agreement sends a powerful message that the United States will not stand idly by if Israel is threatened. I met with Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu in Jerusalem earlier this year and never before have Israel’s security needs been greater. Israel is our strongest ally in the Middle East and is under constant threat from groups like Hezbollah, Hamas and ISIS. The MOU includes $5 billion to support missile defense to ensure Israel can defend itself against a wide range of threats like rocket attacks fired on civilians. It also includes $33 billion in foreign military financing, which will support American jobs in the aerospace and defense industries. I look forward to leveraging my role on the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee to make sure these funds are appropriated and Israel gets the assistance it needs to stay safe. There has never been a day where I doubted the need to protect Israel, the incredible value Israel poses as an ally in the Middle East or the need to work together to combat common threats.”
09.13.2016	(Washington, DC) — Today, U.S. Representatives C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Chris Van Hollen (MD-08), John P. Sarbanes (MD-03), Donna F. Edwards (MD-04), and John Delaney (MD-06) issued the following statement applauding the announcement of a new Maryland Academy for Innovation in National Security. The announcement was made this morning by University of Maryland, Baltimore President Jay Perman and University of Maryland, College Park President Wallace Loh, who were joined by University System of Maryland Chancellor Robert Caret, at one of the two Maryland sites that are being proposed for the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) new, consolidated headquarters. The new academy is a partnership between UMB and UMD, which will allow two of Maryland’s premier research universities to work strategically and collaboratively with the FBI. In making today’s announcement, Presidents Perman and Loh, Chancellor Caret, national security experts, and education officials participated in a “Whistle Stop,” riding the MARC train and the Metro to Greenbelt to highlight the efficient transportation options in Prince George’s County. “We are very excited about this new national security partnership between the University of Maryland, College Park and the University of Maryland, Baltimore. From proximity to Washington and transit connections to world-class institutions of research and higher education and premier cyber security and defense facilities, there is no doubt that Maryland has the two best sites for the FBI’s new, consolidated headquarters. The creation of this new academy further strengthens our bid by providing the FBI with yet another asset that will benefit its current workforce, train its future workforce, and advance the FBI’s mission. We are also pleased that today’s event highlighted the efficient transit options that make Maryland’s sites convenient for the FBI and its employees. We thank Dr. Perman, Dr. Loh, and Chancellor Caret for their commitment to creating a strategic partnership with the FBI, as well as Mayor Emmit Jordan for hosting today’s event in Greenbelt.”
08.25.2016	(Washington, DC) -- Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger today sent the following letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee regarding the 500 percent increase in the price of EpiPen autoinjectors used by millions of Americans: August 25, 2016| The Honorable Fred Upton The Honorable Frank Pallone, Jr. Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Energy & Commerce Committee on Energy & Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building 2322A Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Upton and Ranking Member Pallone: I strongly urge you to hold hearings on the serious health health risks to American families currently posed by the cost of the EpiPen manufactured by Mylan. The price of the EpiPen auto-injector has risen by nearly 500 percent since 2009 and, as documented by recent media reports, many Americans can no longer afford this life-saving device. Simply put, this price increase could kill Americans and children who suffer from severe allergic reactions to everyday threats like bees, shellfish, peanuts, latex gloves and penicillin. The EpiPen is also used by asthmatics, like me. Many families without insurance or with high-deductible plans now must pay up to $600 for a 2-pack of EpiPens, which must be replaced annually. And allergy sufferers often need to keep EpiPens not only on their person, but in school lockers, at daycare facilities and at home. I fear that some families will chose to use expired EpiPens or, worse, not buy them at all. I am also deeply disturbed by reports that – while Mylan has dramatically increased the cost of this product – it has also raised its top executive pay by about 600 percent. Nothing is more outrageous than a company who puts profits over children’s safety for the sake of greed. Any form of drug price gouging requires an immediate Congressional response. The American people deserve answers and I am asking this Committee to demand them from the manufacturer. Please keep me posted on any action you take on this critical issue. Sincerely, Dutch Ruppersberger Member of Congress
08.12.2016	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin as well as Representatives Elijah E. Cummings, Steny H. Hoyer, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, Andy Harris and John Delaney today in a letter to President Obama expressed their strong support for Governor Larry Hogan’s request for a federal Disaster Declaration for Howard County after the deadly and devastating flooding in Ellicott City. “We are writing to express our shared support for Maryland Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the declaration of a major disaster as a result of a severe flooding which impacted Ellicott City in Howard County on July 30, 2016. Given the massive impact that this flooding had on our resources, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve the provision of supplementary federal assistance,” wrote members of the Delegation. The Disaster Declaration would make federal funding available to the State and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe flooding in Howard County. Ellicott City suffered six inches of rain in a period of 90 minutes. The National Weather Service predicts that a rainfall of this magnitude should statistically occur only once every one thousand years. The subsequent flooding resulted in Governor Hogan declared state of emergency. The storm caused an estimated $22 million in damage in Ellicott City. The text of the delegation's letter of support is as follows: August 12, 2016 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our shared support for Maryland Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the declaration of a major disaster as a result of severe flooding which impacted Ellicott City in Howard County on July 30, 2016. Given the massive impact that this flooding had on our resources, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve the provision of supplementary federal assistance. Ellicott City, a historic Maryland treasure known for its vibrant business community and its culture of kindness and resilience, suffered significant flooding throughout an intense rainfall on the evening of July 30, 2016. The National Weather Service predicts that a rainfall of this magnitude should statistically occur only once every one thousand years. Six inches of rain poured down on Ellicott City, an amount of rain that normally falls over the course of one month, in a period of only ninety minutes. Governor Hogan took appropriate action under Maryland law, declaring a State of Emergency in Howard County. Maryland has since made significant efforts to respond to this unexpected event. The Maryland Emergency Management Agency (MEMA), along with Howard County officials and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), conducted an extensive impact assessment August 4-5. They collectively found that the event was of such severity and magnitude that effective recovery is beyond the capabilities of the State of Maryland and Howard County governments alone, and requires supplementary federal assistance. Governor Hogan, working with FEMA, has estimated the total recovery cost to exceed $22 million. We urge you to expeditiously review Governor Hogan’s request and declare a major disaster for Howard County, Maryland. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, # # #
08.10.2016	(Washington, DC) – The entire Maryland Congressional Delegation, including Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, U. S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, as well as U. S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, Andy Harris and John Delaney yesterday sent a letter to Maria Contreras-Sweet, Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA), urging her to approve Governor Larry Hogan’s request for a physical disaster declaration for Howard County after recent devastating flooding in Ellicott City. “Ellicott City, a historic Maryland treasure known for its vibrant business community and its culture of kindness and resilience, suffered significant flooding throughout an intense rainfall on the evening of July 30, 2016. The National Weather Service predicts that a rainfall of this magnitude should statistically occur only once every one thousand years. Six inches of rain poured down on Ellicott City, an amount of rain that normally falls over the course of one month, in a period of only ninety minutes,” the Members wrote. “. . . This physical disaster determination is necessary to help ensure that small business owners can get the physical disaster loan assistance and economic injury disaster loan assistance they need. We urge you to expeditiously review Governor Hogan’s request and declare a physical disaster for Howard County, Maryland. ” The SBA’s survey of Ellicott City found more than the 25 structures (with 40 percent or more uninsured damage) required to recommend an SBA physical declaration. At least 60 homeowners, renters and businesses in Ellicott City and the surrounding area sustained major damages or were destroyed. The disaster declaration is necessary to ensure Howard County business owners can get the physical disaster loan assistance and economic injury disaster loan assistance they need to repair or replace real estate, personal property, equipment or inventory damaged or destroyed in the disturbance. The letter to Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet follows: August 9, 2016 Maria Contreras-Sweet, Administrator U. S. Small Business Administration 409 3rd Street SW Washington, D. C. 20416 Dear Administrator Contreras-Sweet: We are writing to express our shared support for Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the U. S. Small Business Administration to declare a physical disaster for Howard County, Maryland as a result of severe flooding which impacted Ellicott City on July 30, 2016. Given the massive impact that this flooding had on Ellicott City’s small businesses and residents, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve this request. Ellicott City, a historic Maryland treasure known for its vibrant business community and its culture of kindness and resilience, suffered significant flooding throughout an intense rainfall on the evening of July 30, 2016. The National Weather Service predicts that a rainfall of this magnitude should statistically occur only once every one thousand years. Six inches of rain poured down on Ellicott City, an amount of rain that normally falls over the course of one month, in a period of only ninety minutes. We understand that SBA’s survey of Ellicott City has found more than the 25 structures (with 40% or more uninsured damage) required to recommend an SBA physical declaration. At least 60 homeowners, renters, and businesses in Ellicott City and the surrounding area sustained major damages or were destroyed. Over 82 structures had at least minor damages. This physical disaster determination is necessary to help ensure that small business owners can get the physical disaster loan assistance and economic injury disaster loan assistance they need. We urge you to expeditiously review Governor Hogan’s request and declare a physical disaster for Howard County, Maryland. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, # # #
08.09.2016	(Kabul, Afghanistan) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, an appropriator who serves on the House defense subcommittee, last week traveled to Afghanistan to meet with troops on the frontlines who are working with our NATO allies to combat ISIS and the Taliban. The 2-day trip followed the administration’s announcement of a modified schedule for U.S. troop withdrawal as well as new authorities in the fight against terrorists that were central to securing the support of our allies at the NATO Warsaw Summit last month. The group was briefed by Commander of NATO Resolute Support Mission and U.S. Forces in Afghanistan, General John Nicholson, Jr., – a Baltimore County native – and U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan, Peter Michael McKinley. They also met with U.S., NATO, and Afghan servicemembers at Forward Operating Base Oqab and the Train, Advise and Assist Command-East at Gamberi Training Base, who are working to train Afghan security forces near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. There, Congressman Ruppersberger was honored to meet two service members from Maryland. “I was in Afghanistan to hear directly from U.S. and Afghani military leaders about what’s working and what’s not,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “As always, I was deeply humbled and proud to meet with servicemen and women on the frontlines and thank them for putting their lives on the line to protect our nation from the threat of terrorism.” The group met with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and his cabinet, discussing security, sustainable development, elections and corruption. The delegation sought assurance that reforms are being made ahead of the October Donors’ Conference in Brussels, at which new development assistance pledges will be made. Congressman Ruppersberger is the former Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee and has met with American troops serving around the world. In April, Congressman Ruppersberger traveled to Iraq, where he met with Marylanders stationed in Baghdad and Anbar who are working to train, advise and assist their Iraqi counterparts in the fight against ISIS.
08.09.2016	(Timonium, MD) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement on Helen Delich Bentley, a former Congresswoman who passed away on Saturday at the age of 92. “I had the dubious pleasure of running against Helen Bentley for Congress. As a political rival, she was as fierce as they get, but we both ran issue-focused races based on mutual respect. I also quickly learned her toughness belied true compassion for each and every citizen of the district. After the election, Helen and I became close friends and she was a trusted mentor as I navigated the halls of Congress, especially on maritime issues.. Helen was a pioneer for women in journalism before her long service in the U.S. House of Representatives and she continued to blaze trails in Washington. As chair of the Federal Maritime Commission, she was the fourth-highest ranking woman in federal government history, the first woman to serve in a key government position in the maritime field and the first woman appointed by a President to head a regulatory agency. It is because of Helen’s grit and true love of the Port of Baltimore that it continues to prosper and provide honest, good-paying jobs to so many Maryland families today. In her passing, Maryland has lost a champion and a friend. We will all miss her tenacity, her quick wit and her unapologetic patriotism.”
07.13.2016	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) last week received the 2016 “Congressional Leadership Award” by the Association of Defense Communities (ADC), a national organization that advocates for communities adjacent to military installations, such as Aberdeen and Fort Meade. Congressman Ruppersberger was chosen for his work advancing policy issues that support defense communities, military families and veterans. Aberdeen and Fort Meade, Maryland, are both located in Congressman Ruppersberger’s district. “The military installations in the Second District have seen tremendous growth in recent years and that progress is only going to continue,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Helping our bases plan for the future, navigate the uncertainties in the defense budget and ensure our military veterans and families enjoy an excellent quality of life is not only a top priority, but an honor. I am deeply humbled to be recognized by such a prestigious organization that does tremendous work on behalf of defense communities around the nation, including our own.” The ADC’s membership includes communities with active military installations, communities with closed or closing installations and private companies as well as federal and state agencies. Its goal is to create great places for military families to live. “Sustaining resilient defense communities and military installations requires strong support from champions in Congress who understand the important relationship between the installations and the communities they call home,” ADC President Michael Cooper said. “Because of Representative Ruppersberger’s leadership in his district and across the country, it is my privilege to announce that he has been awarded a 2016 Association of Defense Communities Congressional Leadership Award.” Congressman Ruppersberger was nominated for the award by Jill McClune, President of the Army Alliance, a community advocacy organization based in northeast Maryland that supports Aberdeen Proving Ground and the surrounding region. The Alliance is a member of the ADC. “Congressman Ruppersberger has been a longtime champion of Aberdeen Proving Ground and the Army Alliance,” said Ms. McClune. “The Congressman and his staff have been invaluable in protecting and supporting APG and the other military installations in Maryland. We thank the ADC for selecting Congressman Ruppersberger for this well-deserved award.”
07.12.2016	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today announced that the federal Veterans Health Administration has approved the relocation of an outpatient clinic for local veterans in Eastern Baltimore County that will be double the size of the now-shuttered facility at Fort Howard. The VA Maryland Health Care System has identified a geographic area in Eastern Baltimore County for the new clinic that has a large veteran population and is located near mass transportation, major road ways, and other healthcare facilities. The approval enables Maryland officials to begin the competitive leasing process. The new facility, which will provide primary care and mental health services for veterans, will be able to serve twice the number of patients that were served at the Fort Howard clinic. “My top priority has always been providing our nation’s heroes the very best quality medicine in a clean, modern clinic near where they live and work,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I am urging the VA to continue working to return VA healthcare to Eastern Baltimore County as quickly as possible and stand at the ready to assist in any way I can.” The Fort Howard clinic closed in March after a flood revealed mold and other structural issues. Patients and their doctors have been transferred temporarily to a clinic in Baltimore's Loch Raven community. Congressman Ruppersberger hosted a conference call with VA leadership last week regarding the new clinic and has championed VA healthcare reform in Washington. He has introduced bipartisan legislation that will enable veterans with service-connected disabilities to see private doctors in their local community, rather than having to visit a VA doctor in a VA facility.
06.29.2016	(Baltimore, MD) – Today Congressmen Dutch Ruppersberger, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen and John Sarbanes (all D-MD) marked the National Day of Action for Commonsense Gun Violence Prevention at Cathedral of the Incarnation in Baltimore. The Representatives were joined by Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh, Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis, Baltimore City Health Commissioner Dr. Leana Wen, survivors of gun violence, families of victims, and faith leaders. “We aren't asking for much - just a chance to vote on common sense reforms that Americans overwhelmingly support to help keep guns out of the hands of terrorists and criminals,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “Ensuring national security is the most important job of Congress. This issue is no different.” The National Day of Action for Commonsense Gun Violence Prevention comes after Democrats sat on the House floor for 26 hours last week to demand that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans allow an immediate vote on two bipartisan, common sense gun violence prevention bills to help keep guns out of dangerous hands: • The bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to expand and strengthen our background check system; and, • The bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ bill to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists. House Republicans have voted 14 times to block consideration of the bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ legislation. Republican leaders adjourned the House early for the Fourth of July recess, leaving Washington without bringing these bipartisan gun violence prevention bills to the floor for an up-or-down vote. “I was proud to join my colleagues on the House floor last week to say ‘enough is enough,’ and I am proud to continue the fight during today’s National Day of Action,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is time for Republican lawmakers to treat gun violence like the scourge on our country that it is. The American people have had enough, and so have I.” "Our message today is simple: no more business as usual in the House of Representatives until we get an up-or-down vote on common sense gun safety measures," said Congressman Van Hollen. "Today we stand with children who have seen the horror of gun violence firsthand, with mothers and fathers who have lost their sons and daughters to senseless violence, and with the vast majority of Americans who are fed up with moments of silence that are never followed by action. We will continue to demand action until the 'people's House' acknowledges the will of the American people and votes on measures to save lives and prevent the next tragedy." “Today, I was proud to join Marylanders – and the national, bipartisan chorus of Americans – who are continuing the fight for commonsense gun safety laws,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “For too long, big money special interests like the NRA have blocked Congress from taking action to reduce gun violence in American communities. But today, we’re coming together and standing up to say enough is enough.” Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh said, “Virginia Tech. Newtown, Connecticut. Nine in a church, 23 in a restaurant, 26 in an elementary school, now 49 in a nightclub. The faces in the memorial photos are what change. The weapons are the common denominator. As we hear about mass shooting after mass shooting, in state after state – I am more convinced than ever that the common sense safety regulations we have in Maryland need to be in place across the country. Congress must act.” “Gun violence is an epidemic that has impacted too many lives across the country and especially in big cities,” said Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis. “We must work tirelessly and in partnership to deter those who want to illegally arm themselves with guns, and arrest and prosecute those who choose to illegally possess guns with the specific intent of harming our communities.” “As an ER doctor who has treated patients dying of gunshot wounds and as the City of Baltimore’s doctor, I have no doubt that gun violence is a public health crisis,” said Baltimore City Health Commissioner Dr. Leana Wen. “Unlike so many medical ailments that do not have a cure or a vaccine, with gun violence, we have the power to make change, prevent injury, and save lives.”
06.23.2016	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined dozens of colleagues in a sit-in on the House Floor to demand a vote on bipartisan legislation to address gun violence. Ruppersberger and others urged House leadership to allow the vote before the chamber recesses next week for a district work period. Ruppersberger supports requiring universal background checks before all gun sales and banning civilian use of combat-grade guns and high-capacity magazines. He also supports bipartisan legislation preventing terror suspects on federal watch lists from purchasing firearms. “All we are asking for today is a vote,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “These are bipartisan reforms Americans overwhelmingly support as mass shootings continue to devastate our communities. Until we figure out a way to stop these attacks once and for all, it is our responsibility to do what we can to reduce the bloodshed and keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists. It’s not gun control – it’s terror control – and it’s just common sense.” The protest came in the wake of the worst mass shooting in American history June 13 in Orlando. House Democrats specifically called on Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans to allow an immediate vote on two bills. The bipartisan King-Thompson legislation expands and strengthens our background checks system. The bipartisan “No Fly, No Buy” bill – which House Republicans have voted 13 times to block – will bar those on the federal “Do Not Fly” list from purchasing a firearm.
06.13.2016	(Washington, DC) – Like the rest of America, I am heartbroken for the victims of the Orlando shooting and their families. This was an attack not just on a nightclub, but on the American values of diversity and equality. It is my hope that this tragedy inspires more Americans to join the fight against intolerance and hatred. It is also my hope that this event encourages Americans to use their voices and their right to vote to influence lawmakers who perpetuate discrimination and who continue to turn a blind eye to gun violence. In the wake of the massacre in San Bernardino in December, I renewed my calls for a ban on the sale of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. Republican leadership has refused to let the House vote on this legislation and now – just more than six months later – the worst mass shooting in our country’s history has taken place with a similar weapon. We, as lawmakers, share in the blame. As the President has said, actively doing nothing is a decision. It is no accident that the shooters in San Bernardino, Newtown, Aurora and, now, Orlando, have all chosen assault rifles as their weapon of choice. They are weapons of war designed to inflict as much carnage as possible in as little time as possible. When assault weapons or high-capacity magazines are used in a shooting, the number of casualties has increased 63 percent. So a ban may not stop these attacks, but will help drastically reduce the bloodshed. A ban on assault weapons is not gun control. It is terrorist control. While I strongly believe in the Second Amendment, I also believe that we also have a Constitutional responsibility to protect American citizens from harm. ISIS is effectively using social media to recruit, radicalize and, in some cases, give orders to Americans. We must be able to identify, track and stop these terror suspects before they act. Republicans and Democrats must come together to pass a budget and give our law enforcement and intelligence agencies the resources they need to get the job done.
05.25.2016	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) , a cosponsor of bipartisan legislation to improve veterans’ healthcare, today issued the following statement in response to Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald’s description of long waits for care: “I am asking Secretary McDonald to formally apologize to all United States veterans for his insensitive remarks comparing wait times within the VA healthcare system to lines at an amusement park. His clarification that wait times are just one element to the overall VA experience is unconvincing because, for some, the experience begins and tragically ends with waiting. This comment, unfortunately, clouds the progress the VA has made under the Secretary’s leadership. Our veterans deserve better from our country and from Secretary McDonald.” Congressman Ruppersberger’s bill, the Care Veterans Deserve Act of 2016 (H.R. 5262), allows veterans the option of seeking private care in their own communities, among other measures. Click here to learn more about the bill.
05.19.2016	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today voted in support of a bipartisan funding bill that includes $233 million for the Second District at Fort Meade and vital resources for veterans programs. The “Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act” for fiscal year 2017 passed the House of Representatives in a 295 to 125 vote. In all, the bill provides $7.7 billion for construction at military bases around the country, including three facilities improvement projects at the National Security Agency, one of which is the single largest project in the entire bill. NSA is Maryland’s largest employer, with at least 20,000 workers reporting to its Fort Meade campus each day. The bill provides $73.5 billion for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) programs, most of which is used to provide medical care to service men and women. Congressman Ruppersberger was particularly supportive of measures to reduce the VA healthcare backlog – which has been historically severe in Baltimore – such as paperless claims processing, health record digitalization and the appeals process. Congressman Ruppersberger also applauded the inclusion of $7.8 billion for veterans’ mental health programs like suicide prevention. The funding designated for NSA projects are: $21 million to replace the “access control facility,” where visitors are processed and screened $17 million to construct a new electric system to accommodate the increased demand in electrical loads $195 million to build a new Operations Facility for about 3,000 employees, replacing aging and overburdened facilities
05.18.2016	(Washington, DC) –Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) today announced support for a provision contained in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017 to elevate the U.S. Cyber Command to a unified combatant command. Ruppersberger submitted a statement into the U.S. Congressional Record saying the Cyber Command – located in his district at Fort Meade, Maryland – has been tasked with one of the greatest challenges of our times. “Every day, cyber warriors are protecting us from our enemies plotting to compromise our military networks and critical infrastructure,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Demand for cyber warfare capabilities is only going to increase and we must give it the power and resources it needs to better protect our country.” Our Armed Forces are currently organized into nine combatant commands – Six are geographic plus three that focus on specialized capabilities: Special Operations, Nuclear or Strategic Forces, and Transportation. The Cyber Command is now a sub-unified command under the U.S. Strategic Command. “Elevating CYBERCOM to a Unified Combatant Command recognizes the fact that cyberspace is the battlefield of the 21st Century,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Warfare is not just on land, at sea, or in the skies and space – but in cyberspace. Just as our special operations command is able to quickly and deftly perform some of our toughest covert missions, it only makes sense to have a command that can respond nimbly to cyber threats and organize our offensive and defensive efforts.” Such an upgrade would likely involve more jobs at Fort Meade. Congressman Ruppersberger expressed confidence that Maryland and the Second District is prepared to assist with the infrastructure needs that would accompany expansion. The House of Representatives will consider the NDAA on its floor today. See below for the full text of Congressman Ruppersberger’s statement: Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the provision contained in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 to upgrade the U.S. Cyber Command to a unified combatant command. The United States Cyber Command, which is located in my district at Fort Meade, Maryland, has been tasked with one of the greatest challenges of our times. Every day, its cyber warriors are protecting us from our enemies plotting to compromise our military networks and critical infrastructure. Recently, they were given their first wartime assignment in the fight against ISIS. The demand for cyber warfare capabilities has been so high that CYBERCOM teams that are not even officially operational yet are contributing to the mission, according to its chief, Admiral Mike Rogers. That need is only going to increase and we must give it the power and resources it needs to better protect our country. Elevating CYBERCOM as a Unified Combatant Command recognizes the fact that cyberspace is the battlefield of the 21st Century. Warfare is not just on land, at sea, or in the skies and space – but in cyberspace. Just as our special operations command is able to quickly and deftly perform some of our toughest covert missions, it only makes sense to have a command that can respond nimbly to cyber threats and organize our offensive and defensive efforts. I agree wholeheartedly with Admiral Rogers, who has said this designation would allow his Command to be faster with better mission outcomes. We must not forget that the other half of his responsibility, the National Security Agency, already enjoys an excellent and essential working relationship with CYBERCOM. We must ensure that any reorganization strengthens this relationship. I am proud to represent both agencies in Congress and am confident Maryland and the Second District is amply prepared to assist with the infrastructure needs that accompany any growth.
05.17.2016	(Washington, DC) –Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) and Richard Hudson (NC-08) today introduced the bipartisan Care Veterans Deserve Act of 2016 (H.R. 5262) to expand access to healthcare at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) while improving choice, flexibility and quality in veterans’ healthcare. “The VA backlogs in Baltimore and around the country are slowly improving, but we still have a lot of work to do on behalf of our nation’s heroes,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I have witnessed first-hand the frustration that many veterans feel while trying to accomplish what should be simple tasks like making doctor’s appointments and filling prescriptions. This bipartisan bill will help us make good on our promise to give veterans the very best care and quality of life possible.” “I have long said we have to break the bureaucratic stronghold at the VA by first allowing veterans the option of seeking private care in their own communities,” said Rep. Hudson. “This legislation will do that while empowering veterans with more choice and flexibility so they can get the quality and timely health care they have earned. This is a significant step to end the backlogs, wait-times and red tape nightmare that too many veterans face every day. I’m proud to introduce this legislation to give veterans more control over their health care and will work with my colleagues in both chambers to get it signed into law.” Congressmen Ruppersberger and Hudson have been staunch advocates for allowing veterans with service-connected disabilities to choose care from private providers in their local communities and having the VA pay for it. This bill would seek to do that by making the pilot Veterans Choice Card program enacted by the bipartisan Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability and Transparency Act of 2014 permanent while expanding eligibility to veterans with a 50 percent service-connected disability rating or higher. Congressman Ruppersberger pledged to continue consulting with the Baltimore Regional Office and VA headquarters to improving the program as the legislation moves through the process. The bill aims to further address the continued backlog of VA appointments across the country by: Allowing visits to walk-in clinics without prior authorization or copayments by veterans; Extending VA pharmacy hours to nights and weekends; Opening VA hospitals to volunteer community providers interested in working with veterans during their off-hours; Expanding the use of telemedicine at the VA. The VA says it has reduced the claims backlog at the Baltimore Regional Office – once among the worst in the country – by 95 percent. An average wait time of 459 days now stands at 111.6 days.
05.16.2016	(Baltimore, MD) – Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Elijah Cummings and John Sarbanes (all D-MD) on Monday were joined by Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings Blake and City Health Commission Dr. Leana Wen in announcing a new package of bills passed by the U.S. House of Representatives to address the national opioid abuse and overdose epidemic. In all, the House passed 17 bipartisan bills last week that will expand access to overdose reversal drugs, reevaluate best practices for pain management and examine over-prescription of opioids to student athletes and veterans, among other measures. Baltimore has the highest per capita heroin addiction rate in the country, with more than 19,000 active users, according to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency. Misuse of and addiction to prescription opioids is also increasing at staggering rates across the country. “I have personally heard from families from all walks of life throughout my district who have been devastated by heroin and prescription drugs – no socio-economic level is safe,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “And while these bills will help, this trend will not change by simply authorizing new grant programs, studies and reports. Congress now needs to fund these tools.” “Growing up in Baltimore, I saw the destructive nature of opioid and heroin addiction, which destroys lives and tears apart families and communities,” said Congressman Cummings. “We can no longer afford to ignore this public health and safety crisis. While I fully support the package of opioid bills passed by the House of Representatives as a first step, it will take actual funding to attack this crisis—funding that these bills unfortunately do not provide. Last week I introduced legislation to give our partners on the frontlines the funding they need to fight this epidemic by supporting treatment and recovery, as well as programs to monitor and disrupt the flow of opioids into our communities.” “The opioid epidemic has touched nearly every community in Maryland and around the country,” said Congressman Sarbanes, who sponsored the Co-Prescribing to Reduce Overdoses Act. “Last week, the House of Representatives took an important step in addressing this crisis by expanding patient access to lifesaving treatment programs. But we have to do more. We must invest additional federal resources to find and expand treatment programs that work – programs like those offered by IBR right here in Baltimore.” “In Baltimore, we have been at the forefront of fighting this epidemic for decades and we commend our Congressional delegation on helping pass this legislation to support communities like Baltimore across the country,” said Baltimore City Health Commissioner Dr. Leana Wen. “While we have made significant strides around the disease of addiction—we cannot continue to make progress without also providing funding for quality, on-demand treatment. By continuing to work with our federal leaders to invest in treatment, we can truly address this public health emergency and save the lives of thousands of Baltimoreans." "I see every day in my clinic that effective addiction treatment saves lives,” said Dr. Yngvild Olsen, Medical Director, REACH Health Services. “But there are so many more people out there, not just in Baltimore, but all across Maryland and this country, who cannot access needed care. The legislation moving forward in Congress is a desperately needed step in the right direction." In all, the House of Representatives last week passed: H.R. 5046, Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act H.R. 4641, Establishing An Inter-Agency Task Force on Best Practices for Pain Management H.R. 4063, Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, H.R. 4985, Kingpin Designation Improvement Act H.R. 5048, Good Samaritan Assessment Act H.R. 5052, Opioid Program Evaluation (OPEN) Act H.R. 4843, Improving Safe Care for the Prevention of Infant Abuse and Neglect Act H.R. 4978, Nurturing and Supporting Healthy Babies Act H.R. 3680, Co-Prescribing to Reduce Overdoses Act H.R. 3691, Improving Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women Act H.R. 1818, Veteran Emergency Medical Technician Support Act H.R. 4969, John Thomas Decker Act H.R. 4586, Lali’s Law H.R. 4599, Reducing Unused Medications Act H.R. 4976, Opioid Review Modernization Act H.R. 4982, Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act H.R. 4981, Opioid Use Disorder Treatment Expansion and Modernization Act
05.12.2016	(Rockville, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) last night was honored as the 2016 “Advocate of the Year” by the Tech Council of Maryland, the state’s largest technology trade association with more than 400 biotechnology and technology members employing more than 200,000 people across the region. Ruppersberger accepted the award at an event that drew about 600 executives from the technology and life science communities. “Advocating for business owners in my district and throughout Maryland isn’t going above or beyond – it’s my job,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “The Tech Council represents the employers who are keeping Maryland on the cutting-edge. As someone who has made a payroll, I understand cash flow and I understand that, when businesses are able to grow and innovate, everyone wins.” Congressman Ruppersberger was selected for his work championing cybersecurity legislation that allows the government and private companies to work together to identify potential cyberattacks before they happen. As a member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Ruppersberger has also advocated for robust funding for medical research. “Congressman Ruppersberger understands the critical role Maryland’s technology community plays in bolstering our national security,” said Rene B. LaVigne, the Tech Council of Maryland’s Chairman-elect and President and CEO of Iron Bow Technologies. “He consistently reaches across the aisle to craft bipartisan cybersecurity legislation to make American citizens, businesses and infrastructure safer. Lastly, he shares our belief that creating a 21st century technology workforce requires investing today in science, technology, engineering and math education programs in Maryland. We thank Congressman Ruppersberger for his many years of leadership on technology and life sciences initiatives, and look forward to working with him on industry priorities in the future.”
04.27.2016	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger was represented today at the White House by local midshipman Dustin Shackleford as President Obama awarded the U.S. Naval Academy the Commander-in-Chief’s Trophy for their 2015 victory in the round-robin college football series among the U.S. service academies. Congressman Ruppersberger nominated Shackleford to the Naval Academy not once, but twice. Shackleford will graduate with the Class of 2017 at the Academy, where he is studying quantitative economics and is captain of the jiu jitsu team. He has made the commandant’s list every semester and was chosen to represent the Academy on a week-long exchange with the Brazilian Naval Academy. His ultimate goal is to be a Navy pilot. Shackleford, who was a county champion wrestler at Eastern Technical High School, recently emailed Congressman Ruppersberger and asked for an opportunity to meet him in person. “I was extremely humbled that I was nominated a second time when I applied to USNA after being rejected once and spending a year at Salisbury University,” Shackleford wrote. “I work hard not only for my own success, but as a thank you to people like you and my family who believe in me and helped me get to where I am today.” “Nominating candidates like Dustin for an appointment to our nation’s service academies is one of the greatest privileges of my job,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We don’t often get updates from our nominees after the process is over, so I was pleased to hear Dustin is doing so well and I was touched by his gratitude. We both share a passion for our country and Navy Football so he was the natural choice as my stand-in for today’s ceremony at the White House while I was voting.” The Commander-in-Chief's Trophy is awarded to each season's winner of the round-robin college football series among the teams of the U.S. Military Academy, the Naval Academy, and U.S. Air Force Academy.
04.19.2016	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today applauded the Pentagon’s decision to send more air support and 217 new troops into Iraq to serve in advisory and training roles in the fight against ISIS. The move will enable American forces to advise at the battalion and brigade level – closer to the front lines – to better support the Iraqi offensive to retake the city of Mosul from ISIS. Congressman Ruppersberger, an Appropriator who serves on the House defense subcommittee, traveled to Iraq last month to meet with American troops and commanders on the frontlines to evaluate current resources and strategy. The group also met with U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, Stuart Jones, and Iraqi military leaders, including a tribal leader whose people are under attack from ISIS. “I was in Iraq to hear directly from U.S. and Iraqi military leaders about the fight against ISIS – to find out what’s working and what’s not,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “My primary takeaway from the trip was that Iraq needs more resources, including manpower and helicopters. Our Special Ops are helping Iraqi forces, but they both need more support to defeat our common enemy. We must stop ISIS on their home turf so that they will not be able to attack the United States or our allies first.”
04.13.2016	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today welcomed an all-girls team from Edgewood to Washington, DC, as they prepared to showcase their solar-powered vehicle at the 6th White House Science Fair. The fair celebrates the student winners of a broad range of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) competitions from across the United States. The middle school students – Kylah Cain-Ward, Destani Cularri, Adriana Pusey and Jordan West – belong to the Windsor Valley Boys and Girls Club in Harford County, which is in Congressman Ruppersberger’s district. Their vehicle took first place in the Maryland Army Education Outreach Program’s state-wide Junior Solar Sprint competition, which led them to a National Competition in Dallas, Texas, last year. The contest required them to test various designs, collect data and conduct time trials before finally pitting their vehicle against others from around the state and country. Congressman Ruppersberger personally congratulated the team in his Capitol Hill office this morning in advance of the White House Science Fair, where their vehicle is on display today. Congressman Ruppersberger has championed STEM education and fought for funding to support the Boys and Girls Clubs located in the Second District. “I am so proud to see young STEM students – especially an all-girls team – from my district receive national recognition for their ingenuity and intellect,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Their prize-winning vehicle isn’t just solar-powered, it’s girl-powered. Theirs are the innovative minds our country needs if we want to keep pace with our global competitors and protect both our national and economic security.”
04.04.2016	(Baghdad, Iraq) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, an appropriator who serves on the House defense subcommittee, last week traveled to Iraq to meet with American troops and commanders on the frontlines to evaluate current resources and strategy. While there, Congressman Ruppersberger had the honor of meeting Marylanders stationed in Baghdad and Anbar who are working to train, advise and assist their Iraqi counterparts. Iraq was the last stop on a congressional delegation trip through the Middle East last week. The group also met with Iraqi military leaders and U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Stuart Jones. “I was in Iraq to hear directly from U.S. and Iraqi military leaders about the fight against ISIS – to find out what’s working and what’s not,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “As always, I was deeply humbled and proud to meet with Maryland servicemen and women on the frontlines, putting their lives on the line to protect our nation and take out ISIS safe havens in Iraq and Syria.” The delegation trip also included stops in Israel, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Bahrain. In Israel, Ruppersberger met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and visited serval military sites to get an update on joint missile defense efforts. In the UAE, Ruppersberger met U.S. military leaders as well as a member of the UAE Ministry of Defense and toured Emirati missile defense sites to review efforts to strengthen cooperation among Arab Gulf states. In Bahrain, Ruppersberger, met with U.S. Navy leadership and servicemembers – including Marylanders – to discuss regional threats that impact stability in the Middle East and at home. During the visit, Ruppersberger met sailors aboard the U.S.S. Harry S. Truman, an aircraft carrier deployed in the Persian Gulf.
03.30.2016	(Jerusalem, Israel) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, an appropriator who serves on the House defense subcommittee, met this week with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Israel and visited several military sites to get an update on the country’s missile defense systems and joint missile defense efforts with the United States. Israel was the first stop on a congressional delegation trip through the Middle East this week. The group also met with U.S. Ambassador to Israel Daniel Shapiro and members of the Israeli Defense Forces. “As our closest ally in the Middle East, it is important to keep open lines of communication and see our joint efforts first-hand,” Ruppersberger said. “This was a great opportunity to meet with Prime Minister Netanyahu and reaffirm the friendship and strategic bond our countries share. There has never been a day where I doubted the need to protect Israel, the incredible value Israel poses as an ally in the Middle East, or the need to work together with Israel to combat common threats, such as Iran, ISIS and cyber attacks.” Ruppersberger has long supported U.S.-Israel collaborative missile defense programs to help ensure that Israel has the cutting-edge technology it needs to defend itself and counter a wide range of threats, like rocket attacks fired on civilian communities and ballistic missiles. These programs include Iron Dome, David’s Sling and Arrow. From top to bottom: Ruppersberger with Prime Minister Netanyahu in Jerusalem and Ruppersberger and the congressional delegation visiting an Iron Dome battery in Ashkelon.
03.21.2016	(Washington, DC) – Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Don Young (R-AK) last week introduced bipartisan legislation that will help local and state governments build coastal resiliency along the nation’s 95,000 miles of shoreline. The “Digital Coast Act” will provide coastal communities with updated mapping data that can be used to prepare for storms, manage floods, restore ecosystems and plan smarter developments near America’s coasts, harbors, ports and shorelines. Geospatial mapping information can be complicated, very expensive to collect and difficult to use without in-house expertise. “America’s fragile shorelines are home to more than half of our country’s population and millions of businesses that supply most of our gross domestic product,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Yet current coastal maps and geospatial data are woefully inaccurate, outdated or even nonexistent. The Digital Coast Act will give local planners and managers the high-tech data they need to make accurate decisions and smart investments that could save people and property.” “No other state in the nation understands the need for coastal resilience and mapping more than Alaska, “ said Congressman Don Young. “With more than 44,000 miles of coastline, much of which is not fully mapped, Alaska’s coastal communities rely heavily on our waterways and shipping channels to support all forms of social and economic prosperity: goods from the lower 48, critical transportation needs, search and rescue operations, and the state’s largest private sector employer – our fishing industry. The Digital Coast Act is an important step towards developing a system that supports our coastal communities with up-to-date and reliable information on our coastlines and weather conditions.” The bill, H.R. 4738, creates the “Digital Coast” program at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), allowing it to begin a comprehensive mapping process and make the data available on its website for free and easy public access. NOAA will also train decision-makers at the local and state level on how to use the datasets to answer questions like, “What is the storm surge threat in this area?” or “How much will this bluff erode over the next decade?” or “What are water level trends at the marina where a dock is being built?” This is the fourth time Congressmen Ruppersberger and Young have introduced the Digital Coast Act since 2010. Congressman Ruppersberger’s district includes hundreds of miles of coastline including 200 in Baltimore County alone.
03.16.2016	(Washington, DC) – Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced support for bipartisan legislation to provide tax incentives for sports and fitness expenses after receiving a visit from Baltimore Raven Brandon Williams. Williams was on Capitol Hill on National Health Through Fitness Day to promote a bill that would give Americans the option to use a pre-tax medical savings account to pay for physical activity expenses. The bill, H.R. 1218, the Personal Health Investment Today, makes it easier for Americans to be physically active by allowing individuals or families to pay for gym memberships, fitness equipment, exercise videos and youth sports league fees with dollars from pre-tax accounts, like flexible spending accounts (FSAs) and health savings accounts (HSAs). “More and more Americans are using these pre-tax accounts to pay for prescriptions and doctor visits. This bill would let them do the same to cover things like gym memberships and kids’ rec leagues,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I can think of few goals more important than getting kids off their screens and onto some green. I commend Brandon Williams on his leadership and for bringing attention to this bipartisan effort.” Williams was joined by representatives of the Sports & Fitness Industry Association, sports business executives, medical professionals, physical education professionals and other physical activity advocates. By giving Americans a financial incentive to live more actively, we can lower healthcare costs for everyone, they said. The U.S. spends more than $1 trillion a year on healthcare for inactive Americans – nearly 27 percent more than for the active population, according to a 2015 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention study. And 8 of the 9 most expensive medical conditions in America are more common in people living sedentary lifestyles.
03.11.2016	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on the Pentagon’s request to appropriate nearly $30 million to reinstate the JLENS operations exercise at Aberdeen Proving Ground in his district: “I have had conversations with all stakeholders such as the local business community, military leaders and my constituents. This includes the Secretary of Defense and the Commander of the U.S. Northern Command. While I support the goal of detecting low-flying, under-the-radar attacks from cruise missiles in the Capital region, I will not be supporting the reprogramming request. The JLENS failure - caused by human error, procedural issues and design flaws - jeopardized the safety of my constituents. I can’t, in good conscience, support its continuation in such a highly-populated area.”
03.11.2016	(Timonium, MD) –Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will present a Congressional citation to the family of Colonel Fred Vann Cherry, an Air Force fighter pilot who spent seven years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam. Colonel Cherry, who passed away last month while living in Maryland, was the first and highest-ranking black officer to become a prisoner in Vietnam. Colonel Cherry suffered significant injuries while ejecting when his bomber was hit by enemy fire in October 1965. He spent a total of 702 days in solitary confinement and was tortured. His incredible story of survival was featured in a documentary narrated by Hollywood legend Tom Hanks. “Most Vietnam veterans did not receive a proper welcome home, so it is my honor to help Colonel Cherry receive the proper send-off after a life well-lived,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “His service and tremendous sacrifice – and that of his family – deserves all of our gratitude and respect.” Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Family of Colonel Fred Vann Cherry When: Monday, March 14, 2016 10:30 AM Where: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger’s District Office 375 West Padonia Road Suite 200 Timonium, MD 21093
03.07.2016	(Timonium, MD) – As Baltimore’s local Veterans Affairs office continues to make substantial improvements in its claims backlog, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced support for new federal funding to help end it once and for all. A member of the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Ruppersberger submitted a letter to his colleagues on the subcommittee of jurisdiction in support of a $46.2 million increase for fiscal year 2017, which will pay for 242 new employees to help adjudicate and process appeals across the country. He also fully supports the President’s $19.1 million request to continue modernizing the VA’s decades-old appeals-processing technology. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs says it has reduced the claims backlog at the Baltimore Regional Office – once among the worst in the country – by 95 percent. A backlog of nearly 16,960 claims in December 2012 now stands at 655, the office reports. Total inventory has been reduced 90 percent, from 20,200 cases to 2,000. An average wait time of 459 days has been reduced to 111.6 days. “As one of the first to call out the VA backlog in Baltimore as unacceptable and inexcusable, I want to be the first to congratulate the VA on its extraordinary improvement,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We still have a lot of work to do on behalf of our nation’s heroes, which is why I am strongly supporting the President’s request for additional federal funds to help eliminate the backlog once and for all and to bring VA technology into this century.” One of Congressman Ruppersberger’s top priorities is helping American veterans access the benefits they deserve. He assisted more than 160 local veterans caught in government red tape last year alone.
03.02.2016	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement in response to media reports that the U.S. Cyber Command has joined the fight against the Islamic State: “It’s about time we unleash the full cyber capabilities of our US military on ISIS. I could not be more proud of the work being done at Fort Meade – in my district – to help bring them down. As we all know, ISIS continues to terrorize innocent civilians around the world. They are a unique threat because they are not only barbaric, but very well-organized and well-funded. We must use every resource available to take them out once and for all. Those resources include bombs and missiles but also state-of-the-art cyber weapons that can cripple ISIS’ communications infrastructure without the risk of collateral damage. As the Secretary of Defense recently acknowledged, the Cyber Command was established at Fort Meade six years ago for this very purpose. Cyberspace is the new battle frontier. ISIS itself employs hackers who have even commandeered the social media accounts of the U.S. Central Command. I proudly endorse these efforts and all efforts to strengthen the skills of our cyber warriors.”
03.01.2016	(Washington, DC) – Members of Maryland’s House Delegation met today with U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Colonel Edward P. Chamberlayne, Commander and District Engineer of the Baltimore District office, for an update on the Corps’ current activities and projects in Maryland. Colonel Chamberlayne also discussed the Corps’ budget priorities for Fiscal Year 2017 which includes the Baltimore Harbor and channel dredging, Poplar Island, and Chesapeake Bay comprehensive plan. In addition to Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger, Delegation Members participating in today’s meeting were Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Chris Van Hollen, John Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, Andy Harris, and John Delaney. “The Army Corps of Engineers’ work – including dredging the Port of Baltimore and Chesapeake Bay shipping channels—supports hundreds of thousands of jobs throughout the region,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “In my district, the Army Corps is also responsible for building new facilities at our military installations and restoring parts of the Bay watershed. Helping to keep these investments fully funded has been and will continue to be a top priority of mine.” “I was pleased to meet with the Army Corps of Engineers today on key projects in our state, including St. Patrick's Creek in St. Mary's County, and to discuss the Corps’ funding concerns,” stated Congressman Hoyer. “The Corps of Engineers does critical work that is important to protecting our nation and state’s water resources, and I am especially proud of the work they are doing to protect and restore portions of the Chesapeake Bay watershed. I thank the Army Corps of Engineers for joining us today and look forward to continuing to work together with them and our delegation.” “The Army Corps of Engineers’ work is essential to our effort to restore the Chesapeake Bay, while regular dredging of the shipping channels is critical to keeping the Port of Baltimore open for business,” said Congressman Elijah E Cummings. “I will continue working with the entire delegation to ensure that we provide the highest possible funding levels for the Corps and for the many projects that are vital to the success of Maryland.” “We must continue to support critical Army Corps projects to keep the Port of Baltimore competitive and protect the Chesapeake Bay and its oyster population,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “I thank Colonel Chamberlayne for his leadership and look forward to working together to accomplish our shared priorities for Maryland.” “The Army Corps plays a huge part in maintaining the viability of the Port of Baltimore and ensuring that the Chesapeake Bay remains a vibrant environmental resource,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “Both the Port and the Bay are significant economic drivers for our state and I look forward to working with the Corps to keep these efforts on track.” “It was helpful to meet with Col. Edward P. Chamberlayne, the Commander and District Engineer of the Baltimore District Army Corps of Engineers, and his staff to hear more about the priorities for military construction and public works projects across the state of Maryland,” said Congresswoman Edwards. “From restoration of Poplar Island to the Chesapeake Bay’s oyster population, and Anacostia River Restoration, the Army Corps of Engineers does vital work to solve 21st Century problems while ensuring the success of our environment, economy, and public health in Maryland.” “It’s great to see the Army Corps work with us to improve the livelihood of the First District and all of Maryland, including moving forward with crucial dredging and beach replenishment projects in Ocean City. I look forward to continuing to work with them to ensure that important projects throughout the First District are funded,” said Congressman Harris. “Our water infrastructure is crucial both to the health of our environment and the Chesapeake Bay, but also to the health of our citizens,” said Congressman Delaney. “Improving the health of our waters and investing in infrastructure is a win-win creating jobs, and providing good quality of life and economic opportunity for Maryland residents. I thank the Army Corps of Engineers for briefing our federal delegation on their plans for water restoration and infrastructure improvements in Maryland. I will continue to push to make rebuilding America’s infrastructure and protecting the Bay a priority in Congress.”
03.01.2016	(Washington, DC) – Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) and Randy Hultgren (IL-14) today announced the creation of the bipartisan House Municipal Finance Caucus to fight for state and local governments’ ability to independently finance projects that keep their communities strong. Last year, Congressmen Ruppersberger and Hultgren sent a bipartisan letter to House leadership in support of municipal finance. Joined by 122 of their colleagues (63 Democrats, 61 Republicans in total), the letter asked leadership to reject any proposal to cap or eliminate the deduction on tax-exempt municipal bonds used to finance the vast majority of infrastructure projects in America’s communities. They led a similar letter in the 113th Congress. “Now is the time to be investing in infrastructure and the jobs it creates – not limit it,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “Municipal bonds are the single most important tool in the country for financing new roads, schools, hospitals and more. I am excited to be a founding member of this bipartisan caucus to fight efforts to reduce and even eliminate the tax incentives associated with this common sense, job-creating tool.” Studies suggest that three-fourths of infrastructure projects across the country are financed by tax-exempt municipal bonds, supporting hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs. As Baltimore County Executive, Congressman Ruppersberger oversaw capital projects ranging from the restoration of a library after a fire to the expansion of several parks. These and dozens of other projects were paid for with the help of these bonds. “The survival and reinforcement of municipal finance is important to my district in Illinois, and to communities throughout the country,” Congressman Hultgren said. “Local infrastructure and improvement projects help the creation of local, good-paying jobs for construction workers, engineers, pipe fitters, welders and more. At its heart, a municipal bond preserves federalism by allowing local communities to raise their own funds and carry out their own improvements without the help or intrusion of the federal government.” “Over the last 20 years I have had the privilege of serving at the local, state and federal level, and saw first-hand how important preserving the strength of municipal finance options can be. This bipartisan caucus will ensure these issues get the attention they deserve in Congress.” The Municipal Finance Caucus will serve as a forum to discuss the opportunities and challenges for states and local governments to independently fund initiatives that will strengthen their communities, and to advocate for bipartisan policies that enhance their access to the capital markets. Key issues that merit strong consideration include: protecting the tax exempt status of municipal debt, understanding how financial regulations treat such debt, and ensuring there is a robust market for municipal securities.
02.23.2016	(Washington, DC) -- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, as well as U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, Andy Harris and John Delaney today in a letter to President Obama expressed their strong support for Governor Larry Hogan’s request for a federal Disaster Declaration for Maryland being impacted by severe winter weather. “We are writing to express our shared support for Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the declaration of a major disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of a severe winter snowstorm which impacted our State beginning January 22, 2016. Given the massive impact that this storm had on the State’s resources, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve the provision of supplementary Federal assistance,” wrote members of the Delegation. The Disaster Declaration would make federal funding available to the State and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe winter storms and snowstorms in all Maryland counties and the City of Baltimore. As a result of the snowstorms, Maryland was in a state of emergency from January 22, 2016, until January 29, 2016, and the Maryland National Guard was called into service. The storm caused an estimated $34 million in damage across Maryland. The text of the delegation's letter of support is as follows: February 23, 2016 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our shared support for Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the declaration of a major disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of a severe winter snowstorm which impacted our State beginning January 22, 2016. Given the massive impact that this storm had on the State’s resources, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve the provision of supplementary Federal assistance. Maryland suffered significant blizzard conditions throughout the storm, overwhelming the State’s capabilities to deal with its aftermath. Governor Hogan took appropriate action under Maryland law, declaring a State of Emergency for all Maryland counties and the City of Baltimore, calling the National Guard into State Service, and opening the State Emergency Operations Center for the duration of the event. Our State experienced record snowfalls, wind gusts as high as 55 MPH creating blizzard conditions, and coastal and tidal flooding. The Maryland Emergency Management Agency (MEMA), along with local jurisdictions and FEMA, conducted an extensive impact assessment February 2 – February 17. They collectively found that the event was of such severity and magnitude that effective response and recovery is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments, and requires supplementary Federal assistance. Maryland has made extensive efforts to respond to this emergency. Governor Hogan, working with FEMA, has estimated the total cost to exceed $34 million. An expedited declaration of a disaster is necessary to help provide the resources needed by our State. We appreciate your consideration of Maryland’s request. Sincerely,
02.11.2016	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on the death of two Harford County Sheriff’s Deputies in the line of duty yesterday: “I was devastated to learn of the deaths of Harford County Sheriff’s Deputies Patrick Dailey and Mark Logsdon, who were killed yesterday while serving the constituents of the Second District of Maryland. These two men – who were 30-year and 16-year veterans of the force – were heroes in every sense of the word. My heart goes out to their families and the entire Harford County law enforcement family. Police officers and sheriff’s deputies are in harm’s way every hour, every second, of their shifts. Both of these deputies have been honored for their bravery on the job in the past and, yesterday, made the ultimate sacrifice for their communities. Abingdon is a close-knit community that I am proud to represent in Congress. I join all of its citizens in their grief and pray that all affected receive healing and comfort.”
02.09.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today applauded the White House for proposing a “Cybersecurity National Action Plan” that includes a 35 percent budget increase and a new high-level official focused solely on implementing a cyber strategy across the entire federal government. As former Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, Congressman Ruppersberger has long advocated for a cabinet-level cyber position with budget authority because the threat is so severe. “The President has proposed a solid framework,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “For too long, each individual federal agency has been building and operating its own cyber defense piece-meal, with varying degrees of capabilities and resources. We are all fighting the same adversaries and are stronger when we work together. I urge the President to give this new official real authority to drive change across the federal government and for Congress to fund these priorities.” Congressman Ruppersberger also called on his colleagues to continue working on issues still unaddressed by the President’s proposal, such as the “insider threat” posed by people within the government. This is especially critical in the wake of a data breech affecting more than 22 million current, former and prospective federal employees last June. The cyber plan is part of President Obama’s 2017 budget proposal, which requests a $19 billion increase in cybersecurity funding across all government agencies, including $3.1 billion to modernize outdated computer equipment that can expose the government to cyber attacks. Money is also allocated for improving cybersecurity education and hiring more experts to secure federal agencies. Congressman Ruppersberger has championed a national strategy since his first days on the House Intelligence Committee in 2003. Since, increasingly-adept cyber hackers have continued to cost American companies billions of dollars in intellectual property theft every year. Terrorists, organized criminals and even state actors such as Iran and North Korea are honing their cyber skills, which could put our critical infrastructure at risk.
12.18.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today voted in favor of the bipartisan $1 trillion Consolidated Appropriations Act for 2016, which included a cybersecurity information-sharing provision that he has championed for more than a decade. As an author of information-sharing legislation since 2011, Congressman Ruppersberger said the vote moves us one step closer to stopping increasingly-aggressive cyber attacks before they happen. “I am relieved that Congress has finally taken a proactive step against the hackers, terrorists, organized criminals and even state actors who are getting better every day at stealing our information,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Our nation’s cyber warriors will now be able to tell Target, Home Depot, Sony and other companies when a cyber attack may be coming down the pike. We will also be in a much better position to protect critical infrastructure including our electric grids, phone lines and banking system.” Congressman Ruppersberger and former House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers wrote the first cybersecurity bill that saw success in Congress. Their bill, the “Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act,” or CISPA, twice passed the House with large bipartisan majorities but stalled in the Senate last year. Like the omnibus provision that passed Thursday, CISPA created a voluntary system of sharing information on potential cyber threats between the public and private sectors. Congressman Ruppersberger was also responsible for securing $10 million for a new Department of Defense clinical research program designed to advance the treatment of trauma injuries both on and off the battlefield. The omnibus, which funds the government for 2016 and avoids a government shutdown, implements the Bipartisan Budget Agreement adopted by Congress in October. It makes strong investments in Congressman Ruppersberger’s top priority areas including education, infrastructure, medical research and law enforcement.
12.17.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today voted in favor of a tax extenders bill that includes $650 billion in tax relief for businesses and individuals, including $560 billion in permanent tax relief. The bill passed in a 318-109 vote, with 77 Democrats supporting the measure. “While not perfect, this bill is a balanced package that provides much-needed relief to both businesses and families,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “By making many tax breaks permanent, we are creating more jobs and more certainty when our economy can use it most.” “I’d prefer to see the bill fully offset and to address tax reform comprehensively, but now is not the time to let key tax breaks that are helping families make ends meet – such as the Earned Income Tax Credit, the child tax credit and the American Opportunity Tax Credit — expire. These three credits alone are helping 24 million working families.” As the author of legislation to increase the $1,000 child care tax credit and make it permanent since 2007, Congressman Ruppersberger was particularly pleased to see similar provisions in the legislation that passed Thursday. Child care is the second biggest expense working American families pay after mortgage or rent. Other highlights of the package include: • The Research and Development Tax Credit will be made permanent. • The Earned Income Tax Credit for low and moderate income workers will be enhanced and made permanent. • The American Opportunity Tax Credit of $1,800 for various tuition and related expenses for the first two years of post-secondary education will be enhanced and made permanent. • The deduction for certain expenses of elementary and secondary school teachers will be extended. • Tax-free distributions from individual retirement plans for charitable purposes will be extended. • The 20- percent employer wage credit for employees called to active military duty will be made permanent. • The above-the-line deduction for qualified tuition and related expenses for higher education will be extended through 2016. • The credit for purchases of new qualified fuel cell motor vehicles will be extended through 2016. • The maximum monthly exclusion amount for transit passes and van pool benefits will be permanently extended so that they match the exclusion for qualified parking benefits.
12.16.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced his support of legislation banning the sale, transfer, production and importation of assault weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines. The Assault Weapons Ban of 2015 was introduced today following horrific mass shootings and terrorist attacks in San Bernardino, Colorado Springs, Sandy Hook, Newtown, Aurora and elsewhere across the country, all of which involved military-style firearms. When assault weapons or high-capacity magazines have been used in a shooting, the number of casualties has increased 63 percent. “I strongly believe in the Second Amendment, but we also have a Constitutional responsibility to protect American citizens from harm,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Assault weapons and high-capacity magazines are the weapon of choice for mass shooters because their sole purpose is to inflict as much damage as possible as quickly as possible. A ban may not stop these attacks, but it will help drastically reduce the bloodshed. This will be even more important as we continue to fight domestic terrorism and radicalization such as the ISIS-related attack we saw in San Bernardino.” Specifically, the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015 will prohibit the sale, transfer, production, and importation of: • Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a military-style feature that can accept a detachable magazine; • Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a fixed magazine that can hold more than 10 rounds; • Semi-automatic shotguns with a military-style feature; • Any ammunition feeding device that can hold more than 10 rounds; • And 157 specifically-named and listed firearms. The bill also sets new standards to prevent “default proceeds” – the standard that allows firearms dealers to complete a sale if a buyer’s background check is not completed within three days.
11.18.2015	(Timonium, MD) – Are you a tech-savvy high school student who dreams of being the next Mark Zuckerberg? Have an idea for the next Candy Crush or Instagram? Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger is inviting area high school students to compete in his second annual Congressional “App” Challenge. The academic competition, which is open to all high school students who reside in Maryland’s Second Congressional District, requires students to create an original software application for mobile, tablet or other computer device on a platform of their choice. The challenge is part of a national effort established by the U.S. House of Representatives to promote science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) innovation. Winners will be selected by a panel of local judges and their apps will be featured on display in the U.S. Capitol building with other winning entries from around the country. “Experts believe the U.S. may be short as many as 3 million high-skilled workers by 2018 – so a smart student knows that many of the jobs of the future are in the STEM fields,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “If we want to maintain our country’s competitive edge, we have to invest in our youth today and help them hone these necessary skills. This contest is a great way to do that.” The deadline for submissions is January 23. More details on submitting a contest entry, the rules of the competition, and helpful programming resources for both students and teachers can be found on Congressman Ruppersberger’s website, www.dutch.house.gov.
10.28.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – “I am pleased that the United States Air Force has made a decision on the contract award for the new Long Range Strike Bomber (LRS-B). This program will help to ensure that the United States maintains its air superiority in future conflicts and will allow the air force to operate successfully wherever it is needed, across the globe. Northrop Grumman, the winner of the LRS-B contract, has over 10,000 employees in the state of Maryland. I am confident that the continued development of the LRS-B will benefit Maryland, and the United States. The bomber fleet of the United States has never been older. While these aircraft are still very capable, continued investments in modernization and new platforms are needed to ensure that the United States maintains its qualitative military edge over present day threats and those of the future. The LRS-B is an important part of that strategy.
09.18.2015	(Washington, D.C.) –Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger will meet with front line employees, participate in a taste test of new ice cream flavors and tour the manufacturing plant of the Nestlé Facility in Laurel on Monday, September 21st from 3-4:30 p.m. The facility is located at 9090 Whiskey Bottom Road, Laurel, MD, 20723. The Laurel Nestlé facility is responsible for manufacturing Dreyer’s ice cream. 740 employees work at the Dreyer’s facility and another 290 employees work at an adjacent distribution center in Laurel. enjoy providing Good Food, Good Life throughout the United States to Nestlé’s many customers. The Laurel, MD ice cream facility has met the “ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry” and received recognition for achieving an 11.3 percent reduction in energy intensity. Internationally, the Dreyer's brand extends to select markets in the Far East and the Edy's brand extends to the Caribbean and South America. Dating back to William Dreyer in 1906, Dreyer’s Grand Ice Cream Holdings maintains headquarters in Oakland, Calif, and operates the local facility in Laurel, Md. ###
09.11.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - “When the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) was sent to Congress, I committed that I would make my decision on whether or not to support the deal based on what was best for the security of the United States, for Israel, and for our allies. My support of Israel has been, and always will be, unwavering. From my first trip to Israel as a young county councilman, to my time as the Ranking Member of the Intelligence Committee, there has never been a day where I doubted the need to protect Israel, the incredible value Israel poses as an ally in the Middle East, or the need to work together with Israel to combat common threats, such as Iran. I have spent the last 12 years working on issues of intelligence and national security in a bipartisan manner. I have always put our country first, and I am confident the JCPOA does as well. The fact of the matter is that Iran is only two to three months away from having enough fissile material to build a nuclear weapon. The JCPOA stops this progress dead in its tracks, and cripples the ability of the Iranians to build a nuclear weapon for at least 10 years. The JCPOA is not perfect, but with this deal we take the greatest weapons away from one of our greatest adversaries, and I strongly support its approval. First, I want to stress the fact that spending time pushing Iran back to the negotiating table is not only unfeasible, but also endangers the U.S. and Israel given how close Iran is to a functional nuclear weapon. Some believe that keeping U.S. sanctions in place will force Iran back to the table. In reality, it was international sanctions that brought Iran to its knees. The United Kingdom has reopened its embassy in Tehran, Russia is preparing to sell Iran advanced air defense systems, Germany plans to increase its trade with Iran by four times its current amount, and a delegation of French companies will visit Iran this month. The U.S. no longer has the support of our allies to keep international sanctions in place, and we cannot allow Iran to remain a nuclear threshold state. The JCPOA drastically increases the amount of time it would take Iran to create a bomb. Without the JCPOA, time is not on our side. Second, some have raised concerns that this deal indicates that we now trust Iran. Nothing could be further from the truth. This deal codifies our mistrust of Iran and allows us to hold them accountable for their actions. The JCPOA creates an inspections and verification system allowing the IAEA access to ensure Iran’s compliance. While there was concern that some inspections could be delayed up to 24 days, U.S. Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz has said that inspectors have the capability to detect nuclear activity even after six months or more. Additionally, my time on the Intelligence Committee has made me very aware of the difficulties of gathering intelligence from inside of Iran. The enhanced access the JCPOA provides will create opportunities to fill gaps in our intelligence that have persisted for years. Third, sanctions relief provided to Iran is limited and reversible. While the initial amount of sanctions relief was reported as $150 Billion, the U.S. Treasury Department says that number is closer to $50 Billion. While Iran could use these funds to bolster its support of terrorism, there are domestic priorities the Iranian people have demanded their government act upon, such as infrastructure improvements and a more secure banking sector. If the Iranian government chooses not to listen to its people, it risks outrage and potential public revolt by some of its citizens. Additionally, if Iran violates the JCPOA, the U.S. can re-impose sanctions using a procedure known as “snapback,” even if other countries object. The only sanctions being lifted are those related to Iran’s nuclear program and ballistic missile development. Sanctions imposed due to Iran’s continued sponsorship of terrorism will not be lifted. Finally, the JCPOA removes Iran’s most dangerous and likely path to a nuclear weapon. While many have discussed what Iran is being required to dismantle in terms of uranium enrichment, the major achievement of this deal is the total dismantlement of Iran’s path to build a bomb through the plutonium reactor at Arak. This facility was estimated to be capable of producing enough fissile material for two bombs a year once it was operational. Plutonium enrichment is easier, cheaper to produce in bulk, and creates a fissile material with two times the explosive yield of uranium. In fact 95% of the world’s nuclear weapons use plutonium as fuel. The JCPOA requires the Arak reactor to be rebuilt in a way that makes it incapable of creating weapons grade plutonium. As I said before, the JCPOA is not perfect. Therefore, in addition to the JCPOA, I have asked President Obama to aggressively pursue several policies as part of a comprehensive approach to help secure Israel and the Middle East. This approach needs to ensure Iran does not develop a nuclear weapon and needs to create a unified coalition to thwart Iran’s terrorism and destabilizing efforts. The approach needs to include: A robust military posture to make it clear that force is an option. Expanded intelligence capabilities and cooperation. An increase in Foreign Military Financing sales to Israel. In addition to continuing to support Iron Dome, the U.S. should assume more of the cost of Israel’s next generation missile defense systems, Arrow-II and Arrow-III. Fostering cooperation between Israel and our Sunni allies to fight shared enemies such as ISIS and Iranian supported terrorist groups. Support for a United Nations resolution banning arms sales to Hamas, Hezbollah, the Houthi rebels, and North Korea. While the debate over the JCPOA has been vigorous, I firmly believe that our commonalities on this issue are greater than our differences, and neither side has lost sight of the need to increase the national security of both the United States and Israel, especially against Iran, ISIS, and other enemies. Regardless of the outcome of this debate, I look forward to working with my colleagues in both the House and Senate to ensure that the national security of the United States and Israel is enhanced, and that Iran’s destabilizing influence throughout the word is curtailed.” ###
08.25.2015	BALTIMORE – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger together with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings and John P. Sarbanes (all D-Md.), today announced the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded $3,365,733 million in Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration grant program funding and $325,000 in Healthy Homes supplemental funding to the City of Baltimore. With this grant, the City will be able to address lead hazards in 230 housing units for low- and very low-income families, and perform healthy homes assessments in 330 units. “These lead abatement funds are critical to ensuring our children are growing up in healthy households with every opportunity to thrive and succeed in school and in life,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. Baltimore City has nearly three times the national rate of lead poisoning, which disproportionately affects African-American children living in old, distressed housing. To combat lead poisoning, this funding will help the City of Baltimore collaborate with a diverse set of local partners, including the Baltimore City Health Department and the Green and Healthy Homes Initiative to identify and cut down on lead paint in low- and very low-income homes. Baltimore is one of 14 cities receiving a Lead Hazard Reduction grant to address lead hazards in 3,165 housing units across the country. Senator Mikulski has long been an advocate for eliminating lead hazards. In 2003, she created a new lead paint demonstration program focused on abatement in the nation’s most affected cities. She has also consistently fought to increase funding for HUD’s Lead Hazard Reduction program. Lead poisoning is the number one environmental hazard threatening children throughout the United States. It can reduce IQ, cause learning disabilities, and impair hearing. Elevated and high exposures to lead can damage children’s kidneys and central nervous system, and can cause anemia, confusion, and even death. It is estimated that anti-social behaviors and increased special education needs caused by lead poisoning costs the general public millions of dollars each year due to lost wages and burden on taxpayers. “Children are disproportionately at risk for lead poisoning in major urban areas. Children from poor families are at the greatest risk – they are eight times more likely to get lead poisoning than other children,” said Senator Mikulski, Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “That’s why I fought to create the lead paint demonstration program and stand up each year to increase funding to remove lead-based paint from homes in Maryland and across the country. Baltimore families need a government on their side. This funding is an important step in protecting children from lead exposure and make a real difference for Baltimore’s families.” “Responsible public officials have a duty to protect the most vulnerable among us, especially children. Lead paint poisoning continues to be a public health issue that negatively impacts the lives of too many people in Baltimore City,” said Senator Cardin, a senior member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. “We know the long-term impacts of lead poisoning can be costly and even deadly. This federal investment in lead paint remediation will help saves lives in Baltimore City. Every American deserves access to safe and secure housing and this grant bring us one step closer to that goal.” “Lead poisoning is one of the most preventable environmental diseases, and still, many of our children have been affected,” Congressman Cummings said. “I commend HUD for awarding this grant to Baltimore to provide the city with the resources needed to keep our children safe and healthy.” “Too many children in Baltimore are exposed to and suffer from the toxic effects of lead poisoning,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “This important grant funding from HUD will help mitigate lead exposures in hundreds of low-income housing units throughout the city.” ###
08.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, and U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards and John Delaney (all D-Md.) today announced that $2.5 million in federal funding has been awarded to the Washington/Baltimore region together with regional partners to combat heroin and fentanyl drug trafficking through the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program. The Washington/Baltimore HIDTA will also receive nearly $250,000 to support drug trafficking prosecution of those supplying heroin and fentanyl to Baltimore. In addition to the Baltimore/Washington HIDTA, regional programs in Appalachia, New England, Philadelphia/Camden, and New York/New Jersey will share in the $2.5 million in federal funding for the Heroin Response Strategy in an unprecedented partnership to address the severe heroin threat facing those communities. “We have all heard the dire calls from heroin users and their families for expanded treatment options, additional training of law enforcement on the use of naxolene and the need for increased communication about bad batches of heroin plaguing our streets,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Funding for the Heroin Response Strategy will enable us to effectively address trends in heroin use and get more help to more people suffering from the disease of addiction.” “The crisis of increased heroin use in Maryland and across America is destroying families and ravaging communities. It cuts across class, race and age,” Senator Mikulski said. “I’m fighting to address the heroin problem head on. These funds in the federal checkbook will help us to crack down on dealers while working to break the cycle of addiction for drug users.” “Every part of Maryland is working to confront the rise in heroin trafficking and opiate-related medical emergencies, and this federal funding can provide critical support in their efforts to stop the suffering that inevitably accompanies the spread of this scourge,” said Senator Cardin. “This funding also will boost the capacity for regional cooperation among law enforcement officials and agencies, a welcome counter-measure to a complex and persistent threat to our communities.” “I'm pleased that our region will be receiving this funding through HIDTA to help communities deal with the challenge of heroin trafficking in our state. We need to muster all available resources at the federal, state, and local levels to address this growing epidemic in our state, especially in the Fifth District where we have seen a dramatic increase in the use of heroin as well as deaths related to overdose,” Congressman Hoyer said. “I'm proud to be a longtime supporter of the HIDTA program and will continue to work with my colleagues in the Maryland delegation to ensure that law enforcement in our state receives robust federal assistance to keep drugs out of our schools and off our streets.” “It is only when we all work together, at the local, state, and federal levels, that we can begin to eradicate problems like heroin use and drug trafficking from our communities,” Congressman Cummings said. “In Baltimore and around this country, these HIDTA efforts give us hope that we can reclaim our cities, bring safety and security to our streets, and dream of brighter futures for our children.” “With deaths from heroin increasing in Maryland, we have to make every effort to get the upper hand and address this public health crisis,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “This funding will increase public safety, improve the effectiveness of our anti-drug strategies, and help ensure police and other public safety officials are adequately trained to respond to heroin and drug related calls.” “This grant funding is a tremendous boost to our fight against heroin abuse in Maryland,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “By providing local and state law enforcement with improved intelligence gathering resources and information analysis capabilities, we can more effectively combat heroin trafficking across our state.” “At a roundtable earlier this month first responders and community stakeholders shared how heroin and other opioid-related drugs are devastating families and impacting communities in the 4th Congressional District,” Congresswoman Edwards said. “This federal funding will help develop a network of public health and public safety partnerships at every level to coordinate an effective response to this epidemic. Moreover, I welcome the Administration’s leadership to expand naloxone access and training for first responders. It's time for Congress to act to broaden these life-saving initiatives.” “Heroin trafficking is hurting Maryland, where we have seen a tragic increase in heroin-related deaths in recent years,” said Congressman Delaney. “A problem this big will require a federal, state and local response and additional federal funds to the Washington/Baltimore region are a step in the right direction. Stopping heroin is about public safety and public health and I applaud additional funding being provided to prosecute traffickers, help those who are addicted and support local law enforcement, first responders and health care providers.” According to the Maryland Department of Health & Mental Hygiene, in 2014 there were 578 heroin-related deaths in the state, 25 percent higher than previous year and more than double the total in 2010. Only 11 percent of heroin addicts who need treatment receive it according to National Institute of Drug Abuse. According to the Office of National Drug Control Policy, the Heroin Response Strategy will foster a collaborative network of public health-public safety partnerships to address the heroin/opioid epidemic from multiple perspectives. The Strategy will enhance the efficacy and efficiency of the criminal intelligence process in support of cooperative law enforcement operations. The five HIDTAs will create a 15-state network of experienced, connected law enforcement contacts and leverage these connections and information-gathering capabilities with a strong, complementary, analytical capacity. The five HIDTAs will select two centrally located Regional Coordinators, one with a public health focus and the other with a public safety focus, who will manage and oversee implementation and operation of the Heroin Response Teams. The Public Health Coordinator will oversee regional reporting of fatal and non-fatal overdose information and issuing of relevant alerts regarding dangerous batches of heroin and other heroin-related threats to health authorities. This will mobilize a rapid public health response to distribute naloxone or expand resources in the affected areas, helping to mitigate the number of overdoses and prevent deaths. The Public Safety Coordinator will oversee execution of public safety goals by ensuring case support is provided where needed and intelligence is being disseminated to relevant law enforcement authorities to enable disruption of the heroin supply. A heroin and prescription opioid training curriculum will be developed and used to prepare rural and municipal officers and first responders who are inexperienced responding to heroin and prescription opioid-related incidents. To assist communities in coping with this escalating problem, the five HIDTAs will develop Education & Training strategies that will increase awareness of heroin and opiate addiction, create linkages to available prevention and treatment resources in the respective regions, and enable first-responders to know how to report all pertinent lead information developed from seizures and overdose responses. The Heroin Response Strategy builds upon the successes of the 2014 symposium hosted by the Washington/Baltimore HIDTA. Each year, the five HIDTAs will host two, two-day State of the Region symposia at a jointly nominated HIDTA. These symposia will build additional structure within each respective HIDTA region for the attendees to maintain regular contact and continue their public health-public safety partnerships between symposia. The aim will be to facilitate collaboration between public health and public safety partners within and across jurisdictions, sharing best practices, innovative pilots, and identifying new opportunities to leverage resources. ###
08.03.2015	(Timonium, MD) – “As violence in Baltimore reaches historic levels, the decision to add 10 federal agents to the city’s homicide unit is a smart move that will, hopefully, restore a much-needed sense of confidence in police within the community. As a former investigative prosecutor, I understand the complexity of the issues Baltimore’s law enforcement is currently facing and I know that the teamwork approach is the best approach. These special agents from the FBI, DEA, ATF, U.S. Marshals and Secret Service will be on the streets, providing additional boots on the ground as well as access to other valuable federal resources. I applaud Mayor Rawlings-Blake and Interim Police Commissioner Davis for having the vision to request additional assistance from the federal government. We are one Baltimore and we need all hands on deck to return our city to those who love it.”
07.30.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – In the wake of a massive cyber attack that jeopardized the personal information of more than 22 million federal employees, retirees, contractors and their families, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger yesterday introduced legislation to help prevent future breaches against federal civilian computer networks. While the Department of Homeland Security has been tasked to protect the government domain (known as .gov), it currently only has limited legal authority to do so. The Federal Information Security Management Reform Act of 2015 (HR 3402) would enable the department to monitor the networks of government agencies, conduct risk assessments, operate intrusion detection software and deploy countermeasures once a cyber threat has been detected. “The government computer networks contain highly sensitive personal data including the Social Security numbers, home addresses, birth dates and even extensive background information of many of our hard-working federal employees, retirees and contractors,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It is absurd that the government agency required by law to protect these networks does not currently have the authority to conduct any of these common sense measures. This bill will give our federal government a fighting chance to prevent future cyber attacks.” The OPM attack was one of the largest security breaches in U.S. history, compromising mostly the background investigation files of individuals holding security clearances. The hackers responsible for the attack reportedly used access codes from one of OPM’s contractors and infiltrated OPM computers for at least a year before they were discovered. In addition to introducing FISMA, Congressman Ruppersberger is a cosponsor of bipartisan legislation to provide free lifetime identity theft protection coverage including insurance for losses up to $5 million to all OPM hacking victims.
07.16.2015	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, along with U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski, as well as U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.), announced that Baltimore will be one of 28 communities selected to participate in ConnectHome, a new initiative established by the Obama Administration to provide access to the Internet for low-income families. Demonstrating an ongoing commitment to rebuilding and revitalizing the City of Baltimore, the new project coordinated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), in collaboration with EveryoneOn and US Ignite, brings together private- and public-sector partners to deliver broadband, technical assistance and digital literacy training to students living in public and assisted housing across America. ConnectHome seeks to create a platform for collaboration between local governments, members of private industry, nonprofit organizations, and other interested entities that will produce locally tailored solutions for narrowing the digital divide. The investments will help to address the barriers to broadband access found in each relevant community, which may include: the costs associated with affording high-speed service and electronic devices; the need for training in digital literacy skills; and a lack of necessary infrastructure in buildings. “I am thrilled that Baltimore will be included in the launch of this critical effort to bring Internet access to low-income families, especially those with children,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Having the Internet at home allows students more time for research, homework and independent learning. It also helps parents improve their computer skills and enable them to search and apply for jobs online. This is about leveling the playing field for all families and providing opportunity.” HUD’s ConnectHome initiative strives to ensure that students can access the same level of high-speed Internet at home that they possess in their classrooms. Without the allocation of additional federal dollars, ConnectHome reallocates existing resources and brings together partners to expand broadband access and to offer new technical training and digital literacy programs for residents in assisted housing units. More details can be found here. Some of the partnerships include: Age of Learning, Inc. will make its ABCmouse.com online early learning curriculum available, for free, to families living in HUD housing in ConnectHome communities. The Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) will produce and distribute new educational, children’s, and digital literacy content via participating local PBS stations tailored for ConnectHome participants. GitHub will provide $250,000 to support devices and digital literacy training to HUD residents in ConnectHome cities. The American Library Association will lead a collaboration with local libraries in all the ConnectHome communities to deliver tailored, on-site digital literacy programming and resources to public housing residents. Boys & Girls Clubs of America will provide digital literacy training for HUD residents in ConnectHome communities that have a Boys & Girls Club. Best Buy will offer HUD residents in select ConnectHome demonstration project cities, including Choctaw Tribal Nation, the computer training and technical support needed to maximize the academic and economic impact of broadband access. Best Buy will also offer afterschool technical training, for free, to students participating in ConnectHome at Best Buy Teen Centers in Atlanta, Los Angeles, New York City, San Antonio, and Washington, DC. “High-speed internet access is a must-have for students across Maryland. Baltimore students and their families will benefit greatly from this latest effort by the federal government to improve educational and economic opportunities for our neighborhoods. Increasing access to the Internet, educational resources and technology will make an incredible difference,” said Senator Cardin. “I’m proud of the role the federal government has taken to bring together public and private sector partners to help Baltimore.” “Each and every one of Baltimore’s families should have high-speed access to the Internet so that every student can do their homework, all parents can search for jobs and everyone can stay connected to their communities,” said Senator Mikulski. “Technology is a critical tool for empowerment and no child or community should be left behind. That’s what ConnectHome is all about – closing America’s digital divide.” “Access to the Internet is a necessity for students at a very early age. Children who are not connected at home are falling further behind their peers not only in grade school, but as they enter college and a high-tech working world," said Congressman Cummings. “ConnectHome will help level the playing field for low-income families in Baltimore by connecting students online with their teachers and their schools' educational resources. I commend the President and his Administration for creating this opportunity. By ensuring high-speed Internet access at home, we will open up a new world of educational opportunities for our children.” “More than 20 percent of Baltimoreans lack access to broadband Internet at home, preventing them from seeking employment opportunities, taking advantage of online learning platforms, accessing information about health care, and searching for goods and government services,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “The ConnectHome pilot program will play an important role in helping Baltimore bridge the digital divide and will make a positive impact on our city’s communities.”
07.13.2015	(Washington, DC) — Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined eight other capital-area lawmakers in introducing the RECOVER Act (Reducing the Effects of the Cyberattack on OPM Victims Emergency Response Act of 2015) to provide free lifetime identity theft protection coverage to the more than 22.1 million current, former and prospective federal employees whose personnel data has been compromised by widespread Office of Personnel Management (OPM) data breaches. The free lifetime identity theft protection coverage includes identity theft insurance for losses up to $5 million. What began as 4.2 million affected federal employees and retirees has now grown to more than 22 million and could include even more. The hackers responsible for the massive cyber attack had reportedly infiltrated OPM computers for at least a year before they were discovered. To date, OPM has only guaranteed three years of credit monitoring and identity theft protection services and $1 million in loss coverage for individuals whose background check records were compromised, and only 18 months of credit monitoring and $1 million in loss coverage to individuals whose personnel records were compromised. “Our federal workers have been subjected to a relentless assault over the past several years, from furloughs to salary cuts and, now, a massive data breach of sensitive personal data,” said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger. “The records stolen by hackers have no shelf life – so the identity theft protection offered to the victims shouldn’t, either. I am proud to support this effort to help provide these hard-working men and women some well-deserved peace of mind.” The bill's lead sponsor is Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC). The remaining seven regional cosponsors are Reps. Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), John Sarbanes (D-MD), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), John Delaney (D-MD), and Don Beyer (D-VA). Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) last week introduced a companion bill in the Senate. “The OPM data, which was not encrypted, was there for the taking despite the Inspector General’s warnings” Norton said. “OPM’s offer of limited credit monitoring and identity theft protection coverage fails to recognize that the hackers could outwait the OPM’s proposed period of credit monitoring and very limited loss coverage. Much of the OPM data is lifetime and permanent background information that cannot be changed like a credit card number. We cannot make up for the angst this breach has caused our federal employees, but our bill shows we can and should do much better than OPM’s stingy proposal.” “Extremely sensitive personal information of at least 22 million federal employees and their friends and relatives has been exposed to hackers who used access codes from one of OPM’s contractors in one of the largest security breaches in U.S. history,” said Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Elijah Cummings. “This bill providing lifetime credit monitoring services and identity theft insurance is the least we should do to protect these hardworking and dedicated employees.” “OPM’s announcement that at least 22 million people have been impacted by this breach is staggering. Many live in my district and have called my office with significant concerns,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “I’ve already urged the agency to provide free credit monitoring to those impacted and their families, and what OPM has announced so far is totally inadequate. This legislation will help the hardworking civil servants who have been affected cope with this breach, which could have potentially dangerous consequences for years to come.” “This bill would provide millions of hardworking Americans who’ve been victimized by this unprecedented data breach with a measure of financial security and peace of mind,” said Congressman John Sarbanes. “We must do whatever we can to support the federal and private-sector employees, retirees and their families whose personal information was compromised.” “I remain concerned that nearly one out of every eight Americans have had their security and personal data put into jeopardy and I believe we have a responsibility to protect the families who have been at risk,” Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards said. “I will continue to work with my Congressional colleagues to ensure that the Americans serving our nation can keep their personal information safe and secure. That is why I am an original co-sponsor of the RECOVER Act, which provides much stronger and comprehensive measures to protect those whose information may have been compromised. It is the very least the federal government can and should do.” “The devastating series of data breaches against the U.S. Office of Personnel Management represent one of the most catastrophic compromises of highly-sensitive personally identifiable information in our Nation’s history,” said Congressman Gerry Connolly, Ranking Member of the Federal Workforce Subcommittee. “The millions of dedicated Federal workers, Federal retirees, and contract personnel that serve our country with honor and distinction are the Federal Government’s most valuable asset and the government has failed to protect them. I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing the RECOVER Act to provide Federal employees victimized by the breach with lifetime identify theft insurance coverage that is free, comprehensive, and effective.” “The recent data breaches at OPM put millions of federal employees at risk and that’s unacceptable,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “Unfortunately, this isn’t going to be a short-term problem with short-term risk and we have to make sure we offer long-term support to those impacted. Our government should be in the position of strengthening the security of Americans online, not exposing their personal information to attack. The RECOVER Act makes sure that the victims of the data breaches will never have to face identity fraud alone.”
07.09.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on the Army’s announced reduction of 40,000 troops nationwide. “I am pleased that the Army has recognized the invaluable work done at Aberdeen Proving Ground and Ft. Meade by sparing them the worst of the troop reductions announced today. Maryland’s Second District is home to some of best minds in the country working on research and development as well as critical issues from chemical weapons to cybersecurity. The missions of APG and Ft. Meade are the missions of our future and we will continue to need these hard-working men and women as long as maintaining a modern Army remains a priority for our country. But I feel for the bases and communities that did not fare as well and I remain worried about cuts to the civilian workforce yet to be announced. These cuts are reducing our Army to its smallest size since before World War II. If sequestration funding levels hold, we will lose an additional 30,000 troops and Army leaders say we will no longer be able to meet current demands. The cuts announced today should serve as yet another wake-up call to Congressional leadership. Sequestration has forced senseless cuts across every government program from Head Start to the COPS grant program and will continue to jeopardize our national security. I am calling on the Administration as well as House and Senate leadership to come together and negotiate a plan to end sequestration once and for all.”
07.08.2015	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, along with with U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, John P. Sarbanes and Donna F. Edwards (all D-Md.) in announcing that the Anne Arundel County Fire Department will receive $7,072,520 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) program to hire 52 full time firefighter positions for two years including training and full benefits. “The goal of SAFER grants is to ensure fire departments can maintain round-the-clock staffing and rehire fire fighters laid off due to the economy,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This is exactly the type of basic government service we should be investing in during tough times – nothing is more important than citizen safety and protecting those that protect us. Families and businesses in Anne Arundel County will directly benefit from these federal funds.” The Anne Arundel County Fire Department (AACOFD) will use the grant funds to hire 52 full time firefighters to fully compliment 24/7 staffing for two full years including recruitment and training of the positions. These positions will be assigned to the Special Services Units – specifically the ladder trucks. For more information, please contact Anne Arundel County Fire Chief Allan Graves at 410-222-8301. The goal of any SAFER grant is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing. The objective of the program is to award grants directly to volunteer, combination and career fire departments to help the departments increase the number of frontline firefighters, and to rehire firefighters who were laid off due to the economy. The SAFER program provides approximately $340 million in competitive grants to fire departments and statewide or local volunteer firefighter support groups. Since 2001, Maryland Fire Departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received nearly $162 million in fire grant funding, of which $23 million of which has been awarded to fire departments in Anne Arundel County. “I know how important this funding is to Maryland communities – often it’s the difference between life and death. First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing them with the tools and staffing they need to do their jobs safer and smarter,” said Senator Mikulski. “Every day when our first responders report for duty, they don’t know what they will face. That’s why I fight every year for the equipment, training, and staffing our protectors and communities deserve.” “Protecting our communities from harm is one of the most basic functions of government,” said Senator Cardin. “This federal grant will help ensure that the Anne Arundel County Fire Department is able to recruit and retain the very best first responders.” “I’m pleased that this SAFER grant will help to ensure that Anne Arundel County can hire and recruit the appropriate staffing levels necessary to protect our local families and communities,” said Congressman Steny Hoyer. “Our dedicated men and women firefighters and first responders are essential to residents and businesses. Public safety continues to be one of my top priorities and I will continue to support federal funding that will assist our fire departments with keeping Marylanders safe.” “Anne Arundel Country boasts world-class firefighters that devote themselves to protecting our communities,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “Thanks to this new commitment of federal resources, we can hire and train more first responders that keep Anne Arundel County families safe.” “For many Maryland families, first responders like the Anne Arundel County Fire Department are the last chance for them to be safe,” Edwards said. “Today’s announcement lets the County’s working families and small businesses know that the federal government is doing its part to ensure public safety continues.”
06.30.2015	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings and John P. Sarbanes (all D-Md.), today announced that the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) has awarded $5 million to the City of Baltimore to support job training programs for youth and young adults. The grant will launch the One Baltimore for Jobs Initiative, which is focused on increasing access to key job sectors, reducing barriers to employment and training, and supporting community-based projects. "This is exactly the type of investment we should be making as our economy continues to recover. Without a job, you can't support your family, your community or your country," Congressman Ruppersberger said. These federal funds will allow the City of Baltimore’s Office of Employment Development to enhance and expand services that help long-term unemployed and dislocated workers prepare for jobs in the fields of health care, construction, technology, manufacturing, and transportation and logistics. The program will serve youth and young adults between the ages of 16-29 who have been disconnected from the labor force by opening new dialogues with employers and building partnerships with local organizations to create new employment opportunities. The Department of Labor has selected six other cities to receive similar grants based on high poverty and unemployment rates. The funds are available through the DOL’s Dislocated Worker National Reserve Account. “I believe that in America, if you’re ready to work and want a job, you should have one,” said Senator Mikulski, Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds the DOL. “Grants like these are investments in our young people to help them acquire the skills, training and education they need to succeed. These funds in the federal checkbook will help Marylanders get the on-the-job training and know-how they need.” “This federal investment in Baltimore is a direct result of the Obama Administration working with members of Team Maryland over the last two months,” said Cardin, author of the BALTIMORE Act. “In the days and months since the unrest that gripped the city, I have consistently been asked by residents across Baltimore to take steps to ensure young people can find employment. This is a solid step towards making sure youth in Baltimore can enrich themselves and the city by earning a paycheck. I look forward to continuing to work with the administration and my colleagues in the Senate to bring more resources and jobs to Baltimore.” “This grant will not only help young people get jobs, it will also give them the training they need to succeed in careers with long-term growth potential,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am grateful to the Department of Labor and the Obama Administration for their commitment to Baltimore’s youth and for all of the assistance they have provided our City as we work to address our most urgent economic challenges.” “Decades of neglect and divestment in our urban communities have put well-paying jobs and educational opportunities out of reach for too many of our citizens,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “By providing job training and employment opportunities for young people, we can spur local economic activity and strengthen Baltimore’s communities.”
06.25.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on the Supreme Court decision in the case of King v. Burwell. The decision ensures that all Americans are eligible to receive tax credits under the Affordable Healthcare Act, regardless of which state they reside. “After 60 votes to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act – without a single alternative proposed from either party – this decision puts the issue to rest once and for all. As Chief Justice John Roberts said, Congress passed the Affordable Care Act to improve health insurance markets, and it’s working. More than 16 million Americans now have insurance and our country’s uninsured rate is at its lowest level ever. Without Obamacare, American taxpayers would be footing the bill for this care. Repealing Obamacare would increase the federal deficit by $353 billion over the next decade, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Having been upheld by our nation’s highest court twice now, we must move on from repeal and focus our mutual efforts to better the bill so that we can lower costs and improve the quality of care for even more Americans. Let’s end the partisan politics and work together so that we can continue to strengthen our healthcare system.”
06.24.2015	(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today announced Dundalk teen Sarah McDermott as the winner of the 2015 Congressional Art Contest for Maryland’s Second District. McDermott, a senior at Patapsco High School and Center for the Arts, submitted a watercolor and digital depiction of a parrot entitled “Polly.” The piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol complex for one year, providing inspiration to more than 12,000 Capitol visitors and Members of Congress as they make their way to the House floor for votes each day. “All of the submissions we received this year were incredible, but I was particularly impressed with Sarah’s abstract parrot,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Her piece is a great example of the talent we have in Maryland’s Second District. I want to thank Sarah and all of the talented students who participated in the contest this year and with them much luck in the pursuit of their passion for the arts.” Sponsored each spring by the Congressional Institute, the Congressional Art Contest is a national high school visual art competition that recognizes and encourages artistic talent in the nation. Since it began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated in the contest. McDermott’s piece, among 39 other entries submitted by high school students across the Second District, was selected by a panel of local artists and art teachers appointed by Congressman Ruppersberger. Please see and feel free to use the attached photo of “Polly” on display in the U.S. Capitol.
06.16.2015	(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Thursday will guest coach professional and college-level players in a charity lacrosse game benefitting wounded warriors. Ruppersberger and former State Senator Frank Kelly, a close friend, will face off as guest coaches during the final hour of the fourth annual “Shootout for Soldiers,” a 24-hour game featuring players of all ages that has raised more than $500,000 to date for veterans organizations. A combination of two of his passions – lacrosse and serving our troops – Congressman Ruppersberger has supported the event since its creation by a group of local lacrosse players in 2012. Congressman Ruppersberger, who currently co-chairs the bipartisan House Army Caucus and represents two Army installations as well as an Air National Guard base in his district, played lacrosse at University of Maryland and was a member of Team USA. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Former State Senator Frank Kelly Major League Lacrosse All-Stars Mitch Belisle and Scott Ratliff Lacrosse Players of All Ages and Skill Levels When: Thursday, June 18, 2015 6 PM Game 7 PM Closing Ceremonies and Check Presentation Where: McDonogh School 8600 McDonogh Road Owings Mills, MD 21117
06.05.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger tonight received the 31st William Oliver Baker Award from the nonprofit, nonpartisan Intelligence and National Security Alliance (INSA) for his bipartisan leadership as Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee. Ruppersberger was selected along with immediate past Committee Chairman Mike Rogers (R-MI) as the organization’s first co-recipients of the award, reflecting their pragmatic approach to intelligence oversight. “I am truly humbled to accept this year’s William Oliver Baker Award, and especially honored considering my co-recipient, Mike Rogers,” Ruppersberger said. “Early in our leadership, Congressman Rogers and I agreed that there is no room for politics when it comes to our national security. It is gratifying to see that our commitment to bipartisanship and responsible oversight did not go unnoticed.” The first Democratic freshman ever appointed to the House Intelligence Committee, Ruppersberger’s term on the committee expired in January after a record 12 years. He served with Rogers from 2011 to 2014, during which time the pair passed five authorization bills, twice passed landmark cybersecurity legislation and ushered a bipartisan bill to end the bulk collection of phone data through the House. Considered the preeminent award in the Intelligence Community, the Baker award recognizes outstanding leaders for their sustained contributions to the intelligence and national security communities. Previous recipients include Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, former Defense Secretaries Leon Panetta and Robert Gates and former CIA and NSA Director General Michael Hayden. “INSA is pleased to recognize two outstanding public servants in Congressman Rogers and Congressman Ruppersberger and the bipartisan spirit they brought to our national security mission,” said INSA Chairman Ambassador John Negroponte. “They truly embody the statesmanship ideal that William Oliver Baker stood for and are deserving recipients of an award in his name.” INSA has 150 corporate members and several hundred individual members who are leaders and senior executives throughout government, the private sector and academia. The award was presented tonight at an annual gala at the Marriott Marquis in Washington, DC., attended by more than 750 people.
05.13.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – “My heart goes out to the families of all those lost or injured in last night’s Amtrak derailment. I want to commend all of the first responders who undoubtedly prevented greater loss of life as well as the NTSB investigators who are now on the scene determining how this catastrophe occurred. Without speculating on the cause of last night’s horrific derailment, I certainly agree that the condition of our nation’s infrastructure is inexcusable. That is why, today, I voted against the 2016 Transportation-HUD Appropriations Bill after my committee’s mark-up because it would further slash Amtrak’s budget by $251 million and drastically cut other critical investments to our transit infrastructure. During the mark-up, I voted in support of a failed amendment to provide Amtrak the full $2.45 billion in funding requested in President Obama’s budget. As an occasional Amtrak and MARC train commuter, I have long supported funding for mass transit. Investing in infrastructure is one of the smartest things we can do to create jobs, increase the competitiveness of American businesses and ensure thousands of commuters get to work safely. We must pass a multi-year transportation funding bill that increases – not decreases – federal investment in highway, transit and rail programs before another disaster occurs. Ultimately, the Administration as well as House and Senate leadership must develop a plan to end sequestration once and for all. Our infrastructure will continue to deteriorate so long as we continue this reckless approach to deficit reduction.”
05.07.2015	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski together with Representatives Elijah Cummings, John Delaney, Donna F. Edwards, Steny Hoyer, Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes and Chris Van Hollen (all D-Md.) have sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch supporting the request made this week by Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake to have the Department of Justice (DOJ) Civil Rights Division open a federal “pattern or practice” investigation of the Baltimore Police Department (BPD). “By using your authority under 42 U.S.C. § 14141, you have the ability to help repair the public’s trust in the BPD and ensure the protection of our citizens’ constitutional rights. Such an investigation could address issues such as allegations of persistent patterns of police misconduct, use of excessive force, discriminatory policing or use of profiling, and improper stops, searches, or arrests. We would welcome a detailed report on the BPD along with recommendations to reform this critical agency in a timely manner,” the Members wrote. “We ask the Justice Department to continue its Collaborative Reform Initiative through the COPS Office that is providing technical assistance to the BPD. We also ask the Justice Department continue its criminal and civil rights investigation into the death of Baltimore resident Freddie Gray.” The letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch follows: May 7, 2015 The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch: We thank you for visiting Baltimore, Maryland, earlier this week during your first official trip since being sworn into office last week. We appreciated the meetings you held with members of the Congressional delegation, local officials, community leaders, and the family of Freddie Gray. We welcome the active engagement in Baltimore of officials from the Civil Rights Division, COPS (Community Oriented Policing Services) Office, and Community Relations Service. We write to strongly support the request made earlier today of Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake of Baltimore to have the Civil Rights Division open a federal “pattern or practice” investigation of the Baltimore Police Department (BPD). By using your authority under 42 U.S.C. § 14141, you have the ability to help repair the public’s trust in the BPD and ensure the protection of our citizens’ constitutional rights. Such an investigation could address issues such as allegations of persistent patterns of police misconduct, use of excessive force, discriminatory policing or use of profiling, and improper stops, searches, or arrests. We would welcome a detailed report on the BPD along with recommendations to reform this critical agency in a timely manner. We ask the Justice Department to continue its Collaborative Reform Initiative through the COPS Office that is providing technical assistance to the BPD. We also ask the Justice Department continue its criminal and civil rights investigation into the death of Baltimore resident Freddie Gray. Thank you again for your leadership on these issues and the personal attention and time you have devoted on behalf of the citizens of Baltimore. We stand ready to assist you in your efforts and look forward to working with you as you begin your tenure as Attorney General. Sincerely, Benjamin L. Cardin Barbara A. Mikulski United States Senator United States Senator Elijah E. Cummings John Delaney Member of Congress Member of Congress Donna F. Edwards Steny H. Hoyer Member of Congress Member of Congress C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger John Sarbanes Member of Congress Member of Congress Chris Van Hollen Member of Congress
05.04.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger last week signed on as an original cosponsor of legislation to gradually raise the federal minimum wage from $7.25 to $12 by 2020. The “Raise the Wage Act,” which has been introduced in both the House of Representatives and Senate, would also index the minimum wage to keep pace with the country’s rising median wage. In Maryland, more than 600,000 workers – including 93,000 working mothers – stand to benefit from a minimum wage hike. “I often say that, without a job, you can't support your family, your community or your country,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “But in reality, you need a livable wage to support your family, your community and your country. No one who works full time should have to live in poverty.” Currently, a full-time minimum wage worker earns just slightly more than $15,000 a year - or 19 percent below the poverty line for a family of three. Since the minimum wage reached $7.25 six years ago in 2009, the minimum wage has not kept pace with inflation or the growth in the median wage, resulting in low-wage workers continuing to fall behind. In fact, the real value of today’s minimum wage is less than it was in 1956. Economists on both sides of the aisle agree that, if done right, raising the federal minimum wage could be good for business because higher labor costs are offset by greater productivity, less turnover and more consumer demand. Bigger paychecks go right back into the economy and other local businesses. When President Clinton increased the minimum wage in 1996, employment soared and incomes improved at every wage level. Under the “Raise the Wage Act,” the federal minimum wage would start to rise almost immediately. Beginning January 2016, or three months after the date of enactment of the bill, the minimum wage would increase by $0.75 to $8 per hour, followed by dollar-per-hour increases every year until it reaches $12. Starting in 2021, the minimum wage would see automatic annual increases to keep its ratio constant with the median wage.
05.01.2015	(Washington, D.C.) –Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today supported more than $48.6 million in federal funding to protect Maryland’s environment and keep commerce moving through the Chesapeake Bay and Baltimore Harbor. The 2016 “Energy & Water Development Appropriations Act” passed the House today in a bipartisan vote of 240 – 177. “The Chesapeake Bay and Baltimore Harbor are among Maryland’s greatest natural and economic resources,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We must protect these resources so that our children and grandchildren can enjoy them and so that they can continue to provide hundreds of thousands of quality jobs for Marylanders.” The bill included money for the following projects: $2 million for Chesapeake Bay Oyster Restoration. Oysters are a vital element in restoring the overall health of the Bay. Activities include construction of oyster bars and reefs, rehabilitation of existing habitats and construction of oyster hatcheries. $18.8 million to dredge the Baltimore Harbor and Channels. Maintenance dredging of the Baltimore Harbor and surrounding channels is imperative to keeping the Port of Baltimore competitive and protecting the 122,000 local jobs it provides for hard-working families. $26.5 million to relocate dredged material for the restoration of Poplar Island in the Chesapeake Bay. This project is creating a wildlife refuge for ospreys, egrets, terns, herons, eagles, terrapins and other wildlife. $325,000 to remove drift (floating debris) from the Baltimore Harbor. $325,000 to study, design and construct projects to restore and protect the Chesapeake Bay under the Chesapeake Bay Comprehensive Plan and the Chesapeake Bay Program. $600,000 for restoration of the Assateague Island ecosystem. The Senate must pass and the President must sign the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act before it becomes law.
04.24.2015	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Saturday will host community leaders and elected officials at an Open House in his Timonium office. Congressman Ruppersberger has always prided himself on making himself and his staff available outside regular business hours. The Second District includes portions of Baltimore City as well as Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Harford and Howard Counties. “I’ve taken my staff on the road to reach constituents who can’t make it into the office – now we are inviting community leaders into the office to share their concerns and learn more about the services available to them,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. Constituent service has been the hallmark of Congressman Ruppersberger’s career. His small but dedicated staff has helped thousands of constituents avoid foreclosure, navigate the Medicare and Social Security systems and access veterans’ benefits, for example. Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Community Association Leaders District 2 Elected Officials When: Saturday, April 24, 2015 9:30 AM to 12:00 PM Where: Congressman Ruppersberger’s District Office 375 West Padonia Road Suite 200 Timonium, MD 21093
04.22.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today applauded the House of Representatives’ passage of the “Protecting Cyber Networks Act” in a bipartisan vote of 307-116. A champion of cybersecurity legislation for nearly a decade, Congressman Ruppersberger said the bill could be our country’s best chance at stopping increasingly-aggressive cyber attacks before they happen. “Many years ago, I saw the first wave of cyber attacks and knew the problem was only going to get worse,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Since, attacks have cost companies like Target, Home Depot and CareFirst billions of dollars. With Sony, we saw the first destructive attack in our country. What would happen if someone were to take out critical infrastructure like our electric grid, or 911 call centers or air traffic control?” Congressman Ruppersberger and former House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers wrote the first cybersecurity bill that saw success in Congress. Their bill, the “Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act,” or CISPA, twice passed the House with large bipartisan majorities but stalled in the Senate. Their bill – and now, the “Protecting Cyber Networks Act” – sets up a similar voluntary system of sharing information on potential cyber threats between the public and private sectors. Earlier Wednesday, Congressman Ruppersberger took to the House Floor to urge his colleagues to support the “Protecting Cyber Networks Act.” You can see his floor speech by clicking here.
04.16.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) and Randy Hultgren (IL-14), have again sent a bipartisan letter to House leadership in support of a critical tool that helps local and state governments finance new roads, schools, hospitals, fire stations and more. Joined by 122 of their colleagues (63 Democrats, 61 Republicans total), the letter asks leadership to reject any proposal to cap or eliminate the deduction on tax-exempt municipal bonds used to finance the vast majority of infrastructure projects in America’s communities. In his budget proposal for 2016, President Barack Obama suggests limiting the value of tax benefits for top-earning investors in municipal bonds to 28 percent, down from the current 35 percent. Some federal legislators have proposed eliminating the tax exemption on municipal bond interest altogether. As a former county councilman, county executive and president of the Maryland Association of Counties, Congressman Ruppersberger believes that tax-exempt bonds are among the most efficient way to fund critical infrastructure projects that have created hundreds of thousands of jobs. “If the federal income tax exemption is eliminated or limited, states and localities will pay more to finance projects, leading to less infrastructure investment and fewer jobs,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Worse, they will be forced to shift costs to their main revenue source – property taxes – hitting the already-suffering real estate market and the wallets of American homeowners.” Municipal bonds have funded more than $1.9 trillion worth of infrastructure construction. This financing went to the construction of schools, hospitals, airports, affordable housing, water and sewer facilities, public power utilities, roads and public transit. In 2013 alone, more than 11,000 tax-exempt bonds financed more than $330 billion in infrastructure spending. To read the full letter signed by all 124 Members of Congress, click here.
04.01.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – “As cyber threats targeting our nation’s critical infrastructure, corporations and citizens grow increasingly aggressive, I applaud the President’s Executive Order to impose sanctions on the perpetrators of these serious crimes. Sanctions have always been a useful tool in the weapons arsenal against those intent on doing us harm, and the cyber battlefield is no different. Cyber attacks like those against Target, Home Depot and PNC are costing American companies billions of dollars each year. With Sony, we saw the first destructive attack in the United States – where the perpetrator successfully shut down a system. It is only a matter of time before critical infrastructure, such as our grid system or cell phone towers, could come under siege. This Executive Order should complement passage of my bipartisan bill that enables information-sharing between the public and private sectors. The “Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act” twice passed the House by wide bipartisan measures but stalled in in the Senate. I encourage the Senate and President to support this legislation so that we can stop addressing cyber attacks after the fact.”
03.24.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – “I applaud the introduction of the “Protecting Cyber Networks Act” today by members of the House Intelligence Committee. The committee has developed a reputation as one of the most bipartisan in Washington and today’s legislation proves that its members continue to prioritize our nation’s security over partisan rhetoric. This legislation is very similar to the bill I introduced along with former Republican Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, the “Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act,” a bill that has twice passed the House of Representatives with wide bipartisan margins. Sharing information between the private and public sectors is the single most important thing we can do to combat increasingly-aggressive cyber attacks on American corporations and consumers, such as the attacks on Target, Home Depot and CareFirst. This legislation makes that possible. I expect additional information-sharing proposals to be introduced in the near future. I hope the momentum we are seeing now indicates that, finally, Congress will pass information-sharing legislation this session to protect us from these attacks, which experts believe cost American corporations billions of dollars in intellectual property each year.”
03.24.2015	(Fort Meade, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday hosted a roundtable discussion featuring Maryland’s new Secretary of Business and Economic Development, Mike Gill, and the principals of some of Maryland’s top cyber companies about the future of the industry in Maryland. The companies are among more than 11,000 in Maryland contributing to the state’s reputation as the Silicon Valley of cybersecurity. As representative of a district that includes the National Security Agency, the Defense Information Systems Agency and the U.S. Cyber Command, Congressman Ruppersberger has prioritized federal cyber policy and investment. “Cybersecurity presents a tremendous challenge to our country, but also a great opportunity to the State of Maryland,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We must all work together to leverage the federal assets and investments – as well as that of the private sector – to continue building Maryland’s reputation as the cyber capital of the world.” According to the Economic Alliance of Greater Baltimore, there are about 20,000 cybersecurity job openings in Maryland. Company principals strategized ways to fill the workforce shortage, especially amid what they called the after-shocks of media leaks by former NSA analyst Edward Snowden. They also discussed infrastructure needs to accommodate the workforce, such as better mass transit, and amenities needed to attract younger, in-demand graduates. Security clearance and contracting issues were also mentioned. "Cybersecurity is one of the most critical – and most compelling – issues of our time,” said DBED Secretary Mike Gill. “Maryland has unmatched assets to meet the challenges of protecting our data and to embrace the opportunities afforded our business community, our educational institutions and our citizens. We remain committed to growing and strengthening the state’s cybersecurity industry.”
03.02.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on U.S. Senator Barbara A. Mikulski’s announcement that she will not seek reelection in 2016: “It is fitting that Senator Mikulski announce her retirement as we begin Women’s History Month – she has truly made history both by her extraordinary longevity and her tenacious leadership. Not only is she the longest-serving woman in the Senate and the first Democratic woman elected to the chamber in her own right, she is Maryland’s Number One advocate. Two things I know about Senator Mikulski have always impressed me in her public service. The first relates to her father’s corner store on South Eden Street in Baltimore. When he opened his doors each day, he would say, ‘How may I help you?’ Senator Mikulski has lived by that mantra every day of her life for the people of the State of Maryland. She has worked tirelessly for critical resources to improve our roads, schools and police, to create jobs and create opportunities. The other thing that impresses me is a favorite saying of hers: ‘It’s not about the building.’ Senator Mikulski has never cared about the bricks and mortar. She cares about the people that work inside the building, what they do, how they help the citizens and how she can help them help others. I am very proud to call Senator Mikulski my friend, starting from our days back in local government. I thank her for her service to the people of Maryland and wish her all the best in her retirement. Her successor has big shoes to fill.”
02.11.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued a statement on today’s vote against S. 1, or the “Keystone XL Pipeline Act,” which President Obama has threatened to veto. “While I strongly support the development of cleaner, renewable energy sources, I am deeply concerned about our reliance on hostile nations for oil. Still the largest importer of oil in the world, the U.S. spends $427 billion a year on foreign oil, and some of that money winds up in the hands of terrorists. As we transition to a clean-energy economy, we still need a reliable source of domestic energy that is done in an environmentally-responsible way with the full participation of affected communities. For these reasons, I support the Keystone Pipeline as a general concept, but voted against legislation today that would authorize its immediate construction without proper environmental permits and reviews, including the approval of its application by the State Department. Further, it prevents essential input from impacted state and local governments and their respective communities – which I find especially troubling as a former Baltimore County Councilman and County Executive. Finally, this bill gives a foreign company special treatment not afforded to American companies. Today’s vote was not a vote against the pipeline, but a vote against an unfair exception to our long-standing and necessary review process.”
02.11.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, today issued a statement on the administration’s establishment of a new Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center. “As cyber attacks like those against Sony, major banks and retailers become increasingly brazen and damaging, I applaud the administration’s efforts to improve coordination within the federal government through this new center. This facility will serve as the federal government’s clearinghouse for cyber threat intelligence, using the same model developed after the September 11 attacks to process terrorism intelligence. By integrating information, we can eliminate similar stovepipes that contributed to the terror attacks that also exist with cyber attacks today. While nothing can replace legislation to create a legal framework that would enable comprehensive, real-time information-sharing between the public and private sectors, I appreciate the Administration’s efforts in the absence of action from Congress. This center would be strengthened with the passage of my bipartisan bill that encourages information-sharing between the public and private sectors with tailored liability protection. We must stop addressing cyber attacks after the fact.”
01.21.2015	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced his return to the House Appropriations Committee for the 114th Congress, where he will serve on the Defense and State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs subcommittees. The powerful Appropriations Committee is responsible for allocating hundreds of billions of federal dollars each year. Congressman Ruppersberger previously served on the Appropriations Committee from 2007-2010, when he took a leave of absence to serve as Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee. His term on that committee expired this month after a record 12 years. “I have been honored to work with the dedicated and courageous men and women of our nation’s Intelligence agencies and Armed Services. That will continue on the Appropriations Committee,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Defense Appropriations and the Intelligence Committee have parallel interests – one authorizes the money, one dishes it out – and I look forward to continuing my work on national security issues, especially cybersecurity and terrorism. My subcommittee assignments – particularly defense – are ideal match-ups for the Second District. We are home to Fort Meade, Aberdeen Proving Ground, as well as many intelligence and defense agencies and contractors that employ hundreds of thousands of Marylanders. My district is the cybersecurity capital of the world. Our country will continue to face economic challenges over the next two years and all members of the Appropriations Committee share a tremendous responsibility to allocate precious tax dollars as efficiently as possible. This is a responsibility I take seriously.”
01.15.2015	(Washington, D.C.) —Today, Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, and Representatives Elijah E. Cummings, Steny H. Hoyer, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, and John K. Delaney (all D-MD) joined to send a letter to Governor-elect Larry Hogan expressing their strong support for the planned Red Line and Greater Washington Purple Line transit projects. “We know that you share our commitment to strengthening Maryland’s economy and ensuring that the people of Maryland have access to infrastructure they need to excel in their lives, and we believe construction of the Red and Purple Lines is central to achieving these priorities,” the Members wrote. The recently passed Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015 (Public Law 113-235) includes the first installment of federal funding for the Red and Purple Lines, $100 million for each project. Maryland could receive up to $900 million for each transit project over the entire construction period if Maryland signs full funding agreements for each project by the end of September as currently planned. Click here and see below for the full letter. January 15, 2015 Governor-Elect Larry Hogan Transition Office Tawes State Office Building 580 Taylor Ave Annapolis, MD 21401 Dear Governor-Elect Hogan: We write today to express our strong support for the Baltimore Red Line and Greater Washington Purple Line planned transit projects. We know you share our commitment to strengthening Maryland’s economy and ensuring that the people of Maryland have access to infrastructure they need to excel in their lives, and we believe construction of the Red and Purple Lines is central to achieving these priorities. The Red Line is a proposed 14.1-mile light rail system that would link Baltimore’s East and West sides with the heart of downtown. With 19 stations – including at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Woodlawn, the West Baltimore MARC Station, the Inner Harbor and the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center – this transit system will significantly improve mobility in Baltimore, and will be a critical catalyst for economic growth and job creation throughout the city. Like the Red Line, the Purple Line – a 16-mile east-west transit line linking New Carrollton and Bethesda – will also revitalize community development, create employment opportunities, and generate a more rapid and reliable transit system. The project would provide easier access to the Metro lines, commuter rail, and local bus services. Both the Purple Line and the Red Line will help connect people to jobs, major economic centers, and key activity areas in the region – bolstering economic development and creating more efficient transportation systems. According to a study completed by the Jacob France Institute at the University of Baltimore’s Merrick School of Business, construction of the Red Line would generate more than $2 billion in economic activity during the construction period alone, while creating more than 9,000 construction and related jobs. The Purple Line is expected to create 6,300 regional jobs during the six-year construction period. The State of Maryland and dozens of local agencies and entities have spent years crafting the policies and goals needed to ensure that the projects benefit local communities and directly support Maryland’s most critical economic development goals. Recognizing the significance of these projects, we secured the first installment of federal funding for both the Red and Purple Lines in the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015 (Public Law 113-235). If Maryland signs full funding grant agreements for each project with the Federal Transit Administration by the end of this September as currently planned, the Red Line and the Purple Line will each receive $100 million in federal funding this fiscal year, and up to $900 million in federal funding over the entire construction period. The entire Baltimore and Greater Washington area Congressional delegations have fought hard to ensure that federal funds are available to support the Red and Purple Lines, and we have worked closely with State and local leaders to put in place the many components needed to qualify the projects for federal funding. This is truly an historic opportunity that may never come again, and we look forward to working with you to finalize plans for the Red and Purple Lines in order to ensure that Maryland benefits from the better future these projects will create. Sincerely, Barbara A. Mikulski Benjamin L. Cardin United States Senator United States Senator Elijah E. Cummings Steny H. Hoyer Member of Congress Member of Congress C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Chris Van Hollen Member of Congress Member of Congress John P. Sarbanes Donna F. Edwards Member of Congress Member of Congress John K. Delaney Member of Congress
01.13.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – “I applaud President Obama for proposing cybersecurity legislation that prioritizes information-sharing. As I have been saying for years, strengthening communication between the private and public sectors is the single most important thing we can do to combat increasingly-aggressive cyber attacks on American corporations and consumers. The President’s proposal looks a lot like the bill I introduced along with former Republican Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, the “Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act,” a bill that has twice passed the House of Representatives with wide bipartisan margins. CISPA also creates a voluntary system for the government and private sector to share anonymous cyber threat information – generally computer codes – so that we can better protect networks from attacks like we have seen hit Target, Home Depot and Sony. I agree with much of the President’s proposal, but there are several outstanding issues that must be addressed. It is now up to Congress to work though the differences between these proposals, which share a common end-goal. President Obama and I agree we can no longer afford to play political games while rogue hackers, terrorists, organized criminals and even state actors sharpen their cyber skills. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in the House to pass information-sharing legislation this session.”
01.09.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Immediate past Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued a statement on the selection of his successor, Congressman Adam Schiff. Congressman Ruppersberger’s term on the committee expired after 12 years, the longest of any member in the Committee’s history. “I want to congratulate Congressman Adam Schiff as the new Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee. Through our work together on the Committee, I have come to respect Congressman Schiff’s grasp of complex technical issues and his commitment to giving our intelligence professionals the resources, authorities and capabilities they need to keep our country safe. Congressman Schiff is focused and I am confident that, under his leadership, the Committee will continue the rigorous oversight conducted over the past four years. I also know that he will continue to maintain the bipartisan cooperation necessary to do what is right for the Intelligence Community and the American people. I wish him the best of luck.”
01.08.2015	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, immediate past Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, today issued the following statement on lawmakers’ plans to hold homeland security funding hostage over ideological differences on immigration policy: “As we are seeing from the horrific terrorist attack in Paris, now is not the time to be cutting funding for programs that protect Americans from enemies intent on doing us harm. I am dismayed to hear some lawmakers plan to introduce punitive and ill-informed legislation to defund the Department of Homeland Security because they disagree with President Obama’s recent Executive Action on the deportation of undocumented immigrants. It is wrong to play political football with something as sacred as our national security. “Even if you disagree with the President’s immigration policy, it is irresponsible and downright dangerous to withhold funding from the agencies that protect Americans from terrorists. It is time to be constructive, not obstructive. We must fully fund priorities including Secret Service, the Coast Guard and border security through a Department of Homeland Security appropriations bill while, separately, debating comprehensive immigration reform. This is not a Republican or Democratic issue. It is an issue about the security of all Americans.”
01.08.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today reintroduced legislation to protect Americans from increasingly aggressive cyber attacks. The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA) will help businesses proactively prevent attacks by creating a system of voluntary information sharing between the public and private sectors. “Most recently, Sony was hit by a severe cyber attack by North Korea – the first destructive attack we’ve seen yet – and it cost the company millions of dollars,” said Ruppersberger, immediate past Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee. “We must stop dealing with cyber attacks after the fact.” CISPA passed the House of Representatives last spring by nearly 300 bipartisan votes and enjoys significant support from the business community, which is clamoring for help protecting its networks. Nearly 70 businesses have submitted letters in support of CISPA’s passage. Congressman Ruppersberger co-wrote CISPA with former House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers. The two met with U.S. companies, industry associations, privacy and civil liberties groups, as well as Executive Branch agencies throughout the process.
12.12.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement on the 2015 Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, known as the “cromnibus,” which passed last night in a vote of 219 to 206. “Last night, the House of Representatives finally came together and passed bipartisan legislation that will keep most of the federal government funded until September 2015 and prevent another government shutdown. As with previous omnibus bills, I would describe this legislation as an imperfect but fair and necessary compromise. I am particularly disappointed that the bill will not fund homeland security agencies beyond February, which is the result of partisan bickering over immigration policy. I also remain strongly opposed to a provision that will affect multiemployer pensions and changes to Dodd-Frank consumer protections. I hope we can revisit these issues down the road. I am pleased that the bill contains a small cost-of-living increase for federal workers as well as funding to address the Veterans Affairs backlog, which is particularly egregious in Baltimore. I also support substantial funding to research replacement limbs for wounded warriors and reconstructive face transplants, a procedure that was pioneered, in part, at University of Maryland Shock Trauma. Other highlights beneficial to Maryland and the Second District include: $ 38.8 million for Port of Baltimore dredging activities, including funding for the Poplar Island project. $5 million for oyster restoration efforts in the Chesapeake Bay. $30.1 billion for the National Institute of Health, supporting jobs for more than 23,000 Marylanders. Language that prioritizes improvements to access roads at military installations, including Fort Meade.
12.10.2014	(Washington, DC) -- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, as well as U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, John Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards and John Delaney (all D-Md.) today announced the State of Maryland has been awarded $15 million through the Department of Education’s Preschool Development Grant program to provide high-quality preschool programs in 18 school districts across Maryland. Maryland school districts receiving grant funding include: Allegany County Public Schools, Anne Arundel County Public Schools, Baltimore City Public Schools, Baltimore County Public Schools, Caroline County Public Schools, Carroll County Public Schools, Charles County Public Schools, Dorchester County Public Schools, Frederick County Public Schools, Garrett County Public Schools, Harford County Public Schools, Howard County Public Schools, Montgomery County Public Schools, Prince George’s County Public Schools, Somerset County Public Schools, St. Mary’s County Public Schools, Washington County Public Schools and Wicomico County Public Schools in addition to many community based programs. "Research suggests that preK can improve a child's chance of success in school and in life - children who attend preK are more likely to graduate from high school and earn more as adults, for example,” said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger. “This grant will enable more Maryland children to reap these benefits. It is an investment in our future." Through these Preschool Development Grant awards, more than 33,000 additional children nationwide will be served in high-quality preschool programs that meet high-quality standards in the first year of the program alone. States receiving grants will develop or expand high-quality preschool programs in regionally diverse communities—from urban neighborhoods to small towns to tribal areas—as determined by the state. Preschool programs funded under either category of grants (development or expansion) must meet the criteria for high-quality preschool programs. To support states in planning their budgets, the U.S. Departments of Education and Health and Human Services developed annual budget caps for each state that is eligible to receive a Preschool Development Grant. The departments developed grant funding categories by ranking every state according to its relative share of eligible children and then identifying the natural breaks in the rank order. Then, based on population, budget caps were developed for each category. Maryland is one of 13 states to receive an expansion grant, which were designated for states that currently serve 10 percent of more of four-year-olds or have received a Race to the Top – Early Learning Challenge grant. States receiving expansion grants have ambitious and achievable plans to implement and sustain high-quality preschool programs that can reach and serve addition eligible children in two or high-need communities. Up to five percent of the expansion grant award may be used for state-level infrastructure and quality improvements. “All children deserve the opportunity to have a bright future. We know that ensuring children get high-quality, safe, reliable and nurturing care - especially in their earliest years - is an important building block toward achieving that better future,” said Senator Mikulski, Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee which funds the Department of Education. “That’s why I’m so proud to announce that Maryland has been awarded this federal grant of $15 million from the Preschool Development Grant program. These funds in the federal checkbook will ensure that Maryland preschoolers are getting the very best care, to help support their development and prepare them for school. This is a down payment on Maryland’s middle class families, on our children’s future and on our nation’s future.” "We never get do-overs when it comes to our children's early development, which makes this federal grant to strengthen and expand preschool programs in targeted Maryland communities incredibly important," U.S. Senator Ben Cardin said. "Our goal is to ensure that all 4-year-olds have the chance to acquire the learning skills they need to be successful later in life. Together, we can make certain that the window of opportunity doesn't close on Maryland students before it ever opens." “This funding will provide high-quality preschool services to ensure that our children have a good education and the opportunity to enter the classroom on a more level playing field,” said Congressman Steny Hoyer. “The Judy Centers across Maryland have been successful in helping to close the achievement gap that affects too many of our children before they enter kindergarten. I will continue to work with the Maryland Delegation to ensure that our state continues to be a recognized leader in early childhood education services critical to our children’s success later in life.” "Investing in early education is one of the most important ways to ensure our children's long-term educational success by giving them a strong foundation,” Congressman Elijah Cummings said. “It's also one of the best ways to build stronger communities, and strengthen the middle class. Our children are the living messages we send to a future we will never see, and I am thrilled to see these federal dollars working in our state to ensure our message is strong and full of hope." "Our economy depends on a skilled workforce and a strong middle class, which are only possible if children have access to the best possible education," said Congressman Van Hollen. "Early education is the kind of investment that is critical to protect as we prioritize funding in areas that will grow our economy to give every Marylander a chance to get ahead.” “Experts agree that early childhood education helps develop young minds and prepares children to succeed in the classroom,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “This grant from the Department of Education will help our state continue to lead the nation in providing high-quality education to Maryland students of all ages.” “A high-quality education early in a child’s life is critical in determining their long-term success,” said Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards. “That is why I am grateful for this federal grant from the Department of Education to help 11 school districts across Maryland expand their preschool programs in some of our most vulnerable communities. We need to ensure that a child's first building block is the strongest, and I thank all of our federal, state, and local partners for working together to help make Maryland’s application successful.” “An investment in early education is an investment in our future,” said Congressman Delaney. “Federal grants to provide preschool education to Maryland kids is good news for our state, it’s good news for the students and their families who will directly benefit and it’s good news for our local communities. When you examine the data on early education, it is clear that these kinds of initiatives are absolutely essential to building a globally competitive 21st century state and country.”
12.09.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, together with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, as well as U.S. Representatives Steny Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, John Sarbanes and John Delaney (all D-Md.) yesterday announced $491,367 in federal grants through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to provide permanent homes for homeless veterans in Maryland. The Hagerstown Housing Authority will receive $219,521, the Calvert County Housing Authority will receive $198,901, and the Baltimore County Housing Authority will receive $72,945. The supportive housing assistance is provided through the HUD – Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program, which combines rental assistance from HUD with case management and clinical services provided by VA. As of June 2014, the HUD-VASH program served a total of 74,019 veterans since 2008. “Taking care of our veterans isn’t just a top priority – it’s an obligation,” said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger. “Since 2010, we have seen a 33 percent reduction in homelessness among our nation’s heroes and this funding will take us one step closer to the day when all veterans have a roof over their head.” HUD-VASH is a critical part of the Obama Administration’s commitment to end Veteran and long-term chronic homelessness in 2015. Opening Doors: Federal Strategic Plan to Prevent and End Homelessness serves as a roadmap for how the federal government will work with state and local communities to confront the root causes of homelessness, especially among former servicemen and women. HUD’s annual “point in time” estimate of the number of homeless persons and families nationwide for 2014 found that Veteran homelessness fell by 33 percent (or 24,837 people) since 2010. On a single night in January 2014, 49,993 veterans were homeless. Local public housing authorities provide rental assistance to homeless Veterans while nearby VA Medical Centers (VAMC) offer supportive services and case management. VAMCs work closely with homeless Veterans then refer them to public housing agencies for these vouchers, based upon a variety of factors, most importantly the duration of the homelessness and the need for longer term more intensive support to obtain and maintain permanent housing. The HUD-VASH program includes both the rental assistance the voucher provides and the comprehensive case management that VAMC staff provides. Veterans participating in the HUD-VASH program rent privately owned housing and generally contribute no more than 30 percent of their income toward rent. VA offers eligible homeless Veterans clinical and supportive services through its medical centers across the U.S., Guam and Puerto Rico. The grants announced yesterday are part of $75 million appropriated this year to support the housing needs of homeless veterans. In October, Senator’s Mikulski and Cardin announced $777,845 in a first round of HUD-VASH grants awarded to the Housing Authority of Baltimore City, the Harford County Housing Agency, and the Baltimore County Housing Authority.“I believe our support for our military in the field must be matched by support for our veterans at home,” said Senator Mikulski, Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee which funds HUD, and a member of the Senate Veterans Jobs Caucus and the Senate Military Families Caucus. “Promises made to veterans must be promises kept. These funds in the federal checkbook will help our vets find homes. The nation owes a debt of gratitude to our men and women in uniform. These grants will show that gratitude not just with words, but with deeds.” “Those who fought to defend this nation should not have to fight for roofs over their heads when they return,” U.S. Senator Ben Cardin said. “The HUD grants announced today help deliver on the promise we make to our military personnel as they pledge to defend our freedom. Working to end homelessness amongst our veterans is one important way we can begin to honor our men and women in uniform.” “I’m pleased that HUD allocated 21 HUD-VASH vouchers to Southern Maryland to be used to combat homelessness among veterans in Calvert, Charles, and St. Mary’s counties,” said Congressman Steny H. Hoyer. “These vouchers will bring much-needed relief to those who performed their duty to our country and are now asking us to fulfill our duty to them. I will continue to work with the Maryland Delegation to push for measures that help get veterans the support they need as they transition back home.” “A home represents safety and security, and there are few people more deserving of our help in finding one than the men and women in uniform who risk their lives to keep us safe,” Representative Elijah Cummings said. “Our veterans have earned our support and appreciation, and the funds announced today for Maryland veterans through HUD’s VASH program are one way we fulfill our commitment to them.” “We must do everything we can to help veterans in Maryland and across America find good homes,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “Grants – like the ones announced today by HUD to address homeless veterans’ housing needs – will enable us to follow through on the promises we have made to our veterans.” “We have a sacred obligation to support our nation’s veterans and there’s little more fundamental to a person’s well-being and dignity than having a place to live” said Congressman Delaney. “I’m hopeful that federal grants to the Hagerstown Housing Authority will help Western Maryland veterans secure the permanent housing they deserve."
11.21.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on President Barack Obama’s Executive Action on immigration: “Comprehensive immigration reform is the responsibility of Congress – not the President. The House has had opportunities to take up reasonable, bipartisan immigration legislation passed in the Senate, but leadership has refused to bring it to the floor for a vote. In the absence of action, the President has decided to use his executive authority under precedent set by every president of both parties since Eisenhower. While I do not support everything in the President’s plan, I applaud efforts to strengthen border security, deport undocumented immigrants who commit crimes and require undocumented immigrants to pay their fair share of taxes. His proposal hires more border patrol agents, immigration judges and U.S. attorneys to speed up the deportation of people caught crossing the border illegally. It does not grant any illegal immigrant citizenship. I do not support amnesty and the president does not have the authority to grant it. But with as many as 12 million illegal immigrants in our country, we cannot simply deport our way out of this problem. Congress must ultimately establish a rigorous path to citizenship that will help turn the illegal immigrants currently in our country into taxpayers who contribute to our economy rather than drain it. Economists estimate the President’s plan will boost our gross domestic product by $90 billion to $210 billion in 2024. The economic benefits under the path established by the Senate bill are even greater. Inaction is the equivalent to amnesty. I hope the President’s proposal incites Congress to come together on legislation to finish the job we were elected to do.”
11.10.2014	(Timonium, MD) – Just in time for Veterans Day, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today presented a Bronze Star Medal to a local veteran who has waited more than five years to receive his award. Parkville resident retired Chief Master Sergeant Scott Wallace served six months in Afghanistan and, while every other member of his team received their recognition awards upon their return home in 2009, his was lost in transit. The Bronze Star Medal is the fourth-highest individual military award. It is awarded for acts of heroism, acts of merit, or meritorious service in a combat zone. “Today, Maryland is home to one more distinguished Bronze Star Medal recipient,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This recognition is long overdue. Retired Chief Master Sergeant Scott Wallace’s service and sacrifice for our country exemplifies all that is great about America. He has demonstrated remarkable commitment and patience and it is an honor to share his story this Veterans Day.” Chief Wallace is a civil engineer who deployed with the Air National Guard to Forward Operating Base Sharana, Afghanistan, for 6 months starting in July 2008. There, he served as a construction superintendent who oversaw 70 projects worth $34 million on the base, home to 3,000 soldiers. The projects – which included five guard towers and paving roads into steep hillside, greatly improved security to the base. His expertise in contract negotiating saved the U.S. taxpayers $150,000. He also taught local craftsmen about the basics of road construction and concrete finishing, a critical part of our country’s mission to help the people of Afghanistan rebuild their country and their government.
10.27.2014	Enrollees will participate in unique “Career Re-start Bootcamp” (Timonium, MD) – Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes and Elijah Cummings (D-MD) today announced a $10 million federal grant to retrain unemployed and underemployed Marylanders for jobs in the information technology and bioscience industries. They were joined by Kirkland Murray, President and CEO of the Anne Arundel Workforce Development Corporation, which will use the funds to create the “Maryland Tech Connection” along with nearly 60 academic and corporate partners. About 1,000 Marylanders will benefit, all of which will participate in a unique “Career Re-Start Bootcamp” to help them re-image their job search and learn how to better market themselves to prospective employers. Enrollees will also receive job placement help. “I am proud to have supported this grant, which brings together employers, nonprofit organizations and government to connect ready-to-work Americans with ready-to-be-filled jobs,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “In this difficult economy, it is exactly the type of investment we should be making to help Maryland families get off the unemployment rolls and back onto pay rolls.” “Despite strong economic growth, Americans who have fallen into long term unemployment are still stuck on the sidelines ¬¬– often lacking the skills and support to find jobs in new fields,” said Congressman Cummings. “This grant will give many Marylanders struggling in these circumstances a fresh start, offering them the training and individual assistance to find their footing in the job market. I’m truly excited about the impact this will have on our state.” “With Maryland expecting to add more than 8,000 information technology and bioscience jobs, this grant will give workers the skills they need to secure employment in one of our nation’s fastest-growing industries,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “AAWDC has long offered workforce training to Marylanders, and the organization is well-positioned to deliver valuable, twenty-first century skills to people across our state, which will ultimately help reduce unemployment.” “Anne Arundel Workforce Development Corporation is proud to lead Maryland Tech Connection, a state-wide partnership of 59 companies and organizations including employers, workforce partners, economic development partners, training providers, community partners, and foundations,” said the organizations President and CEO, Kirkland Murray. “The program will utilize a demand-driven system and comprehensive wrap-around services to address the unique barriers long-term unemployed face. Participants will get the hands-on experience and training needed to meet the requirements of our employer partners. We will also educate businesses on how their hiring practices could unknowingly and unintentionally discriminate against long-term unemployed. Ultimately this grant will allows us to get Maryland residents back to work.”
09.12.2014	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will tour Baltimore businesses that are contributing to the region’s growing reputation as the “cyber capital of the world.” Congressman Ruppersberger will see first-hand the local impact of federal cyber policy and investment. Congressman Ruppersberger will be touring Maddrix, one of only seven companies nation-wide accredited by the National Security Agency to respond to cyber attacks on federal databases. He will also visit ZeroFOX, a company that identifies and prevents social media-based cyber attacks, as well as RedOwl Analytics, which has developed a product that can detect suspicious digital behavior. Collectively, these three companies have added more than 100 jobs this year and secured about $40 million in outside investment. They are among more than 11,000 companies in Maryland that create products and services to protect against cyber attacks. Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Jeffrey Wells, Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development Company principals and employees When: Monday, September 15, 2014 1:30- 3:00 Where: 1111 Light Street Baltimore, MD 21230
09.10.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski as well as U.S. Representatives Elijah Cummings and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.), in announcing a grant in the amount of $1,100,000 to the City of Baltimore from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to study feasible ways to replace or rehabilitate the Hanover Street Bridge. Constructed in 1916, the thirty-eight span Hanover Street or Vietnam Veterans Memorial Bridge connects Southern Baltimore City with Baltimore County. “This project is part of our larger commitment to restore America’s aging infrastructure, keep motorists moving and create quality jobs for Marylanders in the process,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It’s exactly the type of investment we should be making to help our economy continue to rebound.” “Almost 100 years ago the Hanover Street Bridge was a marvel of modern engineering. Today it is almost constantly under repair and in desperate need of drastic improvement or replacement,” said Senator Cardin, a senior member of the Environment and Public Works Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee. “The federal dollars funding this study are the first step towards reducing commutes, saving money on repairs, and creating well-paying construction jobs in South Baltimore. Investments in infrastructure strengthen our local Maryland communities and the national economy.” “This is good news for Baltimore families, businesses and communities. These funds in the federal checkbook will take us a step closer towards decreasing traffic congestion and supporting jobs, jobs, jobs,” said Senator Mikulski, Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee that funds DOT. “A reliable and well maintained infrastructure is vital to creating jobs and keeping Maryland’s economy rolling. With this funding, we are laying the groundwork for a safer and more efficient transportation infrastructure in South Baltimore.” “This award will help the city of Baltimore take the first step toward rehabilitating a vital thoroughfare that is nearly a century old,” said Representative Elijah Cummings, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “The replacement of our aging bridges and tunnels is critical to ensuring mobility in our city and economic growth throughout the region. I will continue to fight for the investments we need to modernize all of our infrastructure.” “Upgrading the Hanover Street Bridge corridor will strengthen Baltimore’s economy, enhance the region’s transportation network, and most importantly, improve the daily lives of South Baltimore residents,” said Congressman John Sarbanes (D-Md.-03). “I have long supported the City of Baltimore’s proposal for this project, and I look forward to seeing the project become a reality.”
09.09.2014	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger announced today $10 million in federal funds to widen Maryland 175 at Fort Meade, relieving base-related traffic and creating quality construction jobs. The project will expand the 2-lane, undivided roadway to six divided lanes complete with a trail, sidewalks and on-road bicycle facilities into Fort Meade. Congressman Ruppersberger, whose district includes Fort Meade and the surrounding community, submitted a letter in support of the competitive grant. The project is one of Anne Arundel County’s highest priorities, serving as a key link to the upgraded Odenton Town Center and adjacent counties where those employed near the project live. “This project is critical to getting citizens out of their cars and back on the job,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I see it as a catalyst for revitalization in the entire area.” With nearly 56,000 men and women who live and work at Fort Meade, the base is one of the state’s largest employers. The project affects MD 175 between Disney and Reece Roads and is expected to increase the span’s life expectancy to 25 years.
08.01.2014	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger today joined an effort to postpone the House of Representatives’ August recess until critical legislation including immigration reform is complete. More than 70 members urged House Speaker John Boehner not to start the planned 5-week recess and remain in Washington. “It’s no surprise that Congressional approval ratings are at an all-time low when we leave important business unfinished,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Marylanders and all Americans deserve representatives who will stay in Washington until the job is done.” In the letter, Ruppersberger and other members urged action on issues including: Passing a budget for fiscal year 2015: If the House does not pass a budget before the close of this fiscal year on September 30, we risk another government shutdown. Passing immigration reform: Congressman Ruppersberger prefers the Senate border bill to provide additional resources to secure the borders and address the flood of undocumented and unaccompanied children. Separately, Congressman Ruppersberger called for the passage of an unemployment insurance extension prior to adjournment. The full text of the letter with signatories can be seen here.
07.28.2014	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today presented awards to the winners of his first-ever annual high school “App Challenge,” three students from Chesapeake High School in Essex. The academic competition, which was open to all high school students who reside in Maryland’s Second Congressional District, required students to create an original software application for mobile, tablet or other computer device on a platform of their choice. The winners – Austen Edelenbos, Christopher Delen and Ruth Ndekhedehe – created an app that serves as a personal guide for a walking tour of popular sites around the National Mall in Washington, DC. The software uses phones’ GPS systems to deploy text and audio information about nearby attractions. The team visited Washington to test the app in person and gather more accurate GPS coordinates. The students have made their app publicly available for free on Google Play. The contest was part of a national effort established by the U.S. House of Representatives to promote science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) innovation. Experts estimate that our country will not produce enough professionals to fill 8.5 million STEM jobs over the next decade. “I want to congratulate these Second District students for winning my first-ever app challenge,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Their creativity and technical expertise is remarkable and I see bright futures ahead for each of them. If they are any example, our community will be generating impressive talent that will help our country innovate and create jobs.” Contest participants were required to submit a video demonstrating and explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process. You can see the winning team’s video here. The app will be featured on the U.S. House of Representatives’ website and will be on display in a U.S. Capitol exhibit. Second place winner Peter Collins of Towson’s Carver Center for Arts and Technology created an app for students to track their service learning hours required for graduation. See Peter’s video here.
07.15.2014	(Timonium, MD) – U.S. Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger today announced that the Baltimore County Fire Department and Abingdon Fire Company will receive nearly $2.4 million in federal funds to buy life-saving equipment. The competitive grants have been awarded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, which funds firefighting equipment, personal protection gear and firefighting vehicles, as well as staffing, recruitment and retention needs. In Baltimore County, $2.3 million will be used to replace aging self-contained breathing apparatus, which allow firefighters to safely breathe in smoky conditions. In addition, Harford County’s Abingdon Fire Company will receive $82,000 under the same program. The company will be purchasing new turn out gear, which is the outer protective suit worn by firefighters. “Every day, first responders are venturing into unknown and extremely dangerous conditions in order to protect the lives of others,” Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger said. “We owe them the very best equipment available to keep them safe as they keep us safe. This grant money will help accomplish that.” Maryland’s first responders have received more than $125 million in AFG funding since 2001.
06.25.2014	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today announced Edgemere teen Emerson Alfonso as the winner of the 2014 Congressional Art Contest for Maryland’s Second District. Emerson, a junior at Patapsco High School and Center for the Arts, submitted a charcoal sketch entitled “Mother and Child.” The piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol complex for one year, providing inspiration to more than 12,000 Capitol visitors and Members of Congress as they make their way to the House floor each day. “I was very impressed with all of our submissions this year, but was particularly struck by Emerson Alfonso’s portrait of his mother holding his cousin,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Emerson’s work will be a daily reminder to my colleagues in Washington that we must continue to prioritize the arts and education for all American children.” Sponsored each spring by the Congressional Institute, the Congressional Art Contest is a national high school visual art competition that recognizes and encourages artistic talent in the nation. Since it began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated in the contest. Emerson’s piece, among 16 other entries submitted by high school students across the Second District, was selected by a panel of local artists and art teachers appointed by Congressman Ruppersberger. Emerson and his family joined Congressman Ruppersberger in Washington today for an unveiling of the exhibit that includes winning entries from districts across the nation. The photo is of Congressman Ruppersberger with Emerson and his father, Pablo, in front of the U.S. Capitol.
06.23.2014	(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski, Congressman John Sarbanes, along with Maryland Veterans Affairs Secretary Ed Chow, onsite at the Baltimore VA Medical Center, part of the VA Maryland Health Care System, Monday for a firsthand look at progress made since a recent audit of the national VA health care system. The Senators and Congressmen participated in a briefing with senior officials and medical staff. All of Team Maryland is committed to making sure that our veterans receive the quality health care services and benefits they have earned and the support they were promised. "I am pleased to see first-hand the steps being taken to improve the unacceptable wait periods for veterans entering the VA healthcare system and we will continue to closely monitor progress, Congressman Ruppersberger said ."No veteran should ever have to wait to receive the care they have earned through their service and sacrifice." “America cannot and should not break our promise to those who have sacrificed so much to protect our great nation,” said Senator Cardin. “We’ve seen bipartisan progress toward correcting the systemic problems facing our veterans health care system, and I am encouraged by the additional staff and resources being committed right here in Baltimore. Most Maryland veterans are receiving quality health care at world-class facilities close to home. But the wounds inflicted by this national breach of trust will take more time to heal as we renew and fulfill our commitment to care for the health and well-being of our veterans.” “Our veterans who have fought on the front lines shouldn’t have to stand in line for the care and benefits they have earned and deserve,” said Senator Mikulski, Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and a member of the Senate Military Family Caucus. “Delays and denial for veterans have dragged on long enough and must be addressed and corrected. Today I heard first-hand a renewed-commitment from the VA working to address timely access to care. This means less time wait for a scheduled appointment and reduced wait times through the addition of primary care physicians and longer clinic hours. Earlier this month I voted in the Senate to pass bipartisan legislation that makes a significant down payment on reforms needed to address this crisis immediately. “Our veterans have made tremendous sacrifices to defend this country and, although we can never fully repay the debt we owe them, we must always fulfill our commitment to these brave men and women,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “We must ensure that Maryland’s veterans have access to the high-quality care and benefits they deserve and improving the service they receive is one of my top priorities in Congress.” "I appreciate all Team Maryland is doing to support our Veterans. Senators Mikulski and Cardin and Congressmen Ruppersberger and Sarbanes are ever vigilant to ensure Maryland Veterans get the health care they need and deserve,” said Secretary Chow. “Governor O'Malley, Lt. Governor Brown and the Maryland Department of Veterans Affairs applaud the work of the Maryland Delegation and stand ready to assist in the effort to improve access to health care for veterans" The Baltimore VA Medical Center is the acute medical and surgical care facility for the VA Maryland Health Care System and offers a full range of inpatient, outpatient and primary care services. Earlier this month, Senators Cardin and Mikulski voted in the Senate, and Congressmen Ruppersberger and Sarbanes voted in the House, to pass legislation that will address patient wait times at hospitals and improve accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The bills, which are similar but must be reconciled, would give veterans access to private doctors, community health centers, Department of Defense medical facilities and facilities funded by the Indian Health Service. They would allow veterans living more than 40 miles from a VA hospital or clinic to access more convenient private care. The bills also would provide for the hiring of new medical personnel in an expedited manner at hospitals and clinics that lack enough doctors, nurses and other medical staff to provide quality care in a timely manner and ensures dedicated funding is available to hire health care professionals.
06.02.2014	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today was joined by disabled Marylanders in urging the Social Security Administration to address its backlog of claims for disability hearings. The average wait-time for a disability appeal hearing nationally is 404 days. In the Baltimore hearings office, the wait currently stands at 17 months, or 520 days, the third longest in the country. "Some of these constituents have had to file for bankruptcy, some have lost their home and some have even died before they receive their hearing,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We are not casting blame or even asking for benefits – we are simply asking for these residents to get a hearing in a timely manner.” Social Security’s Baltimore hearing office currently has about 11,500 pending cases. By comparison, the shortest wait in the country stands at six months in Honolulu, Hawaii. Residents in downtown Los Angeles wait an average of 11 months before receiving a hearing. Several constituents caught in the backlog shared their stories of personal and financial hardship at Monday’s event. Curtis Bay resident Rosalie Pack represented her son, Kenneth, who died in May 2013 of the heart-related condition on which he filed his disability claim. Kenneth Pack was an auto mechanic who developed congestive heart failure and depression once he was no longer able to work, according to his mother. His disability claim was filed in March 2013 and his mother is still awaiting a hearing. “Not being able to work and support your family takes its toll on a man,” Rosalie Pack said. “And everything he went through, I also went through.” Congressman Ruppersberger has sent Social Security’s Acting Commissioner, Carolyn Colvin, a letter asking her to develop a plan to address the backlog in the Baltimore hearing office.
05.30.2014	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will be joined by disabled Marylanders in urging the Social Security Administration to address its backlog of claims for disability hearings. Many Marylanders must wait an average of 17 months for their disability appeal hearing – the third longest in the country out of 169 total field offices. There are currently more than 11,500 cases pending before Baltimore’s Office of Disability Adjudication and Review. Several of those constituents will describe the personal and financial hardships they are facing as a result of the backlog. One constituent is still waiting for a hearing for her late son, who died in May 2013 of the heart-related condition on which he filed his disability claim. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Disabled MarylandersWhen: Monday, June 2, 2014 10 AM Where: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger’s District Office 375 West Padonia Road Suite 200 Timonium, MD 21093
05.20.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congress has passed bipartisan legislation authorizing funding for improvements to America’s ports and waterways that will help protect jobs in Baltimore, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger said today. The conference report on H.R. 3080, the “Water Resources and Development Act,” which also authorizes funding for projects tied to drinking water, dams, levees and environmental restoration, just passed the House of Representatives in a 412-4 vote. Congressman Ruppersberger released the following statement: “Finally, vital projects like harbor dredging that have been in limbo since Congress passed the last WRRDA six years ago can begin. This bill also paves the way for the State of Maryland to continue using dredged material from the Port of Baltimore channels to restore Chesapeake Bay islands. This effort is absolutely critical to keeping the Port competitive and protecting the 122,000 local jobs it provides for hard-working families every year. I am also pleased that the bill will help prevent future raids of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund to offset other federal spending. This funding belongs with our ports and our ports alone. This bipartisan vote was rare for such a substantive bill in today’s politically toxic climate. It is refreshing to see Members of Congress reach a compromise that bridges differences among groups like shippers, environmentalists and even budget hawks. This is ultimately a jobs bill and I hope that we can continue working together on common sense investments in infrastructure to get Americans back to work.”
05.13.2014	WASHINGTON – Six members of the Maryland Congressional delegation have written to Pfizer CEO Ian Read concerning the company’s potential acquisition of AstraZeneca, which employs over 3,000 in Maryland. The letter was led by Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) whose district includes the Gaithersburg headquarters of AstraZeneca subsidiary MedImmune. The letter was signed by Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Senator Ben Cardin, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), Congressman Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), Congressman John Sarbanes (MD-3) and Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6). The text of the letter is copied below: Dear Mr. Read, We are writing to express our concern about potential job losses in our state that could flow from Pfizer’s potential takeover of AstraZeneca. We understand you are likely to submit another offer before a May 26 deadline. As you review your options moving forward, we request you give serious consideration to the US jobs at stake in this possible acquisition. Particularly, AstraZeneca currently employs over 3,000 people in Maryland. It has been widely reported that if a deal moves forward, Pfizer has committed to keeping at least 20 percent of the combined company’s research and development workforce in the UK for at least five years, as well as retaining substantial manufacturing facilities at AstraZeneca’s site south of Manchester. Given the distribution of AstraZeneca’s current workforce, we worry that jobs in the United States would be eliminated in the takeover. As you evaluate your next steps, we ask you to extend similar assurances to those you gave in the UK to the research and development workforce in Maryland. AstraZeneca and its MedImmune subsidiary have strong presences in the state, and their workforces are highly skilled and extremely effective. In addition, the MedImmune research facility in Maryland has an international reputation for world-class expertise and is located in the heart of our nation's biotech corridor near the National Institutes of Health. If a deal moves forward, Pfizer would benefit greatly from maintaining their Maryland facilities and workforce. Thank you for your attention in the matter, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski Senator Benjamin L. Cardin C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Member of Congress Chris Van Hollen Member of Congress John Sarbanes Member of Congress John K. Delaney Member of Congress
05.12.2014	(Hanover, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday was joined by jobless Marylanders in urging House leaders to allow a vote to restore unemployment insurance to nearly 33,900 Marylanders who have lost their benefits since the program’s expiration on December 28. A 5-month extension passed the U.S. Senate in April but, to date, House Republicans have blocked consideration of 11 bills to restore this vital safety net. Economists estimate that every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.60 in new economic growth. But the debate over renewing unemployment benefits is about more than dollars and cents, Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It’s about the families and it’s about more than 200,000 veterans and 1 million children who have been affected by the loss of these benefits,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “These people are not lazy. They are not uneducated. They are embarrassed to need the help. And they want to work.” Second District residents whose unemployment benefits have expired shared their stories. Jeanne Keen of Dundalk said she has applied for more than 350 positions, has had 60 phone interviews and 22 in-person interviews without any job offers over the past nine months. “I have now lost my phone and Internet service, which of course makes looking for work even tougher than it already was. And now I am on the verge of losing my home – the only protection I have for me and my family,” Ms. Keen said. “As this situation becomes more desperate, so do the people who are enveloped in it.” The event at the One Stop Career Center in Hanover, Maryland, marked the local launch of the national “Faces of the Unemployed” project to highlight the true impact unemployment is having on families across the country. Marylanders who have lost their benefits are invited to share their stories and photos on Congressman Ruppersberger’s website, www.dutch.house.gov. Stories will be posted outside Congressman Ruppersberger’s office so that other lawmakers can see the faces of Marylanders affected by the loss of unemployment benefits as they walk the halls of Congress every day.
05.09.2014	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will be joined by jobless Marylanders in urging House leaders to allow a vote to extend emergency unemployment insurance. Constituents will share their stories at the event, which marks the local launch of the national “Faces of the Unemployed” project to highlight the true impact unemployment is having on families across the country. Nearly 33,900 Marylanders have lost their unemployment benefits since the program’s expiration on December 28. A 5-month extension passed the U.S. Senate in April but, to date, House Republicans have blocked consideration of 11 bills to restore this vital safety net. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Unemployed MarylandersWhen: Monday, May 12, 2014 10 AM Where: One Stop Career Center 7000 Arundel Mills Circle Hanover, MD 21076 ** The Career Center is located in the mall building near the Chili’s restaurant, opposite the main entrance to Maryland Live casino. There is an entrance located on the exterior of the building behind the concrete retaining wall. The door is marked as the “Sales and Service Training Center (AACC) and AAWDC One Stop Career Center.”
04.30.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) voted tonight in support of legislation that will fund several local military projects and aid Maryland veterans, including the reduction of the massive backlog of benefits claims. The “Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act” for fiscal year 2015 passed the House of Representatives overwhelmingly in a 416-1 vote. The $71.5 billion appropriation represents an overall $1.8 billion cut from the current fiscal year. Spending for military construction programs will decrease over current spending limits, but will increase for veterans’ services. “This bill will help ensure we are protecting those troops on the frontlines and ensuring our veterans have the quality of life they deserve when they return home,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I am particularly pleased that this bill includes funding to address the inexcusable and unacceptable backlog of veterans’ benefits claims, which is bigger in Baltimore than anywhere else in the country.” Nationwide, most veterans wait about 265 days for their benefits claim to be evaluated. But in Maryland, the average wait-time is a staggering 332 days – and many take far longer. The bill fully funds a new digital claims processing system as well as additional staff and overtime. The Act includes several funding requests submitted by Congressman Ruppersberger. Highlights include: $12.4 Million for the Army National Guard Readiness Center in Havre De Grace, Maryland. $166 for the second phase of construction of the CYBERCOM Joint Operations Center at Fort Meade. $20 million to expand Veterans Affairs’ suicide prevention and outreach programs. $589 million for medical and prosthetic research and development under Veterans Affairs.
04.30.2014	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Friday will recognize top Maryland-based federal employees at the 47th annual Baltimore Federal Executive Board awards ceremony. More than 850 federal employees, military service members, family and guests are expected to attend the event, which will kick off national Public Service Recognition Week in Baltimore. More than 300 awards will be distributed to employees, project teams and military service members in 20 different categories. Finalists span all skills and trades, from entomologists to ship foremen. Maryland is home to about 314,000 federal employees and service members, roughly one third of which live in Congressman Ruppersberger’s district. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Members of Maryland’s Congressional Delegation Members of the Baltimore Federal Executive Board Hundreds of federal employees When: Friday, May 2, 2014 Noon Where: Martin’s West 6817 Dogwood Road Windsor Mill, MD 21244
04.16.2014	(Timonium, MD) – Are you a tech-savvy high school student who dreams of being the next Mark Zuckerberg? Have an idea for the next Candy Crush or Instagram? Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger is inviting you to compete in his first-ever annual “App” Challenge! The academic competition, which is open to all high school students who reside in Maryland’s Second Congressional District, requires students to create an original software application for mobile, tablet or other computer device on a platform of their choice. The challenge is part of a national effort established by the U.S. House of Representatives to promote science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) innovation. “Smart students know that the jobs of the future are in the STEM fields,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Experts estimate that our country will not produce enough professionals to fill 8.5 million STEM jobs over the next decade. So this contest is a fun and creative way to get students excited about innovation and help our country address its shortage of STEM graduates. Students entering the competition must provide a YouTube or VIMEO video demo explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process. The deadline for submissions is May 31. More details on submitting a contest entry, the rules of the competition, and helpful programming resources for both students and teachers can be found on Congressman Ruppersberger’s website, www.dutch.house.gov. The submitted apps will be judged by a panel of academic, software and entrepreneurial experts. The winning student’s app in each participating congressional district will be featured on the U.S. House of Representatives’ website and will be on display in a U.S. Capitol exhibit.
03.06.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement regarding the situation in Ukraine. “The crisis in Ukraine continues to grow worse by the day. Russia has chosen to exploit Ukraine as it endures a leadership change. Thousands of Russian troops have occupied the southern Ukrainian region of Crimea, taking over airports and government buildings. Russia is violating Ukraine’s sovereignty. Before the situation escalates any further, I would encourage Russia to agree to Ukraine’s invitation of diplomatic talks.” ###
02.18.2014	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) was joined today by the family of Yeardley Love in announcing legislation that would create an annual “National One Love Day” each May 3 to increase awareness of dating violence. The bill is named for Love, a Baltimore resident, who was the tragic victim of relationship violence while in college at the University of Virginia on May 3, 2010. “Having just celebrated Valentine’s Day, this season is a great time to have just one conversation about what a healthy relationship is,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I commend the entire Love family and the One Love Foundation for their tireless work toward ending relationship violence, especially among young people, in Yeardley’s memory. I look forward to working with the Maryland delegation to get this bill passed.” Each year, millions of children, women and men are physically abused by family members and others with whom they are intimate. In fact, nearly one-third of all female homicide victims are killed by their husbands, ex-husbands or boyfriends. National One Love Day will show support for these victims as well as the thousands of organizations and workers who fight relationship violence through social media campaigns, advertisements and representative clothing like buttons and bracelets. “I am continually amazed at the support and efforts in Yeardley’s honor to create widespread awareness of Relationship Violence,” said One Love founder Sharon Love. “We have a long way to go and will need the help of many as we continue to work hard, so that one day we can put an end to Relationship Violence.” “I have been honored to be a part of the One Love team from being on the board to creating the Foundation’s programs that will help change the tide in relationship violence,” said Tim Watkins President & CEO of Renegade Communications, and member of the One Love Foundation’s National Advisory Counsel. “Now more than ever people of all ages need to be aware of relationship violence and its effects on the community, the families, and the victims.”
01.15.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement on the Fiscal Year 2014 Consolidated Appropriations Act, known as the omnibus, which passed overwhelmingly today in a 359-67 vote. “After a year of partisan bickering and inaction, members of the House of Representatives finally came together today and passed significant legislation that will keep our government funded through the end of the year. But this should be the norm – not the exception. Americans are demanding that we do the jobs we were elected to do. Once again, I would describe the bill as imperfect, but I believe it is a fair compromise that will ultimately help create jobs and rebuild our economy. I strongly support this bill’s investments in education – specifically the Head Start program – as well as in infrastructure improvements, public safety programs and medical research that will benefit our wounded warriors. I am pleased the bill will shield federal workers from additional furloughs. I am disappointed that this bill does not restore unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed, including 25,000 Marylanders whose benefits prematurely expired in December. I am proudly cosponsoring stand-alone legislation to resurrect the emergency unemployment compensation program for three months and am calling on House leadership to allow a vote on this critical issue immediately.” The 2014 omnibus bill contains several provisions of particular interest to the Second District, including: $160M for the continued growth of the U.S. Cyber Command at Ft. Meade $5 million for oyster recovery efforts in the Chesapeake Bay $22 million to dredge Port of Baltimore shipping channels $4 million for an Air National Guard Cyber/ISR facility at Martin State Airport $210 million to replace the Public Health Command Lab at APG
12.19.2013	(Baltimore, MD) ― Today, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger was joined by Governor Martin O’Malley, as well as Congressmembers Elijah E. Cummings, Steny Hoyer, Chris Van Hollen, Donna Edwards, John Sarbanes and John Delaney in sending a letter to the leadership of the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee expressing support for the Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act (S.1187; H.R.2788; H.R.2994). These bills would extend protections set to expire on January 1 that enable homeowners to negotiate a resolution with their lenders on their underwater mortgage loans without the threat of a large tax bill. “Struggling homeowners should not be penalized for doing the right thing by seeking a resolution with their lender before they reach foreclosure,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We must do everything we can to help families stay in their homes and off the streets and renewing these protections will go a long way toward that goal.” “Congress should be doing everything in its power to help hardworking families still struggling to make ends meet as we recover from the recession,” said Congressman Cummings. “The Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act would renew existing protections that ensure struggling homeowners who receive the mortgage modifications they so desperately need are not taxed for these modifications. Renewal of these protections is absolutely critical.” "Extending the Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act will go a long way toward mitigating the long-term effects of foreclosure on hardworking families,” said Governor O’Malley. “While Maryland has passed what the Washington Post called some of the most ‘sweeping’ foreclosure reforms in America, we still have much more work to do to protect the dignity of every home. That's why we must exercise every possible option we have to help families get back on their feet again and foster strong, growing communities in Maryland and across the nation." “The housing market in Maryland was hit hard by the economic recession, especially in Prince George’s County,” stated Congressman Hoyer. “We ought to do everything we can to assist struggling homeowners as our economy continues to recover, and extending these homeowner protections beyond January 1 would provide important relief to families here in Maryland and across the country.” "While our economy is improving, millions of Americans are still struggling to make ends meet," said Congressman Van Hollen. "We should be helping people get on track with their mortgages, not whacking them with a huge tax bill when they're down. Renewing these protections will go a long way to help families who are working to keep their homes." “There are many homeowners in my district and across the country who continue to struggle with underwater mortgages,” said Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards. “It is critical that Congress extend the Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act to ensure that they don’t face the additional financial burden of a large tax bill as a result of a loan modification.” “Middle class families who are struggling to stay in their homes shouldn’t have to shoulder the added financial burden of a hefty tax bill,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “It makes no sense to pursue mortgage modification policies and then tax homeowners because they have successfully reached a mutually beneficial agreement with their bank." “We all understand that the progress of the economic recovery has been too slow and the results uneven,” said Congressman Delaney. “That’s why it’s so essential that we do everything we can to allow more middle class Marylanders to maintain their hold on the American Dream. I thank Congressman Cummings for his leadership on this issue and his work to help struggling homeowners.”
12.12.2013	(Washington, DC) –Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on the bipartisan budget deal passed in the U.S. House of Representatives: “No one walks away from a compromise completely satisfied. I supported a budget proposal today that, while imperfect, will help avert another government shutdown and roll back many of the senseless cuts under sequestration. It will better enable American businesses to plan for the future after years of short-term budget patches. There are things to both like and dislike about this bipartisan deal. The bill leaves Social Security and Medicare intact and replaces nearly two-thirds of the across-the-board cuts known as sequestration to key investments like education, medical research and public safety set to begin in January. And, while I oppose changes to cost-of-living adjustments for our military retirees and to the federal pension contributions of civil servants, this bill provides a level of stability that is important for government workers still feeling the consequences of October’s shutdown. I also appreciate that current federal employees are exempt from these changes. Regrettably, the deal does not extend unemployment benefits for millions of jobless Americans and I urge House leaders to allow a vote on this critical lifeline before adjournment. Americans are sick and tired of partisan squabbling in Washington. It is my hope that this compromise will be a small step toward progress on larger issues such as tax and entitlement reform as well as long-term deficit reduction.”
11.20.2013	(Washington, DC) –Members of a nonprofit organization representing federal health professionals have donated more than 1.5 million hotel reward points to a program that helps defray the travel costs of wounded warriors. “Hotels for Heroes,” which was created by bipartisan legislation passed by Congress, enables patriotic Americans to donate their hotel reward points to troops receiving care through the military health system as well as their families. Sustaining Members of AMSUS, The Society of Federal Health Professionals, have donated 1,579,300 reward points from their personal accounts since February, enough to provide about 105 nights of free lodging. The organization was inspired to launch a donation drive after its past chairman saw Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger discussing the program on cable television, its leadership said. “This is a great demonstration of the dedication and commitment of the AMSUS sustaining members on behalf of our fighting forces,” said Vice Admiral Michael Cowan, executive director of AMSUS. “I express our deep gratitude to the individual SM Members who gave so generously and made this possible.” “Hotels for Heroes,” which was authored by Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Ben Cardin in 2012, is currently available to rewards customers of Marriott, Wyndham, AmericInn and Best Western hotels. The program is modeled off the national “Hero Miles” program, which was created by Congressman Ruppersberger and enables the American public to donate their frequent flyer miles to wounded warriors and their families. “This is yet one more example of the patriotic and generous spirit of hard-working Americans,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “The AMSUS contribution to this program – which often brings family and friends to the bedsides of recovering wounded warriors – is inspiring. I commend all members who donated to this worthy cause.” “We all want what is best for our wounded warriors and now the incredible professionals of AMSUS have provided a generous gift that will help ensure support is available to more of our troops and their families in times of need,” said Senator Cardin. “The success of the ‘Hotels for Heroes’ program continues to be in the great partnerships that allow Americans to help those who have served our country so bravely.” “Hotels for Heroes” is administered by the Fisher House, a non-profit organization that opens its homes to military families visiting their injured loved ones at hospitals across the country. So far, the program has provided nearly 3,000 free nights to military families “Thanks to generous donations like this, ‘Hotels for Heroes’ has already saved families over $400,000 in lodging costs, and served nearly 700 families,” said Ken Fisher, Chairman and CEO of Fisher House Foundation. “We thank AMSUS and all their members for their generous donations.” AMSUS represents nearly 8,000 members in all healthcare disciplines and serve in the Active and Reserve Components of all of the uniformed services as well as the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs. AMSUS created the Sustaining Members Section in 1953 to bring together private healthcare industry representatives with key Department of Defense, Department of Veterans Affairs, and the U.S. Public Health Service decision-makers.
11.19.2013	(Timonium, MD) –Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will host a town hall forum for United States veterans and their families living in the Second Congressional district. The event will feature speakers who will provide legislative updates on veterans issues at both the federal and state levels. Veterans will also have an opportunity to visit booths staffed by numerous veterans service organizations that can help connect them with their benefits. “Though Veterans Day has recently passed, I believe everyday is an opportunity to honor those who have served our country,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This event is a great chance for local veterans to speak their minds, ask questions and receive individual help accessing their benefits.” Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Delegate Susan Aumann Dennis Smith, Director, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Maryland Health Care System Secretary Edward Chow, Maryland Department of Veterans Affairs Local Veterans When: 10 AM – 12 PM, Monday, November 18, 2013 Where: Parkville American Legion Post 183 2301 Putty Hill Avenue Parkville, MD 21234
11.08.2013	(Timonium, MD) –Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will host a foreclosure prevention workshop in Owings Mills tomorrow, Saturday, November 9, 2013, to help keep Maryland families in their homes. The workshop will give Second District homeowners a chance to meet one-on-one with their mortgage lender, servicers and counselors. This is the sixth such workshop Congressman Ruppersberger has hosted since 2010, helping hundreds of families facing foreclosure. Attendees are encouraged to bring the following materials to the workshop: Hardship Letter Last Two Months’ Bank Statements Last Two Pay Stubs 2009 or 2010 Tax Return Any Notification Regarding Foreclosure Any Other Relevant Documentation Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) MortgageLenders Housing Counselors Maryland Families What: Ruppersberger to Host Foreclosure Prevention Workshop When: 10 AM – 12 PM, Saturday, November 9, 2013 Where: Randallstown High School 4000 Offutt Road Randallstown, MD 21133
11.05.2013	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger on Wednesday will host a workshop for constituents who need assistance securing financial aid for college. “College is Possible: Tips on How to Get in and How to Pay for It,” will be held in Edgewood and feature financial aid experts to help students and parents learn about ways to make the dream of going to college a reality. The event is open to all Second District residents. “Expanding access to college will strengthen our economy and create a pipeline of jobs for the future,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Unfortunately, the cost of tuition continues to rise, but help is available. Every child can have the opportunity to go to college.” Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Representatives from The College Board Representatives from the Maryland Higher Education Commission What: “College is Possible: Tips on How to Get in and How to Pay for It” When: Wednesday, November 6, 2013 7 PM – 9 PM Where: Harford County Sheriff’s Office, Edgewood Station 1305 Pulaski Highway (Route 40) Edgewood, Maryland 21040
10.18.2013	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger on Monday will host a workshop for constituents who need assistance securing financial aid for college. “College is Possible: Tips on How to Get in and How to Pay for It,” will be held in Dundalk and feature financial aid experts to help students and parents learn about ways to make the dream of going to college a reality. The event is open to all Second District residents. “Expanding access to college will strengthen our economy and create a pipeline of jobs for the future,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Unfortunately, the cost of tuition continues to rise, but help is available. Every child can have the opportunity to go to college.” Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Representatives from The College Board Representatives from the Maryland Higher Education Commission What: “College is Possible: Tips on How to Get in and How to Pay for It” When: Monday, October 21, 2013 7 PM – 9 PM Where: North Point Library Meeting Room 1716 Merritt Boulevard Baltimore, Maryland 21222
10.17.2013	Ruppersberger says deal will preserve country’s financial reputation (Washington, DC) – Tonight, Congress passed legislation to reopen the government until January 15, 2014, and increase the country’s borrowing authority until February 7. The bill also authorizes back pay for federal workers furloughed during the 16-day shutdown. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement: “While this deal is not perfect, it will return hundreds of thousands of Americans to work and ensure our country’s bills are paid on time. It will ultimately preserve our country’s sterling financial reputation. This reckless 16-day shutdown has cost taxpayers $300 million per day and could have been avoided if all lawmakers put what’s best for the country ahead of their personal ideology. The shutdown has hurt families already and default would have made a bad situation worse, increasing interest rates on mortgage loans, auto loans and credit cards and jeopardizing critical support to veterans and seniors. Lawmakers must learn that compromise is not a dirty word. I look forward to restoring regular order to Congress and passing a responsible budget as we have been elected to do. We must work together to avoid a repeat of this calamity when the funding and debt ceiling deadlines in this bill expire next year.”
10.07.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger applauded passage of House legislation approving back pay for furloughed workers affected by the government shutdown this weekend. The House on Saturday unanimously passed the “Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act,” which was cosponsored by Congressman Ruppersberger and Maryland’s entire Democratic delegation. The bill now heads to the Senate. Congressman Ruppersberger was also among 200 lawmakers to send House Speaker John Boehner a letter urging a vote on a clean government funding bill, known as a continuing resolution, which would immediately reopen the government. The group believes there is enough bipartisan support to pass a funding bill without political riders regarding healthcare reform. Speaker Boehner has declined to bring the legislation to the House floor for a vote. Economists estimate the shutdown is costing taxpayers $300 million per day, totaling $2.1 billion so far. “I am hopeful that furloughed workers will eventually get paid – but let’s get them back to work,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Rather than working together to improve healthcare reform, a group of lawmakers are obsessed with repealing a law that has been upheld by Congress more than 40 times, reaffirmed by our country’s highest court and ballot-tested during the most recent election. Taxpayers are now paying the price as are contractors, small business and our national security.” About 800,000 federal workers across the country have been furloughed as a result of the shutdown currently in its seventh day. The furloughs affect the 140,000 federal workers in Maryland at agencies and facilities ranging from Social Security to Fort McHenry. Many other federal workers are currently on the job without knowing when they will get paid. Congressman Ruppersberger, Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, is particularly concerned about exposure to terrorists and other national security threats. Some intelligence collection and analysis agencies are currently operating with a quarter or less of their civilian employees.
10.02.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger is sponsoring bipartisan legislation to ensure federal employees who are furloughed during the government shutdown will be paid retroactively once it reopens. The “Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act” is cosponsored by Maryland’s entire Democratic delegation. About 800,000 federal workers across the country will not receive a paycheck as a result of the shutdown currently in its second day. The furloughs affect the 140,000 federal workers in Maryland at agencies and facilities ranging from Social Security to Fort McHenry. Many other federal workers are currently on the job without knowing when and if they will get paid. “Our federal workers have been subjected to a relentless assault over the past several years, having already endured a 3-year pay freeze, salary cuts and furloughs from sequestration,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “These hard-working men and women should not be punished because a handful of extreme politicians refuse to compromise. This bipartisan proposal will shield many Maryland families from Congressional inaction and reaffirms our commitment to the federal workforce.” Furloughed federal employees received retroactive compensation during previous government shutdowns.
10.02.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today applauded the demise of a proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility at Sparrows Point after years of community opposition. Virginia-based AES Corporation has filed a motion with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission indicating it has decided to vacate its proposed facility and pipeline in Baltimore County. “Today, LNG at Sparrows Point is officially dead in the water,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “While I remain concerned about our country’s reliance on foreign energy sources, I have said from the very beginning that this was the wrong proposal at the wrong place and at the wrong time. It provided absolutely no benefit to the community in which it was to be built.” Congressman Ruppersberger contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application, including FERC, the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Coast Guard. Since January 2006, he expressed concerns that LNG, a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited, posed a significant security risk to nearby neighborhoods as well as motorists on the Chesapeake Bay Bridge. The proposed site was less than two miles from homes in Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere and LNG tankers would have to travel beneath the Bay Bridge to reach the Sparrows Point facility. Moreover, AES was unwilling to pay for new security procedures, leaving Maryland taxpayers to foot the bill even though the natural gas would be pumped out-of-state. The proposal also left unanswered questions related to impacts on endangered and threatened species that live in environmentally-sensitive areas of the Chesapeake Bay.a
10.01.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on the first government shutdown in 17 years: “The effects of this shutdown will be felt acutely here in Maryland, home to more than 140,000 federal employees and contractors. Many of these hard-working men and women – including my staff and constituents – are now facing indefinite furloughs, jeopardizing their ability to support their families, their communities and their country. Rather than focus on improving the healthcare reform bill, opponents in Congress have tried to repeal it through the legislative process, the electoral process and the judicial process and failed each time. Now they are holding the government hostage, risking the lives and livelihoods of ordinary Americans, to get their way. That is not governing – that is bullying. Enough is enough. It is time for both parties to set aside ideological leanings, end this shutdown by passing a clean government funding bill and move forward with responsible solutions to our budget challenges.”
09.27.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced that Maryland will be receiving $1.7 million in federal grants to hire local police officers, including 10 within the Baltimore Police Department. The funds are from the Department of Justice’s COPS Hiring Program (CHP), which enables local law enforcement agencies to hire new or rehire laid-off law enforcement officers. The jobs created, preserved, or refilled with CHP dollars “directly improve the quality of life for Marylanders,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “When times are tough, we have to re-invest in the basics and that’s what this grant is all about,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This funding will put police officers back on the beat, supporting their families and keeping us safe in the process.” CHP also provides 100 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for three years for newly hired, full-time sworn officer positions and for rehired officers who have been laid off as a result of local budget cuts. Other local jurisdictions to receive grant funding include Bladensburg, Hagerstown and Seat Pleasant. Since 2009, 17 Maryland communities have received $28.5 million to hire or retain 145 police officers.
09.20.2013	(Washington, DC) – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a continuing resolution to fund government operations into the next fiscal year through December 15, 2013. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement: “Today, for only the second time in my Congressional tenure, I voted against stopgap funding because it serves only to reinforce sequestration for most government agencies. I strongly agree that we need significant spending cuts, but it must be done in a strategic, responsible manner. Furthermore, this bill contains not one but two partisan and irresponsible riders. The first directs the President to pay certain debts but not others in the event that Congress fails to raise the debt ceiling. This would force the Treasury to pay China but not our active-duty military and veterans. The other defunds the healthcare reform law. Instead of taking the 42nd vote to repeal or defund Obamacare, Republicans and Democrats should be working together to address outstanding concerns. The across-the-board cuts are undermining our national security and our national economy. My district is home to two military installations and NSA and I see first-hand how sequestration is making us weaker as a nation. Even funding for essential services such as teachers, firefighters and police has been reduced indiscriminately. This bill puts our country in serious jeopardy of a government shutdown, which would only exacerbate these consequences. It fails America. It fails our families, our counties, our states, our seniors, our schools and our troops. I believe lawmakers are focusing too much on political ideology and not on practical solutions to our country’s challenges. It is time for both parties to set aside our ideological leanings and do what’s right for the American people.”
09.16.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced a $520,000 federal grant to help the Economic Alliance of Greater Baltimore create jobs in Maryland’s growing biotechnology industry. The grant, awarded by the federal Economic Development Administration, will create a “Healthcare Regional Innovation Cluster” to take new medical technologies from the research lab to the marketplace. “Medical research is our best hope for finding cures and improving treatment, but it’s also essential to Maryland’s economy,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This grant is a common sense public investment in jobs and community that will help even more Maryland families support themselves.” Maryland is home to many bio-health research assets, including the National Institute of Health, the Food and Drug Administration, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, John Hopkins University, the University Systems of Maryland, and dozens of biotech companies. The state’s life sciences sector has generated one third of all job gains over the past decade and is now supporting more than $9.6 billion in salaries for Maryland families. The Economic Alliance of Greater Baltimore is a nonprofit organization of business owners, elected officials and academic leaders who work to promote business investment, retention and growth in the Baltimore region.
09.13.2013	(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Friday joined Maryland Comptroller Peter Franchot in kicking off a campaign to help local nonprofits currently in jeopardy of losing their federal tax-exempt status. Small nonprofits can lose their tax exemption under a 2006 law that requires them to electronically submit certain annual filings. About 8,000 Maryland nonprofits have yet to file the requisite forms and could soon by subject to corporate taxes. Moreover, Marylanders who have donated to these organizations may not be able to claim their gifts as charitable contributions for tax purposes. “The services provided everyday by local nonprofit organizations are vital to the health and safety of countless Marylanders, especially during this difficult economy. It’s our duty to protect these organizations as they help our friends and neighbors. I’m proud to support the efforts of the Comptroller’s Office to bring this important issue to the attention of the nonprofit community,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. Comptroller Peter Franchot announced that his office recently started sending out letters to alert representatives of local nonprofit organizations that they are in jeopardy of losing or have already lost their federal tax-exempt status for failing to file the requisite Form 990 to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for three consecutive years. The federal law change mandates most small tax-exempt organizations with annual gross receipts equivalent to or less than $50,000 to submit the Form 990 or face revocation of tax exempt status. “As Maryland’s Comptroller, I want to do everything in my power to ensure that each and every Maryland nonprofit organization, and its mission, is not placed in jeopardy by this matter,” said Comptroller Franchot. “Therefore, my office stands ready to help affected nonprofits resolve their situation and return to good standing, as quickly and as easily as possible.” Prior to 2006, small nonprofits were not required to complete and submit Form 990. However, most small tax-exempt organizations whose annual gross receipts are normally $50,000 or less are now mandated to electronically submit Form 990-N, also known as the e-Postcard, unless they choose to file a complete Form 990 or Form 990-EZ instead. Nonprofit organizations risk automatic revocation of their federal tax-exempt status if they fail to file the requisite form for three consecutive years. Recently, the IRS provided the Comptroller’s Office with a list of Maryland organizations in jeopardy of losing their tax exemption. Affected organizations can take the following steps to return to good standing with the IRS: • Call the IRS toll free hotline for tax exempt entities, 1-877-829-5500 for the most updated status report; • Visit the IRS website that includes explanations of the process and Frequently Asked Questions, by logging on to www.irs.gov/Charities-&-Non-Profits ; • Contact the Comptroller of Maryland Ombudsman’s Office for answers to general questions at 410-260-4020 or ombudsman@comp.state.md.us ; • Visit the Comptroller of Maryland website at www.marylandtaxes.com and click on the hotlink for At-Risk Non Profits; • Contact the office of your U.S. Senator or Representative for help navigating the IRS system.
09.12.2013	Public can exchange cash for rolls of new Fort McHenry quarter(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Friday will join United States Treasurer Rosie Rios in launching a new coin honoring Fort McHenry in a historic event kicking off the Star-Spangled Banner Defenders Day Weekend. The quarter is the 19th created by the U.S. Mint under the America the Beautiful Quarters® Program, which honors 56 national parks and other historic sites. The Mint is issuing five new quarters depicting the sites on the reverse (tails side) each year of the 12-year initiative. After the ceremony, members of the public can exchange their cash for $10 rolls of Fort McHenry quarters at face value. Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger U.S. Treasurer Rosie Rios Senator Ben Cardin Congressman Eljiah Cummings Congressman John Sarbanes Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake When: Friday, September 13, 10:00 AM Where: Fort McHenry National Monument and Historic Shrine 2400 East Fort Avenue Baltimore, MD 21230
09.11.2013	Economic Alliance of Greater Baltimore to receive $520,000 grant (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced a $520,000 federal grant to help the Economic Alliance of Greater Baltimore create jobs in Maryland’s growing biotechnology industry. The grant, awarded by the federal Economic Development Administration, will create a “Healthcare Regional Innovation Cluster” to take new medical technologies from the research lab to the marketplace. “Medical research is our best hope for finding cures and improving treatment, but it’s also essential to Maryland’s economy,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This grant is a common sense public investment in jobs and community that will help even more Maryland families support themselves.” Maryland is home to many bio-health research assets, including the National Institute of Health, the Food and Drug Administration, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, John Hopkins University, the University Systems of Maryland, and dozens of biotech companies. The state’s life sciences sector has generated one third of all job gains over the past decade and is now supporting more than $9.6 billion in salaries for Maryland families. The Economic Alliance of Greater Baltimore is a nonprofit organization of business owners, elected officials and academic leaders who work to promote business investment, retention and growth in the Baltimore region.
09.04.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin along with Representatives Elijah Cummings and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) in announcing that the Maryland Port Administration has been awarded $10 million in federal funding to expand the handling capacity at the Fairfield Marine Terminal at the Port of Baltimore through the U.S. Department of Transportation's (DOT) Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program."Already one of Maryland's biggest economic engines, the Port of Baltimore will now be able to support more hard-working families with the help of this federal grant," Congressman Ruppersberger said. "This is exactly the type of common sense investment we should be making to spur job growth in our own community."According to the Maryland Port Administration, the project will expand the handling capacity at the Fairfield Marine Terminal at the Port of Baltimore. This project replaces an obsolete and dilapidated wet basin in the Port of Baltimore with a new 7.6-acre, rail-served cargo lay-down area within a strong export/import auto and roll-on/roll-off cargo terminal.The project completes a long-planned redevelopment of the Fairfield Terminal wet basin beneficially using dredged material from the Seagirt container terminal access channel as fill material, resolving navigation safety concerns for larger vessels and providing multiple regional and national benefits. Rail access in the project will increase intermodal flexibility for the export of U.S. manufactured cargo, and will return the area to a state of good repair for the benefit of the overall transportation system.The Port of Baltimore is a major economic engine for America and Maryland, supporting more than 50,000 jobs across the state - including 14,630 direct jobs. Among U.S. ports, Baltimore receives the top rank for handling roll on/roll off cargo, trucks, imported forest products, and imported gypsum and sugar. It is also the largest automobile exporter and importer in the country."This public investment in the Port of Baltimore is about jobs, jobs, jobs," Senator Mikulski said. "From the dock workers who unload the ships to the manufacturers who rely on cargo transported by the ships, the Port means jobs. Through construction jobs today, preparing the Port for the bigger ships that will soon be sailing through the widened Panama Canal, we are supporting jobs tomorrow that will keep Maryland's economy rolling.""The Port of Baltimore is an economic engine for our state and a bell weather for our nation's economic health," said Senator Cardin. "Through a solid partnership with the federal government, we are ensuring that the Port of Baltimore is well positioned for the future. Such investments translate into greater activity for the Port and more jobs for Marylanders.""The announcement that the Port of Baltimore has been selected to receive a TIGER grant to fund the completion of the Fairfield Terminal is great news for the Port, the State of Maryland, and all of the customers who will be able to use the terminal," Congressman Cummings said. "This investment, which will expand the movement of freight while supporting jobs and adding to our State's economic growth, is precisely the kind of improvement the TIGER program was created to make.""The Port of Baltimore is one of Maryland's most valuable assets and this federal investment will increase the Port's capacity and create jobs," said Congressman Sarbanes. "As our state's economy continues to expand, we must focus on smart investments like this one that spur growth and secure our future. I will continue working with my colleagues in the Maryland delegation to ensure the Port of Baltimore maintains its position as one of the busiest ports on the east coast."
08.19.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement regarding the Washington Post’s reporting of National Security Agency (NSA) privacy violations. "Press reports outlining alleged privacy violations by the National Security Agency (NSA) are incredibly troubling. As Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, I have instructed my staff to thoroughly review and evaluate these allegations. Committee staff has already been in contact with NSA compliance officers to discuss the accuracy of the public disclosures in keeping with the Intelligence Committee's responsibility to conduct aggressive, thorough and effective oversight.There are strict oversight procedures in place to ensure that NSA programs protect Americans’ privacy while carrying out their purpose of preventing terrorism. Under current law, the National Security Agency is required to provide the Intelligence Committee with more than a dozen reports every year on FISA activities, which include information on compliance issues. Some of these reports provide independent analysis from NSA's Inspector General. The information we have received so far does not show any intentional abuse or misuse of NSA's authorities. The compliance issues stem from inadvertent inaccuracies or technological problems. As NSA’s mission grows, it must become more complex to keep up with technology used by suspected terrorists and others who want to harm America. As this occurs, the Committee may need to expand notification requirements in order to receive additional information on NSA activities that are relevant to our intelligence oversight mandate. In addition, we are constantly looking for ways to enhance oversight and may request and require additional reporting and notification by NSA. Keeping America safe and protecting Americans’ privacy are not mutually exclusive goals. I take this responsibility very seriously. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in Congress as well as the Intelligence Community to ensure that we pursue both goals to protect our nation from those who want to harm us and protect the privacy of Americans.
07.30.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined 153 Members of the House Democratic Caucus in sending the following letter to President Barack Obama last week following the consideration of the Amash-Conyers amendment, which would have restricted the operations of the National Security Agency. The letter calls on President Obama to work with Congress to examine the operations of the NSA and consider amendments to existing law that strengthen the balance between our national security and Americans’ civil liberties.As the Members write in the letter, "Although some of us voted for and others against the amendment, we all agree that there are lingering questions and concerns about the current 215 collection program."The Members state further that, "Congress must examine the various national security collection programs and consider amendments to the law. We have been assured that the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board has embarked on a review of the collection programs done pursuant to FISA and the Patriot Act, and has agreed to review various legislative proposals."Below is the full text of the letter:July 26, 2013The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NorthwestWashington, D.C. 20500Dear Mr. President:Thank you for your leadership in honoring our responsibility to protect and defend the American people. As you know, our challenge as elected officials is to preserve Americans’ liberties while protecting our national security.This week, the House of Representatives considered an amendment offered by Representatives Amash and Conyers to H.R. 2397, the Fiscal Year 2014 Defense Appropriations bill. The Amash-Conyers amendment would have limited NSA's ability to collect bulk telecommunications records pursuant to Section 215 of the Patriot Act as codified in Section 501 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Although the amendment was defeated 205-217, it is clear that concerns remain about the continued implementation of the program in its current form.Although some of us voted for and others against the amendment, we all agree that there are lingering questions and concerns about the current 215 collection program. These include:Whether the bulk metadata telecommunications collection program sufficiently protects the privacy and civil liberties of Americans.Whether the program could be tailored more narrowly to better ensure the protection of privacy and civil liberties.Whether the law is being implemented in a manner consistent with Congressional intent.How we can ensure greater transparency regarding FISA court operations, decision making, and issuance of orders.Whether changes to the current FISA Court structure are needed.Congress must examine the various national security collection programs and consider amendments to the law. We have been assured that the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board has embarked on a review of the collection programs done pursuant to FISA and the Patriot Act, and has agreed to review various legislative proposals.We look forward to working with you and Administration officials to address the concerns outlined above and to explore options which will preserve Americans' privacy and civil liberties while protecting our national security.Thank you for your leadership and your attention to these concerns.Sincerely,Democratic Leader Nancy PelosiDemocratic Whip Steny H. HoyerAssistant Democratic Leader James E. ClyburnHouse Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier BecerraDemocratic Caucus Vice Chairman Joseph CrowleyC.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Ranking Member, Select Committee on Intelligence (MD-2)John Conyers, Jr., Ranking Member, House Committee on Judiciary (MI-13)Robert E. Andrews (NJ-1)Joyce Beatty (OH-3)Ami Bera (CA-7)Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) Timothy H. Bishop (NY-1)Earl Blumenauer (OR-3)Suzanne Bonamici (OR-2)Madeleine Z. Bordallo (GU-DL)Robert A. Brady (PA-1)Corrine Brown (FL-5)Julia Brownley (CA-26)Cheri Bustos (IL-17)Lois Capps (CA-24)Tony Cardenas (CA-29)John C. Carney, Jr. (DE-AL)Matthew A. Cartwright (PA-17)Kathy Castor (FL-14)Joaquin Castro (TX-20)Judy Chu (CA-27)David N. Cicilline (RI-1)Yvette D. Clarke (NY-9)Steve Cohen (TN-9)Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11)Jim Cooper (TN-5)Joe Courtney (CT-2)Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7)Susan A. Davis (CA-53)Diana DeGette (CO-1)John K. Delaney (MD-6)Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3)Suzan K. DelBene (CO-1)Tammy Duckworth (IL-8)Donna F. Edwards (MD-4)Keith Ellison (MN-5)Eliot L. Engel (NY-16)William L. Enyart (IL-12)Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18)Elizabeth H. Esty (CT-5)Eni F.H. Faleomavaega (AS-DL)Chaka Fattah (PA-2)Sam Farr (CA-20)Bill Foster (IL-11)Lois Frankel (FL-22)Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11)Tulsi Gabbard (HI-2)Pete P. Gallego (TX-23)John Garamendi (CA-3)Joe Garcia (FL-26)Alan Grayson (FL-9)Gene Green (TX-29)Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-3)Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-4)Janice Hahn (CA-44)Colleen W. Hanabusa (HI-1)Denny Heck (WA-10)Brian Higgins (NY-26)James A. Himes (CT-4)Michael M. Honda (CA-17)Steven A. Horsford (NV-4)Jared Huffman (CA-2)Steve Israel (NY-3)Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18)Hakeem S. Jeffries (NY-8)Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30)Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA-4)Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. (MA-4)Daniel T. Kildee (MI-5)Derek Kilmer (WA-6)Ron Kind (WI-3)Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-1)Ann M. Kuster (NH-2)James R. Langevin (RI-2)Rick Larsen (WA-2)John B. Larson (CT-1)Barbara Lee (CA-13)Sander M. Levin (MI-9)John Lewis (GA-5)Alan S. Lowenthal (CA-47)Nita M. Lowey (NY-17)Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1)Ben Ray Luján (NM-3)Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8)Daniel B. Maffei (NY-24)Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12)Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18)Jim Matheson (UT-4)Doris O. Matsui (CA-6)Betty McCollum (MN-4)Jim McDermott (WA-7)James P. McGovern (MA-2)Jerry McNerney (CA-9)Grace Meng (NY-6)Michael H. Michaud (ME-2)George Miller (CA-11)Gwen Moore (WI-4)James P. Moran (VA-8)Patrick Murphy (FL-18)Jerrold Nadler (NY-10)Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32)Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35)Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-DL)Beto O’Rourke (TX-16)William L. Owens (NY-21)Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-6)Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-9)Donald J. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10)Ed Perlmutter (CO-7)Gary C. Peters (MI-14)Scott H. Peters (CA-52)Collin C. Peterson (MN-7) Pedro R. Piersluisi (PR-DL)Mark Pocan (WI-2)Jared Polis (CO-2)David E. Price (NC-4)Cedric L. Richmond (LA-2)Raul Ruiz (CA-36)Tim Ryan (OH-13)Loretta Sanchez (CA-46)John P. Sarbanes (MD-3)Janice D. Schakowsky (IL-9)Adam B. Schiff (CA-28)Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3)José E. Serrano (NY-15)Terri A. Sewell (AL-7)Carol Shea-Porter (NH-1)Brad Sherman (CA-30)Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9)Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25)Adam Smith (WA-9)Jackie Speier (CA-14)Eric Swalwell (CA-15)Mark Takano (CA-41)Bennie G. Thompson (MS-2)Mike Thompson (CA-5)John F. Tierney (MA-6)Dina Titus (NV-1)Niki Tsongas (MA-3)Chris Van Hollen (MD-8)Juan Vargas (CA-51)Marc A. Veasey (TX-33)Peter J. Visclosky (IN-1)Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (FL-23)Henry A. Waxman (CA-33)Timothy J. Walz (MN-1)Peter Welch (VT-AL)Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24)John A. Yarmuth (KY-3)###
07.24.2013	Preference will be given to military veterans, ensuring promises made are promises kept(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin as well as Representatives Elijah Cummings and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) today announced that the Baltimore County Fire Department has been awarded $1,052,403 in federal funding to hire 11 firefighters through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. A hiring preference will be given to military veterans. "This grant funds just the type of basic needs governments should be investing in during tough times - jobs and citizen safety," Congressman Ruppersberger said. "I am thrilled that Baltimore County will now be able to hire 11 new firefighters and particularly pleased that every effort will be made to hire U.S. veterans. This is about protecting those that protect us." The Baltimore County Fire Department will use the award funds to hire and fill 11 firefighter positions that were eliminated in fiscal year 2013 due to budget restrictions. Using grant funds would decrease the current expenses related to filling vacancies and ensure that the department will not need to reduce services or shift the staffing burden to volunteers. These 11 firefighters will directly provide fire suppression, hazard mitigation, fire and safety education and emergency medicals services to Baltimore communities. "I know how important this funding is to Maryland communities – often it's the difference between life and death. First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing them with the tools and training they need to do their jobs safer and smarter. These funds in the federal checkbook will better safeguard Baltimore County families and businesses by putting more firefighter boots on the ground protecting lives and livelihoods. By hiring veterans first, we will ensure promises made are promises kept. Our veterans who have fought on the front lines shouldn't have to stand in line for a job," Senator Mikulski said. "Every day when our first responders report for duty, they don't know what they will face. That's why I fight every year for the equipment, training, and staffing our protectors and communities deserve." "Neighborhoods across Baltimore will be safer now that we have federal funding to fill these essential firefighter positions. We will be able to attract and retain the most capable first responders, while also providing opportunities for our veterans to utilize their military training in the civilian workplace," said Senator Cardin. "These dedicated men and women put their lives on the line for all of us and we owe them our support." "I congratulate the Baltimore County Fire Department for earning the SAFER Grant. These funds will ensure that our firemen and women will have all of the critical resources they need - including sufficient depth in staffing - to serve the County most efficiently and effectively," Congressman Cummings said. "I am pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has made this investment in our first responders and I am confident that this endowment will only further the Department's commitment to serving and protecting the residents of Baltimore County." "This critical investment will help ensure the Baltimore County Fire Department can protect our communities and keep our families safe," said Congressman Sarbanes. "Our first responders are ready to roll at the sound of the alarm, but they can't do their job safely if the department is understaffed. I will continue working hard to make sure these brave men and women have the resources they need." The goal of any SAFER grant is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing. The objective of the program is to award grants directly to volunteer, combination, and career fire departments to help the departments increase the number of frontline firefighters, and to rehire firefighters who were laid off due to the economy. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received over $131.5 million in fire grant funding, approximately $13.8 million of which was awarded to Fire and EMS departments in Baltimore County.
07.22.2013	Legislation would award prestigious Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Cowley(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today was joined today by Congressmen John Sarbanes and Andy Harris in announcing legislation to posthumously award the prestigious Congressional Gold Medal to R Adams Cowley, founder of the nation’s first trauma center at the University of Maryland. The award is Congress’ highest expression of appreciation for distinguished achievements and contributions to society.Known as the “Father of Trauma Medicine,” Dr. Cowley was a pioneer in emergency medicine and created the system that saved Congressman Ruppersberger’s life after a near-fatal car crash in 1975. Dr. Cowley first proposed the now universally-accepted Golden Hour concept, which describes the first 60 minutes following injury when definitive care is crucial to trauma patients’ survival. He was among the first to perform open-heart surgery, lobby for helicopter evacuations and invented both a surgical clamp that bears his name and a prototype pacemaker.“R Adams Cowley is the perfect fit for the Congressional Gold Medal,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Thousands of trauma patients like me are alive today because of his vision and legacy and thousands more lives will be saved in the future. His hard work laid the foundation for emergency medicine to become a discipline of its own and I encourage my colleagues to support this Gold Medal.”Congressmen John Sarbanes and Andy Harris – along with the entire rest of the Maryland Congressional Delegation – have signed on as original cosponsors of the legislation. Senator Barbara A. Mikulski will be introducing the bill’s counterpart in the U.S. Senate.“For over 50 years, Maryland Shock Trauma has been at the forefront of health science, innovation and research. Its founder, Dr. R Adams Cowley, displayed a deep commitment to patients through innovative new treatments and advances in emergency medical care,” Senator Mikulski said. “I am proud to sponsor legislation in the Senate that would award Dr. Cowley a Congressional Gold Medal, a fitting tribute to this great Marylander and American. His legacy will live on in the generations of lives his pioneering efforts and treatments have saved and improved.”“Dr. Cowley was a trailblazer who revolutionized emergency medicine,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “His innovative medical techniques have saved countless lives and are now universally applied throughout the country. The Maryland Shock Trauma Center that bears his name continues to be a leading institution in life-saving emergency medicine.”“I can’t think of a more qualified person than Dr. Cowley to receive this prestigious award,” said Congressman Harris. “As a doctor who has practiced for nearly 30 years and conducted medical research, I know firsthand how innovative techniques like those championed by Dr. Cowley have saved lives and improved our society. He left a legacy that deserves to be honored with the highest recognition given by Congress.”Today, the R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center boasts a 97 percent survival rate. Hundreds of medical personnel have trained there including members of the U.S. military in preparation for deployment to combat zones.Proposed Gold Medal legislation must be cosponsored by at least 290 members of the House of Representatives and at least 67 Senators before the committees in each chamber will consider it. If passed, R Adams Cowley would be the 156th honoree to receive the award since the American Revolution.
07.19.2013	Legislation would award prestigious Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Cowley (Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will be joined by Congressmen John Sarbanes and Andy Harris in announcing bipartisan legislation to posthumously award the Congressional Gold Medal to R Adams Cowley, who founded the nation’s first trauma center at the University of Maryland. The award is Congress’ highest expression of appreciation for distinguished achievements and contributions to society. Today, the R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center at the University of Maryland Medical Center (UMMC) boasts a 97 percent survival rate. Hundreds of medical personnel have trained there including members of the U.S. military in preparation for deployment to combat zones. Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Congressman John Sarbanes Congressman Andy Harris Dr. Thomas M. Scalea, Physician-in-Chief, Shock Trauma Jeffrey A. Rivest, President & CEO, UMMC When: Monday, July 22, 2013 10:30 AM Where: University of Maryland Medical Center 22 S. Greene Street (Between Baltimore and Lombard Streets) Baltimore, Maryland
07.11.2013	Delegation Expresses Deep Concerns About Civilian Defense Furloughs Beginning This Week (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin (both D-MD), and Representatives Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), John Sarbanes (MD-3), Donna F. Edwards (MD-4), and John Delaney (MD-6) released the following statement urging Congress to replace the sequester with a balanced alternative to deficit reduction after civilian defense employee furloughs began this week: “Beginning this week, hundreds of thousands of civilian defense employees in Maryland and across the country will experience furloughs as a result of Congress’s inability to compromise on a balanced, responsible agreement to reduce the deficit. In addition to the non-defense federal employees in Maryland who have already taken furlough days, over 41,000 of our constituents who work at defense installations will begin furloughs this week, and we once again urge the House to take action to replace the sequester in its entirety with a balanced alternative and end these unnecessary furloughs. “Our civilian defense employees are talented, dedicated men and women who work alongside uniformed personnel and ensure our war-fighters have the resources and support they need while serving in Afghanistan and fulfilling their missions elsewhere in the world. Unfortunately, civilian employees at our seventeen defense installations in Maryland will see their ability to support our uniformed personnel significantly eroded as they are forced to take unpaid leave for one day each week over the next eleven weeks. Many of these hardworking civil servants expect significant financial hardship due to this unfair 20% pay cut, which will cost our state over $137 million and will impact local businesses outside of the gates of these facilities, as well. We are deeply concerned about the harm these furloughs will have on Maryland’s economy and on our nation’s military readiness. “Congress ought to be working toward a balanced agreement to replace the sequester, end furloughs for all federal employees, and put our nation back on a fiscally sustainable path. We continue to urge our colleagues to reach such an agreement as soon as possible. For the sake of working families in Maryland, our uniformed military personnel, and the mission of our defense installations and other federal facilities, we cannot delay.”
07.11.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) and Randy Hultgren (IL-14),have sent a bipartisan letter to House leadership in support of a critical tool that helps local and state governments finance new roads, schools, hospitals, fire stations and more. Joined by 137 of their colleagues, the letter asks leadership to reject any proposal to cap or eliminate the deduction on tax-exempt municipal bonds used to finance the vast majority of infrastructure projects in America’s communities. In his budget proposal for 2014, President Barack Obama suggests limiting the value of tax benefits for top-earning investors in municipal bonds to 28 percent, down from the current 35 percent. Some federal legislators have proposed eliminating the tax exemption on municipal bond interest altogether. “As a former county councilman, county executive and president of the Maryland Association of Counties, I understand that tax-exempt bonds are the most efficient way to fund critical infrastructure jobs that have created hundreds of thousands of jobs in Maryland and across the country,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “If the federal income tax exemption is eliminated or limited, states and localities will pay more to finance projects, leading to less infrastructure investment and fewer jobs. Worse, they will be forced to shift costs to their main revenue source – property taxes – hitting the already-suffering real estate market and the wallets of American homeowners.” “Creating jobs and economic growth must be our top priority. Municipal bonds have been indispensable in Illinois and across America in financing infrastructure projects—projects that create jobs and sustain economic growth,” said Congressman Hultgren. Adding, “The President’s proposal to cap deductions would only raise borrowing costs and limit these vital projects and ultimately add another hindrance on economic recovery.” “With the federal government already needing to tighten its belt and Illinois own state budget crisis, local governments won’t be able to rely on past forms of infrastructure funding. Maintaining the tax exemptions and preserving local governments’ access to the capital markets is one of the best ways to ensure that necessary programs and improvements continue. We have to recognize the importance of these bonds to our counties and towns,” added Hultgren. Municipal bonds have funded more than $1.9 trillion worth of essential infrastructure. Financing went to the construction of schools, hospitals, water, sewer facilities, public power utilities, roads and public transit over the last decade. Last year, more than 6,600 tax-exempt bonds financed over $179 billion worth of infrastructure projects. To read the full letter signed by 139 members of Congress, please click here.
07.05.2013	Ruppersberger Makes Cybersecurity a Priority on Intelligence Committee(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will tour businesses across the Baltimore region that are contributing to its booming cybersecurity industry. The “tech trek” will also include stops at local companies that are taking measures to prepare for and avoid cyber attacks, providing Congressman Ruppersberger with an opportunity to discuss the importance of federal cyber policy with those it impacts the most.Maryland has been ranked #1 in the nation for Innovation and Entrepreneurship by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and is an international leader in growth industries like cybersecurity. There are currently more than 11,000 companies in Maryland that create products and services to protect against cyber attacks.Press is invited to catch-up with Congressman Ruppersberger at WellDoc, a Baltimore-based healthcare technology company that is improving the management of chronic disease through software-based clinical and behavioral algorithms.Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Tom Sadowski, Economic Alliance of Greater Baltimore WellDoc Executives and EmployeesWhen: Monday, July 8, 2013 10:00 AMWhere: WellDoc 1501 St. Paul Street Baltimore, MarylandWellDoc is located opposite Penn Station, in the building on the left at the end of the St. Paul Street bridge. Parking is available on Charles and St. Paul Streets. ########
06.26.2013	Dundalk’s Amber Triplett Wins Congressional Art Contest (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today announced Dundalk teen Amber Triplett as the winner of the 2013 Congressional Art Contest for Maryland’s Second District. Amber, a junior at Patapsco High School and Center for the Arts, submitted a digital photo-manipulation piece entitled, “Just a Dream.” The piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol complex for one year, providing inspiration to more than 12,000 Capitol visitors and Members of Congress as they make their way to the House floor. “I was very impressed with all of our submissions this year, but especially so with Amber Triplett’s,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Amber’s work will have a place of honor in the halls of the U.S. Capitol for the next year and will help remind lawmakers of the critical role the arts play in the education of American children.” Sponsored each spring by the Congressional Institute, the Congressional Art Contest is a national high school visual art competition that recognizes and encourages artistic talent in the nation. Since it began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated in the contest. Amber’s piece, among 36 other entries submitted by high school students across the Second District, was selected by a panel of local artists and art teachers appointed by Congressman Ruppersberger. This year’s exhibit, including Amber’s piece and winning entries from districts across the nation, was unveiled during an awards ceremony in Washington today. Safiya Brown, another Patapsco High student, took second place for her oil painting titled, “A Random Mood.” Calvert Hall student Stephen Kozak earned third place with his scratchboard, “Simplistic Life.”
06.12.2013	U.S. Department of Education review found gross misuse of stimulus, Title 1 funding (Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement regarding an audit conducted by the Office of the Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Education that found misuse of federal stimulus and Title 1 funding by Baltimore City schools: “I supported federal stimulus funding to create jobs by putting more teachers in classrooms and avoiding the layoffs of others – not for harbor cruises, catered dinners and theater tickets. Funding for some of Baltimore’s neediest children was simply squandered and transparency requirements were completely disregarded. This abuse of tax dollars is one example of why many Americans mistrust government. Baltimore City schools must immediately comply with the recommendations contained in the audit.”
06.11.2013	Event will feature players ranging from ages eight to 71 (Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Thursday will help kick-off a 24-hour lacrosse game that will raise money for injured American troops. Players ranging from ages eight to 71 will compete in the second annual “Shoot-Out for Soldiers,” an effort that last year raised more than $120,000 for the Wounded Warrior Project and saw a local veteran and double amputee walk publicly on his prosthetics for the first time. The event combines two of Congressman Ruppersberger’s life-long passions: serving our troops and lacrosse. Congressman Ruppersberger, who currently chairs the bipartisan House Army Caucus and represents two military installations in his district, played lacrosse at University of Maryland and was a member of Team USA. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Army Sergeant Ryan Major, Wounded Warrior USA Head Coach Richie Meade Major League Lacrosse Players What: Ruppersberger to Kick-Off 24-Hour Lacrosse Game to Benefit Wounded Warriors When: 7:45 AM, Thursday, June 13, 2012 Where: McDonogh School 8600 McDonough Road Garrison, Maryland
06.05.2013	Congressman receives “Patriot Award” for “Hero Miles,” “Hotels for Heroes” programs (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today received the “Patriot Award” from the Fisher House Foundation for exceptional support of military service men and women and their families. Congressman Ruppersberger was nominated and selected for his creation of two national programs that help defray travel costs for wounded warriors and their families around the world.In one of his first acts in Washington in 2003, Congressman Ruppersberger created the national “Hero Miles” program to enable patriotic Americans to donate their frequent flyer miles to wounded warriors recovering at military or VA medical centers as well as to friends and family visiting them. Last year, he successfully authored legislation expanding the program to enable Americans to also donate their hotel reward points to military families. Both the “Hero Miles” and “Hotels for Heroes” programs are administered by Fisher House, a non-profit organization that opens its homes to military families visiting their injured loved ones at hospitals across the country. “I am humbled by this award,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “The credit belongs to those Americans who are donating their miles and points to help soldiers heal with their families at their side by helping to reduce travel expenses. Sometimes the love and support of family is the best medicine to help a wounded warrior recover from his or her injuries. It’s one small way to show our nation’s heroes that we appreciate their sacrifices and the sacrifices of their families.” “It is our honor to present this award to Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger,” said Kenneth Fisher, CEO of the Fisher House Foundation. “He has been a steadfast supporter of our men and women in uniform and his support of the Hero Miles program has been critical in our success. This program has provided nearly 40,000 free airline tickets, saving families over $62 million over the years. We are grateful for Congressman Ruppersberger’s undying devotion to our nation and to our military, veterans and their families.” On average, Fisher House issues 1,000 free plane tickets to troops and their families a month. Since it launched last year, Hotels for Heroes has provided military families more than 1,700 nights in participating hotels at a savings of $275,000.
06.04.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) voted tonight in support of a bipartisan funding bill that will honor our pledge to care for our nation’s veterans and provide resources necessary for maintenance and construction of military facilities, including those in Maryland’s Second Congressional District. The 2014 “Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act” passed the House of Representatives in an overwhelming 421-4 vote.The legislation provides nearly $10 billion for military construction projects and $63 billion for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) programs, most of which is used to provide medical care to service men and women. It also mandates steps the VA must take to eliminate the unacceptable disability claims backlog, which is most severe at its Baltimore office.While he voted in favor of the bill, Congressman Ruppersberger disagrees with the overall budget framework – known as the Ryan budget – it reinforces, which leaves in place sequestration and cuts investments for fiscal year 2014 far beyond those agreed to in the Budget Control Act of 2011. The Ryan budget calls for dramatic cuts in crucial investments in most of the remaining appropriations bills.“Although I disagree with the underlying budget message this bill supports, we can’t vote on political philosophy at the expense of our veterans and military families,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I continue to urge House leaders to work on a new, bipartisan budget framework that ends sequestration and responsibly reduces government spending.”The Act includes funding of particular interest to Maryland’s Second District:$21 million to prepare for the Joint Land Attack Cruise Missile Defense Elevated Netted Sensor System (JLENS) program at Aberdeen Proving Ground.$110 million to build a new public health lab to conduct surveillance and analysis of vector-borne and communicable diseases at APG. Lab services will also support toxicological and occupational health evaluations of new materials used by the military.$85 million for a new facility at Fort Meade in support of the new U.S. Cyber Command.$431 million for a High Performance Computing Center at Fort Meade.$58 million for building improvements at the National Security Agency.
05.24.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement following President Obama's speech on counterterrorism measures. “I am pleased to see President Obama continue to uphold his commitment to increase transparency in our country’s counterterrorism effort. I remain deeply concerned about the direct, imminent threat to Americans and the homeland posed by terrorist organizations. I believe that remotely piloted aircraft with precision-guided munitions operating overseas provide a far more discriminate option for stopping terrorists than do troops on the ground. In fact, when used properly drones are the most precise weapons in the history of warfare and can limit civilian casualties. I agree that, as a legal matter, the President has the authority to protect the United States from Al Qaida and its associated forces based on the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including the Authorization to Use Military Force, which Congress passed in response to 9/11. This authority includes the ability to use force when necessary. That being said, drones should only be used in rare circumstances and after thorough legal review. When U.S. citizens have taken up arms against the United States and pose a continuous and imminent threat to us, the U.S. can target them overseas when capture is not feasible and when we have near certainty that innocent civilians will not be killed or injured. We also must make sure that all phases of the operation are conducted in full accordance with the law, including the Constitution. There can be no exceptions. I look forward to working with the President on making our country’s counterterrorism efforts more transparent and even more effective to keep our country and her citizens safe."
05.14.2013	Event also featured the official debut of Baltimore’s mobile veterans center(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) yesterday joined Senator Ben Cardin and local veterans for the official ribbon cutting of the new Baltimore County – Dundalk Vet Center. The center serves as a one-stop shop for a broad range of counseling, outreach and referral services to help veterans transition back to civilian life. Services such as PTSD assessments, marriage counseling and substance abuse help are available at the center free to veterans and their family members. The event also marked the official debut of Baltimore’s new mobile Vets Center, which puts the same services on wheels. The vehicle features a counseling center, two private offices and flat screen TVs and is driven full-time by a veteran. “Many elected officials will tell you that taking care of our veterans and their families is one of their highest priorities, but I see it as an obligation,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “For many veterans lucky enough to return home, actions that seem basic to most of us – like communicating with your spouse, holding down a job, getting a good night sleep – can become challenging. This new Vet Center and mobile Vet Center will help our local heroes overcome these obstacles and get their lives back.” The Vet Center is located in the Danville Square Shopping Center on Merritt Boulevard in Dundalk. All services are free and confidential and available to veterans’ family members as well. Hours of operation are Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Walk-ins are welcome and evening hours are available by appointment. Learn more about the services offered at the Dundalk Vets Center here.
05.10.2013	Baltimore grocery store supplied victims of recent fires with food, clothing(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today awarded a Baltimore-area Giant Food grocery store his first-ever “Good Neighbor” award for stepping up to assist local families affected by recent fires. The Parkside Giant supplied food and clothing after two recent fires in Baltimore’s Moravia community, including one that resulted in the death of four children and their grandmother. A dozen families were displaced by the other fire.The store also routinely provides civic groups with food and paper products for events and low-income neighbors with bread and produce from its shelves.“Being engaged in the community just makes good business sense, but sometimes businesses go above and beyond engagement,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “The Parkside Giant routinely reaches out to offer its neighbors a helping hand not just because it’s good for its bottom line – but because it’s the right thing to do.”Store manager Charles Prescimone was on hand to accept the award. Thanks to Mr. Prescimone’s efforts, families had fresh food within hours of the fires, according to Cecilia Johnson, who is president of the Moravia Park Parent Teacher Community Organization and who nominated the Parkside Giant for recognition. Two of the children who died in the October 2012 fire attended Moravia Park Elementary School. Its principal, William Allen, also attended the event, as did Maryland Delegate Cheryl Glenn.
04.25.2013	(Washington, DC) – The bipartisan Maryland House Delegation met today with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki for an update on how the VA plans to improve the claims process at the VA’s Baltimore Regional Office, which has the largest backlog and highest rate of errors in the country. Participating in today’s meeting were Representatives C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, Andy Harris, and John Delaney. The Delegation applauded Secretary Shinseki’s plan to expedite claims that have been backlogged for more than a year, as well as his announcement in February that the Baltimore Regional Office would receive additional training, an influx of senior staff, and a new digital processing system ahead of schedule. However, they urged the VA to develop a comprehensive plan to improve the functionality of the Baltimore Regional Office and retain a qualified workforce to meet the needs of Maryland’s veterans. Nationally, the average wait time for a veteran’s claim decision is 273 days and approximately 65 percent of the 903,000 pending claims are older than 125 days. In Maryland, the situation is worse with veterans waiting on average 332 days or 11 months for a claims decision from the Baltimore Regional Office. 84 percent of the nearly 20,000 pending claims are older than 125 days. In addition, the Baltimore Regional Office has an error rate of 26.2 percent, while the national error rate is 13 percent. “One of my office’s top priorities is working with local veterans caught in government red-tape, so we know their frustrations first-hand,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “The situation is and has been unacceptable for years. The Maryland Delegation today met with Secretary Shinseki and discussed solutions, which will require adequate staffing and modern technology to deal with the backlog of cases. We will continue to monitor the VA’s progress to ensure our nation’s heroes get the benefits they earned.” “We have an obligation to stand up for the brave men and women who have fought so hard for our nation and ensure they have the care and resources they need to transition to civilian life,” said Congressman Hoyer. “Unfortunately, the large backlog and high rate of errors we are seeing at the Baltimore Regional Office means that we aren’t fulfilling that obligation to Maryland veterans. While the VA is taking positive steps to improve the situation, we have more work to do so that veterans in our state receive their benefits in a timely manner. The entire Maryland delegation is united in our efforts to improve services for veterans and their families and we will continue to work with Secretary Shinseki to do so.” “It was critical that our Delegation have the opportunity to understand the specific measures the Veterans Administration is taking to ensure that all claims are processed as quickly as possible ,” said Congressman Cummings. “Though the Maryland Veterans Benefits Administration office is physically located in my district, the work it does touches the lives of Veterans throughout the region and state. I thank Secretary Shinseki for his time today and am hopeful that we are on our way to providing more efficient and effective service to our Veterans and their loved ones.” “I was pleased to meet with Secretary Shinseki and members of the Maryland Delegation today to discuss the inexcusable backlog problem that continues to plague the VA’s Baltimore Regional Office. It is completely unacceptable that Maryland’s veterans are forced to wait one year, on average, for an initial decision on a disability claim,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “I look forward to continuing to work with Secretary Shinseki, Under Secretary Hickey, and my Maryland colleagues on behalf of the over 450,000 veterans in Maryland who are served by the Baltimore VA office.” “Maryland’s veterans have made tremendous sacrifices to serve our country and they shouldn’t be forced to fight for the benefits they’ve earned,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “Although the VA was slow to react to the severe problems in the Baltimore regional office, I am guardedly optimistic that we’re beginning to turn a corner and will work with my colleagues in the Congress to ensure continued progress.” “The egregious backlog at the VA’s Baltimore Regional Office does not do justice to Maryland’s servicemen and women who served our nation with dignity,” said Congresswoman Edwards. “Maryland veterans and their families rely on these benefits to bridge the gap to civilian life, so it is critical that they receive them in a timely fashion with fewer errors. It is clear that Secretary Shinseki is dedicated to rectifying this wrong by implementing a plan to expedite backlogged claims and improve functionality in the long-term. I appreciate Secretary Shinseki briefing our delegation and expect to receive further updates on the progress moving forward.” “Our veterans deserve the best possible healthcare for serving this country,” said Congressman Harris. “It is unacceptable that the average wait for a claims decision is nearly 11 months at the Baltimore Regional Office. I welcome the plan Secretary Shinseki put forward to improve the healthcare at this facility and look forward to working with him to make sure it gets implemented.” “All Americans, whatever their party, believe that our veterans have earned our support and deserve the benefits they’ve earned,” said Congressman Delaney. “Along with my colleagues in the Maryland delegation, I’m extremely concerned by the reports of a massive casework backlog and long wait times for our Maryland veterans. Having our wounded warriors wait a year to receive disability benefits is unacceptable. I appreciate that Secretary Shinseki recognizes this is a problem. As a delegation we’re dedicated to finding solutions to this problem and we should think out of the box to better streamline the process.”
04.18.2013	Cyber Information Sharing & Protection Act (CISPA) Passes with Overwhelmingly Bipartisan Vote of 288 to 127(Washington, DC) – Congress took an important step forward today towards giving American companies the help they need to better protect themselves against the dangerous cyber espionage campaigns being waged against them by China, Russia and Iran. In a show of leadership and bipartisanship, the House of Representatives today passed the Cyber Information Sharing & Protection Act (CISPA) by a decisive vote of 288 to 127. This important legislation enables cyber threat sharing within the private sector and, on a purely voluntary basis, with the government; all while providing strong protections for privacy and civil liberties. “I am very proud that so many of my colleagues were able to look past the distortions and fear mongering about this bill, and see it for what it really is – a very narrow and focused authority to share cybersecurity threat information to keep America safe. I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to get cyber threat information sharing legislation passed into law this year,” Chairman Mike Rogers said. “Passing this legislation is not just a victory on the House floor. This is victory for America,” said Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. “Our nation is one step closer to making a real difference protecting our country from a catastrophic cyber attack.” Ruppersberger continued, “This has been an open, deliberative, and bi-partisan process where a number of groups came together to share ideas and make a good bill even better. CISPA recognizes that you can’t have true security without privacy, and you can’t have privacy without security. This bill effectively works to protect both. I look forward to seeing it taken up in the Senate," he said. Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Ruppersberger worked openly and collaboratively for over two years with hundreds of U.S. companies, industry associations, privacy and civil liberties groups, and Executive Branch agencies to get this important legislation to this point. This bill is a vital first step toward providing better protection for the networks and systems that Americans depend on every day.
04.17.2013	Grant will pay for 300 new Automatic External Defibrillators(Washington, DC) – U.S. Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger along with Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin as well as Representatives Elijah Cummings and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) today announced that the Baltimore City Fire Department has been awarded $1,449,600 in competitive federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program to purchase life-saving firefighting equipment. The grant funds will allow the Baltimore City Fire Department to purchase 300 Automatic External Defibrillators (AEDs), which enable firefighters to quickly detect and treat life threatening cardiac emergencies. “Studies show that, for each minute defibrillation is delayed, the chance of survival for someone in sudden cardiac arrest is cut by 10 percent,” said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger. “So this grant is putting proven life-saving technology into the hands of our first responders. It’s just the type of investment in basic government services and human lives we should be making.” AFG grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention, as well as public fire safety education. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received more than $123 million in AFGP funding, almost $10 million of which has gone to the Baltimore City Fire Department. “I know how important this funding is to Maryland communities – often it’s the difference between life and death. First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing them with the tools they need to do their jobs safer and smarter,” Senator Mikulski said. “Every day when our first responders report for duty, they don’t know what they will face. That’s why I fight every year for the equipment, training, and staffing our protectors and communities deserve.” “When a natural disaster occurs or we are faced with a terrorist attack, it is our first responders who provide the first line of defense for our citizens,” said Senator Cardin. “This federal funding is an important investment in keeping Maryland families and businesses safe if and when a disaster strikes. It ensures that our first responders have the resources they need to protect us and the equipment and training they need to do their jobs.” “This funding is a significant endowment for the Baltimore City Fire Department and for the public service system of our City. These brave first responders respond to more than 235,000 emergency 911 calls each year, and this funding will equip them to be more effective and efficient in that work,” said Cummings. “I commend the Baltimore City Fire Department on earning this award – an honor that underscores their pledge to provide the best possible service to the people of Baltimore.” “Baltimore's first responders put their lives on the line every day to keep our and communities safe,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “These brave men and women are ready to roll at the sound of an alarm and it's our responsibility to make sure they have first-rate equipment and adequate resources to do their job.” “We are grateful for the efforts of Senator Mikulski and Baltimore’s entire Congressional delegation to secure the AFG grant award for the Baltimore City Fire Department,” said Baltimore Mayor Rawlings-Blake. “This grant funding will support our ongoing effort to improve emergency response and better serve our community.” “This Fire Act Grant will allow us to provide state of the art Emergency Medical care to the residents of Baltimore. I want to thank Senator Mikulski, Senator Cardin and the entire Maryland delegation to Congress for their continuing support of the fire service and especially the City of Baltimore. We would not be able to upgrade our life-saving equipment without your help,” said Baltimore City Fire Chief Clack.
04.16.2013	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger released the following statement after the bombings in Boston today:“Two bombs exploded today in Boston during the Boston Marathon, killing several people and injuring many others. My heart goes out to the families of the victims of the bombings, and the entire Boston community. Our country mourns alongside them. We are still learning more about the bombings. State, local and federal law enforcement officials are working together with the intelligence community to figure out who did this and why. We are receiving briefings as information comes in and will continue to receive updates from the appropriate agencies. The federal government is mobilizing its resources and the Intelligence Community will assist wherever it can. We must hold whoever is behind this despicable act accountable for their actions.”
04.09.2013	(Washington, DC) – Today,Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined Reps. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), John Garamendi (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Jared Polis (D-CO) and Allyson Schwartz (D-PA) in reintroducing the “Innovative Technologies Investment Incentive Act.” This legislation will create jobs, accelerate economic growth, and make targeted investments that keep America on the cutting edge of innovation. “In Maryland, the growing life sciences sector – which includes many small biotechnology firms - has generated one third of all job gains over the past decade and this bill will enable them to expand and hire even more,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It’s exactly the type of common sense jobs bill that lawmakers should be focused on right now.” The Innovative Technologies Investment Incentive Act will:ACCELERATE INNOVATION by providing a 25 percent tax credit for qualified equity investments in eligible high technology and biotechnology small business concerns.INVEST IN QUALITY by directing credit-qualified investments only to those small businesses that have met the federal government’s rigorous requirements for receiving Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grant awards.CONTROL COSTS by establishing a per company cap for the Innovative Technology Investment Credit at one half the value of the receiving company’s SBIR award and an initial program cap of $500 million.REWARD LONG-TERM INVESTMENT by requiring a holding period of at least three years for qualified investments.“As our economy continues to recover, the Innovative Technologies Investment Incentive Act will provide an important boost to America’s most innovative small companies at a time when that boost is needed most,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “Putting Americans back to work is our number one priority. This pro-growth initiative – modeled after the highly successful Maryland Biotechnology Investment Incentive Tax Credit and similar legislation in other states – will leverage private capital to create good-paying jobs, reward innovation, and lay the foundation for our future prosperity.” “High tech businesses are the shining stars of our economy. Northern California’s technology clusters, including the City of Davis, have seen these businesses’ remarkable ability to generate economic growth and jobs,” said Congressman Garamendi. “However, there is a ‘valley of death,’ a slew of barriers that prevent an idea from becoming a profitable product, and foremost among these is stable financing. The Innovative Technologies Investment Incentive Act helps small businesses overcome these challenges and turbocharge America’s job creation machine.” “Colorado’s growing clean energy industry is an essential part of our economy and incentivizing investment is a great way to spur further innovation and job creation,” said Congressman Polis. “I am proud to work with my colleagues to replicate this successful program so that innovative companies across the country can benefit from the same incentives that have proven effective in Maryland.” “Small businesses are the largest job creators in the country. The Innovative Technologies Investment Incentive Act will give our entrepreneurs and innovators the tools and resources they need to continue to grow, hire and compete. Developing America's small businesses is critical to our economic recovery and this bill will help ensure our nation's leadership in the global marketplace,” said Congresswoman Schwartz. To read the text of the legislation, click here.
04.08.2013	Announcement follows Team Maryland letter Thursday calling on U.S. Department of Transportation to postpone closures as members of Congress work on efforts to cancel sequestration(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin as well as Representative John Delaney (all D-MD) today praised U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Ray LaHood’s decision to agree with their request to postpone closure of federal contract air traffic control towers, including five at Maryland regional airports. The announcement follows their letter yesterday calling for a postponement as members of Congress continue to work on efforts to cancel sequestration. That letter is available here. The postponement keeps federal contract air traffic control towers operating at the following Maryland regional airports, which were set to close later this month or in May:Easton/Newnam FieldFrederick Municipal AirportHagerstown Regional AirportMartin State AirportSalisbury-Ocean City Wicomico Regional Airport“I am pleased that the FAA has decided to postpone this decision which would have had negative impacts on Martin State Airport in the 2nd District of Maryland,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “The decision to postpone these tower closures is a hard-fought important step in ensuring Maryland’s safety and economic security,” Senator Mikulski said. “Sequester is having real impacts in real communities with real consequences. I will continue to fight as we work towards a balanced solution to cancel sequester, protect jobs and get our economy rolling.” “Today’s announcement by the FAA to postpone closure of the 149 federal contract air traffic control towers -- including five in Maryland -- is an important step in trying to reach a solution that ensures public safety and addresses the multiples challenges such closures would cause,” said Senator Cardin. “It is one more example of why sequestration is a bad policy that results in jobs loss for American workers and economic hardships for affected communities. I am committed to ending sequestration as soon as possible; it’s bad economic policy for our state and our nation.” “I applaud the FAA’s decision to delay the closures of the control towers in Frederick and Hagerstown. Keeping these towers open is important to local economic development. Hopefully, with this additional time, we can find a long-term solution that works,” said Congressman John Delaney. Friday's decision will delay closure of contract air traffic control towers across the nation until June 15, 2013. Secretary LaHood previously stated that the sequester will slash more than $600 million from the FAA resulting in mandatory furloughs for nearly 47,000 air transportation employees and the closure of 149 federal contract air traffic control towers across the country. Air traffic control towers nationwide with fewer than 150,000 flight operations or 10,000 commercial operations annually would be closed. The Maryland closures could negatively impact national security as well as regional economic security. Last month, Senate Appropriations Committee Chairwoman Barbara Mikulski led passage of a bipartisan continuing resolution to prevent a government shutdown and fund the government though the remainder of Fiscal Year (FY) 2013. She worked to include flexibility for agencies like the FAA to shift funding priorities in order to mitigate the most harmful impacts of sequester, which could have kept the towers open. Unfortunately, this authority was not included in the final bill.
04.01.2013	Volunteers provide free one-on-one tax help to seniors, other residents across Maryland(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is encouraging Maryland residents to take advantage of IRS-certified volunteers who provide free one-on-one tax preparation help to seniors and other middle-income filers at clinics around the state.Dozens of IRS Volunteer Income Tax Assistance and Tax Counseling for the Elderly centers across Maryland are open until the April 15 deadline to file individual federal taxes. Generally, the centers are open to filers ages 60 and older or who earn $51,000 or less a year. In addition to tax filing, volunteers can answer questions about pensions and retirement. Residents can find a tax assistance center near them at www.irs.treasury.gov/freetaxprep.“During these tough economic times, we must do everything we can to ensure hard-working Americans know what tax benefits are available to them,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Every dollar counts, especially now, and these volunteers can help Maryland families get the tax refunds they are entitled to.Congressman Ruppersberger is also calling attention to two tax benefits available to lower-wage working families that can increase the amount of their tax refunds. As many as 25 percent of workers eligible for tax credits including the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and the Child Tax Credit (CTC) fail to claim them each year, leaving hard-earned money on the table.The EITC is a refundable federal income tax credit for low-to-moderate income working individuals and families. The CTC is a refundable tax credit that gives taxpayers a tax credit for each qualifying child under the age of 17. The tax credit generally is worth $1,000 per child.
03.26.2013	Outpatient clinic to serve 80,000 veterans living in Howard and Anne Arundel Counties (Fort Meade, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday joined Army and Department of Veterans Affairs officials in officially opening a new outpatient clinic that will serve 80,000 veterans living in Howard and Anne Arundel Counties. The $4.6 million facility on the Ft. Meade campus features 21 exam rooms, a comfortable waiting area, an audiology booth and state-of-the-art medial technology. Services will include primary care and women’s health services, preventive care, mental health services, optometry, audiology exams and hearing aid fitting, diabetic eye screenings, as well as TeleHealth Services. The 13,300-square foot facility is the first in the country to be LEED-certified for its eco-friendly design, including recycled building materials, water-conserving plumbing and energy-capturing windows. "VA clinics are often the first – and sometimes only – option our veterans have because they are affordable and accessible," Congressman Ruppersberger said. "This clinic is the type of investment we should be making during these tough times to ensure those who have put their lives on the line for our freedom have the best care possible when they return home." The facility is now among six community-based outpatient clinics in Maryland and is open Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. until 4:30 p.m.
03.19.2013	Ruppersberger receives the 2013 “American Financial Leadership Award”(Washington, DC) - U.S. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger yesterday was honored by the country’s leading financial professionals for his efforts to better secure our country’s cyber networks, especially for authoring the “Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act,” known as CISPA. Members of the Financial Services Roundtable presented the 2013 “American Financial Leadership Award” in the Congressman’s Washington office.Since becoming the first freshman member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence in 2003, Congressman Ruppersberger has made cybersecurity a top priority. Now the committee’s Ranking Member, he authored CISPA along with Committee Chairman Mike Rogers (R-MI) to help American companies – including banks and other financial institutions – protect their intellectual property and assets from cyber attacks. CISPA is bipartisan, common sense legislation that will give American companies access to certain classified information on impending cyber threats before the attack occurs.“Everyday, American companies are the victims of increasingly aggressive cyber attacks from countries like Russia and China,” Ruppersberger said. “We must do everything we can to protect these companies – and their customers – from this serious threat. I am humbled that this need and my efforts have been recognized by some of our country’s leading financial experts.”The award has been given annually since 1998 in recognition of leadership on economic issues that help Americans achieve financial independence and give financial services firms flexibility to respond to consumers. Previous winners have included U.S. Senator Max Baucus, Chairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke and U.S. Representative Barney Frank.The Financial Services Roundtable promotes the economic vitality and integrity of its members and the United States financial system. The Roundtable is currently led by its President and Chief Executive Officer, former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty. Member companies include Allstate, Bank of America, Citigroup, E-Trade, Fidelity, ING, State Farm, and Wells Fargo.
03.15.2013	(Washington, DC) – House Intelligence Committee Chairman Michael Rogers and Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced their support for an amendment filed yesterday by Senator DIanne Feinstein to the fiscal year 2013 appropriations bill that would give the Intelligence Community flexibility on how it would make budget reductions required under the sequester. This amendment will not reduce the amount of the required budget reduction -- by even one penny. It will, however, give some latitude to the CIA and the Defense Department intelligence agencies in how they will make these reductions, which will enable them to better manage their operations and thereby avoid the worst potential security impacts of these reductions. The measure of flexibility provided by the amendment is not exceptional, but rather is meant to align with the degree of flexibility that the Department of Defense, as a whole, has under the sequester. Even with this additional flexibility, the Congress will retain its usual budgetary control and oversight of intelligence spending. In announcing his support for the amendment, Chairman Mike Rogers said, “At a time when threats to the United States are multiplying, the Intelligence Community need the flexibility to defeat our enemies.” Ranking Member Ruppersberger said, "To be clear, under this amendment, the same size cut will be made. The Intelligence Community knows it has to take its share of the sequestration burden, but it needs the flexibility to protect this nation’s top priority areas and cut less urgent needs or less immediate programs. The security of our nation must remain one of our top priorities."
03.06.2013	Vote marks Ruppersberger’s first in opposition to a continuing resolution(Washington, DC) – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a continuing resolution for the 2013 fiscal year that funds defense, construction on our military bases and our Veterans Administration but fails to update the remaining 10 appropriations bills in the same manner. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger issued the following statement:“Today, for the first time in more than 10 years in Congress, I voted against a continuing resolution because the bill serves only to reinforce the arbitrary across-the-board spending cuts known as sequestration for the vast majority of government agencies. Sequestration will cost our national economy and our national security.Here in Maryland, nearly 140,000 workers at facilities like Fort Meade, NSA, Aberdeen Proving Ground and the Port of Baltimore are facing furloughs that will jeopardize their ability to support their families and do their jobs supporting our national security. Many small businesses will lose loan guarantees. Support for our local teachers, firefighters and police will take a significant hit. We’ll lose nearly $50 million in funding for medical research, which supports thousands of jobs in Maryland. We could even see the closure of the air traffic control tower at Martin State Airport – eliminating an extra set of eyes in a busy airspace, as well as revenue.Maryland can’t afford this approach to deficit reduction and neither can any other state in the nation. I strongly agree that we need significant spending cuts, but it must be done in a strategic, responsible manner. I am hopeful that, when this bill goes to conference with the Senate, both chambers will be able to resolve our long-term financial challenges while avoiding sequestration.”
03.04.2013	Annual Award Program Honors Practitioners in Public PolicySAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--RSA Conference, the world’s leading information security conferences and expositions, today announced the final recipients of its 16th annual awards program. Award applicants were judged in the field of public policy. The recipients of this year’s RSA Conference Awards in Public Policy are:C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Ranking Member, House Permanent Select Committee on IntelligenceMike J. Rogers, Chairman, House Permanent Select Committee on IntelligenceThis year’s award winners are two public servants who have worked together to make improvements in national security. Congressman Mike Rogers has been a dedicated public servant since graduating from college in 1985; he has served Michigan’s 8th Congressional District in Congress since 2001. Congressman Ruppersberger has served in public office for more than 28 years and is currently serving his sixth term in the United States House of Representatives for the citizens of Maryland’s 2nd District. In 2011, Congressman Rogers and Congressman Ruppersberger were named Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, respectively. Working together, they co-wrote The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA). This Act seeks to allow for greater sharing of cyber threat intelligence between the government and the private sector and provides the tools and resources needed to defend ourselves in cyberspace. The steadfast dedication by both Congressmen to protect our nation's security resulted in a bipartisan bill that passed the House of Representatives with over 100 co-sponsors from both sides of the aisle. When our adversaries seek to sabotage our nation’s ideas, infrastructure and ingenuity, these Members have made a commitment to protecting American jobs and innovation from cyber threats worldwide. About RSA Conference: RSA Conference helps drive the global information security agenda with annual events in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. Since 1991, RSA Conference consistently attracts the best and brightest in the field, creating opportunities to learn about information security’s most important issues through face-to-face and online interactions with peers, luminaries and emerging and established companies. As information security professionals work to stay ahead of ever-changing security threats and trends, they turn to RSA Conference for a 360-degree view of the industry. RSA Conference seeks to arm participants with the knowledge they need to remain at the forefront of the information security business. More information on events, online programming and the most up-to-date news pertaining to the information security industry can be found at www.rsaconference.com. RSA and the RSA Conference logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of EMC Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. All other products and/or services referenced are trademarks of their respective companies.
02.27.2013	(Washington, DC) – Representative C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin (both D-MD), and Representatives Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5), Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), John Sarbanes (MD-3), Donna F. Edwards (MD-4), and John Delaney (MD-6) will host a Twitter Town Hall on Thursday, February 28 at 4:00 p.m. to discuss sequestration.Constituents have been encouraged to submit questions and comments by tagging them on Twitter with #AskMDDems or by e-mailing them to AskMDDems@gmail.com.To follow the Twitter Town Hall questions and responses, follow @AskMDDems.Maryland Delegation members will be responding to constituent questions through their Twitter accounts: @WhipHoyer (Hoyer), @SenatorBarb (Mikulski), @SenatorCardin (Cardin), @ElijahECummings (Cummings), @Call_Me_Dutch (Ruppersberger), @ChrisVanHollen (Van Hollen), @RepJohnSarbanes (Sarbanes), @RepDonnaEdwards (Edwards), and @RepJohnDelaney (Delaney).WHO: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Senator Barbara A. Mikulski Senator Ben Cardin Congressman Steny H. Hoyer Representative Chris Van Hollen Representative John Sarbanes Representative Donna F. Edwards Representative John DelaneyWHAT: Twitter Town Hall on SequestrationWHEN: Thursday, February 28 4:00 – 5:00 p.m.WHERE: Live on Twitter
02.25.2013	(Washington, DC) - Today, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin (both D-MD) and Representatives Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), John Sarbanes (MD-3), Donna F. Edwards (MD-4), and John Delaney (MD-6) released the following statement urging the House to take action to prevent sequestration: “With less than a week until sequestration is set to take effect, we are calling on the House to take immediate action to prevent the irrational spending cuts it will impose, which could severely damage our economy and national security. The sequester was deemed by both parties as too severe to be allowed to take effect and was meant to compel Congress to agree on a balanced solution to our deficits. Unless Congress acts, sequestration would have a serious and disproportionate impact on job creation and economic growth in Maryland. The 60 non-military federal facilities and 17 military facilities in Maryland would see their ability to conduct operations significantly erode; nearly 140,000 federal civilian employees who work in Maryland would face furloughs and potential pay cuts; and thousands of jobs in Maryland would be put at risk. Our students, small businesses, families, and first-responders would also be affected by devastating cuts to investments in education, law enforcement, infrastructure, innovation, research, and other areas that are critical to building a strong middle class. Maryland – and every state across the country – cannot afford this irrational, meat-ax approach to deficit reduction. House and Senate Democrats, as well as President Obama, have put forward serious alternatives that are balanced and avert sequestration. We urge House Republicans, who control the agenda, to bring a bill to the Floor this week to replace the sequester or delay its implementation as negotiations for a balanced agreement continue. We must all work together to avert this crisis, and we stand united in an effort to meet that challenge.”
02.13.2013	(Washington, DC) – Today, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers (R-MI) and Ranking Member Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) re-introduced their bipartisan cyber threat information-sharing legislation. The bill, called the the "Cyber Intelligence and Sharing Protection Act," aims to help American businesses better protect their computer networks and corporate trade secrets from advanced cyber attacks. The bill that was introduced today is identical to the legislation that passed the House of Representatives by a strong bipartisan vote in April 2012. This important legislation, which had 112 bipartisan cosponsors in the last Congress, will:Allow the Federal government to provide classified cyber threat information to the private sector to help American companies better protect themselves from advanced cyber threats; Empower American businesses to share cyber threat information with others in the private sector and enable the private sector to share information with the government on a purely voluntary basis, all while providing strong protections for privacy and civil liberties; Provides liability protection for companies acting in good faith to protect their own networks or share threat information. This legislation was developed in close consultation with a broad range of private-sector companies, trade groups, privacy and civil liberties advocates as well as the Executive Branch. "American industry is under attack, costing our country and our economy billions of dollars and thousands of jobs," Ranking Member Ruppersberger said. "We need to do everything we can to enable American companies to defend themselves against these devastating cyber attacks. Our bill does just that by permitting the voluntary sharing of critical threat intelligence while preserving important civil liberties." “This is clearly not a theoretical threat - the recent spike in advanced cyber attacks against the banks and newspapers makes that crystal clear," said Chairman Rogers. "American businesses are under siege. We need to provide American companies the information they need to better protect their networks from these dangerous cyber threats. It is time to stop admiring this problem and deal with it immediately. Congress urgently needs to pass our cyber threat information sharing bill to protect our national security, our economy, and U.S. jobs.” The bill’s strong protections for privacy and civil liberties include:Narrow definitions that permit only the voluntary sharing by the private sector of a limited category of information—cyber threat information—and only for cybersecurity purposes; Strict restrictions on the government’s use, retention, and searching of any data voluntarily shared by the private sector; Provisions permitting individuals to sue the government in federal court for violations of the bill’s privacy restrictions;Requiring the independent Intelligence Community Inspector General to conduct a detailed review of the government’s use of any information voluntarily shared by the private sector, and provide an unclassified report to Congress; A sunset for the bill’s authorities in five years, requiring Congress to carefully review the use of the authorities provided under the legislation to determine whether they should be extended or modified. Steve Largent, President and CEO of CTIA, The Wireless Association said: “CTIA believes that enactment of legislation to facilitates the sharing of cyber-defense information between the federal government and the private sector, as well as among private sector entities in the most important step Congress can take to enhance America’s ability to defend against cyber attacks. The Wireless Association, thanks you for introducing the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act.” “This legislation addresses critical information-sharing needs, while providing the appropriate safeguards necessary for facilitating such sharing. As the number of threats and attacks has only increased, your legislation is needed even more urgently now than when it passed the House on a bipartisan vote last April,” said, Walter McCormick, Jr., President and CEO of US Telecom. By allowing the private sector to share cyber threat information, and employ classified information to protect its networks, this bill will harness private sector drive and innovation while also keeping the government out of the business of monitoring and guarding private sector networks. Please visit the House Intelligence Committee website to find supporting documents on this important legislation here.
02.07.2013	Over-the-horizon surveillance test will generate about 140 jobs for region (Timonium, MD) – I have received notification that the Army will be relocating its Joint Land Attack Cruise Missile Defense Elevated Netted Sensor System, or JLENS, to Aberdeen Proving Ground this fall. JLENS is a radar system that conducts over-the-horizon surveillance to protect us from air attacks including missiles, drones and rockets. Aberdeen Proving Ground was selected because it provides the ability to test tracking abilities over water and offers already-established FAA-approved restricted airspace. More than 100 soldiers will be relocating to the APG region to support this mission. The project will also create jobs for about 30 contractors and 10 civilians. At a time when most of the Department of Defense is experiencing significant budget cuts, this $20 million investment in APG will have a domino effect on our local economy. The JLENS workers will be buying homes, shopping in our grocery stores and eating in our restaurants. The JLENS surveillance is conducted by two tethered aerostats flying as high as 10,000 feet. The Army will be hosting a serious of public town halls to discuss the project with local residents and answer any questions. I look forward to working with them and my constituents to ensure all concerns are addressed.
01.31.2013	Caucus includes more than 100 members from both political parties(Washington, DC) – Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and John Carter (R-TX) will serve as co-chairs of the prestigious House Army Caucus for the 113th Congressional session, their offices announced today. The Caucus includes more than 100 members from both parties and works to educate their fellow House Members on Army needs, and advocate for those needs in the legislative process. Ruppersberger, who has served on the caucus since 2007, will replace outgoing Congressman Silvestre Reyes as the Democratic co-chair. His district is home to two Army bases: Fort Meade and Aberdeen Proving Ground. Ruppersberger is the Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee and is a former member of the House Armed Services Committee.“Knowledge is power,” Ranking Member Ruppersberger said. “It’s imperative that all Members of Congress understand and appreciate the work that the Army does for our country so that we can ensure the men and women in uniform have the resources they need to keep us safe. This is an honor and responsibility I will take seriously.” Carter – whose district includes the Army’s largest base, Fort Hood – has served as Republican co-chair of the caucus since 2009. He is Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, and also sits on the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee.“At this especially stressful time for the Army, due to sequestration, we must have a strong bipartisan voice to support the needs of our soldiers and their families,” Chairman Carter said. “This Caucus can and should continue to provide that support, and I am very honored to serve as Co-Chair for the 113th Congress.”
01.29.2013	Event marked Ruppersberger’s first official appearance in Howard County(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today gathered with Howard County Executive Ken Ulman and local female business leaders to celebrate the anniversaries of two landmark laws that have dramatically improved the lives of women and working families. The event at Savage Mill was Congressman Ruppersberger’s official debut in Howard County.Today is the fourth anniversary of the “Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act,” which reversed a Supreme Court decision that had severely limited women’s ability to fight unlawful pay discrimination. Next week will mark the 20th anniversary of the “Family Medical Leave Act,” which enables parents to take job-protected, unpaid leave for things like caring for a new baby or dealing with their own or a family member’s serious medical condition.“Treating working women differently just because they are women isn’t just wrong – it’s bad economics,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Working families are the backbone of this nation and they need elected officials on their side. I will continue to support efforts in Congress to improve the work-life balance of working moms and dads, especially in this tough economy.”Congressman Ruppersberger sponsors legislation to expand the child care tax credit and cosponsors the “Paycheck Fairness Act,” which works to close the gender wage gap. Studies show women are still earning only about 77 percent of what men make for the same work. Event participants called on Congress to pass the legislation today.“I applaud Rep. Ruppersberger for his commitment to equality, and I will continue to work as hard as I can to ensure that earnings, promotions and career opportunities are based on skills, experience and qualifications – not gender,” said Howard County Executive Ken Ulman. “We've come a long way, but we have further to go.”“On behalf of working women and working moms, I would like to thank Congressman Ruppersberger for his commitment to equal pay for women,” said Angie Goodwin Johnson, president of the Business Women’s Network of Howard County. “The legislation he supports, both past and future, helps women have peace of mind and care for their families while pursuing their careers.”
01.23.2013	Ruppersberger joins 85 other Democrats in support of the measure (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on HR 325, which suspends the federal debt limit through May 19 and prohibits Members of Congress from collecting their pay unless they pass a budget. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 285-144 and is expected to be approved by the Senate and signed into law by the President. “While I would have preferred a longer-term solution, this legislation is the type of compromise that we should be encouraging – not condemning. This is a new year and members of both political parties should start by working together to address our country’s crippling financial challenges. I hope the overwhelming bipartisan support for this bill indicates willingness from both sides to put aside partisan rhetoric and work on real-world problems and solutions.”
01.09.2013	Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, who serves as Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, today issued the following statement on the nomination of John Brennan as director of the CIA :“I congratulate John Brennan on his nomination by President Obama to become the next Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. His distinguished service to this country, first as a senior leader at CIA and for the last four years as the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism, makes him well qualified to lead the Agency. I look forward to working with him.”
01.01.2013	Bipartisan bill headed to President’s desk for signature(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger tonight released the following statement on the passage of bipartisan legislation to avoid the fiscal cliff:“The real winners tonight are the American people, who always wanted Congress to work together for the best interest of the nation. Finally – in one of our last acts of this session – we showed that we can, in fact, compromise. This bipartisan bill is an important step in preventing what many economists believed would throw our country back into recession. We were able to permanently extend tax cuts to the middle class and avoid the fiscal cliff.But it’s also a first step. We have much more work to do to reduce spending and our deficit, restructure entitlement programs that protect our seniors and get our country back on solid footing. I am hopeful that in the next Congress, such compromises will be the norm rather than the exception as we continue to work together on common sense solutions to these critical issues.”
12.21.2012	Bill includes several provisions to support troops, facilities in Maryland(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), voted last night in support of the bipartisan military spending bill known as the National Defense Authorization Act that will support our troops and provide critical funding for improvements at several Maryland military installations. The legislation, which authorizes $633.3 billion in discretionary spending on national defense programs in fiscal year 2013, passed overwhelmingly by a vote of 315 to 107.The legislation includes a pay raise of 1.7 percent for the troops and endorses the transition of lead responsibility for security in Afghanistan to the Afghan people by mid-2013. It improves efforts to combat sexual violence in the military and enhance mental health care for troops. It also strengthens sanctions against Iran, including anyone involved in supplying any materials to be used in connection with Iran’s energy, shipping and shipbuilding sectors and its ports.“This bill reflects our economic reality – that we have to do more with less – and prioritizes planning for the threats of tomorrow,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Most importantly, it prioritizes the wellbeing of our troops and their families.”The bill contains language to relax export restrictions on American satellites and their parts – the culmination of more than five years of effort by Congressman Ruppersberger on behalf of American manufacturers. The long-overdue changes will give American companies a fighting chance to recapture the tremendous market share lost to foreign competitors over the past decade.The Act includes funding of particular interest to Maryland’s Second District:$251 million for building improvements and a high performance computing center at the National Security Agency at Fort Meade.$1 million for the Aberdeen Proving Ground Army Reserve Center.$10 million for the Baltimore Army Reserve Center near Curtis Bay.
12.19.2012	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today praised language in the bipartisan conference report for the National Defense Authorization Act of 2012 that will create jobs and boost profits for American satellite companies while protecting national security. The legislation culminates more than five years of effort by Congressman Ruppersberger to achieve this goal on behalf of American manufacturers. Under current law, satellites and their components are considered weapons for trade purposes. The new provision will restore the president’s ability to move these products from the U.S. Munitions List to the Commerce Control List, which will provide greater flexibility to manufacturers who want to sell overseas. “By treating satellites and even the nuts and bolts that hold them together as lethal weapons, we are turning our backs on American innovation,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “For too long, the makers of American satellites and their parts have gotten weaker as their foreign competitors get stronger. Today we say, ‘not anymore.’” Before current export restrictions went into place in 1998, the U.S. held 73 percent of the world market for commercial satellites. Today, it’s less than one third as foreign competitors exploit our inability to export simple, old and widely-available technology. This long-overdue change will give American satellite companies a fighting chance to recapture their market share. Congressman Ruppersberger partnered with Congressmen Howard Berman and Adam Smith on multiple free-standing bills and amendments to achieve this goal over the last several years. Along with other key advocates, they introduced H.R. 3288, the “Safeguarding United States Satellite Leadership and Security Act” last November and it was included in the House version of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2012. Under the provision, the export of such items to China, North Korea and States Sponsors of Terrorism, including Syria and Iran, will continue to be prohibited.
11.29.2012	Leading software businesses honor Ruppersberger for his efforts in cybersecurity (Washington, DC) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee (HPSCI), today received the "Cyber Champion Award" from BSA, the Software Alliance, for his leadership and commitment to the continued growth of a safe and secure digital world. The Software Alliance is an association representing leading software companies like Apple, Microsoft, Quest Software, Siemens and others. Together with HPSCI Chairman Mike Rogers, Congressman Ruppersberger worked across the political aisle to pass the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act in the House of Representatives by a strong bipartisan margin earlier this year. The legislation breaks down the legal barriers that prevent the public and private sectors from sharing critical intelligence on cyber threats so American companies can better protect our nation’s networks from cyber attacks. “It is an honor to receive the 'Cyber Champion Award' today," Ruppersberger said. "U.S. websites and our nation’s networks are being attacked by foreign governments and criminal groups every day. These groups are stealing our valuable trade secrets and stealing our jobs. Our cyber bill allows these companies to protect themselves." “With the 'Cyber Champion Award,' we recognize the outstanding contribution Representative Ruppersberger has made to the safety of our networks,” said BSA President and CEO Robert Holleyman. “The award is our way of saying ‘thank you’ on behalf of an industry that depends on efforts to protect and grow the digital economy and create new jobs. We are grateful to Representative Ruppersberger for his tireless advocacy.” HPSCI Chairman Mike Rogers and Ranking Member Ruppersberger received the award at a luncheon today in Washington, DC. BSA established the "Cyber Champion Award" in 1998 to recognize policymakers for their leadership in promoting policies that strengthen the high-tech industry and create high-skill, high-wage jobs for millions of Americans.
11.19.2012	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today recognized six volunteers from Maryland’s Second Congressional District for their dedicated service to Maryland veterans. Congressman Ruppersberger awarded Joseph C. Sirera, John C. Dicks, Lillie Edwards, Robert Filippi, William Rochford and Helen Rochford the “2012 Congressional Volunteer Recognition Award” at a ceremony in his Timonium office. The six honorees were selected by the Veterans Advisory Council, an organization founded by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003 to help guide policy decisions concerning veterans, active duty troops and military families.“I commend these volunteers for bringing joy and happiness to the lives of the men and women who served our country,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. “These volunteers go above and beyond the call of duty to entertain and comfort Maryland veterans and make a difference in their lives.”A veteran himself, Parkville resident Robert Fillipi has volunteered with the VA Maryland Health Care System for the last 14 years, accruing an astounding 2,000 volunteer hours. Visiting the Loch Raven VA Community Living and Rehabilitation Center weekly, Robert manages the greenhouse. He also volunteers through the Sons of the American Legion Post 130 and the American Legion 183 bingos. Known affectionately as “Miss Lillie,” Lillie Edwards is a longtime volunteer at the Disabled American Veterans Paul L. Thompson Post and is member of the Auxiliary. When the Baltimore resident officially joined the post family in 2008, Lillie decided that not only she, but her entire family, would volunteer. Her son, three daughters and two of her grandchildren are now all regularly scheduled volunteers.Timonium residents William and Helen Rochford are weekly hospice volunteers with the VA Maryland Health Care System. They assist during the last hours of life for many of our local veterans and relieve family members who are keeping vigil so that they can eat meals, often staying late into the night and placing the families of local veterans before their own. William Rochford is a World War II veteran and Helen Rochford often volunteers with the American Legion Post 183 bingos and cook-outs.An active member of the Northeastern American Legion Post 285 for more than two decades, Baltimore resident John Dicks has accrued 1,700 volunteer hours with the VA Maryland Health Care System. He also volunteers twice weekly in the Kinesiology Department at the Loch Raven VA Community Living and Rehabilitation Center.Joseph C. Sirera, of Parkville, has been a member of the Knights of Columbus for 46 years, including time as the Grand Knight of the Columbus Charles Carroll Assembly. A volunteer with the VA Maryland Health Care System since 2005, he frequently organizes bingos that feature refreshments and cash prizes.This is the ninth year Congressman Ruppersberger has honored local volunteers for their service to Maryland veterans. Please feel free to use the attached photograph in your publication. Individual photographs of each volunteer with the Congressman may be available upon request.
11.16.2012	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will help officially open a new dental office in Brooklyn Park that aims to provide Anne Arundel County residents with access to first-rate dental care, as well as to promote awareness of the importance of dental hygiene. The kid-friendly Kool Smiles office in Brooklyn Park welcomes military families using the TRICARE dental program, families who are part of Maryland’s Healthy Smiles Dental Program and a wide range of private insurance plans.Congressman Ruppersberger will speak about the need to expand access to dental care in underserved communities to reduce our nation’s overall healthcare costs. Preventable dental conditions are the primary reason for more than 830,000 emergency room visits a year.Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Maryland Delegate Steven Schuh Anne Arundel County Councilman Peter Smith Northern Anne Arundel County Chamber of CommerceWhen: Monday, November 19, 2012 2:30 PMWhere: Kool Smiles 5700 Ritchie Highway Brooklyn Park, MD 21225 (Located in the Ritchie Highway Shopping Center)
11.14.2012	Delegation asks President Obama to support Governor O’Malley’s request for a major disaster declaration as communities across Maryland struggle to recover from Super-Storm Sandy(Washington, DC) – U.S. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today was joined by U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin and the rest of Maryland's Congressional delegation today in sending a letter to President Barack Obama supporting Governor O'Malley's request for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of Super-Storm Sandy. If awarded, Maryland will become eligible for federal disaster recovery dollars through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), ensuring the state's already strained budget is not stretched any thinner. In addition to Ruppersberger, Mikulski and Cardin, the bipartisan letter was signed by U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Roscoe E. Barlett, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards and Andy Harris. "Super-Storm Sandy delivered severe storms, flooding, winds, unprecedented levels of precipitation, and heavy snowfall to the State," Team Maryland wrote. "[T]his determination is necessary to address sheltering needs, resource transportation, debris removal, and evacuation assistance in advance of this storm. This situation has the potential to negatively impact services in other areas, given an already strained state budget environment." The major disaster declaration would provide Individual Assistance for the counties of Dorchester, Somerset, and Worcester including Ocean City; Public Assistance for all counties within the state and the Independent City of Baltimore; and Hazard Mitigation for all counties and the Independent City of Baltimore. Prior to the storm, Team Maryland urged President Obama to support Governor O'Malley's request for a Pre-Disaster Declaration, which the Administration approved. That declaration ensured that Maryland became eligible for federal disaster funding from FEMA as the state prepared for potential damage. That request is available here. Super-Storm Sandy and preparations preceding it lasted from October 25 to November 4. The storm included maximum wind speeds of 90 mph and deposited up to two inches of rain per hour from the Delmarva to the I-95 corridor. The damages experienced from this storm have ranged from severe flooding from heavy rains, high winds and significant coastal flooding in the eastern region of the State; heavy rains, high winds and significant coastal flooding along the Chesapeake Bay in the densely populated central region; and significant heavy wet snowfall and rain in the western portion of the state. The full text of the delegation's letter of support is as follows: November 14, 2012 The PresidentThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our very strong support for Governor O'Malley's November 8, 2012 request for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of Super-Storm Sandy which initially affected Maryland beginning October 25, 2012 through November 4, 2012. Given the significant impact that this storm had on Maryland's already thin resources, we respectfully request that you urgently approve Federal assistance. Super-Storm Sandy delivered severe storms, flooding, winds, unprecedented levels of precipitation, and heavy snowfall to the State. Governor O'Malley took appropriate action under Maryland law, directing the execution of the State CORE Emergency Operations Plan. The Governor further declared that a State of Emergency existed within the entire state beginning October 27, 2012 and the Maryland National Guard was called into service. However, this determination is necessary to address sheltering needs, resource transportation, debris removal, and evacuation assistance in advance of this storm. This situation has the potential to negatively impact services in other areas, given an already strained state budget environment. Maryland and its local jurisdictions have contributed a vast amount of resources in a very short period. The state continues to assess the full amount of damages and losses for this disaster, although preliminary assessments show severe damage to infrastructure and public safety needs. The assistance requested will provide vital resources to save lives and protect property. We appreciate your consideration of Maryland's request, and look forward to continue working with you in this recovery. Sincerely, Barbara A. MikulskiUnited States Senator Ben CardinUnited States Senator Steny H. HoyerMember of Congress Roscoe E. BartlettMember of Congress Elijah E. CummingsMember of Congress Chris Van HollenMember of Congress C.A. Dutch RuppersbergerMember of Congress John P. SarbanesMember of Congress Donna F. EdwardsMember of Congress Andy HarrisMember of Congress
11.01.2012	Delegation had asked President Obama to support Governor O’Malley’s request for a pre-disaster declaration as communities across Maryland struggle as a result of severe weather(Washington, DC) - Maryland Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today applauded President Barack Obama for issuing a Pre-Disaster Declaration for areas in Maryland impacted by severe weather resulting from Hurricane Sandy. Other Members of Maryland’s Congressional Delegation praising the declaration include U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin as well as U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Roscoe E. Bartlett, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes and Donna F. Edwards. “As members of the Maryland Congressional Delegation, we have been united throughout this process in urging the President to issue a Pre-Disaster Declaration for Maryland in the wake of such severe weather,” said members of the Delegation. “We are pleased that the President recognized the full impact Hurricane Sandy is expected to have on our state and that he has taken action to help communities manage the storm.” The Pre-Disaster Declaration means that Maryland is now eligible for federal disaster funding through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), ensuring the already strained state budget is not stretched any thinner as a result of another natural disaster. In declaring that a federal emergency exists in the State of Maryland, President Obama ordered Federal aid to supplement state and local efforts in areas affected by this severe weather. The text of the delegation’s letter of support is as follows: October 27, 2012 The PresidentThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our strong support for Governor O'Malley's October 27, 2012 request for an emergency declaration of disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of Hurricane Sandy which is expected to affect our State beginning October 28, 2012. Given the massive impact that this storm is having on the state’s already thin resources, we respectfully request that you urgently approve Federal assistance. Maryland sits directly in the path of what is an enormously strong and growing Hurricane. It is projected to impact Maryland in the form of heavy rains, tidal and inland flooding, wind damage, power outages, and even snow. Governor O’Malley took appropriate action under Maryland law, directing the execution of the State CORE Emergency Operations Plan. The Governor further declared that a State of Emergency existed within the entire state beginning October 27, 2012 and the Maryland National Guard was called into service. Given the pre-disaster determination requested here, the Maryland Emergency Management Agency and local jurisdictions continue to work with Federal Emergency Management Administration staff in order to make preliminary assessments of what assistance is necessary. However, this determination is necessary to address sheltering needs, resource transportation, debris removal, and evacuation assistance in advance of this storm. This situation has the potential to negatively impact services in other areas, given an already strained state budget environment. Maryland and its local jurisdictions have contributed a vast amount of resources, which will continue to have economic impacts around our state. A pre-disaster declaration is necessary to help provide the resources needed by all. We appreciate your consideration of Maryland’s request, and look forward to continue working with you in this recovery. Sincerely, Barbara A. MikulskiUnited States Senator Ben CardinUnited States Senator Steny H. HoyerMember of Congress Roscoe E. BartlettMember of Congress Elijah E. CummingsMember of Congress Chris Van HollenMember of Congress C.A. Dutch RuppersbergerMember of Congress John P. SarbanesMember of Congress Donna F. EdwardsMember of Congress
10.25.2012	(Randallstown, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, U.S. Senator Ben Cardin and Congressman John Sarbanestoday today joined Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz to launch a new initiative to train low-skill job seekers, including individuals with limited English proficiency and individuals with low reading, writing and math skills. Baltimore County’s $11.8 million federal grant is one of only four major grants from the Department of Labor’s Workforce Innovation Fund.“This program offers a life-line to people who need language and job skills training at a time when they need it the most,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. "It will move Marylanders off the unemployment rols and onto payrolls."Students will have two teachers in each class; one basic education teacher and one content specialist. All sites will provide allied health-related training, with each program choosing a second specialty based on local economic conditions. The program will incorporate basic, occupational and soft skills, and job readiness training. Students also receive support services, an optional internship or clinical placement, job placement support, and long-erm career navigation.“Rebuilding our nation’s economy starts on the community level and this almost $12 million Department of Labor grant will significantly expand and improve job training for thousands of people,” said Senator Cardin. “By improving language and math skills for those with limited proficiency, this program will translate into jobs and help boost our state’s future economic growth.”“With this grant, Baltimore County takes a leadership role in working with industry, foundation and training experts as they implement new ideas for America's workforce system,” said Baltimore County Executive Kamenetz. “Most important, the program has the potential to change lives as vulnerable parents, adults and youth learn new skills that will lead to jobs.”Baltimore County’s Department of Economic Development Workforce Development Division will administer the initiative in Baltimore, Anne Arundel, Caroline, Dorchester, Kent, Montgomery, Prince George’s, Queen Anne’s, and Talbot counties and Baltimore City. It also will support similar programs three cities: Austin, TX, Atlanta, GA, New Haven, CT. In Baltimore County, the training program will be delivered by the Community College of Baltimore County.
10.17.2012	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) tomorrow will help announce new jobs created through the expansion of a Baltimore company that specializes in dismantling retired ships. BB Metals recently won its first government contract and is now disassembling the 455-foot USNS Range Sentinel and re-selling its steel. The project will create about 55 jobs and the company hopes to create 300 more with future contracts to dismantle retired aircraft carriers.The event will include an up-close-and-personal look at the Sentinel, which was present in Tokyo Bay for the Japanese surrender in World War II. The ship was later used to track test missiles launched from submarines operating off the Florida coast.Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger BB Metals Principals Local Elected OfficialsWhen: Thursday, October 18, 2012 10:45 AM Where: BB Metals 600 Shipyard Road Baltimore, MD 21219-1023
10.17.2012	Program benefiting military families reaches monumental milestone(Timonium, MD)- The national program enabling Americans to donate their frequent flyer miles to loved ones traveling to visit recovering wounded warriors has saved military families $50 million to date, providing 32,000 airline tickets since 2004. Created by Congressman Ruppersberger, the “Hero Miles” program is administered by the Fisher House, a nonprofit best known for its network of comfort homes built on the grounds of major military and VA medical centers.“The overwhelming response to ‘Hero Miles’ reflects the patriotism of Americans and our deep appreciation for the service and sacrifice of our troops and their families,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Sometimes, the love and support of family and friends at the bedside of a wounded warrior is the best medicine. This program continues to help reunite military families without worrying how much it will cost and I want to thank everyone who has donated and will continue to donate in the years to come.”“We are excited that we have crossed the $50 million dollar mark,” said David Coker, President of Fisher House Foundation. “This is a tremendous burden that we have lifted from our nation’s wounded warriors and their families. When they need it most, our military families will be able to count on Hero Miles in the future. We will continue to ease their burden when much of their world has been turned upside down.”The “Hero Miles” program provides free round-trip airfare to military members recovering at military or VA medical centers as a result of injuries sustained in overseas conflicts. “Hero Miles” also enables family and friends to visit injured troops while they are being treated. Hero Miles is supported by donated frequent flyer miles from AirTran, Alaska Airlines, American, Delta, Frontier, United and U.S. Airways. “Our airline partners have been fantastic. If not for them and their loyal customers, we would not have any miles to use to help our wounded warriors and their families,” said Tish Stropes, Director of the Hero Miles Program. “There are so many families that simply would not be able to afford to visit if it were not for this program.”The Allen family is one of those families. Staff Sergeant Chaz Allen was injured when he stepped on a pressure-plate IED in Afghanistan, immediately losing both legs and breaking his elbow. Flying first to Kandahar to Landstuhl for treatment, Chaz was then flown to Walter Reed Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland. While Chaz was in Afghanistan, his wife, Jessica, was running their household in Tennessee, taking care of their two little girls and shuffling them back and forth to school, Girl Scouts and dance classes. “Hero Miles” tickets allowed Jessica to travel between Walter Reed and Tennessee. Once the girls were out of school, the entire family was reunited with Chaz at Walter Reed in, where they are today, recovering together as a family.Earlier this year, Congressman Ruppersberger was joined by Senator Ben Cardin in announcing an expansion of the program called “Hotels for Heroes” that will allow the American public to donate their hotel reward points in addition to their frequent flyer miles. So far, Marriott, Wyndham, AmericInn and Best Western are all accepting donated points through the program, which is also administered by Fisher House. Customers of Choice Hotels are able to convert their reward points to cash donations to support the program.
10.16.2012	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) tomorrow will kick off the second day of the CyberMaryland 2012 conference, which is bringing together cyber leaders in government, business and academia. Following welcoming remarks, Congressman Ruppersberger will participate in a panel discussion on cyber policy and meet with exhibitors showcasing Maryland cyber products, services and programs.As Ranking Member of the House Permanent Committee on Intelligence, Congressman Ruppersberger is deeply concerned about the threat of cyber attacks to both our national and economic security. The U.S. government has had critical defense files stolen in the past, including details about U.S. fighter jets, missile systems and unmanned drones. In the private sector, cyber crimes are costing American businesses $300 billion each year in stolen trade secrets, according to the U.S. Cyber Command.October is National Cyber Security Awareness Month.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Dr. Freeman Hrabowski, President, UMBCWhen: Wednesday, October 17, 2012 9:30 AMWhere: Baltimore Convention Center (West Building, 3rd Floor) 1 West Pratt Street Baltimore, Maryland 21201For media credentials, contact Maureen Kilcullen of CyberMaryland at 410-767-1794.
10.11.2012	Leaders of House Intelligence Committee tell U.S. Companies to “use another vendor” (Washington, DC) – The Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, Mike Rogers (R-MI) and C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), on Monday released a report recommending to U.S. companies considering doing business with Chinese telecommunications companies Huawei and ZTE to find another vendor. The report encourages U.S. companies to take into account the long-term security risks associated with either company providing equipment or services to our telecommunications infrastructure. Additionally, the report recommends that U.S. government systems, particularly sensitive systems, exclude Huawei or ZTE equipment or component parts.The report highlights the interconnectivity of U.S. critical infrastructure systems and warns of the heightened threat of cyber espionage and predatory disruption or destruction of U.S. networks if telecommunications networks are built by companies with known ties to the Chinese state, a country known to aggressively steal valuable trade secrets and other sensitive data from American companies. Additionally, the report notes that modern critical infrastructure is incredibly connected, everything from electric power grids to banking and finance systems to natural gas, oil, and water systems to rail and shipping channels. All of these entities depend on computerized control systems. The risk is high that a failure or disruption in one system could have a devastating ripple effect throughout many aspects of modern American living.The report, released today in a Capitol Hill news conference, states that Huawei and ZTE provided incomplete, contradictory, and evasive responses to the Committee’s core concerns. The report comes after a year-long investigation into the national security dangers posed by Huawei and ZTE, the two largest Chinese telecommunications companies doing business in the United States.The report includes five recommendations:US government systems and US government contractors, particularly those working on sensitive systems, should exclude any Huawei or ZTE equipment or component parts. Additionally, the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States (CFIUS) must block acquisitions, takeovers, or mergers involving Huawei and ZTE given the threat to U.S. national security interests.U.S. network providers and systems developers are strongly encouraged to seek other vendors for their projects.Unfair trade practices of the Chinese telecommunications sector should be investigated by committees of jurisdiction in U.S. Congress and enforcement agencies in the Executive Branch. Particular attention should be paid to China’s continued financial support of key companies.Chinese companies should quickly become more open and transparent. Huawei, in particular, must become more transparent and responsive to U.S. legal obligations.Committees of jurisdiction in Congress should consider potential legislation to better address the risk posed by telecommunications companies with nation-state ties or otherwise not clearly trusted to build critical infrastructure, including increasing information-sharing among private sector entities and expanding a role for the CFIUS process to include purchasing agreements.“We have to be certain that Chinese telecommunication companies working in the United States can be trusted with access to our critical infrastructure,” Chairman Rogers said. “Any bug, beacon, or backdoor put into our critical systems could allow for a catastrophic and devastating domino effect of failures throughout our networks. As this report shows, we have serious concerns about Huawei and ZTE, and their connection to the communist government of China. China is known to be the major perpetrator of cyber espionage, and Huawei and ZTE failed to alleviate serious concerns throughout this important investigation. American businesses should use other vendors.”“It is our responsibility on the Intelligence Committee to protect our country’s national security. That is why we launched this investigation in the first place. We depend on our nation’s networks for so much of what we do every day. As this report shows, we have serious concerns about Huawei and ZTE, two Chinese telecommunications companies looking to gain market share in the United States, and their connection to the communist government of China. We warn U.S. government agencies and companies considering using Huawei and ZTE equipment in their networks to take into account the affect if could have on our national security,” said Ranking Member Ruppersberger. History of the InvestigationIn early 2011, shortly after becoming Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger instructed committee staff to conduct a preliminary review of the national security threats posed by Chinese telecom companies doing business in the United States. The preliminary review suggested that the threat to the supply chain constitutes a rising national security concern of the highest priority. Thus, on November 17, 2011, the House Intelligence Committee launched a full investigation, focusing on the two main Chinese telecommunication companies doing business in the United States, Huawei and ZTE.The focus of the investigation was to review the history, management, and operations of key Chinese companies seeking to expand into U.S. infrastructure. The investigation reviewed the extent to which these companies have ties to the Chinese government and Chinese Communist Party, or otherwise provide the Chinese government greater opportunities for foreign and economic espionage. In February and April 2012 HPSCI investigators traveled to China to interview officials at Huawei and ZTE headquarters. Then, in May 2012, several members of the committee, including Ranking Member Ruppersberger, traveled to Hong Kong to meet with senior officials from both Huawei and ZTE. In September 2012 the House Intelligence Committee held a rare open hearing, where officials of both Huawei and ZTE testified before Congress. That hearing marked the first time Chinese executives have testified before the U.S. Congress.Click here to see the complete report.
10.05.2012	Congressman to distribute awards at 100th annual “Rock the Ridge” event(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) tomorrow will address nearly 5,000 Maryland Boy Scouts who will be spending the weekend camping with local personalities at Oregon Ridge Park. The event is part of the Baltimore Area Council’s 100th annual “Rock the Ridge” camporee, a gathering of more than 250 regional Scouting troops for camping, service projects and other fun activities.A former Boy Scout, Ruppersberger will help distribute awards to Scouts and Scout leaders who have completed the 6-week Presidential Active Lifestyle challenge by adding physical fitness and nutritious foods to their daily lives. He will be joined by Baltimore County Police Chief Jim Johnson and former Baltimore City Police Chief Fred Bealefeld, who will be camping with the Scouts over the weekend.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Police Chiefs Johnson and Bealefeld Local Business Owners Victor and Lynne Brick 5,000 local Boy ScoutsWhen: October 6, 2012 10:00 AMWhere: Oregon Ridge Park 13555 Beaver Dam Road Cockeysville, MD 21030
09.28.2012	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin today announced that the Rockaway Beach Volunteer Fire Company in Baltimore County will receive $57,000 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) to purchase lifesaving equipment.The Rockaway Beach Volunteer Fire Company will use the grant funds to purchase 15 to 20 sets of turn out gear, protecting firefighters from harsh and dangerous conditions, as well as a new pump, tank and hose reel. This lifesaving equipment will replace current gear that is no longer compliant.“When times are tough, government must focus on the basics and this grant shows our commitment to the most basic government service - public safety,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “This critical funding will enable the Rockaway Beach Volunteer Fire Company to purchase new protective clothing and equipment to help quickly extinguish brush fires in the Back River Neck Peninsula. These men and women are putting their lives on the line each day and it is our responsibility to protect them while they protect us.”“I know how important this funding is to Maryland communities – often it’s the difference between life and death. First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing them with the tools they need to do their jobs safer and smarter,” Senator Mikulski said. “Every day when our first responders report for duty, they don’t know what they will face. That’s why I fight every year for the equipment, training, and staffing our protectors and communities deserve.”“From fires to natural disasters to possible terrorist threats, these brave men and women put their lives on the line for all of us. Federal investment in our first responders is vital because we must ensure that they have the equipment and training they need to protect us from harm and to perform their jobs safely and efficiently,” said Senator Cardin.AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention, as well as public fire safety education. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received nearly $118 million in AFGP funding, more than $9,090,984 of which has gone to Baltimore County Fire & EMS Departments.For more information about the award, please contact Captain Ryan Knapik, 410-905-9917.
09.18.2012	New train station putting Marylanders to work, getting them to work(Edgewood, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today was joined by Maryland Transit Administrator Ralign Wells for a tour of the final construction phase of the new MARC train station in Edgewood, MD. The $5 million train station is being converted from a basic train platform into a fully-functioning station with amenities including bathrooms, ticket machines and ramps for people with disabilities.The Edgewood stop is located on the MARC Penn Line between Martin State Airport and Aberdeen. It is expected to become increasingly busy as more than 8,000 jobs related to the Base Realignment and Closure process and Aberdeen Proving Ground continue to come to Harford County. The project has received a total of $3.5 million in federal funding, including a $1.3 million transportation grant for “high priority” projects. Construction began in January and is expected to be complete in November.“These improvements to the Edgewood train station are a common sense investment in our future,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Not only are we creating much-needed construction jobs, we are also ensuring that thousands of Harford County commuters will be able to get to work safely and on time. For mass transit to work, it has to be comfortable, convenient and cost-effective. This project helps accomplish all three.”“As the MTA strives to implement Governor Martin O’Malley’s MARC Growth and Investment plan, our partnership with the federal government is critical,” said MTA Administrator Ralign T. Wells. “Thanks to the tremendous work being done by the Maryland Congressional delegation, improvements like those at the MARC Edgewood station are possible, enhancing public transportation for our customers and supporting jobs for Marylanders.”“A strong, modern transportation and mass transit system is critical to commuters in Harford County,” Senator Barbara A. Mikulski said. “These federal dollars will make sure that the Aberdeen Proving Ground MARC station will keep our people moving and businesses booming, especially with the great opportunities as well as great challenges that come with BRAC. That's why I fight to put funds in the federal checkbook to help meet the increased demands BRAC places on our communities. Federal funds for Maryland transit systems help keep Marylanders on the move.”
09.17.2012	New train station putting Marylanders to work, getting them to work(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) tomorrow will showcase the final construction phase of the MARC train station in Edgewood, MD. The $5 million train station is being converted from a basic train platform into a fully-functioning station with amenities including bathrooms, ticket machines and ramps for people with disabilities.The Edgewood station is expected to become increasingly busy as jobs related to the Base Realignment and Closure process and adjacent Aberdeen Proving Ground continue to come to Harford County.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Maryland MTA Administrator Ralign Wells Commuter AdvocatesWhen: 11:00 AM Tuesday, September 18, 2012Where: The Edgewood MARC Station 2127 Old Edgewood Road Edgewood, MD 21040The event will be held in the far parking lot, using the second entrance off of Old Edgewood Road.If it’s raining, the event will be held inside the temporary station/trailer, using the first entrance off Old Edgewood Road.
09.13.2012	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement today after the killing of four Americans in Libya. “I strongly condemn the vicious attack on the American Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, that claimed the lives of Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans. The brave group was committed to promoting freedom and justice around the world. I am saddened and disturbed by the loss of these true patriots. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of those who lost their lives.Through my work as Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, I travel the world meeting with our intelligence professionals and diplomatic corps who are working tirelessly in all corners of the globe to help people have a better life. I traveled to Libya and saw the brutal rule of the dictator Moammar Gaddafi and was inspired to see change in Libya. While our diplomatic corps does not wear the uniform of our armed forces, this tragic incident reminds us of the risks these professionals face as they work to improve the lives of people worldwide. I am always impressed with their dedication to their mission. I stand with the other American leaders who say we will not rest until those responsible for this deadly attack are tracked down and brought to justice.”
09.13.2012	(Washington,DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski in announcing a grant of more than $2 million to remove visual obstructions on a runway at Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport. The $2,465,422 grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation will be used to lower Amtrak overhead wires that obstruct the approach lighting system on Runway 10, which will improve runway safety.“BWI is one of Maryland’s most vital economic engines,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This project is about investing in our state’s future and preserving those jobs for years to come. Improving the airport’s main arteries – its runways – will also create safer working conditions for flight and ground crews as well as passengers.”“This grant ensures that BWI Marshall continues to be a safe, dependable, and efficient hub for domestic and international travel,” said Senator Cardin. “BWI Marshall is an economic center for our region, bringing about $5.9 billion in revenue a year to our state. This grant reflects our commitment to constant progress regarding BWI’s safety and efficiency.”“These funds in the federal checkbook are an investment in jobs today and jobs tomorrow,” said Senator Mikulski, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee which funds DOT. “It creates jobs today in construction by making needed improvements to BWI’s runway infrastructure. And it helps create jobs tomorrow by making sure BWI remains a safe, efficient travel center and an economic engine for Maryland.”With the visual path cleared, BWI will improve the approach lighting system on the Runway 10. BWI is one of Maryland’s most vital economic and transportation hubs, supporting nearly 100,000 jobs each year. The project is expected to support up to 32 jobs and is scheduled to begin in the fall of 2013 and be completed in the spring of 2014. The Maryland Aviation Administration will oversee the project.
09.10.2012	ELTA North America is expected to generate 100 new jobs for Maryland(Fulton, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined U.S. Senators Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin, Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley and Israeli Ambassador Dr. Michael Oren in welcoming ELTA North America to its new facility in Fulton, MD. Also participating in the grand opening ceremony were Lt. Governor Anthony Brown, Howard Country Executive Ken Ulman and Abba Poliakoff, Chairman of the Maryland/Israel Development Center.ELTA North America is a subsidiary of IAI North America. ELTA North America plans to create 100 new high technology jobs over the next four years and has leased space in the county's growing Maple Lawn area, with plans to expand as the company grows."As allies in the global war on terrorism, the U.S. and Israeli defense communities are working together to provide our troops on the front lines and behind the scenes the best technology possible to keep our citizens safe," said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger, who is Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee. "ELTA's choice of Maryland will only strengthen our state's reputation as a science and engineering leader while providing quality jobs for Maryland families.""In choosing Maryland, ELTA recognizes that we offer the right combination of a highly-educated workforce in technology and engineering, remain on the cutting edge of science and discovery, and provide easy access to key decision makers in the defense and homeland security community," said Governor Martin O'Malley. "We are pleased that ELTA will invest in Maryland – a reflection of our State's support for our growing high-tech industry, and affirmation that we are a leader in the nation's innovation economy.""The opening of this cutting-edge defense manufacturing facility is good news for Howard County and will support science and innovation jobs here in Maryland," Senator Mikulski said. "This shows the partnership between the United States and our strong ally Israel. By supporting high-tech manufacturing, Maryland continues to the lead the way with the best scientists, inventors and entrepreneurs that are creating jobs today and jobs tomorrow.""Locating ELTA North America in Maryland is a clear indication that our state's workforce has the skills and education for the highly specialized, high-tech jobs that are required," said Cardin. "Our nation and Israel have a strong partnership based on trust and shared values. This new facility is important to both our countries because it will strengthen both nation's defenses and security needs.""The opening of this new facility will enhance the Israeli defense industry's ability to pioneer cutting edge technology that will create more U.S. jobs, strengthen the deep U.S.-Israel alliance, and save lives," said Dr. Michael Oren, Israel Ambassador to the United States.ELTA North America, leverages state-of-the-art technology from ELTA Systems Ltd., a world leading C4ISR company and a subsidiary of Israel Aerospace Industries Ltd. (IAI). In his opening remarks, Dr. David Machuga, president & CEO of ELTA North America said, "in times of fiscal responsibility, the lower development costs associated with deployed state of the art technology combined with the jobs created at ELTA North America is a 'win-win' for the U.S . customers and U.S. taxpayers."Nissim Hadas, IAI vice president, president & CEO of ELTA Systems Ltd. and chairman of the board of ELTA North America spoke about his company's investment in Maryland and its plans for growth. "IAI and ELTA are embarking on a new strategy to synergize the efforts of ELTA Systems Ltd. and ELTA North America to provide field proven solutions and premier electronic system-of- system capabilities and support for the discriminating requirements and needs of our U.S. customers," said Hadas.
08.29.2012	Federal Funding Follows Request from Maryland Delegation, Governor O’Malley(Washington, DC) –Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin (all D-Md.) along with Governor Martin O’Malley in applauding U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack for issuing a Secretarial Disaster Designation for Maryland following severe drought and excessive heat that has decimated Maryland crops. Other members of Maryland's Congressional Delegation praising the federal assistance were U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Roscoe E. Barlett, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes and Donna F. Edwards. Team Maryland issued a formal request for federal assistance to Secretary Vilsack, available here. Their letter supported an earlier request from Governor O’Malley.“This declaration will be a huge relief to Maryland farmers, whose corn and vegetable crops have been ruined by this summer’s drought and extreme heat,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “Rainfall across Maryland during the first six months of year was the fifth-lowest on record. I applaud Secretary Vilsack for providing emergency help to hundreds of farmers and their families who continue to struggle to make ends meet.”The Secretarial Disaster Designation means that farmers in affected Maryland communities will be able to apply for low-interest emergency loans from the Farm Service Agency, which falls under the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Farmers can borrow up to 100 percent of actual production or physical losses, not to exceed a total amount of $500,000. Affected Maryland communities include the counties of: Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Calvert, Caroline, Carroll, Cecil, Charles, Dorchester, Frederick, Harford, Howard, Kent, Montgomery, Prince George’s, Queen Anne’s, St. Mary’s, Somerset, Talbot, Wicomico, Worcester and the City of Baltimore. “Maryland crops have been battered and beaten by devastating drought and record-breaking heat this summer,” Senator Mikulski said. “This federal assistance will be welcome relief for farmers and will help get Maryland’s number one industry back on track. They deserve a government on their side and shouldn’t have to shoulder this burden on their own. I’m proud to fight with Team Maryland for farmers and agriculture across our state.”“Fewer natural occurrences are more devastating to agricultural production than extreme drought and I thank the Obama administration for acting promptly on our request for disaster designation. The President and lawmakers cannot end the drought but we can help to mitigate the damage to our Maryland farmers,” said Senator Cardin.“Thanks to Secretary Vilsack, other leaders in the Obama Administration, and all of our federal partners in Maryland's Congressional delegation, we are now able to provide Maryland's farmers with some relief during the drought,” said Governor O’Malley. “Our farmers continue to be a vital part of Maryland’s heritage and together, we can support our rural economies, improve our quality of life, and secure the future of Maryland agriculture and our environment for generations to come.”“I'm pleased that Secretary Vilsack approved Governor O'Malley's request for a Secretarial disaster designation for Southern Maryland and other areas affected by severe drought, providing much-needed relief to our farmers,” said Congressman Hoyer. “Our agricultural community has been significantly impacted by the drought and excessive heat Maryland has experienced this summer. I'm committed to ensuring our farmers have the resources needed to recover from this severe weather and will continue to fight for this industry that is important to our local economy and our rural heritage.”“As a result of today’s disaster declaration approval by USDA Secretary Vilsack, farmers in Baltimore, Harford and Montgomery counties should be relieved to know that as contiguous disaster areas, they will be eligible to apply for low-interest emergency loans if they suffered production or physical losses due to the extraordinary heat and drought this summer,” said Congressman Bartlett. “This is another example of how members of the Congressional delegation work cooperatively and collaboratively with Governor O’Malley to make our federal government work better for all Marylanders.”“Today’s disaster designation offers much needed assistance to farmers in the Eighth District and across the state who have been hit by the summer’s drought and excessive heat. I will continue to work with Secretary Vilsack to help Maryland farmers get back on their feet quickly,” said Congressman Van Hollen.“The drought in our state has hurt farmers and left them struggling to get through the season,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “This type of extreme weather is becoming more frequent as a result of climate change and we can no longer ignore the problem. By granting Governor O’Malley’s request, Secretary Vilsack is helping Maryland’s farmers get back on their feet.”“I am grateful for Secretary Vilsack’s prompt action to designate 21 municipalities in Maryland as natural disaster areas due to excessive drought and heat,” said Rep. Donna F. Edwards,” said Rep. Donna F. Edwards. “Farmers in the 4th Congressional District and across the state of Maryland have suffered severe crop losses, and this assistance will prove critical to help them recover. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in the Maryland delegation and our partners at the federal and state level to ensure our farmers continue to receive the assistance they require.”“This designation gives the Farm Service Agency (FSA) one more critical tool – low interest emergency loan assistance - to help Maryland’s affected producers,” said Lucie L. Snodgrass, Maryland FSA State Executive Director. “We encourage farmers to contact their local FSA offices directly to see if they are eligible for help.”
08.27.2012	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on the shooting at Perry Hall High School:‘The first day of school is supposed to be a day of reunion after a fun summer and anticipation for the year ahead. No parent should have to worry about the safety of their child at school. I appreciate the rapid response to the situation by the staff and administrators at Perry Hall High School as well as Baltimore County’s law enforcement and first responders, who quickly evacuated the victim and apprehended the suspect. My thoughts and prayers are with the students and staff of Perry Hall High School as well as their families.”
08.10.2012	Ruppersberger has represented Sparrows Point on the local, federal levels for 15 years(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on the auction of the Sparrows Point steel mill:“The Sparrows Point plant and its steelworkers have produced the steel that has literally built our country for the last 120 years. It could and should continue for another 120 years. With a prime location in one of the best deep-water ports in the United States, one of the country’s largest blast furnaces, a state-of-the-art continuous cold rolling mill and the world’s best workers, it remains a viable operation for a smart buyer with access to raw materials. While this week’s auction did not produce this buyer, it did buy time to find one over the next six months. The hard-working men and women of Sparrows Point stand at the ready and those of us on the local, state and federal levels stand firmly by them.When America’s auto makers hit hard times, our country rallied behind them. The American auto industry has returned to profitability and has added more than 200,000 jobs since June 2009. The cost to taxpayers was far less than if the companies had collapsed. Now, our steel manufacturers need our help. They are falling behind competitors in China and Japan and require creative solutions. We must forge new partnerships between government and the private sector, fight unfair foreign export restraints on important raw materials, create incentives for manufacturers to grow and hire and invest in rebuilding our country’s infrastructure.”
08.09.2012	Delegation asks Secretary Vilsack to support Governor O’Malley’s request for a disaster declaration as farming communities across Maryland struggle to recover from drought, extreme heat(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin (all D-Md.) in sending a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack supporting Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley’s request for a Secretarial Disaster Designation for 13 Maryland counties affected by extreme heat and drought this summer. If awarded, Maryland farmers reporting crop losses at more than 30 percent will become eligible for federal emergency loans, ensuring the state’s farming communities hit hardest are able to survive following widespread loses.Other members of Maryland's Congressional Delegation signing the letter include U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Roscoe E. Barlett, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards and Andy Harris.“A combination of excessive drought and extreme heat has delivered a one-two punch to many farmers on the Eastern Shore and in Southern Maryland,” the letter reads. “The drought conditions have had a devastating impact on Maryland’s corn and vegetable crops. We urge you to act quickly to examine the losses in our state and provide relief to Maryland farmers.”On August 7, 2012, in response to the severe weather conditions, Governor O’Malley requested a Secretarial Disaster Designation for Maryland counties reporting crop losses at more than 30 percent in 2012, which include: Anne Arundel, Calvert, Caroline, Cecil, Charles, Dorchester, Kent, Prince George’s, Queen Anne’s, St. Mary’s, Somerset, Talbot, and Wicomico. The full text of the delegation’s letter of support is as follows:August 9, 2012The Honorable Tom VilsackSecretaryU.S. Department of Agriculture1400 Independence Avenue, SWWashington, DC 20250Dear Secretary Vilsack:We strongly support Governor Martin O’Malley’s request for a Secretarial Disaster Designation for thirteen Maryland counties. We urge you to act quickly to examine the losses in our state and provide relief to Maryland farmers.A combination of excessive drought and extreme heat has delivered a one-two punch to many farmers on the Eastern Shore and in Southern Maryland. The drought conditions have had a devastating impact on Maryland’s corn and vegetable crops. For example, in Caroline County, as much as seventy percent of a farmer’s crop has been ruined by the drought.According to data collected by the Maryland Farm Service Agency, the following counties have experienced more than thirty percent crop loss: Anne Arundel, Calvert, Caroline, Cecil, Charles, Dorchester, Kent, Prince George’s, Queen Anne’s, St. Mary’s, Somerset, Talbot, and Wicomico. In addition to these counties, we request that you continue to monitor crop data from across our entire state and issue a disaster designation to any that qualify in the coming weeks.Thank you very much for your prompt attention to our request. We look forward to working with you to provide additional relief to farmers across the country when Congress returns from the August work period.Sincerely,
08.03.2012	Maryland Delegation had asked President Obama to support Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley’s request for a major disaster declaration as communities across Maryland struggle as a result of recent severe weather (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin (all D-Md.) in applauding President Barack Obama for issuing a Declaration of Disaster for Maryland in the wake of severe storms, straight line winds and extreme heat from June 28 to July 8, 2012. Other Members of Maryland’s Congressional Delegation praising the President's Disaster Delegation include U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Roscoe E. Bartlett, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards and Andy Harris.“As members of the Maryland Congressional Delegation, we have been united throughout this process in urging the President to issue a Disaster Declaration for Maryland in the wake of such severe weather,” said members of the Delegation. “We are pleased that the President recognized the full extent of the damage that was caused and that he has taken action to help communities recover.”The Disaster Declaration means that Maryland is now eligible for federal disaster recovery dollars through the Federal Emergency Management Agency, ensuring the already strained state budget is not stretched any thinner as a result of another natural disaster. In declaring that a major disaster exists in the State of Maryland, President Obama ordered Federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts in areas affected by this severe weather.Federal funding is available to state and local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe weather in Calvert, Charles, Kent, Montgomery and St. Mary’s Counties as well as the Independent City of Baltimore.The text of the delegation’s letter of support is as follows:August 2, 2012The PresidentThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20500Dear Mr. President:We are writing to express our very strong support for Governor O’Malley’s July 27, 2012 request for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of the severe weather event which impacted our state beginning on June 29, 2012 and ending on July 8, 2012. The severe storms, near-hurricane force winds, and extreme heat caused extraordinary damage across the State of Maryland, exhausting state and local capabilities.An unprecedented and unexpected storm, which we later learned was a Derecho, crossed our state June 29-June 30, 2012. It caused major destruction in its path and left over 1 million users without power in all 23 counties, Annapolis City, Baltimore City and Ocean City. This included not only private residences, but also businesses, state agencies, critical care facilities, and critical infrastructure facilities. The damage done by this storm was substantially exacerbated by extreme heat over the course of 10 straight days, including a recorded temperature in Baltimore of 104 degrees on June 29th, and temperatures of over 100 degrees July 5-8th. This combination of days-long outages and unrelenting heat posed a severe threat to the health and safety of Marylanders, causing the State to institute far-reaching measures to assist residents with basic human needs and medical support. Power was not fully restored to all customers until July 9, 2012. Maryland and its local jurisdictions have contributed a vast amount of resources in a very short time period. Governor O’Malley took appropriate action under Maryland law, directing the execution of the State CORE Emergency Operations Plan on June 29, 2012. The Governor further declared that a State of Emergency existed within the entire state beginning June 30, 2012. As the state moves out of the initial response to the storms and into the recovery period, it has been determined that this incident is beyond the capabilities of the state and local governments. Further, the response to this event has been somewhat impeded by the fact that the state remains in a long term recovery phase from previously declared Presidential disasters Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee. The federal assistance requested will provide vital resources to the State of Maryland as it repairs critical infrastructure and mitigates further losses to the citizens of our state. We appreciate your consideration of Maryland’s request, and look forward to continue working with you in this recovery.Sincerely,
08.02.2012	“Events in Senate Today Are Incredibly Disappointing” (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), the Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement about the failure of the Senate to advance its cyber security bill. “The events today in the Senate that prevent its cyber legislation from moving forward are incredibly disappointing. The only thing standing in the way of making major improvements to our country’s cyber defenses is Congress. From the very beginning, I have said Congress needs to move swiftly to protect our networks from a catastrophic attack and prevent countries like China from pilfering American trade secrets and using them to gain market share and steal jobs. In April, the House passed legislation that allows the government to share valuable intelligence about cyber threats with businesses so they can protect themselves. The bill passed by a strong bipartisan margin and is a good first step to defend our nation against cyber attacks. This should not be the end of the line for cyber security legislation in this Congress. I urge the Senate to regroup, focus on areas where there is agreement, and pass cyber security legislation that our country so critically needs.”
07.31.2012	Century Council’s “Ask, Listen, Learn” program comes to Havre de Grace(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today joined members of the Havre de Grace Boys and Girls Club in an interactive physical fitness game designed to teach them about the dangers of underage drinking. The Century Council’s Ask, Listen, Learn program is based on research that suggests physical activity is required for a human brain to function at its peak and asks kids to pledge to make healthy choices. About 36 percent of adolescents say they have tried alcohol by the time they reach eighth grade and nearly half of 12-14-year-olds believe alcohol education has influenced the decisions they have made.“It’s so important that kids understand that the choices they make today – good or bad – will have a lasting impact on their lives,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “I’m proud to participate in the creative work the Ask, Listen, Learn team is doing to engage children in the sometimes challenging discussion about the benefits of a healthy lifestyle and the dangers of underage drinking.”Funded by major alcohol distillers, The Century Council is a national nonprofit that fights drunk driving and underage drinking.“According to the National Survey on Drug Use and Health, nearly 16 percent of 12 to 14-year-olds report they have consumed alcohol in the past month,” said Sarah Cissna of The Century Council. “Our Ask, Listen, Learn program has the potential to further reduce these numbers.” Developed more than six years ago, Ask, Listen, Learn has already reached millions of parents, kids, and teachers around the country. The program taps role models such as current Olympic sprinter Tyson Gay and Baltimore’s own Debbie Phelps, mother of Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps, to share their own experiences.“We are thrilled The Century Council was able to bring their Ask, Listen, Learn program to the Havre de Grace Boys and Girls Club,” said branch director Otelia Brannigan. “Talking about the dangers of underage drinking with our youth is incredibly important and I have a feeling, after today’s event, our students will be asking to play the interactive activity a lot. I believe the more enthusiasm we can build around this important issue – saying ‘no’ to underage drinking – the smarter choices our students will make.”
07.30.2012	Century Council’s “Ask, Listen, Learn” program comes to Havre de Grace(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Tuesday will join members of the Havre de Grace Boys and Girls Club in an interactive physical fitness game designed to teach them about the dangers of underage drinking. The Century Council’s Ask, Listen, Learn program is based on research that suggests physical activity is required for a human brain to function at its peak and asks kids to pledge to make healthy choices.About 36 percent of adolescents say they have tried alcohol by the time they reach eighth grade and nearly half of 12-14-year-olds believe alcohol education has influenced the decisions they have made.Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Sarah Cissna, The Century Council Otelia Brannigan, Havre de Grace Boys and Girls Club Middle-school students What: Ruppersberger to Join Interactive Game to Educate Harford Youth on Dangers of Underage DrinkingWhen: 10:30 AM, Tuesday, July 31, 2012Where: Havre de Grace Boys and Girls Club 351 Lewis Lane Havre de Grace, MD 21078
07.25.2012	Ruppersberger recognized for pro-family voting record, office policies(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today received the “Best of Congress” award from Working Mother Media and Corporate Voices for Working Families for his advocacy on behalf of working American families. Ruppersberger was among 30 Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle selected for their family-friendly voting record and constituent casework efforts as well as their own employment policies within their Congressional offices.This is Congressman Ruppersberger’s third consecutive “Best of Congress” award.“Especially during these difficult times, we must do everything we can to help families struggling to make ends meet, whether it’s improving access to quality, affordable child care or preventing a foreclosure,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I am proud of my record on behalf of working parents in my district, on my own staff and across the country.”Congressman Ruppersberger was selected for supporting families in his district as well as championing legislation that helps Americans manage a good work-life balance. Among his signature bills is the “Right Start Child Care and Education Act,” which will increase the tax credit for employers who provide child care facilities in the workplace. The bill also increases the child care tax credit to encourage greater use of quality child care services and provides incentives for students to earn child care-related degrees to work in child care facilities.Lawmakers were asked to submit employment practices within their own offices. Congressman Ruppersberger’s employees receive generous paid sick, annual and maternity/paternity leave benefits as well as flexible work-life options such as telecommuting. He is proud to say that his staff is 82 percent female, with four out of four leadership roles filled by women. He currently employs three staffers who are pursing degrees or advanced degrees and one who is serving in the U.S. Coast Guard.
07.18.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski, and U.S. Congressmen Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-MD) today announced a $12 million grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DoT) to improve runway safety and upgrade runways at Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport. The $12 million grant will be used for the first phase of improvements to bring Runway 10-28 up to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) safety standards, including a rehabilitation of the pavement, an expansion of the shoulder, improved grading and new signage. The project is part of a multi-year, $350 million effort to bring all of BWI Marshall’s runways into compliance with federal safety standards by 2015. This phase of the project is expected to cost $40.3 million and support more than 500 jobs.“BWI is one of Maryland’s most vital economic engines, supporting nearly 100,000 jobs each year,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This project is about investing in our state’s future and preserving those jobs for years to come. Renovating the airport’s main arteries – its runways – will also create safer working conditions for flight and ground crews as well as passengers.”“This grant ensures that BWI Marshall continues to be a safe, dependable, and efficient hub for domestic and international travel,” said Senator Cardin. “BWI Marshall is an economic center for our region, bringing about $5.9 billion in revenue a year to our state. This rehabilitation project will mean good jobs for Marylanders and will improve BWI’s overall growth potential.”“This grant is about jobs today and jobs tomorrow,” Senator Mikulski said. “It creates jobs today in construction by funding the renovation and upgrading of BWI’s runways. And it helps create jobs tomorrow by making sure BWI remains a safe, efficient travel center and economic engine for Maryland.”“This federal grant makes a critical investment in Maryland’s biggest and busiest airport,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “These renovations will not only make BWI safer for the thousands of travelers who pass through each day, but they will also create high-quality employment opportunities for Marylanders who are eager to get back to work.”The Maryland Aviation Administration (MAA) will oversee construction, which is scheduled to begin in August and be completed by September.
07.16.2012	American public can donate hotel reward points to military families in need(Washington, DC) – Senator Ben Cardin and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (both D-MD) today officially kicked off a new nation-wide program allowing the American public to donate hotel reward points to wounded warriors and their families. Six major hotel companies are participating in “Hotels for Heroes,” which will defray the travel costs of wounded warriors receiving care through the military health system, as well as family and friends visiting them.The program was created by bipartisan legislation authored by Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Cardin and passed overwhelmingly in December. At today’s event, the lawmakers announced that Marriott, Wyndham, AmericInn and Best Western are all accepting donated points as of today. Customers of Choice Hotels will be able to convert their reward points to cash donations to support the program. A sixth sponsor, Starwood Hotels, has generously donated corporate reward points to start the program.“The Hotels for Heroes program is a winner for our nation because it provides military families with the support they need when their loved ones are wounded and it allows Americans to help those who have served our country so bravely,” said Senator Cardin. “The creation of this program has been a real joint effort, and I particularly want to commend Congressman Ruppersberger, the Fisher House and all the hotel chains who are participating for making Hotels for Heroes a reality. We all want what is best for our troops and their families and now they will have this extra support available to them in times of need.” “Sometimes the love and support of family and friends at the bedside of a wounded warrior is the best medicine,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Thousands of Americans have already generously donated millions of frequent flyer miles and I am thrilled that they will now have another way of showing our endless appreciation for the sacrifices of our troops and their families. I want to thank Senator Cardin, all of the participating hotels and the Fisher House for helping to bring this vision to life.”“Hotels for Heroes” will be administered by the nonprofit Fisher House, a non-profit organization that opens its homes to military families visiting their injured loved ones at hospitals across the country.“The family members of our wounded heroes should never have to stress about the financial burden of travel,” said David Coker, President of the Fisher House Foundation. “We are honored to help facilitate the process and are confident that the American public will help make this new program a success.”“Marriott Rewards is pleased to offer members meaningful opportunities to donate points to organizations they believe in,” said Ed French, senior vice president, Marriott Rewards. “As an organization that supports the men and women who so bravely serve our country, we are proud to partner with Hotels for Heroes. In the few weeks since members have been able to donate points, they have responded overwhelmingly by donating 24 million Marriott Rewards points. Thank you to Fisher House, Senator Cardin and Congressman Ruppersberger for their leadership in creating the partnerships that made Hotels for Heroes possible.”“AmericInn is proud to be one of the founding partners of the Hotels for Heroes program,” said Paul Kirwin, President and CEO of AmericInn. “As our name suggests, we’re a patriotic brand that has supported the troops in the past through our AmericInn Cares initiatives, so this was a natural extension for us.”“Hotels for Heroes is a program we take great pride in supporting”, said Robin Korman, senior vice president of Loyalty Marketing and Strategic Partnerships for Wyndham Hotel Group. “We donated 10 million Wyndham Rewards points as a show of respect and commitment to the service men and women who have already given so much of themselves. We applaud Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Cardin for the passion and work they have put into this initiative and we hope the nearly 1,000 room nights the donation provides will go a long way in easing the recovery of soldiers and their families all across the country.”“Hotels for Heroes” is modeled off the national “Hero Miles” program, which was created by Congressman Ruppersberger and provides free round-trip airfare to wounded warriors traveling to receive care through the military health system, as well as to friends and family visiting them. Flights are made possible by frequent flyer miles donated by the American public. Monday’s event featured the Allen family, including Staff Sergeant Charles “Chaz” Allen, who lost both legs after stepping on an improvised explosive device in Afghanistan in January 2011. Jessica Allen used “Hero Miles” to travel between Tennessee and Walter Reed Army Medical Center to be at her husband’s bedside, but had to stay at a local hotel until space became available at the nearby Fisher House.
07.12.2012	American public can donate hotel reward points to military families in need(Washington, DC) – Senator Ben Cardin and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (both D-MD) on Monday will officially launch a new nation-wide program allowing Americans to donate hotel reward points to wounded warriors and their families. Six major hotel companies are participating in “Hotels for Heroes,” which will defray the travel costs of wounded warriors receiving care through the military health system, as well as to family and friends visiting them.The program, which was created by bipartisan legislation authored by Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Cardin, will be administered by the nonprofit Fisher House. The Allen family, including wounded warrior Staff Sergeant Charles Allen, will be available to speak about how the program will benefit military families.Who: Senator Ben Cardin Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger David Coker, President, Fisher House Military Families Hotel PartnersWhat: Cardin, Ruppersberger to Kick-Off New National Hotel Program for Wounded WarriorsWhen: 11:00 AM, Monday, July 16, 2012Where: JW Marriott Hotel – Garden Terrace Room 1331 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20004
07.10.2012	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today issued the following statement on proposed bonuses for executives at Sparrows Point steel mill owner RG Steel, which has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy:“The fact that RG Steel executives have requested bonuses worth up to $2 million each while the company is laying off thousands of hard-working men and women at Sparrows Point is absolutely outrageous. As trustee Roberta A. DeAngelis has rightfully noted, RG Steel’s plan fails to specify the performance requirements the executives would have to meet to get their bonus. What’s more, RG Steel is trying to hide who will receive the bonuses, their job descriptions and what they earn already.Time and time again, the men and women of Sparrows Point have rallied under the most frustrating of circumstances. I am pleased that the federal government recently approved an emergency grant to provide laid-off workers with critical job training and financial assistance so they can continue to support their families during this difficult time. I remain hopeful that efforts to sell the plant will be successful. I will continue to closely monitor the situation so that all affected workers receive the answers and assistance they deserve.”
07.02.2012	Letter to FERC calls for community input in considering less hazardous alternatives and in environment assessment process(Washington, DC) – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski today joined U.S. Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), and John Sarbanes (MD-3) in sending a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) urging the agency to engage the public as it considers a 21.4-mile extension of the Columbia Gas Transmission, Inc. pipeline that runs from Owings Mills through Oregon Ridge to Fallston.Many members of the Baltimore County communities that would be affected have voiced concerns about the negative impact that the project may have on the environment and public health. In the letter to FERC, Team Maryland members urged the agency to “heed the local community concerns in designing its Environmental Assessment.” It also urged FERC to “involve all relevant stakeholders” throughout the Environmental Assessment process, including the evaluation of less hazardous alternatives.The pipeline extension proposed by Columbia Transmission would run beside an existing pipeline, but would require the company to expand its current right of way from a width of 50 feet to 75 feet. It is estimated that approximately 300 property owners would be affected by the expansion.Click here for a PDF of the letter.
06.29.2012	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today issued the following statement on the transportation authorization and appropriations bills for fiscal year 2013:“I am pleased that the House of Representatives today has finally passed a bipartisan job-creating highway authorization bill after months of needless delays. This bill will create or save more than 2 million jobs while authorizing highway and transit programs for more than two years at current levels. It cuts red tape and consolidates 60 different federal programs into four, which reduces government waste.I also applaud a provision that will prevent the interest rates on federal student loans from doubling. That fact that this was held up to the 11th hour is disgraceful. We must do everything we can to keep college affordable so that all Americans have an opportunity to get a quality job to support themselves and their families.But no legislation is perfect and I believe we can do better when it comes to investing in America’s crumbling roads, bridges and tunnels while creating even more jobs. For every $1 billion of federal funds invested in highway and transit infrastructure, we create or save about 34,800 jobs in some of the hardest-hit industries.The appropriations bill shortchanges key initiatives to improve mass transit, including high-speed rail. While the bill provides adequate funding to advance major transit projects currently under construction, it effectively shuts downs the planning and development pipeline for new subway, light rail and other rail systems. I believe this is a missed opportunity to ease congestion in the northeast corridor, create jobs and reduce vehicle emissions that harm the environment.”
06.28.2012	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s ruling on “The Affordable Care Act:”“This ruling is not about a victory for Democrats or a loss for Republicans. It’s about providing all Americans with access to quality, affordable healthcare. We’ve already seen many of the benefits here in Maryland that can now continue:Maryland’s seniors each saved an average of $724 on prescription drugs so far this year.More than 800 small businesses have gotten tax breaks to offer health benefits.Almost 900 people in Maryland have been added to a federally backed program that insures those with pre-existing conditions.About 180,000 people in Maryland have gained insurance through the private exchange.1.2 million Marylanders received at least one free preventive service through their private insurance.52,000 young adults in Maryland have chosen to stay on their parents' policies.The idea behind the individual mandate is to be responsible for your own health needs instead of burdening others, to make it easier for those who can’t afford insurance to find options in the private market and to help employers offer health benefits to workers. The Supreme Court has spoken and we now need to work together to implement the law of the land and achieve these goals.”
06.11.2012	Event organized by high school student will feature players of all ages(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Thursday will help kick-off an attempt to break the world record for longest lacrosse game and raise money for injured American troops. Players of all ages will compete for 24 hours in an historic effort to raise $50,000 for the Wounded Warrior Project.Called “Shootout for Soldiers,” the event was organized by Boys’ Latin senior Tyler Steinhardt and will honor two local service members: Army Sergeant Ryan Miller, a Towson High School graduate who lost both legs to an improvised explosive device in Iraq, and Marine Corporal Nick Ziolkowski, a Boys’ Latin graduate who was killed in Iraq in 2004. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Lacrosse Players of All Ages Tracy Miller, American Gold Star Mother Army Sergeant Ryan Major, Wounded Warrior What: Ruppersberger to Kick-Off Record-Setting Lacrosse Game to Benefit Wounded WarriorsWhen: 8:30 AM, Thursday, June 14, 2012Where: Boys’ Latin School of Maryland 822 West Lake Avenue Baltimore, MD 21210
06.06.2012	(Washington, DC) - The leaders of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees – Chairwoman Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Vice Chairman Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Chairman Mike Rogers (R-MI) and Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (M-MD) – released the following joint statement. “In recent weeks, we have become increasingly concerned at the continued leaks regarding sensitive intelligence programs and activities, including specific details of sources and methods. The accelerating pace of such disclosures, the sensitivity of the matters in question, and the harm caused to our national security interests is alarming and unacceptable.“These disclosures have seriously interfered with ongoing intelligence programs and have put at jeopardy our intelligence capability to act in the future. Each disclosure puts American lives at risk, makes it more difficult to recruit assets, strains the trust of our partners, and threatens imminent and irreparable damage to our national security in the face of urgent and rapidly adapting threats worldwide.“As leaders of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, we are jointly committed to act immediately to address this matter. Our Committees each intend to review potential legislation to strengthen authorities and procedures with respect to access to classified information and disclosure of it, as well as to ensure that criminal and administrative measures are taken each time sensitive information is improperly disclosed. We also intend to press for the Executive branch to take tangible and demonstrable steps to detect and deter intelligence leaks, and to fully, fairly, and impartially investigate the disclosures that have already taken place. We plan to move legislation quickly, to include possible action in this year’s intelligence authorization act.“The problem of leaks of classified information is not new, and efforts in the past to address it have not worked. We believe that significant changes are needed, in legislation, in the culture of the agencies that deal with classified information, in punishing leaks, and in the level of leadership across the government to make clear that these types of disclosures will not stand.”
06.01.2012	(Washington, DC) - The Intelligence Authorization bill for fiscal year 2013 (H.R. 5743), passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 386-28. House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, and Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger praised the bill's passage and the overwhelming bipartisan effort.The intelligence authorization bill is one of the critical national security bills the House passes each year. It provides and allocates resources to critical national security programs, including those that detect, prevent, and disrupt potential terrorist attacks against the American people.Through extensive bipartisan cooperation, the House Intelligence Committee produced a bill that is significantly below last year’s enacted budget, but also up modestly from the President's budget request. The committee unanimously voted to report the bill to the full House two weeks ago.H.R. 5743 funds the requirements of the men and women of the Intelligence Community (military and civilian), many of whom directly support the war zones and are engaged in other dangerous operations to keep Americans safe.It provides oversight and authorization for vital intelligence activities, including:Global counter-terrorism operations, such as the one that took out Osama bin Laden,Efforts by the National Security Agency to defend us from advanced foreign state-sponsored cyber threats,Countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction,Global monitoring of foreign militaries and advanced weapons tests,Research and development of new technologies to maintain our intelligence agencies’ technological edge, including work on code breaking and spy satellites.“The strong bipartisan vote on this important bill reaffirms to our intelligence community and professionals in the field that we are united in ensuring they have the tools they need in order to do the very difficult and dangerous work of keeping America safe," Chairman Rogers said. "The current challenging fiscal environment demands the accountability and financial oversight of our classified intelligence programs that can only come with an intelligence authorization bill. The bill’s comprehensive classified annex provides detailed guidance on intelligence spending, including adjustments to costly but important programs,” said Rogers."Even in these tough economic times, it is critically important that we give our intelligence professionals the resources, capabilities and authorities they need to keep us safe," said Ranking Member Ruppersberger. "We made cuts where appropriate, eliminated redundancies, pushed programs to come in on time and on budget and achieved major efficiencies in information technology. At the same time, we invested in certain key areas, including counterterrorism, cybersecurity, counterintelligence and space."
05.30.2012	Expansion at “The Gate” expected to generate 50 new jobs for Maryland workers(Aberdeen, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today helped open a new eco-friendly building at Aberdeen Proving Ground that will be home to long-time defense contractor Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC). The 33,000 square-foot facility is the most recent addition to the public-private Government and Technology Enterprise office and technology park known as “The Gate.”The new energy-efficient facility builds on SAIC’s existing presence in nearby Abingdon, Edgewood and Aberdeen and is expected to generate 50 new jobs for Maryland workers. SAIC is one of Harford County’s largest employers, with more than 800 personnel at APG who focus on force protection, intelligence and electronic warfare.“SAIC has supported our country’s defense programs in Aberdeen for more than 20 years,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Now, they’re choosing to grow here because of our quality workers, creating even more local jobs for local families. These are the types of high-quality jobs that will improve our economy and help Maryland build the number one technology workforce in the country.”Company officials said they expect its employee base at APG to grow as the company continues to expand its support to APG commands.“We’re proud to expand our support to Aberdeen Proving Ground,” said SAIC Group President Tom Baybrook. “Our increased presence here will ensure that we are readily accessible to key customers, allowing for face-to-face collaboration to help them accomplish their critical missions.”
05.25.2012	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} (Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today issued the following statement on job losses announced by Sparrows Point steel plant owner RG Steel: “I am deeply troubled by the potential impact this news will have on the dedicated men and women at the Sparrows Point plant. I have been proud to represent the workers who have helped shape Baltimore’s industrial identity for more than 15 years, first at the county level and now at the federal level. For more than a century, the plant has produced steel that has literally built our country. My father worked at this plant when it was Bethlehem Steel and, time and time again, the men and women of Sparrows Point have rallied under the most frustrating of circumstances. I am hopeful that efforts to sell the plant will be successful. I will closely monitor the situation so that all of its workers receive the answers and assistance they deserve. The continued success of the Sparrows Point steelmaking operation is not only important to Maryland, but the national economy. In Congress, I have been working with U.S. trade officials to develop relationships with raw materials producers overseas. Unfair export restraints on important raw materials are putting American manufacturers at a competitive disadvantage. This week’s news is one example of why we must continue to fight for even playing ground in markets around the world.”
05.18.2012	Bill includes several provisions to support troops, facilities in Maryland(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted today in support of the bipartisan military spending bill known as the National Defense Authorization Act. The bill for fiscal year 2013 overwhelmingly passed by a vote of 299 to 120. The bill now heads to the Senate for consideration.“Like the Triple Crown, our national security isn’t just about muscle and speed – it’s about strategy,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This bill goes the distance, setting our long-term policies to tackle the emerging threats of tomorrow.”The bill provides troops with a 1.7 percent pay raise and measures to combat sexual violence in the military. It also removes barriers that prevent small businesses from competing for Department of Defense contracts. Congressman Ruppersberger strongly advocated for language to reform export regulations to strengthen American manufacturing, particularly within the satellite industry.While he voted to support the bill, Congressman Ruppersberger remains concerned by its overall funding level.“Again, we have failed to make the tough choices necessary to get our country’s spending habits under control,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “For example, this bill authorizes spending hundreds of millions of dollars on a missile defense system against the advice of our military leaders. I have voted twice to oppose this project and will continue to support sensible cuts as this bill moves forward.”The Act authorized funding and includes language of particular interest to Maryland’s Second District:Language preventing the retirement of the C-27 aircraft, which are maintained and flown by the Maryland Air National Guard based at Martin State Airport in Middle River.$325 million for building improvements and a high performance computing center at the National Security Agency at Fort Meade.$21 million for the Aberdeen Proving Ground Army Reserve Center.$10 million for the Baltimore Army Reserve Center near Curtis Bay.
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Mike Rogers and Ranking Member Dutch Ruppersberger of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence today announced that the committee has completed its markup of the FY13 Intelligence Authorization Bill, H.R. 5743. The bill passed the committee by a unanimous 19-0 vote.The intelligence authorization bill is one of the most important bills the House passes each year. It provides and allocates resources to critical national security programs, including those that detect, prevent, and disrupt potential terrorist attacks against the American people.The FY13 bill, H.R. 5743, funds all intelligence capabilities necessary to ensure our intelligence is the best in the world, including $300 million of new initiatives and $400 million of intelligence enhancements. Extensive bipartisan cooperation and support has produced a bill that is significantly below last year’s enacted budget, but up modestly from the President’s budget request, and is completely in line with the House Budget Resolution. It holds personnel at last year’s levels and authorizes an initiative to achieve major efficiencies and improved performance in Information Technology. The bill also:Increases funding for counterintelligence against foreign spiesAuthorizes the new Defense Clandestine ServiceEnhances counter terrorism efforts to continue the fight against al Qaeda and its affiliates around the worldIncreases oversight on the spending of domestic intelligence agenciesSupports global coverage initiatives of the Intelligence Community to ensure the US is postured to address emerging issues and threats around the world"The House Intelligence Committee is committed to giving our intelligence professionals the resources, capabilities, and authorities they need to keep our country safe. This good, bipartisan bill does this while also keeping control of the bottom line," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee.“The strong bipartisan vote in committee today as we marked up the FY13 authorization bill, reaffirms to our men and women in the field that the committee is united in ensuring that our Intelligence Community has the tools it needs to keep America safe,” said Chairman Rogers.The Committee also unanimously approved a performance audit report of the Department of Defense’s Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance program. The report, based on a nine month study, identifies ways to make these programs more effective and efficient. The effort was done with the full cooperation of the Department of Defense and of the House Armed Services Committee. Key recommendations of the performance audit are included in the classified annex of the Committee’s bill.The bill now moves to the House Floor for consideration.
05.15.2012	The Top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee Will Discuss the Latest Developments in Federal Cybersecurity Legislation And How Maryland is Helping to Protect our Nation’s Networks (College Park, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), the Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, will deliver the opening address at the 1st Annual Maryland Cybersecurity Center Symposium on Tuesday, May 15, 2012, at the University of Maryland at College Park. Congressman Ruppersberger will discuss the latest developments in federal cybersecurity legislation, including recent passage of the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act, a bill he sponsored together with Intelligence Chairman Mike Rogers of Michigan. The Congressman will also discuss what Maryland is doing to protect our nation’s networks. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Ranking Member, House Intelligence Committee When: 9 a.m., Tuesday, May 15, 2012 Where: Orem Alumni Hall Samuel Riggs IV Alumni Center University of Maryland College Park, Maryland
05.07.2012	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement today after the foiled bomb plot overseas. “Working together with our international partners and allies, the United States recently stopped a terrorist plot involving Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) and an improvised explosive device. We believe the bomb was going to be used by a suicide bomber on an airplane, but the plot was disrupted before it ever got off the ground. No U.S. airliners or Americans were ever in danger. Good intelligence is the best defense against terrorism. This foiled plot shows how good intelligence and teamwork can keep our country safe. The device has the hallmarks of previous bombing attempts by AQAP, including the Christmas Day bombing in 2009. The device is now in the hands of the FBI where it is being analyzed.This foiled plot reminds us we must remain vigilant as we work to stop terrorism at home and abroad.”
04.27.2012	Cyber Information Sharing & Protection Act Passes with 248-168 Vote WASHINGTON, D.C. – Economic cyber spies will have a harder time stealing American business plans and research and development as the House took the first step today by passing a cybersecurity bill that will help U.S. companies better protect themselves from dangerous economic predators.In a show of bipartisanship, the House of Representatives passed the Cyber Information Sharing & Protection Act by a vote of 248-168. The bill gives the federal government new authority to share classified cyber threat information with approved American companies and knocks down barriers to cyber threat information-sharing. With strong provisions built in to keep individual American’s private information private, the bill allows U.S. businesses to better protect their own networks and their corporate customers from hackers looking to steal intellectual property.US companies and trade associations anxious to better protect their networks and their customers lined up in droves in a show of strong support for this bill, including Facebook, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Boeing, financial trade associations, AT&T, utilities groups, Intel, tech associations and many others.“We can’t stand by and do nothing as U.S. companies are hemorrhaging from the cyber looting coming from nation states like China and Russia,” Chairman Rogers said. “America will be a little safer and our economy better protected from foreign cyber predators with this legislation. I commend the bipartisan effort on this bill. And I thank Ranking Member Ruppersberger for his leadership in getting 42 Democrats to join this important legislation. I encourage the Senate to take up the bill soon so we can move it to the President’s desk.” “One credit card company said that they get attacked for your personal information 300,000 times a day, one company,” Chairman Rogers said during the open floor debate of the bill. “One company in particular estimated they lost 20,000 good-paying manufacturing jobs for Americans because countries like China stole their intellectual property and illegally competed against them in the market place,” Rogers said."This is not just a victory on the House floor. This is victory for America," said Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. "Our nation is one step closer to making a real difference protecting our country from a catastrophic cyber attack. This shows what can happen when Democrats and Republicans work together for the good of our country. This robust, open, bipartisan process made a good bill even better. I look forward to seeing it taken up in the Senate."Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Ruppersberger worked collaboratively for over a year with hundreds of U.S. companies, industry associations, and privacy and civil liberties groups, including the ACLU and the CDT, as the bill was drafted, and through the process of bringing the bill to the House Floor. Their transparency in the process and open engagement with all interested parties, produced a bill that provides the protections American businesses need, while simultaneously protecting the privacy rights of individuals.By permitting the private sector to expand its own cyber defense efforts and to use classified information to protect its systems and networks, this bill will help create a more robust cybersecurity marketplace with expanded service offerings and jobs. More importantly, this bill does not contain any new federal spending or impose additional federal regulation or unfunded mandates on the private sector.
04.20.2012	Memorial for military students past will be unveiled, dedicated at Towson University(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will help celebrate Towson University’s first-ever “Military Appreciation Day” by unveiling and dedicating a new memorial for student soldiers past, present and future. Congressman Ruppersberger will join students, veterans and other local dignitaries at a ceremony that will culminate a day-long festival that will include family-friendly attractions.The ceremony, organized by Towson University students, will include a special tribute to Timothy Coyer, a student and infantryman in the Maryland Army National Guard who passed away last month. Coyer served two tours in Iraq and was a member of the University Student Veterans Group.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Towson University President Maravene Loeschke Students Veterans What: Ruppersberger to Honor Student Soldiers at First Military Appreciation DayWhen: 3:30 PM, Monday, April 23, 2012Where: Pedestrian Plaza (adjacent to Burdick Hall) Towsontown Boulevard and University Avenue Towson, MD 21252
04.18.2012	Defense report recommends loosening export controls on commercial satellite industry(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauded a Department of Defense report released today that recommends relaxing export restrictions on commercial satellites and satellite parts that do not pose a national security risk. Congressman Ruppersberger, who is Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, has long championed satellite export reform to restore America’s competitive edge and create much-needed jobs.Currently, satellite and satellite parts are regulated under the U.S. Munitions List, which restricts what type of weapons can be sold overseas. Before they were placed on the list, the U.S. held 73 percent of the worldwide share of satellite exports. Since, that share has fallen a staggering 25 percent. “This report validates what has become increasing clear for years: treating satellites like guns and ammo is crippling American space manufacturers,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Prohibitions on old, simple and widely-available technologies are putting American companies at a disadvantage to foreign competitors and, in some cases, out of business. Loosening these out-dated restrictions is critical to more than 250,000 American jobs supported by the satellite industry, particularly during this economic downturn.”The report recommends moving certain satellites, such as those that provide direct broadcast television, cell phone communications and earth mapping, from the Munitions List to the Commerce Control List administered by the Department of Commerce. The move will enable the U.S. to prioritize resources for the most sensitive items, boost trade will allies and improve the long-term health of the American satellite industry, according to the report.Congressman Ruppersberger is an original cosponsor of bipartisan legislation that enables the President to move commercial satellites and related components from the Munitions List to the Commerce Control List. It also prohibits satellite sales to China and North Korea, as well as state sponsors of terrorism.
04.13.2012	Congressional caseworkers will assist Marylanders with wide-ranging federal issues (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is taking his team of expert caseworkers on the road with him in a one-of-a-kind service outreach event Monday in the Brooklyn community. Skilled in areas including unemployment, Social Security, IRS, veterans’ issues, financial aid, foreclosure, Medicare and worker’s compensation, Dutch’s caseworkers will be on hand to help constituents who may not be able to contact his office during normal business hours.“Since the recession began, Americans have been reaching out to their Member of Congress for help in record numbers,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This workshop will give my constituents a chance to sit down, one-one-one with a caseworker trained to handle all sorts of problems that Marylanders are dealing with. We’re bringing my office to their backyard.”Constituent service has been a hallmark of Congressman Ruppersberger’s time in office and this will be his third “Dutch on Demand” event since the recession began. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Dutch’s team of caseworkers Constituents who need Dutch’s help What: “Dutch on Demand” Service Outreach EventWhen: 6 PM – 8 PM, Monday, April 16, 2012Where: Farring Bay Brook Recreation and Senior Center 4501 Farring Court Brooklyn, MD 21225
04.12.2012	‘Nanofabulous’ exhibit shows kids how scientists discover and invent new materials(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD this morning will help open a new, cutting-edge exhibit at Baltimore’s Port Discovery museum. Developed by the University of Maryland College Park’s Materials Research Science & Engineering Center, “Nanofabulous” will teach kids how scientists invent and discover new materials from nanoscale building blocks.As Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, Congressman Ruppersberger is deeply concerned about the United States’ long-term leadership in technology. American students are falling behind our global competitors in STEM fields, jeopardizing not only economic opportunities but our national security.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Bryn Parchman, President & CEO, Port Discovery Kids!What: Ruppersberger to Help Open New STEM Exhibit at Port Discovery MuseumWhen: 10:30 AM, Thursday, April 12, 2012Where: Port Discovery Children’s Museum 35 Market Place Baltimore, MD
04.10.2012	Baltimore County Public Schools, Community College forming STEM alliance(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) tomorrow will help kick-off a new effort to bring together businesses, education and government leaders to develop a plan to increase the number of young people preparing for careers in science, technology, engineering and math fields. Recent studies show that the country will need 1 million more STEM professionals than we are currently on course to produce to fill workforce gaps.As Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, Congressman Ruppersberger is deeply concerned about the United States’ long-term leadership in technology. American students are falling behind our global competitors in STEM fields, jeopardizing not only economic opportunities but our national security.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz Community College of Baltimore County Chancellor Sandra Kurtinitis Baltimore County Schools Superintendent Joe Hairston Dozens of Baltimore-area businessesWhat: Ruppersberger to Help Launch New STEM Education InitiativeWhen: 8:30 AM, Wednesday, April 11, 2012Where: Crown Plaza Hotel 2004 Greenspring Drive Timonium, MD 21093
03.29.2012	(Washington, DC) - The Rogers-Ruppersberger Cyber Security Bill continues to gather broad-based bipartisan support. Ranking Member Dutch Ruppersberger and Chairman Mike Rogers today announced that more than 100 Members of Congress are supporting the "Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act," (H.R. 3523), which helps protect American businesses and jobs.The 105 cosponsors of the bill include 10 committee chairmen. Additionally, a wide range of major industry and cyber associations, such as Facebook, Microsoft, the U.S. Chamber Commerce, the Business Roundtable, the Internet Security Alliance, TechAmerica and many others have sent letters of support for the bill. A list of major industry and association supporters can be found here. The bipartisan Rogers-Ruppersberger bill helps the private sector defend itself from advanced cyber threats without imposing any new federal regulations or unfunded private sector mandates, and contains protections for privacy and civil liberties. This approach not only creates new private-sector jobs for cybersecurity professionals, but also protects the thousands of jobs created by the American intellectual property that Chinese hackers are trying to steal every day.Many of the same vulnerabilities used to steal intellectual property can also be used to attack the critical infrastructure we depend on every day.“Without important, immediate changes to American cybersecurity policy, I believe our country will continue to be at risk for a catastrophic attack to our nation’s vital networks - networks that power our homes, provide our clean water or maintain the other critical services we use every day. This small but important piece of legislation is a decisive first step to tackle the cyber threats we face,” said Ranking Member Ruppersberger. “Every day U.S. businesses are targeted by nation-state actors like China for cyber exploitation and theft,” Rogers said. “This consistent and extensive cyber looting results in huge losses of valuable intellectual property, sensitive information, and American jobs. The broad base of support for this bill shows that Congress recognizes the urgent need to help our private sector better defend itself from these insidious attacks,” he said.The bill passed the House Intelligence Committee on December 1, 2011 with a bipartisan vote of 17-1. The next step for the bill is the House Floor.
03.16.2012	Program will provide free hotel stays to wounded U.S. troops and their families (Baltimore, MD) – Senator Ben Cardin and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (both D-MD) today announced that three major hotel corporations have agreed to participate in a new national program that will allow American citizens to donate their hotel reward points to wounded warriors and their families. Marriott International was the first hotel company to agree to participate in the program, followed by the Wyndham Hotel Group and AmericInn Hotels & Suites. Event participants called on the rest of the lodging industry to follow their lead and agree to participate by Memorial Day, when organizers hope to open the program to donations.“Hotels for Heroes” will be modeled off the national “Hero Miles” program, which provides free round-trip airfare to wounded warriors traveling to receive care through the military health system, as well as to friends and family visiting them. Flights are made possible by frequent flyer miles donated by the American public. “Hotels for Heroes” was created by bipartisan legislation authored by Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Cardin that passed in December.“I want to thank Marriott, Wyndham and AmericInn for stepping up to the plate and being the first to agree to participate in this valuable program,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Sometimes the love and support of family is the best medicine to help a wounded warrior recover from his or her injuries. Helping to reduce their travel expenses is one small way to show our nation’s heroes that we appreciate their sacrifices and the sacrifices of their families.”“The ‘Hotels for Heroes’ program is committed to providing military families the support they need when their loved ones are wounded or injured,” said Senator Cardin. “I want to commend the Marriott, Wyndham and AmericInn hotel chains for their hospitality and generosity of spirit in participating in ‘Hotels for Heroes,’ and I urge other hotel chains to join the program and show their support for members of the military and their families. Americans are known for their unselfish spirit and love of country and this new program will allow them to show their appreciation of the sacrifices made by our military by providing their families with additional support during a very difficult time.”“Marriott is proud to be the first hotel company to join ‘Hotels for Heroes,’ and to offer our millions of Marriott Rewards members in the U.S. the option to give back to the men and women of the military who have served our country so well,” said Ed French, senior vice president, Marriott Rewards. “We look forward to partnering with Fisher House on this great cause, and thank our Maryland Congressional delegation, especially Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Cardin, for their leadership in moving this project forward.”“Wyndham Hotel Group is proud to support this selfless endeavor and to welcome members of the military and their families into our hotels,” said Robin Korman, senior vice president, Wyndham Loyalty Marketing and Strategic Partnerships. “We believe our Wyndham Rewards members will embrace the opportunity to give back to those who have given so much by donating their points. We are so passionate about this cause, that Wyndham Rewards is donating 10 million Wyndham Rewards points, which can provide at least 1,000 room nights. We applaud the efforts of the Maryland Congressional delegation, Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Cardin in championing this worthy initiative and look forward to working with Fisher House and the hospitality community in helping these fine men and women.”“AmericInn is proud to be one of the founding partners of the Hotels for Heroes program,” said Paul Kirwin, President and CEO of AmericInn. “As our name suggests, we’re a patriotic brand that has supported the troops in the past through our AmericInn Cares initiatives, so this was a natural extension for us.”As with “Hero Miles,” “Hotels for Heroes” will be administered by the Fisher House, a non-profit organization that opens its homes to military families visiting their injured loved ones at hospitals across the country.“Fisher House Foundation is honored to partner with these great hotel groups to support America’s wounded warriors, veterans and their families,” said David Coker, President of Fisher House Foundation. “‘Hotels for Heroes’ will support countless families throughout the coming years, easing their burden as they care for their loved ones.”
03.15.2012	Chesapeake Testing unveils unique scanning system that will help protect U.S. troops Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today joined Chesapeake Testing President and CEO Jim Foulk, Harford County Economic Developer Jim Richardson and members of the Harford County Council to help launch the company’s new three dimensional X-Ray scanning technology that will help test helmets, body armor and vehicle armor used by U.S. troops on the frontlines. The state-of-the-art technology will provide Chesapeake Testing’s customers in defense, law enforcement and homeland security with a better understanding of how much damage different types of armor and ballistics can sustain.“Chesapeake Testing helps save the lives of our warfighters by testing the quality of the helmets, body armor and vehicle armor they use on the frontlines,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This company is investing not only in the security of their country, but in their community by supporting local education and workforce development programs. I am proud to represent them in Congress.”Engineers at the Belcamp-based Chesapeake Testing will use the new system to study the “before” – if there are any flaws or defects in the construction of the armor. They will compare that information to the “after” – what kind of damage is done.The new system is the first of its kind in the United States and among only three in the world. Other applications for the new technology also include the aviation, automotive and electronics industries, according to Foulk.
03.14.2012	“Hotels for Heroes” to provide free hotel rooms to U.S. troops and their families (Baltimore, MD) – Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Friday will announce that two major hotel corporations have agreed to participate in a new national program that will allow American citizens to donate their hotel reward points to wounded warriors and their families. “Hotels for Heroes” will be modeled off the national “Hero Miles” program, which provides free round-trip airfare to wounded warriors traveling to receive care through the military health system, as well as to friends and family visiting them. Flights are made possible by frequent flyer miles donated by the American public. “Hotels for Heroes” was created by bipartisan legislation authored by Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Cardin that passed in December.Event participants will call on the rest of the lodging industry to join the program.Who: Senator Ben Cardin Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger David Coker, President, Fisher House Hotel PartnersWhat: Cardin, Ruppersberger to Announce First Hotel Partners in New Military ProgramWhen: 12:45 PM, Friday, March 16, 2012Where: Baltimore Marriott Waterfront Concierge Lounge, 31st Floor 700 Aliceanna Street Baltimore, Maryland 21202
03.14.2012	EPA Announces $4 Million in New Funding to Assist Local Governments with Bay CleanupThe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) today announced a new $4 million EPA-funded initiative providing financial and technical assistance to local governments needing to reduce water pollution to help restore the Chesapeake Bay.As local governments work to implement the Chesapeake Bay TMDL or ‘pollution diet,’ the Local Government Green Infrastructure Initiative will support them by making grants of up to $750,000 available. The grants will be administered by NFWF through the Chesapeake Bay Stewardship Fund, and competitively awarded to local governments to design and implement projects demonstrating the integration of green infrastructure into existing programs to meet community needs and improve local waterways and the Bay.“Protecting the Chesapeake Bay means protecting jobs,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “The Bay generates $1 trillion for its watershed each year through fishing, tourism, higher property values and shipping. This new grant program will help local governments clean up local rivers and streams that feed into the Bay, helping to preserve this environmental and economical treasure for generations to come.”“Now more than ever, the Chesapeake Bay needs the creativity, innovation and ingenuity of local governments,” said EPA Regional Administrator Shawn M. Garvin. “This new EPA funding will enable local governments to implement the best solutions to on-the-ground challenges they face in helping to restore the Bay, and share those approaches with other towns throughout the entire watershed.”“A growing number of local governments are viewing community improvement projects—from street and park enhancements to public facility renovations—as an opportunity to green their community and help the Bay,” said David J. O’Neill, Director of the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation’s Eastern Partnership Office. “This initiative will help more local governments meet their jobs, mobility, and recreation needs, while simultaneously helping them restore local creeks and streams and the Chesapeake Bay.”With a combination of grants and technical assistance, the initiative aims to help local governments overcome obstacles to meeting pollution reduction goals for local waters and the Bay. The Bay TMDL provides states and local governments with considerable flexibility in how they achieve these objectives.Grants will be awarded for green infrastructure initiatives such as capital improvements, road maintenance programs, flood plain management, and other projects that produce measurable water quality improvements in local rivers and streams, and ultimately the Bay. The Bay TMDL requires approximately 25 percent reductions in nitrogen, phosphorus, and sediment pollution, with all of the of the pollution reduction measures needed for restoring the Bay in place by 2025.In addition to grant awards, local governments are eligible to receive technical assistance for specific challenges they identify as barriers to improving water quality, including financing assistance, project design and implementation, and stormwater and land use management. Selected localities will represent the diverse characteristics of local governments throughout the 64,000 square-mile watershed – including rural counties, predominantly agricultural communities, rapidly growing suburban localities, smaller cities, and urban municipalities.In partnership with the Local Government Advisory Committee, resources will also be made available for local governments to share information and experiences. Through forums and workshops, local governments will gain access to information about best practices and evolving strategies for achieving water quality goals for local waters and the Bay.Since 2000, the Chesapeake Bay Stewardship Fund has offered $68.9 million in grants for over 700 projects across the Chesapeake Bay watershed. The goal of the fund is to accelerate local implementation of the most innovative, sustainable and cost-effective strategies for restoring and protecting water quality and vital habitats within the Chesapeake Bay watershed.For more information about the Chesapeake Bay Stewardship Fund programs and grant opportunities, visit www.nfwf.org/chesapeake.
03.06.2012	Gold and Silver Coins Go on Sale Today to Help Fund Bicentennial Celebration(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger and Senato Ben Cardin and U.S. (both D-MD) today were joined by Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley and U.S. Congressman John Sarbanes in unveiling two commemorative coins that will go on sale today to fund the Bicentennial Celebration of the War of 1812 and the Star-Spangled Banner, our National Anthem.Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Cardin sponsored legislation, signed into law by President Obama in August 2010, creating the two commemorative coins that will help fund programs to commemorate the 200th Anniversary of the War of 1812 and the Battle of Baltimore. Starting today, the U.S. Mint will sell 100,000 gold coins and 500,000 silver coins, the surcharges of which will go to the Maryland War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission. “This coin not only symbolizes the Battle of Baltimore at Fort McHenry that inspired our national anthem, but the legislative battle that was fought so that we can properly celebrate its bicentennial,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Those years of hard work have paid off, and now, Americans everywhere can own a piece of the people, spirit and history of Maryland.”“The War of 1812 is often referred to as the Second War of Independence and it deserves broad, national recognition,” said Senator Cardin. “These commemorative coins will help make it possible for Maryland and all Americans to celebrate the bicentennial of the War of 1812 and the upcoming anniversary of the Battle of Baltimore in which the Star-Spangled Banner was composed. I want to be sure we honor and recognize one of the most important chapters in our nation’s early history.”The War of 1812 ensured America’s continued independence from the British. After two and a half years of conflict, in which British troops burned Washington, D.C., American soldiers stopped the British as they attempted to capture Baltimore. After 25 hours of bombardment, the British failed to take Fort McHenry at the mouth of the Baltimore Harbor and were forced to retreat. Francis Scott Key immortalized the battle in a poem that was later set to music and called the Star-Spangled Banner. The Star-Spangled Banner later became the national anthem of the United States on March 3, 1931.About the 2012 Star-Spangled Banner Commemorative CoinsGold Coin: The obverse (heads) design is emblematic of the theme “The Battles at Sea During the War of 1812.” It depicts a naval battle scene from the War of 1812 with an American sailing ship in the foreground and a damaged and fleeing British ship in the background. The reverse (tails) design is emblematic of the theme “The Star-Spangled Banner” and depicts the first words of the Star-Spangled Banner National Anthem, “O say can you see,” in Francis Scott Key’s handwriting against a backdrop of 15 stars and 15 stripes, representing the Star-Spangled Banner flag.Silver Coin: The obverse (heads) design is emblematic of the theme “The Battle of Baltimore at Fort McHenry” and depicts Lady Liberty waving the 15-star, 15-stripe Star-Spangled Banner flag with Fort McHenry in the background. The reverse (tails) is also emblematic of the theme “The Star-Spangled Banner” and depicts a waving modern American flag.For more information about the Commemorative Coins, click here.
03.01.2012	Gold and silver coins will be sold to help fund bicentennial celebration of War of 1812(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and Senator Ben Cardin (both D-MD) on Monday will be joined by Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley and Congressman John Sarbanes in unveiling two commemorative coins and kicking off their sale to help fund the Bicentennial Celebration of the War of 1812 and the Star-Spangled Banner, our national anthem. Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Cardin sponsored legislation, signed into law by President Obama in August 2010, creating the two commemorative coins. The coins will be sold by the U.S. Mint to fund programs to commemorate the 200th Anniversary of the War of 1812 and the Battle of Baltimore. Celebration activities, sponsored by the Maryland War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission, will include a “Sailabration” June 13-19 when more than 200 Tall Ships and U.S. Navy vessels will visit Baltimore.The War of 1812 ensured America’s continued independence from the British. After two and a half years of conflict in which British troops burned Washington, D.C., American soldiers stopped the British as they attempted to capture Baltimore. After 25 hours of bombardment, the British failed to take Fort McHenry at the mouth of the Baltimore Harbor and were forced to retreat. Francis Scott Key immortalized the battle in a poem that was later set to music and called the Star-Spangled Banner. The Star-Spangled Banner became our National Anthem on March 3, 1931. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Senator Ben Cardin Congressman John Sarbanes Governor Martin O’MalleyWhen: 11 AM, Monday, March 5Where: Fort McHenry National Monument and Historic Shrine 2400 East Fort Avenue Baltimore, MD 21230
02.23.2012	Shipping giant Hapag-Lloyd to start direct container service from Europe to Baltimore(Baltimore, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) tomorrow will attend a ceremony to welcome Germany-based container shipping giant Hapag-Lloyd to the Port of Baltimore. Hapag-Lloyd, the world’s fifth-largest container company, will begin direct, weekly container service from North Europe to the Port of Baltimore on Saturday. Baltimore will be the first U.S. port of call for this service, which means more cargo will be offloaded at the Port of Baltimore than at subsequent ports. The Port of Baltimore beat out several other East Coast ports for this business, which could result in 255 new direct jobs. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Maryland Transportation Secretary Beverley Swaim-Staley Highstar Capital Managing Director Christopher Lee Hapag-Lloyd Senior Vice President Stuart Rattray MPA Executive Director Jim White What: Ruppersberger to Welcome Jobs to Port of BaltimoreWhen: 10:30 AM, Friday, February 24, 2012Where: Seagirt Marine Terminal 2700 Broening Highway Baltimore, MD
02.16.2012	Navy announced plans to move beloved hospital ship to Norfolk earlier this week(Timonium, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today vowed to keep fighting plans to move the beloved U.S.N.S. Comfort from her home berth in the Port of Baltimore to Norfolk, Va. Congressman Ruppersberger has questioned the proposal for the past 18 months.“The Comfort is a source of pride, jobs and tax dollars for Maryland,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “The Navy feels that this move will be better for their interests and bottom line, which I understand and appreciate during this difficult economy. That said, the government recently spent $5 million to upgrade the Comfort’s pier in Baltimore, allowing it to lay berth there for another 20 years. I will continue to do everything I can to make that happen.”The Comfort has a permanent staff onboard to ensure readiness, providing 145 direct, indirect and induced jobs with an annual salary of $7.3 million. The Comfort provides an estimated $3 million in local purchases and nearly $1 million in state and local tax revenues.Previously, Congressman Ruppersberger has introduced legislation requiring the Navy to first conduct a thorough cost-benefit analysis of the proposed move. He also tried to block funding for the move in an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2011.
02.16.2012	Ruppersberger secured federal funding to help replace aging facility(Timonium, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today applauded Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz on the completion of Baltimore County’s new 911 call center and replacement of its emergency radio communications network. Congressman Ruppersberger helped secure $3.8 million in federal funding for the critical safety improvements.“Our 911 operators and dispatchers are the first lines of defense against everything from traffic jams to terrorist attacks,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “These improvements will give them the most state-of-the-art tools available to save even more lives each and every day. This is exactly the type of basic government service we should be prioritizing and a perfect example of putting tax dollars to work for Marylanders.”The new center replaces a facility that was 20 years old and housed in the basement of the county circuit courthouse. Congressman Ruppersberger secured funding in fiscal years 2009 and 2010 as a then-member of the House Appropriations Committee to purchase new, digital equipment such as upgraded phones, computers, and radios. The equipment will help expand the communications capabilities in emergency situations across the county and in the region.
02.10.2012	U.S. school resource officers will sign training agreement with Georgia (Washington, DC) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will host the signing of a training agreement between the American National Association of School Resource Officers (NASRO) and the Ministry of Education and Science for the Country of Georgia. This agreement will significantly benefit the Georgian education system – and, most importantly, the students it serves – by giving up to 1,000 new Georgian school resource officers access to modern training and support.NASRO is a nonprofit organization for school-based law enforcement officers, school administrators and safety professionals who work to protect students, school faculty and staff. Congressman Ruppersberger started the school resource officer program in Baltimore County and has remained a strong advocate. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Dimitri Shashkini, Minister of Education and Science, Georgia Zviad Khidisheli, Head of Service, Office of Resource Officers, Georgia Barry Orton, NASRO President Baltimore County Councilwoman Vicki AlmondWhat: U.S. School Police Officers to Sign Training Agreement with Country of GeorgiaWhen: 10:00 AM, Monday, February 13, 2012Where: United States Capitol Plaza – House Triangle East Capitol Street, NE and 1st Street, NE Washington, DC 20002 In the event of inclement weather, the event will be in H-137 on the first floor of the U.S. Capitol building.
01.23.2012	Previous station was more than 40-years-old and severely outdated (Middle River, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today joined Major General James A. Adkins, Adjutant General, and members of the Maryland Air National Guard in opening a new state-of-the-art fire station that will benefit Martin State Airport as well as the entire surrounding Baltimore County Area. The fire station opened at Warfield Air National Guard Base, home to more than 1,500 Air Guard members in the 175th Wing.In addition to emergencies at the base and nearby Martin State Airport, firefighters also respond along with the Baltimore County Fire Department to incidents across the surrounding area, including hazardous spills, house fires and serious car accidents, especially on Interstate 95. Airmen from the 175th Wing also serve on federal missions – such as the Hurricane Katrina response – and deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan.The $7 million facility was funded with the help of federal dollars secured by Congressman Ruppersberger.“Finally, the guardsmen are getting a state-of-the-art facility so they can prepare for future missions,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “These citizen troops have answered the call to serve their country – and their local community. They deserve a top-notch facility. I was honored to be in a position to be able to help get this project rolling.”The station houses eight fire response vehicles, 30 full-time state firefighters and 33 traditional firefighters. The station replaces a 40-year-old facility that was severely outdated with cracked walls, leaky roofs and tight quarters. In fact, the station – which had no ventilation system – was too small to house all of the fire trucks. First aid and CPR training was conducted in the bunk room.
01.18.2012	Previous station was more than 40-years-old and severely outdated (Middle River, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) tomorrow will attend a ribbon cutting for a new state-of-the-art fire station that will benefit Martin State Airport as well as the entire surrounding Baltimore County Area. The fire station will open at Warfield Air National Guard Base, home to more than 1,500 Air Guard members in the 175th Wing.In addition to emergencies at the base and nearby Martin State Airport, firefighters also work together with the Baltimore County Fire Department across the surrounding area, including hazardous spills, house fires and serious car accidents, especially on Interstate 95. Airmen from the 175th Wing also served in Iraq and Afghanistan.The $7 million facility was funded with the help of federal dollars secured by Congressman Ruppersberger.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Major General James A. Adkins, Adjutant General Vicki Almond, Baltimore County Council Chair Members of the Maryland Air National GuardWhat: Ruppersberger to Help Open New Fire Station for MD National Guard at Martin State Airport When: 1 PM, Thursday, January 19, 2012Where: Warfield Air National Guard Base 2701 Eastern Boulevard Middle River, MD 21220
01.17.2012	Recall of temporarily laid-off steel workers already underway(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) said today he is pleased to learn that RG Steel will resume operations at its Sparrows Point plant and has begun to recall laid-off workers. Company officials have informed Congressman Ruppersberger that its “L” blast furnace has been restarted and is expected to reach normal operating rates within several days.“I am thrilled that many of the dedicated men and women employed at Sparrows Point will soon return to work,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “These workers will now be able to provide for their families, help strengthen our local and national economies and maintain the century-old tradition of steel production at Sparrows Point. This plant and these workers are part of Baltimore’s industrial identity and have a proven record of efficiency and effectiveness.”As the representative of Sparrows Point, Congressman Ruppersberger advocated on behalf of laid-off workers at the plant, including communications with General Electric, which led a coordinated effort to finance the stock purchase sale that created RG Steel. He is also working with U.S. trade officials to develop relationships with raw materials producers overseas.“I wholeheartedly believe the economy will rebound and the demand for steel will see an upswing,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “In order for American steel to remain a viable industry, we must ensure the raw materials imported from other countries are obtained in a fair and reasonable manner.”
01.12.2012	New laser at Marlin Steel used on national security projects(Baltimore, MD) Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today will attend a ribbon cutting for a new business-boosting laser at Marlin Steel in Baltimore. The American-made laser was used last week to cut stainless steel parts for a U.S. Navy aircraft carrier, electrical equipment that will be used by the National Security Agency as well as parts to keep servers cool at Amazon and Google data centers.The laser is expected to help Marlin create jobs in Baltimore City. Marlin was recently named one of the fastest-growing inner city companies in the country.“Marlin Steel may export around the world, but it remains a true citizen of Baltimore, hiring locally and providing employees with decent wages and benefits,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Its growth will provide not only more quality jobs for Maryland families, but the research and development that will power our economy forward.”Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger U.S. Senator Ben Cardin Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake Marlin Steel President Drew GreenblattWhat: Ruppersberger to Recognize Growth, Job Creation at Baltimore Steel Manufacturer When: 2 PM, Thursday, January 12, 2012Where: Marlin Steel 2640 Merchant Drive Baltimore, MD
01.11.2012	Delegation supported Governor O’Malley’s request for a major disaster declaration as communities across Maryland continue to recover from Tropical Storm Lee(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger along with the rest of Maryland's Congressional Delegation announced that the Department of Transportation (DOT) has been awarded $7.6 million in federal emergency relief to repair roads and highways across Maryland following the devastation caused by Tropical Storm Lee last September. Congressman Ruppersberger was joined by U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin as well as U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Roscoe E. Bartlett, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen. John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards and Andy Harris.“As members of the Maryland Congressional Delegation, we have been united in working to ensure Maryland has the resources needed to recover from the devastation caused by Tropical Storm Lee,” members of the Delegation said. “The unprecedented level of precipitation placed both residential and commercial areas in danger. This disaster continues to have an economic impact throughout communities, which have already contributed a vast amount of resources. This important federal funding from the Department of Transportation will help supplement state and local recovery efforts so that families, businesses and communities across our state can continue to recover and rebuild.”The emergency relief funding was made available following President Obama’s Disaster Declaration for the State of Maryland and ensures that the already strained state budget is not stretched any thinner as a result of another natural disaster. The Maryland Congressional Delegation sent a letter to President Obama on September 29, 2011 to support Governor O’Malley’s request for a Disaster Declaration following the storm. A copy of their letter is available here. Tropical Storm Lee deposited up to 20 inches of rain and caused major flooding and damage that washed out roadways, brought major highways to a halt, damaged government buildings, and destroyed homes and businesses. Flooding was compounded by the already saturated soil following Hurricane Irene.
01.04.2012	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz today announced that the Baltimore County Fire Department will receive a $1.75 million federal grant to make sure each career and volunteer medic unit in the county has the equipment needed for cardiac assessment and resuscitation. The funding, awarded through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP), will be used to purchase 60 cardiac defibrillators. “These devices are proven life-savers and this federal funding will ensure that every station in Baltimore County has them at their disposal,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It is our responsibility to make sure our first responders have the tools they need to protect us. This is a true investment in the safety and security of our communities.”“This grant ensures that our experts in the field have state-of-the-art equipment to provide the best emergency care,” County Executive Kamenetz said.AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention, as well as public fire safety education. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received nearly $105 million in AFGP funding, more than $9 million of which has gone to fire stations in Baltimore County.
01.04.2012	Ruppersberger Praises Clearing of Final Hurdle for Intel Bill(Washington, DC) – In an unprecedented era of bipartisanship on the House Intelligence Committee, Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) praised the Intelligence Authorization Act for clearing the final hurdle. The President signed the legislation into law. The measure provides vital oversight of the intelligence community and funds the 16 intelligence agencies across the U.S, government. “In the current era of heated, partisan politics this bill breaks out of the pack. It is a strong, bipartisan initiative where we worked together not as Democrats or Republicans, but as Americans keeping our families and communities safe. The legislation gives our intelligence professionals the resources, authorities and capabilities they need to protect our country and her citizens. It is does this while also being fiscally responsible,” said Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Intelligence Authorization Act for FY 2012 cuts about $1 billion dollars from the President’s budget request while ensuring the important missions of the intelligence community are not impacted. During a thorough top to bottom review of the budget, the Intelligence Committee made smart choices by trimming where possible, eliminating redundancies and expanding current abilities to prepare for the threats of tomorrow. Summary of the FY 2012 Intelligence Authorization Act:Funds the intelligence community’s counterterrorism efforts that have helped disrupt plots and led to successful operations against the al Qaeda terrorist group, including the mission that located and killed Osama bin Laden;Supports intelligence activities for the war in Afghanistan;Sustains critical intelligence spending while imposing fiscal discipline in light of future budget reductions;Provides a hike in the burial allowance provided to estates of Intelligence Community employees who die in the line of duty. The current burial allowance is $800. This bill raises the burial allowance to a level consistent with the amount contained in Department of Defense regulations, currently $8,800.Provides intelligence agencies with new procurement authorities to protect against supply-chain risk to information technologies;Authorizes new accounts at the Department of Treasury necessary for defense intelligence agencies to become financially auditable;Strengthens congressional oversight relating to the transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay;Improves the accuracy of intelligence community cost estimates by requiring that all program costs—rather than solely direct acquisition costs—are included; andProvides the Director of National Intelligence with needed personnel management authorities.
12.15.2011	Program will provide free hotel stays to wounded U.S. troops and their families(Washington, DC) – Congress has passed bipartisan legislation introduced by Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and Senator Ben Cardin (both D-MD) creating the “Hotels for Heroes” program that will allow Americans to donate hotel reward points to members of the Armed Forces. The bill, which will benefit troops receiving care through the military health system and their families, was included in the “National Defense Authorization Act” that passed Congress by a vote of 283 – 136 in the House on Wednesday and 86-13 in the Senate Thursday. The bill now goes to the President for his signature.“The love and support of family is often the best medicine to help a wounded warrior recover from his or her injuries,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Military families are already facing enormous challenges and should not ever have to worry about how they will afford travel expenses. The donations of patriotic Americans will help these soldiers heal with their families at their side and show our troops how much we appreciate their sacrifices.”“Passage of the Hotel for Heroes bill is a holiday gift from all Americans to members of the military and their families,” said Senator Cardin. “It allows Americans to help other Americans who have given so much to our nation. It builds on the Hero Miles program and is the next step in providing military families with the support they need when their loved ones are wounded or injured.”“Hotels for Heroes” will be an expansion of the national “Hero Miles” program that provides free round-trip airfare to wounded warriors recovering at military or VA medical centers as well as to friends and family visiting them. Flights under the “Hero Miles” program, which was created by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003, are made possible through frequent flyer mile donations made by individual airline passengers. The “Hero Miles” program is administered by the Fisher House, a non-profit organization that opens its homes to military families visiting their injured loved ones at hospitals across the country. Fisher House recently announced its 25,000th ticket issued through the program.“Hotels for Heroes” had early bipartisan support. Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS) was an original cosponsor of the authorizing legislation in the Senate and Congressman Roscoe Bartlett (R-MD) an original cosponsor in the House. Additional cosponsors in the House were: Congressmen Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and Andy Harris (R-MD). Cosponsors in the Senate were: Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS), Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Senator John Rockefeller (D-WV), Senator Robert Casey (D-PA), Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA).
12.15.2011	Congress passes National Defense Authorization Act for 2012(Washington, DC) – Congress today passed legislation authorizing $230 million in federal funding for improvements at Fort Meade, Aberdeen Proving Ground and other military facilities in Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger’s (D-MD) district. The funding was included in the FY2012 “National Defense Authorization Act” that passed by a vote of 283-136 in the House on Wednesday and 86-13 in the Senate on Thursday. The bill now goes to the President for his signature.“America’s men and women in uniform courageously answered the call to serve their country and deserve support for their sacrifices,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “This bill pays for some of the most pressing needs at Maryland military facilities while acknowledging our responsibility to reduce government spending and reign in the federal deficit.”The bill includes language that will establish a dedicated funding source that could help Maryland and other states prepare for the traffic impacts of military base realignment known as BRAC. It also includes Congressman Ruppersberger’s bill creating the “Hotels for Heroes” program to allow Americans to donate hotel reward points to members of the Armed Forces.The program, which will benefit troops receiving care through the military health system and their families, is an expansion of the national “Hero Miles” program that provides free round-trip airfare to wounded warriors. Flights under the “Hero Miles” program, which was created by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003, are made possible through frequent flyer mile donations.The eight projects at military facilities in Congressman Ruppersberger’s district funded by the bill are:$43 million for Applied Instruction Facility (Fort Meade)$36 million for Brigade Complex (Fort Meade)$29.6 million for High Performance Computer (Fort Meade)$15.5 million for Auto Technology Evaluation Facility (APG)$63 million for Command and Control Facility (APG)$22.8 million for U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense Replacement (APG)$16 million for Army National Guard Readiness Center (Dundalk)$4.9 million for Air National Guard’s C-27 Conversion (Martin State Airport)
12.14.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced that the United States Mint has unveiled the designs of the of the Star-Spangled Banner Commemorative Coins. On August 16, 2010, President Barack Obama signed a law – cosponsored by Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Ben Cardin – directing the U.S. Mint to create coins commemorating the 200th anniversary of the writing of the Star-Spangled Banner. The gold and silver coin designs are emblematic of the War of 1812, particularly the Battle of Baltimore that formed the basis for the lyrics of “The Star-Spangled Banner” National Anthem.“This coin is a great honor and the product of years of hard work in an extremely competitive process,” added Congressman Ruppersberger. “It will help raise much-needed funds so we can properly celebrate the role Marylanders played in our nation’s fight to victory and share that rich history with the rest of the country.”“As Marylanders we are all proud of the role our state has played in our nation’s history and the creation of these commemorative coins will make it possible for us to bring greater attention to this bicentennial celebration,” said Senator Cardin.“The designs for the Star-Spangled Banner Commemorative Coins unveiled today honor Maryland’s pivotal role in winning ‘The Second War of Independence’ – the War of 1812 – with the Battle of Baltimore at Fort McHenry and inspiring the Star-Spangled Banner,” said Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley. “These coins are a remarkable public tribute to the people, stories and history of Maryland.”The U.S. Mint will produce 100,000 gold coins and 500,000 silver coins. Prices for the coins will be announced in early 2012; coins will go on sale in March and will be sold only in 2012. Coin surcharges will provide up to $8.5 million in matching funds to the Maryland War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission to support bicentennial activities, assist in educational outreach, and preserve sites and structures relating to the War of 1812.All four Star-Spangled Banner Commemorative Coin designs were approved by the Secretary of the Treasury on November 3, 2011, at the recommendation of the U.S. Mint, after consultation with the Maryland War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission, the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts, and the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.
11.30.2011	Bill will help safeguard U.S. companies, intellectual property from hackers(Washington D.C.) – American businesses will be better able to protect their computer networks and intellectual property from cyber attacks with the help of groundbreaking bipartisan legislation introduced today by House Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Chairman Mike Rogers (R-MI). The bill gives the federal government new authority to share classified cyber threat information with approved American companies.The legislation will help U.S. businesses better protect themselves and their corporate customers from hackers looking to steal intellectual property. It will empower participating businesses to share cyber threat information with others in the private sector and enable the private sector to share information with the government on a voluntary basis. The legislation also provides liability protection for companies that choose to protect their own networks or share threat information.“We simply can’t stand by if we have the ability to help American companies protect themselves, Ruppersberger said. “Sharing information about cyber threats is a critical step to preventing them. This bill is a good start toward helping the private sector safeguard its intellectual property and critical cyber networks, including those that power our electrical, water and banking systems. The bill maintains vital protections for privacy and civil liberties without any new federal spending, regulations or unfunded mandates.”“There is an economic cyber war going on today against U.S. companies,” Rogers said. “There are two types of companies in this country, those who know they’ve been hacked, and those who don’t know they’ve been hacked. Economic predators, including nation-states, are blatantly stealing business secrets and innovation from private companies. This cybersecurity bill goes a long way in helping American businesses better protect their networks and their intellectual property. ” American businesses are targeted every day by scheming hackers and nation-states such as China and Russia that are intent on stealing America’s intellectually property and sensitive government information through the Internet. The bipartisan bill, introduced by Ranking Member Ruppersberger and Chairman Rogers, has broad support in Congress, including key leaders from both parties.Other provisions of the bill include: The bill allows private sector entities to share information anonymously or restrict who they share with, including the government.The bill requires a review of the sharing and use of information by the federal government to ensure the protection of privacy and civil liberties. An annual unclassified report to Congress will provide recommendations for enhancing privacy and civil liberties.By permitting the private sector to expand its own cyber defense efforts and to use classified information to protect its systems and networks, this bill will help create a more robust cybersecurity marketplace with expanded service offerings and jobs. More importantly, this bill does not contain any new federal spending or impose additional federal regulation or unfunded mandates on the private sector.
11.29.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger joined U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski (All D-MD) and the rest of the Democratic members of the Maryland Congressional Delegation today in releasing a video message in support of the “It Gets Better Project,” encouraging young people who are victims of bullying to stay strong and talk to someone who cares because “it gets better.” Other participants in the video include Rep. Steny Hoyer (MD-5), Rep. Elijah Cummings (MD-7), Rep. Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), Rep. John Sarbanes (MD-3), and Rep. Donna Edwards (MD-4).“There is no place for bullying and discrimination in Maryland or anywhere in America—whether it’s in the halls of our schools, on the Internet or in our military. Bullying is not a rite of passage and it is not okay,” the Senators and Representatives of Team Maryland say in their video. “Our state and our nation both are stronger because of our diversity. It is our job to make sure that diversity is celebrated and protected, rather than discouraged or outlawed. No one should ever have to hide who they are and I encourage you to just be yourself.”The video is available here.Team Maryland’s video was produced in support of the It Gets Better Project, which was founded last year after a series of tragic suicides by LGBT youth who were bullied because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. Through a series of videos – over 10,000 that have been viewed more than 35 million times -- the It Gets Better Project helps youth see that a brighter future awaits them beyond adolescence and that it really will get better. Video submissions have included President Obama, the Baltimore Orioles, Maryland First Lady Katie O’Malley and Montgomery College.
11.21.2011	Automatic cuts could have disproportionate impact on national security, defense(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today released the following statement on the failure of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to reach a bipartisan agreement:“I am extremely disheartened that members of the deficit reduction committee could not reach a compromise. Avoiding responsibility and kicking the can down the road is how the federal government got into such tremendous debt in the first place. It will take political courage to make the difficult decisions that will enable our country to live within its means just as American families do everyday.The committee’s failure will trigger automatic, across-the-board cuts, including $1 trillion the Department of Defense over the next decade. I am worried about the disproportionate impact sequestration will have on our national security and our local economy, which relies heavily on federal defense spending. In addition to jeopardizing military readiness, the jobs of many civilian personnel and contractors in Maryland are at stake. These automatic cuts could also have catastrophic impacts on critical funding for programs that help seniors, veterans and American families.I was one of 145 lawmakers that joined together in a large bipartisan coalition calling for much deeper cuts than the $1.2 trillion mandated by the legislation creating the joint committee. We stood together last week, urging joint committee members to consider all options, knowing they have strong support from both sides of the political aisle. I am confident that we remain united in our desire to come together on a meaningful deficit reduction and job creation plan despite the failure of the joint committee. We must invest in infrastructure, get out of the way of our job creators and prepare our workforce for careers of the future.”
11.18.2011	(Owings Mills, MD) –Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will host a foreclosure prevention workshop in Owings Mills tomorrow, Saturday, November 18, 2011, to help keep Maryland families in their homes. The workshop will give local homeowners a chance to meet one-on-one with their mortgage lender, servicers and counselors. This is the fifth such workshop Congressman Ruppersberger has hosted since 2010, helping hundreds of families facing foreclosure.Foreclosure filings have been falling in Maryland, thanks in part to counseling, education and mediation. Maryland saw 62 percent fewer filings last month compared with a year earlier, according to RealtyTrac, a foreclosure research firm. One in every 563 homes nationwide had a foreclosure filing last month, compared with one in every 1,954 homes in Maryland.Attendees are encouraged to bring the following materials to the workshop: • Hardship Letter• Last Two Months’ Bank Statements • Last Two Pay Stubs • 2009 or 2010 Tax Return • Any Notification Regarding Foreclosure • Any Other Relevant Documentation Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Mortgage Lenders Housing Counselors Maryland FamiliesWhat: Ruppersberger to Host Foreclosure Prevention Workshop When: 10 AM – 3 PM, Saturday, November 19, 2011Where: Deer Park Elementary School 9809 Lyons Mill Road Owings Mills, MD 21117
11.17.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Mike Rogers and Ranking Member Dutch Ruppersberger today announced the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) has launched an investigation into the threat posed by Chinese-owned telecommunications companies working in the United States, and the government’s response to that threat. Since becoming Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence in January 2011, Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Ruppersberger have been adamant that the committee remain focused on the threat posed to our nation’s security and critical infrastructure by the expansion of Chinese-owned telecommunications companies – including Huawei and ZTE -- into our telecommunications infrastructure. Over 10 months ago, Chairman Rogers instructed committee staff to conduct a preliminary review of this threat and our government’s response to that threat. After a series of meetings, briefings, and studies with the intelligence community and the private sector, this preliminary review suggests that the threat to the supply chain constitutes a rising national security concern of the highest priority. Further, Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Ruppersberger understand that while the Executive Branch continues to internally review the issue and discuss recommendations for mitigating the threat, more can be done. This investigation will review the extent to which these companies provide the Chinese government an opportunity for greater foreign espionage, threaten our critical infrastructure, and further the opportunity for Chinese economic espionage. The committee will also review whether the United States government – including the collection resources of the intelligence community – are appropriately focused on discovering the full scope of the Chinese threat and developing mitigation measures to ensure the security of our nation’s telecommunications networks.“The fact that our critical infrastructure could be used against us is of serious concern,” said Chairman Rogers. “We are looking at the overall infrastructure threat and Huawei happens to be the 800 pound gorilla in the room, but there are other companies that will be included in the investigation as well. As the formal investigation begins, I stand by my caution to the American business community about engaging Huawei technology until we can fully determine their motives,” said Rogers.“We already know the Chinese are aggressively hacking into our nation’s networks, threatening our critical infrastructure and stealing secrets worth millions of dollars in intellectual property from American companies. This jeopardizes our national security and hurts U.S. competitiveness in the world market, costing our country countless jobs. The same way hacking can be a threat, vulnerabilities can derive from compromised hardware on which our telecommunications industry rely. The purpose of this investigation is to determine to what extent Chinese communications companies are exploiting the global supply chain and how we can mitigate this threat to our national and economic security.” said Ruppersberger.Chairman Rogers, as a former FBI special agent, and Ranking Member Ruppersberger, as a former prosecutor, understand that an investigation must be allowed to go where it leads. They are thus prepared to use the full scope of the committee’s oversight and investigative powers to uncover the truth of this threat and our government’s efforts to discover and respond to that threat. The Committee will seek information from relevant telecommunications providers, request information and briefings from private-sector telecommunications security experts, conduct interviews with key U.S. government officials, and hold a series of hearings and briefings to uncover what these Chinese companies are capable of doing and how our intelligence community could be better focused on this threat.
11.08.2011	National “Hugo Salutes our Veterans” Program to Kick-Off in Timonium (Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Wednesday will help kick-off a national program that will provide 36,000 state-of-the-art folding canes free to U.S. military veterans in need of mobility assistance. The Timonium event, which will feature scores of uniformed Maryland veterans, will launch the “Hugo Salutes our Veterans” program, which gives out patriotic blue Hugo canes at all Sam’s Club stores nationwide through Veterans Day.“Hugo Salutes Our Veterans” is an annual tradition founded by AMG Medical Inc. in 2007 when it distributed 5,000 canes to honor the parents and relatives of the company’s employees who served in the U.S. military. The program has grown each year and will hit 100,000 canes this year, a gift worth more than $3 million.Who: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz Maryland Sports Hall of Famer Lyn Brooks Uniformed veterans from MarylandWhat: Ruppersberger to Help Distribute Canes to U.S. VeteransWhen: 10:00 AM, Wednesday, November 9, 2011Where: Sam’s Club Tire Center 15 Texas Station Court Timonium, MD 21093
11.07.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement about a new report on cyber espionage highlighting vital data stolen from U.S. companies and who might be behind it. “This extensive report proves what many of us in the intelligence community already knew. China and Russia are aggressively hacking into our nation’s networks and stealing millions of dollars worth of critical information from American companies. This commercial espionage is hurting the American economy and U.S. global competitiveness in the world market. It is also an issue of national security that must be addressed. The United States needs a cyber security strategy and we need it now. The military, government and business must work together to beef up our nation’s cyber defenses. We must harness the expertise of the National Security Agency and share the critical information it collects about potential threats with all of our nation’s networks. We must have an active defense where we are staying one step ahead of cyber attackers by being on the lookout for malicious code, ready to wreak havoc and steal important data. The signatures associated with the malicious code must be shared in a way that ensures it does not quickly land in the hands of our adversaries and criminals, the people who hacked us in the first place. Congress must evaluate our existing laws, update them to achieve our goals and work together as an organized team to get this done. Our nation and our way of life depend on it.” The report, entitled “Foreign Spies Stealing U.S. Economic Secrets in Cyberspace” was put together by the Office of the National Counterintelligence Executive (NCIX). The full report can be found at the following here.
11.03.2011	100 House members urge committee to consider tax reform, deeper cuts (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger has joined a rare bipartisan House coalition urging Congress’ committee on deficit reduction to consider tax reform in addition to deeper spending cuts than previously mandated. Ruppersberger is one of 60 Democrats and 40 Republicans who sent a letter to the 12-member committee yesterday encouraging members to strike an agreement that includes $4 trillion in cuts.Among those who signed the letter are several dozen Republicans who have previously pledged to oppose a net tax increase as well as many Democrats who have vowed to oppose entitlement cuts. The coalition hopes the so-called supercommittee reaches a deal that far exceeds its $1.5 trillion mandate.“Our coalition is saying, ‘enough is enough,’” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “The partisan bickering that nearly sent us into default this summer and continues to embarrass us around the world has got to stop. It’s going to take compromise and political courage to prove that we remain the strongest country in the world.”The supercommittee has until November 23rd to reach an agreement. To read the full text of the coalition’s letter, click here.
11.02.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger was part of a bipartisan coalition that introduced the "Safeguarding United States Satellite Leadership and Security Act of 2011" to restore the President’s ability to determine what export restrictions should apply to commercial satellites and related components. The legislation was drafted by Congressman Howard L. Berman (D-CA) and other original cosponsors include Congressman Don Manzullo (R-IL), Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA), Congressman Mike Coffman (R-CO), Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), and Congressman Martin Heinrich (D-NM).The legislation would prohibit outright any such exports to China, Iran, North Korea, Syria, Sudan, or Cuba. In 1999, in the wake of revelations about unlicensed technical assistance to China’s space launch program by two U.S. companies, Congress mandated that all U.S. satellites and components were to be subject to licensing as weapons under the United States Munitions List by the Department of State. This stricture applied regardless of whether the proposed export was to China or a NATO ally.This action was intended to safeguard U.S. satellite technology from reaching China and deny them the ability to launch foreign commercial satellites; in 1999, all foreign commercial satellites had U.S. components, which allowed the U.S. to forbid their launch by Chinese rockets. Now, however, this Congressional action is causing unintended consequences that completely undermine this goal. U.S. satellite and satellite-component manufacturers are currently in danger of having their products “designed-out” of foreign satellite systems. As bad as this is for U.S. international competitiveness, it also allows “U.S.-free” satellites, to be launched on Chinese launchers. The more launch experience China gets, the more it can improve its related intercontinental ballistic missiles, which are very similar. As China gains experience in launching and improving the reliability of its space launchers, its subsidized and under-priced rockets are also now unfairly competing with U.S. commercial launchers.“For more than a decade, these restrictions have unintentionally stifled the American space industry. This legislation will help restore America’s competitive edge and allow U.S. companies to sell more of their satellites and components overseas when they do not pose a national security risk. This will help reinvigorate the U.S. commercial satellite industry and create much-needed jobs here at home,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. “It is time we undo the damage this restriction has unintentionally created for U.S. business, U.S. competitiveness, and U.S. national security,” said Congressman Howard Berman, Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “It is critical that we resolve this matter and prevent China from overtaking U.S. satellite manufacturers. I’m proud to have worked with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to develop this common sense solution that will help reinvigorate U.S. international leadership and competitiveness in commercial satellites and technology while fully protecting U.S. national security.”“Before 1999, the U.S. share of global satellite manufacturing was 75 percent. But over the past 10 years, it has averaged 44 percent because of Congress’ overreaction in shifting commercial satellite export licensing decisions to the highly restrictive munitions list. That action provided a competitive advantage to foreign satellite makers at the expense of American manufacturers and American workers,” said Congressmen Don Manzullo, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific. “This legislation will bolster both our national and economic security and give our satellite manufacturers an opportunity to sell again on a level playing field.”"This legislation helps to remove unnecessary barriers for U.S. exporters and assists an industry that is essential to our national security. At the same time, our legislation prevents the transfer of sensitive technology to countries of concern. Foreign competitors have gained a significant advantage over American satellite manufacturers and component suppliers due to our overly burdensome regulations. It is time we remove these regulations and pave the way for our satellite industry to regain the competitive edge globally and sell to solid U.S. allies,” said Congressman Adam Smith, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee. “The current ITAR restrictions place an unnecessary burden on the commercial satellite manufacturing industry and seriously hamper its ability to compete on the world market,” said Congressman Mike Coffman. “Congress needs to allow our commercial satellite manufacturers to regain their competitive global edge, so we can bring back some of the jobs that have been lost to our overseas competitors.”“The law and regulations as they exist today jeopardize our ability to remain competitive in the global satellite market and are doing potential harm to our national security by tilting the playing field toward foreign competitors. This legislation will update antiquated policies so that we not only protect our national security interests but also allow commercial satellite manufacturers to better compete in the worldwide market,” said Congressman Rob Bishop.“It is long-past time that we correct this classic example of the unintended consequences of government over-regulation,” said Congressman Gerry Connolly. “In trying to prevent sensitive technologies from getting into the wrong hands, U.S. export controls prevented even the most innocuous components from being sold on the international market. Those efforts have led to two undesirable outcomes: It weakened our defense industrial base, particularly the commercial satellite industry; and it spurred industry growth in other countries that were not as concerned as we were about sharing technology with hostile nations. I applaud Ranking Member Berman for his leadership on this important issue.”“For over a decade, burdensome export controls have prevented New Mexico’s aerospace industry from reaching its full potential,” said Congressman Martin Heinrich. “By removing those barriers we will help create quality jobs without costing taxpayers a single dime. This common-sense change in policy will enable New Mexico’s aerospace companies to compete on a level playing field, broaden their customer base, and help regain America’s high-tech leadership in the world.”
10.31.2011	Program will provide free hotel stays to wounded U.S. troops and their families(Baltimore, MD) – Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today announced legislation creating a program that would allow Americans to donate hotel reward points to members of the Armed Forces who are traveling to receive care through the military health system and their families. “Hotels for Heroes” would be an expansion of the national “Hero Miles” program that provides free round-trip airfare to wounded warriors recovering at military or VA medical centers as well as to friends and family visiting them.“The creation of the ‘Hotels for Heroes’ program is the next step in providing military families with the support they need when their loved ones are wounded or injured,” said Senator Cardin. “Americans are known for their generosity of spirit and love of country and this new program will allow them to show how much they appreciate the sacrifices made by our military by providing their families with additional support during a very difficult time. It’s really about Americans helping other Americans who have given so much to our nation.”"Sometimes the love and support of family is the best medicine to help a wounded warrior recover from his or her injuries,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We are thrilled to be able to help these soldiers heal with their families at their side by helping to reduce travel expenses. It’s one small way to show our nation’s heroes that we appreciate their sacrifices and the sacrifices of their families.”Flights under the “Hero Miles” program, which was created by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003, are made possible through frequent flyer mile donations made by individual airline passengers. The program is administered by the Fisher House, a non-profit organization that opens its homes to military families visiting their injured loved ones at hospitals across the country.At the event, Fisher House announced its 25,000th ticket issued through the “Hero Miles” program.“Fisher House Foundation is honored to have helped over 25,000 military families get to the bedside of their loved one,” said Cindy Campbell, Fisher House Vice President for Community Relations and Media Affairs. “It is the thousands of patriotic Americans who have so willingly donated their frequent flyer miles who make this program a reality. Our goal is that no family will ever have to worry about how they will be able afford that ticket. We're here for them.”The “Hotels for Heroes” program requires authorizing legislation that will be introduced tomorrow by Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Cardin. The bill already has bipartisan support: Senator Roger Wicker of Mississippi will be the Republican co-sponsor. The bill already has bipartisan support: Senator Roger Wicker of Mississippi will be the Republican co-sponsor. Congressman Roscoe Bartlett of Maryland will be the Republican co-sponsor in the House of Representatives.“Families of wounded service men and women often face difficulty trying to be with their loved one during recovery,” said Senator Wicker. “As Veterans Day approaches, this is a way to help and honor those who have given of themselves to protect the freedoms we hold dear.” “Hotels for Heroes” grew out of an event hosted by the Military Child Education Coalition in May 2011 at the Four Points by Sheraton BWI Airport. The nonprofit works to minimize the effects of family separation and transition on military children, who move from six to nine times during their K-12 school years.“This idea was the outgrowth of an event we hosted in May to discuss ways to improve the lives of military families, especially children,” said Dr. Mary Keller, President and CEO of the Military Child Education Coalition. “It shows the power behind convening community and business leaders in support of military-connected children and we are proud to be part of the conception of this program.”
10.27.2011	Program provides free airline tickets to U.S. troops and their families (Baltimore, MD) – Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) on Monday will celebrate a monumental “Hero Miles” milestone and announce a major expansion of the program that will benefit even more military families who must travel to visit loved ones. “Hero Miles” provides free round-trip airfare to military members recovering at military or VA medical centers as a result of injuries sustained in overseas conflicts. “Hero Miles” also enables family and friends to visit injured troops while they are being treated.Flights are made possible through frequent flyer mile donations made by individual airline passengers. Senator Cardin and Congressman Ruppersberger will announce a major expansion of the program to help military families with additional travel expenses.The original “Hero Miles” program was the brainchild of Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003. It is now administered by the Fisher House, a nonprofit best known for its network of comfort homes built on the grounds of major military and VA medical centers.Who: Senator Ben Cardin Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger David Coker, President, Fisher HouseWhat: Cardin, Ruppersberger to Celebrate “Hero Miles” Milestone, Announce Major Program ExpansionWhen: 2:30 PM, Monday, October 31, 2011Where: BWI Airport Observation Gallery Aviation Boulevard & Elm Road Baltimore, MD 21240The Observation Gallery is on the upper level, in the pre-security area between Concourses B and C.
10.20.2011	Anne Arundel event aims to help local manufacturers learn how to export(Arnold, MD) – Maryland manufacturers will learn how to export their products and services at a unique event hosted by Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) tomorrow, October 21, 2011, at Anne Arundel Community College. The first-of-its-kind “Experts on Exports” will boost Maryland manufacturing and help small and medium size local businesses create jobs.Efforts to strengthen American exporting accounted for half of all the jobs created in the U.S. this past year. However, currently, only 1 percent of U.S. companies export their goods and services, and more than half of those export only to Canada or Mexico. Speakers from the state and federal level as well as private industry will educate Maryland manufacturers on how to get their company ready to do business overseas, what kinds of financing are available and free resources for help. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Export Experts Maryland Manufacturers What: “Experts on Exports” Workshop for Maryland ManufacturersWhen: Friday, October 21, 2011 10:00AM to 1:00PMWhere: Anne Arundel Community College Cade 219 101 College Parkway Arnold, MD 21012
10.19.2011	Ruppersberger Discusses the Future of Space and Satellites(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, delivered a keynote address today at the Geospatial Intelligence Foundation (GEOINT) Symposium in San Antonio, Texas. Ranking Member Ruppersberger laid out his vision to keep America at the forefront in space. More than fifty years ago, the United States was shocked into action after Russia launched the first man-made satellite called Sputnik. America stepped up to the challenge, made a significant investment in research and development and landed a man on the moon 12 years later. A robust American industry was born. America’s space program drives innovation throughout the entire space and satellite industry. Technology perfected through space missions is used on other satellites that keep our country safe. Today, five decades later, America’s dominance in space is being threatened by China, Russia and other countries. “I believe our country is at a crossroads when it comes to America’s future in space. We face the lack of a comprehensive space plan, skyrocketing costs, outdated export controls, resolution restrictions that hurt commercial industry and commercial capabilities that are not being widely considered. I believe we must solve these issues to ensure U.S. preeminence in space to protect our nation,” said Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Lack of a Comprehensive Space PlanLast year, President Obama cancelled Constellation, the plan to return astronauts to the moon by 2020. It jeopardized an $11.5 billion investment and potentially put thousands of skilled rocket scientists out of work. Ranking Member Ruppersberger is pleased the President and NASA recently announced the Space Launch System to hopefully, allow for human exploration beyond earth’s orbit, but believes we need a more comprehensive space plan. Ranking Member Ruppersberger believes we must commit to return a man to the moon, Mars or beyond through a program run by NASA in partnership with private companies. We must also consider sending a robot into space first, before sending a person.Skyrocketing CostsIn this time of tight budgets, Ranking Member Ruppersberger believes we must ensure we are managing our satellite programs efficiently to make sure we are using every dollar wisely. In the Intelligence Authorization Act for FY 2012, the House Intelligence Committee made important investments to continue with the President’s “Way Ahead,” the Administration’s satellite initiative, while also investing in alternative systems that could promise lower costs in the future. The House and Senate Intelligence Committees are conducting intense oversight to continue to bring these costs down. Outdated Export ControlsTwenty years ago, American companies controlled more than 70 percent of the commercial satellite industry, but because of ITAR, the International Traffic and Arms Regulation, that number has dropped to 27 percent and slipping. The House passed legislation relaxing ITAR restrictions for satellites and components that do not pose a national security risk, but the measure failed in the Senate. The exposure got the attention of the Obama Administration, which is currently reforming the regulations. Ranking Member Ruppersberger believes we need to keep up the pressure. Resolution RestrictionsRight now, American policy prohibits American commercial imagery companies from selling the most capable satellite that they have developed. In other countries, companies are selling a competitive satellite at a cheaper price because they don’t face these restrictions. Ranking Member Ruppersberger believes American companies need to be able to sell much more of their technology here and overseas to increase their market share while always protecting America’s national security.Commercial CapabilitiesAmerican launches are too expensive and frequently face extensive delays. Ranking Member Ruppersberger believes we must consider commercial competition to drive down launch costs and keep launches on a reliable schedule. “I believe we must make these critical decisions to ensure American dominance in space in the future. Our nation deserves no less,” said Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberbger (D-MD).
10.19.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement on the Iranian plot to kill the Saudi Ambassador. “I believe the alleged Iranian plot to hire members of the Mexican drug cartel to assassinate the Saudi Ambassador to the US on American soil crosses the line in Iran’s state sponsorship of terrorism. This was a well-financed, well-organized, sophisticated plot that reached to the senior levels of the Qods Force – the arm of the Iranian military responsible for terrorist attacks, assassinations and kidnappings. This situation shows that all nations that respect international law must come together to hold Iran accountable for this most basic violation. This is another example of the long history of why the Iranian government can’t be trusted and definitely should not have access to nuclear weapons. The brazen plot shows the Iranian government has absolutely no regard for human life. It was a multi-stage operation where it went to great lengths to conceal the identity of the Qods Force. Detecting and preventing this plot shows tremendous teamwork across domestic and international intelligence and law enforcement communities. The Mexican government was a great partner in preventing this attack and helping bring the plotters to justice. Together, we were able to connect the dots and save lives,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD).
10.14.2011	Local Heroes Recently Returned from Deployments in Afghanistan (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will welcome Maryland troops home from Afghanistan tomorrow, Saturday, October 15, 2011. About 60 members of the Maryland National Guard 313th Movement Control Battalion based in Curtis Bay served a 1-year deployment in Afghanistan developing ways to transport cargo and supplies by land, air and sea.“The citizen soldiers of the 313th are responsible for safely moving soldiers, supplies and equipment across the front lines using every mode of transportation available,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “I am proud to welcome these brave men and women back home and thank them for their sacrifices and the sacrifices of their families.”Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Battalion Commander Lieutenant Colonel Mark D. Stimer Men and Women of the 313th Movement Control Battalion & FamiliesWhat: Ruppersberger to Welcome Home Maryland TroopsWhen: 11:00 AM., Saturday, October 14, 2011Where: 1st Sgt. Adam Brandt Army Reserve Center 700 E. Ordnance Road Baltimore, MD 21226
10.14.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and Chairman Mike Rogers (R-MI) announce an open hearing on the cyber security threats facing our nation. The hearing will review the state of cyber security across the public and private sectors, evaluate information sharing and assess efforts to defend critical infrastructure and other systems from cyber attacks. “Our nation’s networks power our computers, our cell phones, our Blackberries, and our I-pods. They power the electrical grid that allows us to turn the lights on, the classified military and intelligence networks that protect the war-fighter on the battlefield and keep us safe here at home. The more we rely on our nation’s networks to go about our everyday lives, the more vulnerable we become to an attack stopping us in our tracks. I look forward to evaluating the state of cyber security at this hearing and determining ways to make valuable improvements to protect our nation,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “Examining the threat of cyber attacks against the United States is of utmost importance. The threat of cyber attacks continue to evolve. What started out as a kid in the basement hacking into a school computer to change a grade, has evolved into entire nation states focused and determined to exploit our nation’s cyber systems,” said Chairman Mike Rogers (R-MI). The Committee will review recent developments in the evolution of the cyber threat against the United States by nation state actors and others. Additionally, we will evaluate the status of the United States government’s efforts at providing cyber security within the government, the status of cyber security in the private sector, and the sharing of government information, including intelligence information, with the private sector to enable it to better defend and protect our nation’s most critical private systems.”What: Open Hearing on Cyber Security Threats to Our Nation Who: Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Chairman Mike Rogers (R-MI) The Honorable Michael V. Hayden, Principal, The Chertoff Group Mr. Arthur W. Coviello, Jr., Executive Chairman, RSA Mr. Kevin Mandia, Chief Executive Officer, MANDIANTWhen: 10 a.m., Tuesday, October 4, 2011 Where: The Capitol Visitors Center HVC-210 Washington, DC
10.03.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement on the death of Anwar al-Awlaki in Yemen.“This is a great day for America. This is the second biggest blow to Al-Qaeda since September 11th, 2001, right behind the elimination of Osama Bin Laden. Anwar al-Awlaki was an extremely dangerous, charismatic leader who actively recruited and inspired people to murder innocent Americans using hate-filled media messages. Al-Awlaki was behind several high-profile attacks including the failed attempt to blow up a Detroit-bound plane on Christmas Day in 2009 and U.S. bound cargo planes in 2010. Al-Awlaki has now been removed from the battlefield. This is a major accomplishment. I applaud our intelligence professionals who work tirelessly, around the clock and around the world, to keep us safe. Al-Qaeda should be on notice. If you come after Americans and try to kill us, we will come after you and bring you to justice.”
09.30.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement on the death of Anwar al-Awlaki today in Yemen.“This is a great day for America. This is the second biggest blow to Al-Qaeda since September 11th, 2001, right behind the elimination of Osama Bin Laden. Anwar al-Awlaki was an extremely dangerous, charismatic leader who actively recruited and inspired people to murder innocent Americans using hate-filled media messages. Al-Awlaki was behind several high-profile attacks including the failed attempt to blow up a Detroit-bound plane on Christmas Day in 2009 and U.S. bound cargo planes in 2010. Al-Awlaki has now been removed from the battlefield. This is a major accomplishment. I applaud our intelligence professionals, who work tirelessly, around the clock and around the world to keep us safe. Al-Qaeda should be on notice. If you come after Americans and try to kill us, we will come after you and bring you to justice.”
09.29.2011	Maryland delegation asks President Obama to support Governor O’Malley’s request for a major disaster declaration as communities across Maryland struggle to recover from Tropical Storm Lee(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger joined members of Maryland's Congressional Delegation today in sending a letter to President Barack Obama supporting Governor O’Malley’s request for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of Tropical Storm Lee. If awarded, Maryland will become eligible for federal disaster recovery dollars through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), ensuring the state’s already strained budget is not stretched any thinner.In addition to Congressman Ruppersberger, the letter was signed by Senators Mikulski and Cardin, as well as U.S. Representatives Steny Hoyer, Roscoe Barlett, Elijah Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, John Sarbanes, Donna Edwards and Andy Harris. “River levels during Tropical Storm Lee reached historic levels not seen since 1972 during Hurricane Agnes,” the letter reads. “The unprecedented level of precipitation placed both residential and commercial areas in danger, and continues to have an economic impact in communities throughout Maryland.”On September 6, 2011, in response to the storm, Governor O’Malley directed the execution of the State CORE Emergency Operations Plan. A continued State of Emergency was declared on September 8, 2011 for the entire state to minimize destruction and threats to public safety. Tropical Storm Lee deposited up to 20 inches of rain and caused major flooding and damage that washed out roadways, brought major highways to a halt, damaged government buildings, and destroyed homes and businesses. Governor O’Malley is requesting Public Assistance and Hazard Mitigation for a number of counties, as well as Individual and Small Business Administration Assistance where needed.
09.27.2011	Congressional caseworkers assist struggling Marylanders with wide-ranging issues(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) last night took his team of expert caseworkers on the road with him in a one-of-a-kind service outreach event in northeast Baltimore. Skilled in areas including IRS issues, unemployment, Social Security, veterans’ issues, financial aid, foreclosure, Medicare and worker’s compensation, Dutch’s caseworkers were on hand to help constituents who may not be able to contact his office during normal business hours. More than 100 constituents attended the unique event.“Since the recession began, Americans have been reaching out to their Members of Congress for help in record numbers,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This workshop gave my constituents a chance to sit down, one-one-one with a caseworker trained to handle all sorts of problems that Marylanders are dealing with. We brought my office to their backyard.”Constituent service has been a hallmark of Congressman Ruppersberger’s time in office. His staff is well-trained in many government issues and has an impressive success rate, for example, helping more than 100 families avoid foreclosure in the past 18 months. Constituents were able to meet one-on-one with the caseworker who specializes in their area of need. This is the second “Dutch on Demand” event hosted by Congressman Ruppersberger since the recession began.
09.26.2011	Congressional caseworkers will assist struggling Marylanders with wide-ranging issues (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is taking his team of expert caseworkers on the road with him in a one-of-a-kind service outreach event Monday in northeast Baltimore. Skilled in areas including unemployment, Social Security, IRS, veterans’ issues, financial aid, foreclosure, Medicare and worker’s compensation, Dutch’s caseworkers will be on hand to help constituents who may not be able to contact his office during normal business hours.“Since the recession began, Americans have been reaching out to their Member of Congress for help in record numbers,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This workshop will give my constituents a chance to sit down, one-one-one with a caseworker trained to handle all sorts of problems that Marylanders are dealing with. We’re bringing my office to their backyard.”Constituent service has been a hallmark of Congressman Ruppersberger’s time in office and this will be his second “Dutch on Demand” event since the recession began. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Dutch’s team of caseworkers Constituents who need Dutch’s help What: “Dutch on Demand” Service Outreach EventWhen: 7 PM – 9 PM, Monday, September 26, 2011Where: HARBEL Community Center 5807 Harford Road Baltimore, MD 21214
09.13.2011	Hearing to Examine Evolution of Threats Against the U.S. and Ways to Further Integrate the Intelligence Community (Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Rupppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and Chairman Mike Rogers (R-MI) will hold an open, joint hearing with the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) to mark the 10 year anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. This joint hearing will be the first joint hearing since the 9/11 joint inquiry in 2002. The House and Senate Intelligence Committees will review the evolution of the threat against the United States by Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups. The Director of National Intelligence, James R. Clapper and the Director of the CIA, David Petraeus will testify before the joint panel. This hearing will mark the first time David Petraeus testifies before Congress in his new role as the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.Most Intelligence Committee hearings in the House and Senate are closed due to the classified nature of the material discussed. This hearing will be open to the public.“The world changed on 9/11. In the past ten years, the intelligence community has transformed in many important ways to keep our country and her citizens safe. I look forward to evaluating where we have been and where we need to go in the future to make our world even safer,” said Ranking Member Ruppersberger. “As we mark the ten year anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, it is important to not only review the progress we have made in the Intelligence Community in the last decade, but to look forward and explore ways to achieve further integration and coordination within the Intel Community,” said Chairman Mike Rogers.Witnesses at the hearing include James R. Clapper, Director of National Intelligence, and David Petraeus, Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.What: House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Why: To Examine Evolution of Threats Against the U.S. and Ways to Further Integrate the Intelligence CommunityWhen: 9:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m., Tuesday, September 13, 2011 Where: U.S. Capitol Visitors Center HVC-210
09.07.2011	Run marks the 10th anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks(Ft. Meade, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger on Friday will address 1800 service members participating in the annual September 11 Remembrance Run at Fort Meade in Anne Arundel County. Members of each branch of the military will participate in the 3-mile esprit de corps formation run, which is steeped in military tradition.Media wishing to cover this event must RSVP by 2 PM Thursday, September 8. Media show time is 5:30 AM. For more information, please contact Veronica Castro in the Fort Meade Public Affairs Office at (301) 677-1465 or veronica.m.castro.civ@mail.mil or Mary Doyle at 301-677-5592 or mary.l.doyle14.civ@mail.mil.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Congressman John Sarbanes 1800 U.S. Service MembersWhat: Ruppersberger to Address 1800 U.S. Service Members at 9-11 Remembrance Run at Fort MeadeWhen: Friday, September 9, 2011 6:30 AM – 8 AMWhere: McGlachlin Parade Field Enter Fort Meade from the Reece Road Gate off MD-175 Access procedures can be found at www.ftmeade.army.mil
09.06.2011	Ruppersberger says Treasury misusing citizen donations to retire federal debt(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger on Tuesday announced new legislation to protect citizen donations to retire the federal deficit. American citizens have donated about $81.7 million to help retire the public debt since President John F. Kennedy signed a law creating the program in 1961. However, the donations have been deposited into the Treasury Department’s general fund, which serves as the government’s main checking account.When Congress resumes tomorrow, Congressman Ruppersberger will introduce the “Restoring Integrity to Public Debt Donations Act,” which directs the U.S. Treasury to deposit donations made by the public into a separate account used for deficit reduction only. The bill will ensure these donations are being used for their intended purpose.“Americans choose everyday to donate their hard-earned money to help retire our federal deficit. They are doing this in the spirit of patriotism and love for their country, such as a war veteran in gratitude for a recent surgery,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This bill will protect these generous donations and make sure they are actually used to pay down the debt – not for future spending.”The bureau receives 20 to 30 donations each month and the average gift is under $500. The event featured Lucile McConnell, one of Congressman Ruppersberger’s constituents who created the nonprofit “Fund to End the Deficit” in 1993 to urge Americans to contribute whatever they could to pay down the debt. A Randallstown resident, she traveled the country hosting concerts and fundraisers to inspire other Americans to contribute and received widespread media attention for her efforts.
09.05.2011	Ruppersberger says Treasury misusing citizen donations to retire federal debt(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger on Tuesday will host a press conference to announce new legislation to protect citizen donations to retire the federal deficit. American citizens have donated about $81.7 million to help retire the public debt since President John F. Kennedy signed a law creating the program in 1961. However, the donations have been deposited into the Treasury Department’s general fund, which serves as the government’s main checking account.“Americans choose everyday to donate their hard-earned money to help retire our federal deficit. They are doing it out of patriotism and love for their country,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We must demand that their generous donations actually be used to pay down the debt and are not available to fund future spending.”Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Lucile McConnell, Founder, The Fund to End the DeficitWhat: Ruppersberger to Announce Legislation to Protect Debt Reduction FunWhen: Tuesday, September 6, 2011 2:00 PMWhere: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger’s District Office The Atrium 375 West Padonia Road Timonium, MD 21093
08.29.2011	Nonprofits struggling to meet increased demand for services(Owings Mills, MD)- More than 100 people turned out today for a workshop hosted by Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) to help Maryland nonprofits and small businesses learn about funding opportunities available from state and federal grant-making agencies. The struggling economy has created tough times for many nonprofits and small businesses. Grant funding from both the state and federal levels and from the philanthropic community is becoming increasingly important to the stability and vitality of some of these organizations.“In this difficult economy, nonprofits and small businesses are facing a Catch 22. Funding is at an all-time low while demand for their services is at an all-time high,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This workshop will help these critical organizations learn about funding options so they can continue their mission.”Congressman Ruppersberger was joined by grant experts and state representatives who showed participants how to find and apply for federal and state grants. The event was held at Stevenson University in Owings Mills.
08.25.2011	Matthew VanDyke went missing in Libya March 12(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger on Wednesday said a Baltimore man being held captive in a Libyan prison safely escaped. Matthew VanDyke went missing March 12 while reportedly traveling in Libya to witness the uprising against its dictator, Moammar Gaddafi, and write a book about it. VanDyke called his mother, Sharon VanDyke, this afternoon and told her he has left the prison after six months of solitary confinement. “I am thrilled this story has a happy ending for Matthew and his mother, Sharon, who has never given up hope that her son would come home safely,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I want to thank the U.S. State Department and other government agencies as well as our allies who still have operating consulates and embassies in Libya for working to bring Matthew and other imprisoned Americans home. This week has been extraordinary for the Libyan people. As they enter into a new era of peace and fairness, we look forward to the safe homecoming of all Americans. I encourage all Americans currently in Libya to work through our allies to get themselves back to the United States as quickly and safely as possible.”Matthew VanDyke, 32, lives in Baltimore. VanDyke graduated from the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, in 2002 with a Bachelor’s degree in political science.
08.22.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement today on the situation in Libya. “This is the beginning of the end for Libyan dictator Moammar Gaddafi. It is becoming more apparent the Gaddafi regime is falling apart as rebels control more of the country, including a majority of Tripoli. From the very beginning, I said Gaddafi was a ruthless terrorist with no respect for human life who could strike again. Our actions in Libya protected America’s national security as well as security worldwide. The UN-led mission was supported by an unprecedented coalition of countries, including the Arab League and European allies, and prevented the widespread massacre of thousands of innocent Libyan people without putting American boots on the ground. As we move forward, the international community must ensure a peaceful transition where the will of the Libyan people is heard. We must also ensure radical extremist groups do not take control of the country. Libya has a large stockpile of chemical weapons and explosives that must not fall into the wrong hands.”
08.08.2011	“House pages get courtside seats to democracy.”(Washington, DC) – Leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives today announced that the popular Congressional page program will be terminated by August 31, 2011. The decision was made following a recent study weighing the quality of the program for participants, the need for services traditionally provided by pages, program management and costs.Since the 1820’s, thousands of young Americans have served as pages in the U.S. House of Representatives. Young people selected to serve as pages – usually high school juniors – are afforded a unique educational experience that includes working with lawmakers and fellow pages from across the country. Most live in a Residence Hall just a few short blocks from the U.S. Capitol and the Library of Congress.“House pages get courtside seats to democracy,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I have seen many dynamic and intelligent students come through this program and I have no doubt they are our country’s leaders of tomorrow. In fact, former Congressman Tom Davis (R-VA), a good friend and former Chairman of the House Committee on Government Reform, worked as a page. While I understand the justifications, I am disappointed to see this program end. I look forward to working with my colleagues to find other ways to encourage our young people to get engaged in the political process.”The study determined that most tasks performed by pages, such has delivering documents across Capitol Hill and relaying messages to members on the House floor, are now done by e-mail and smart phones. Leaders of both parties decided the program’s costs, which range from $69,000 to $80,000 per page, per year, are difficult to justify.
08.01.2011	“It’s time to get back to our top goal of creating jobs”(Washington, DC) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) voted tonight to support a compromise to increase the debt limit by at least $2.1 trillion and generate nearly $1 trillion in deficit cuts over the next 10 years. The plan establishes a bipartisan committee to identify an additional $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction, including entitlement and tax reform. Automatic spending reductions will take place if Congress fails to enact the commission’s recommendations, however, Social Security and Medicare will be exempted from these automatic cuts.Congressman Ruppersberger issued the following statement on the compromise:“Americans elect their representatives to work together to do what’s best for the country. Nothing is perfect, but politics is about consensus, and consensus is about making sacrifices for the good of our nation. If we had defaulted, all Americans would have been harmed, especially seniors, children, our middle class and those less fortunate.As Ranking Member of the Intelligence Committee, I understand that our deficit weakens us as a country. This compromise makes serious cuts from both domestic and defense spending, while protecting our country’s most vulnerable groups, including seniors who have raised their families, paid their taxes and deserve to enjoy their golden years with their families. Today’s students will carry us into tomorrow’s economy and we must continue to invest in education. With both parties at the table, I am confident that we can make significant cuts while protecting these priorities.As long as America’s commitment to pay its bills remains in question, so does our credit rating. That means higher interest rates – on homes, on cars, on school loans and on businesses looking to grow and hire. This compromise will prevent our country from defaulting on our debt, carrying us through at least 2013 and providing much-needed stability to the markets and businesses, which will help us create jobs.I was confident that whether conservative, progressive or moderate, in the end, Congress would do the right thing for our country. Default was simply not an option. This political chess game has needlessly scared American families, concerned American businesses and crippled Washington for the past month. It’s time to get back to our top goal of creating jobs.”
08.01.2011	Nonprofits struggling to meet increased demand for services(Owings Mills, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will hold a workshop at Stevenson University on Tuesday, August 2, 2011, to help Maryland nonprofits and small businesses learn about funding opportunities available from state and federal grant-making agencies. The struggling economy has created tough times for many nonprofits and small businesses. Grant funding from both the state and federal levels and from the philanthropic community is becoming increasingly important to the stability and vitality of some of these organizations.“In this difficult economy, nonprofits and small businesses are facing a Catch 22. Funding is at an all-time low while demand for their services is at an all-time high,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This workshop will help these critical organizations learn about funding options so they can continue their mission.”Congressman Ruppersberger will be joined by grant experts and state representatives who will show participants how to find and apply for federal and state grants. WHO: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) WHAT: Ruppersberger to Host Workshop to Help Nonprofits, Small Businesses Tap FundingWHEN: Tuesday, August 2, 2011, 9:45 AM - 12:45 PMWHERE: Stevenson University, Owings Mills Campus Rockland Center Ballroom (Second Floor) 10949 Boulevard Circle Owings Mills, MD 21117
07.25.2011	(Joppa, MD) – As the nation’s foreclosure crisis persists, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) announced today his office will host a foreclosure prevention workshop in Joppa on Thursday, July 28, 2011. The workshop will give Maryland homeowners a chance to meet one-on-one with their mortgage lender, servicers and counselors. This is the fourth such workshop Congressman Ruppersberger has hosted since 2010, helping more than 100 families facing foreclosure.Maryland families need help now more than ever. While recent data indicates that foreclosures declined 2 percent in Maryland in 2010, experts say a sharp fourth-quarter drop in foreclosure activity due to questionable proceedings by lenders skewed year-end totals. Many major lenders temporarily halted foreclosure proceedings for as many as 250,000 homes; however, analysts say these will be re-started in the coming months.“I believe our economic recovery depends, in part, on the stability of the housing market,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This is a terrific opportunity for struggling families to communicate directly with their lenders and, hopefully, work out a solution that keeps them in their home.”Attendees are encouraged to bring the following materials to the workshop:Hardship LetterLast Two Months’ Bank StatementsLast Two Pay Stubs2009 or 2010 Tax ReturnAny Notification Regarding ForeclosureAny Other Relevant DocumentationWho: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Mortgage Lenders Housing Counselors Maryland FamiliesWhat: Ruppersberger to Host Foreclosure Prevention Workshop When: 6 PM – 9 PM, Thursday, July 28, 2011Where: Magnolia Middle School 299 Fort Hoyle Road Joppa, MD 21085
07.22.2011	Sheridan retiring after 46 years of service to the citizens of Maryland(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released the following statement today on the retirement of Maryland State Police Superintendent Terrence Sheridan:“I’ve known Terry since my days as a prosecutor for the Baltimore County State’s Attorney. Terry was considered one of the best investigators in the State of Maryland and we worked together on numerous criminal investigations. When I became Baltimore County Executive, I recruited Terry away from state police to work for me as police chief. I knew we were in good hands, but Terry far exceeded my expectations, helping to make Baltimore County a nationally-ranked police department.At the time, juveniles were accounting for one-third of all major crimes in Baltimore County. Chief Sheridan fought push-back from parents and school administrators and eventually put the first School Resource Officer in a Baltimore County public school. Today, the program is a national model.I am also particularly proud of Terry’s role in creating the Gang Elimination Task Force, a federal organization that serves as a central clearinghouse for sharing gang-related information throughout the Mid-Atlantic region. The task force is the first-of-its-kind, linking local, state and federal law enforcement authorities throughout the East Coast. Finally, who could forget Terry’s leadership during the Joseph Palczynski homicide and hostage incident that took place in March 2000? A spree killer, Palczynski took a family of three hostage in one of the longest one-man standoffs ever known. Because of Terry’s masterful planning, all three hostages survived without injury. Terry has been a good friend of mine. He is an incredible investigator and, more importantly, a man of integrity. He has made the Maryland State Police a better organization under his leadership. I wish him much luck on the next chapter of his career.”
07.08.2011	Space shuttle launches for last time, marking end of an era(Washington, DC) - Today marks the end of an era. Space Shuttle Atlantis launched for the last time today in Florida. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, is calling for a new, innovative space program that includes a manned mission to the Moon, Mars or beyond. Constellation, the plan to return astronauts to the moon by 2020, has been cancelled and there is no roadmap for America’s future in space. "America is the most powerful country in the world, in part, because we control the skies. We can’t allow the United States to lose its dominance in space. We must commit to a plan to return a man or woman to the Moon, Mars, or beyond in a program run by NASA in partnership with private companies. This new plan must reinvigorate our space industrial base, get our young people excited about pushing our country forward in the space race and inspire people of all ages to dream about reaching the stars. It is an issue of national security,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The shuttle program drives innovation throughout the entire space industry. Technology perfected through space shuttle missions is used on other satellites that keep us safe. We use satellites and their images to track suspected terrorists around the world and stop future attacks. Satellites provide real-time data to our troops on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan and allow us to monitor important global developments. Back here at home, we use satellites to operate the GPS system in our cars or make a cell phone call. At the same time, Russia and China are nipping at our heels. China is pumping money into their space plan, subsidizing private investments in space technology and setting their sights on a moon landing by 2020. In fact, the United States will soon rely on and pay Russia, our one-time space nemesis, to bring American scientists to the Space Station. Those costs continue to rise because there is little competition. Congressman Ruppersberger believes the United States should build its own propulsion engines as a matter of national security. He also believes we should consider sending a robot into space first before sending a person to encourage research and innovation while keeping costs down. A manned mission should follow. In 1962, President John F Kennedy so famously said, “We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard.” “We must make the hard choices to ensure America has a robust space program. Our national security depends on it,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD).
06.23.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement following President Obama's speech about a troop draw down in Afghanistan:"Ten years ago, our country was viciously attacked and 3,000 innocent men, women and children were killed on 9-11. Afghanistan and the Taliban were providing safe haven for Osama Bin Laden and his terrorist network. Together with an outraged world, America launched 'Operation Enduring Freedom' to topple terrorism and keep our country safe. We must not forget why this all started. Allied forces must continue to hold on to the progress we've made as we turn over security to Afghan forces. I am pleased that President Obama is drawing down troops in a way that gives the commanders on the ground the resources, time and flexibility they need to react to the situation in the field while also bringing our brave men and women home."
06.23.2011	Project SCOPE College/Workforce Targets College Graduates and Maryland Job Applicants(Hanover, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger this week joined the Fort Meade Alliance in debuting the next phase of its signature program to educate Maryland job-seekers about the security clearance process. This release of Project SCOPE (Security Clearance Overview and Preparation Education) targets 2- and 4-year college students as well as workers changing or re-entering the workforce.Project SCOPE, College/Workforce details the process of obtaining security clearances, what types of clearances are available and necessary for different work, as well as general information to assist in the job search and interview process.“Security clearances are required to work in many national security arenas – such as cybersecurity – that will provide thousands of new jobs in Maryland,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Studies show security-cleared professionals are among the top 10 percent of earners in the country. By educating people on what it takes to obtain a security clearance, Project SCOPE and the Fort Meade Alliance are helping Maryland fill that pipeline of high-quality, high-paying jobs.”With new jobs and positions being created by the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision, the new U.S. Cyber Command at Fort Meade, business expansion and retiring baby boomers, job opportunities in cybersecurity, science and technology and other areas such as construction and finance are growing rapidly. Filling these positions with skilled workers who have security clearances is the driving force behind Project SCOPE.“There is a critical need for security-cleared individuals to fill the much-needed jobs in this region,” said Penny Cantwell, FMA Education and Workforce Chair and Senior Vice President of CommerceFirst Bank. “In providing a program that supports a more accurate understanding of the security clearance process, our region will be able to hire new employees more efficiently and streamline government and business workflow.”Project SCOPE, College/Workforce was unveiled June 21 at Towson University, which has supplied the funding for program’s expansion via a grant from the Department of Labor. More than 75 representatives from private and state universities and workforce development groups throughout the state – including Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Howard and Harford counties as well as Baltimore City – attended the launch event.Project SCOPE, which debuted in June 2009, was created to educate middle and high school students in Maryland about the great opportunities available to them in careers that require security clearances. Project SCOPE, College/Workforce is the natural progression of this program.For more information, visit www.project-scope.org or contact the Fort Meade Alliance at 410-850-4940.
06.22.2011	Ryan Battle Wins 2011 Congressional Art Contest(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today announced Reisterstown teen Ryan Battle as the winner of the 2011 Congressional Art Contest for Maryland’s Second District. Ryan, a senior at Franklin High School, submitted an oil painting entitled, “The Calm,” depicting a light snow fall on a quiet winter morning. “Ryan Battle is a creative and talented young artist and I was very impressed with his submission to this annual art contest,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It is an honor to select Ryan for this prestigious distinction, which recognizes the vital role the arts play in our children’s education.”Ryan participated in the Congressional Art Contest sponsored each spring by the Congressional Institute, a nationwide high school visual art competition that recognizes and encourages artistic talent in the nation. Ryan’s painting was selected by a panel of local artists appointed by Congressman Ruppersberger among 35 entries submitted in the Second District. It will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol complex for one year, providing inspiration to more than 12,000 Capitol visitors and Members of Congress as they make their way to the House floor. This year’s exhibit was unveiled during an awards ceremony today. Since it began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated in the contest.
06.14.2011	House passes Military Construction – Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill for 2012(Washington, DC) – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved $230 million in federal funding for improvements at Fort Meade, Aberdeen Proving Ground and other military facilities in Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger’s Second Congressional District of Maryland. The funding was included in the Military Construction – Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill for fiscal year 2012 passed by the U.S. House of Representatives today in a 411-5 vote.The bill provides $72.5 billion in discretionary funding for military construction projects, veterans programs and other agencies that support the quality of life for our warfighters and veterans. The funding is $615 million less than last year’s spending level and $1.2 billion below the President’s budget request. The bill now goes to the U.S. Senate.“America’s men and women in uniform courageously answered the call to serve their country and deserve support for their sacrifices,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “This bill fully funds defense hospitals, schools and family housing as well as critical medical and education benefits for our veterans. It also pays for some of the most-pressing needs at Maryland military facilities while acknowledging our responsibility to reduce government spending and reign in the federal deficit.”The bill includes $721.6 million for projects across Maryland, with eight in the Second District:$43 million for Applied Instruction Facility (Fort Meade)$36 million for Brigade Complex (Fort Meade)$29.6 million for High Performance Computer (Fort Meade)$15.5 million for Auto Technology Evaluation Facility (APG)$63 million for Command and Control Facility (APG)$22.8 million for U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense Replacement (APG)$16 million for Army National Guard Readiness Center (Dundalk)$4.9 million for Air National Guard’s C-27 Conversion (Martin State Airport)
06.01.2011	2012 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill on House Floor Today(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today urged his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to restore critical public safety funding for local first responders in the proposed 2012 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. The legislation, which will be considered on the House floor today, rolls nine state and local security grants including funds for firefighter assistance, port security and rail safety into a block grant and slashes the funding by 55 percent from last year’s budget.“I have continually said that the budget debate is not about whether or not to cut – it’s about what to cut. These cuts must be smart and forward-thinking. Our priorities must be basic government services, foremost of which is public safety,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We know from evidence collected during the raid at Osama bin Laden’s compound that terrorists plan to attack local rail systems. Now is not the time to slash funding that provides equipment, training and manpower that our first responders need to protect us from harm.”The grant programs received $2.2 billion in fiscal year 2011. If the bill is approved as proposed, the programs will be competing for a share of $1 billion.Included in the programs are the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (FIRE) and Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Grant Program (SAFER), which help local fire departments equip, train and maintain their personnel, preparing them to respond to all forms of emergencies, from house fires and medical emergencies, to natural disasters and terrorist attacks. Funding through FIRE and SAFER programs is awarded directly to fire departments instead of being funneled through the states, helping them address immediate needs. In FY 2010, fire departments in Maryland received nearly $6.7 million from the FIRE and SAFER programs. If these cuts are approved, the International Association of Firefighters estimates that thousands of firefighters will lose their jobs.
05.31.2011	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) recently honored six volunteers from Maryland’s Second Congressional District for their dedicated service to Maryland veterans. Congressman Ruppersberger awarded Kathleen Mooney, Michael Mooney, Lucille Scrivani, Terry Lee Trish, Jr., Catharine Wyland and Shirley Freeman the “2010 Congressional Volunteer Recognition Award” at a ceremony in his office. The six honorees were selected by the Veterans Advisory Group, an organization founded by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003. “I commend these volunteers for bringing joy and happiness to the lives of the men and women who served our country,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. “These volunteers go above and beyond the call of duty to entertain and comfort Maryland veterans and make a difference in their lives.”Kathleen Mooney, of Parkville, has been a member of the American Legion Ladies Auxiliary for 30 years. A volunteer for the VA Maryland Health Care System since 1997, Mrs. Mooney has accrued 526 hours of service to veterans, visitors and staff. Mrs. Mooney’s unit sponsors monthly bingo and the annual Christmas Shop each year. This essential project provides veterans with free gifts, wrapping and postage each year so that the residents can give gifts to their families during the holidays.Her husband, Michael Mooney, also of Parkville, has been a member of the American Legion for 33 years and is currently the Maryland Commander. He frequently volunteers at monthly Bingos and assists with the annual Christmas Shop program to provide veterans with gifts for their families. From lifting heavy boxes to setting up tables for events, there is nothing too big or too small that Mr. Mooney won’t do. A tireless fundraiser, Mr. Mooney works long hours to get donations, activities and support for our veterans.Dundalk resident Lucille Scrivani has generously donated her time and skills to the VA Maryland Health Care System for an astounding 42 years, accruing 3,278 hours of volunteer work. A skilled seamstress, Ms. Scrivani also dedicates hours at home to sewing bags for catheters, wheel chairs and walkers. She has recruited her friends to help perform this valuable service. Ms. Scrivani has been a member of the American Legion for 50 years.Terry Lee Trish, Jr., of Rosedale, chairs the Hospital Committee of the Veterans of Foreign War Parkville Post 9083. He makes monthly visits to the post, playing Bingo, serving refreshments, leading sing-a-longs and providing meaningful conversation to the residents. For the many residents that have no family, Mr. Trish provides the ultimate gift of friendship. A veteran of war in Iraq, Mr. Trish’s experiences help him to relate with the residents who have also encountered combat on the frontlines. A Baltimore resident, Catharine Wyland has been a member of the Veterans of Foreign War Ladies Auxiliary for the past 45 years. Ms. Wyland serves as the Assistant Treasurer and supports the Yingling Ridgley Post 7472 in all of its activities. Each month, she organizes birthday parties for veteran residents and helps hospitalized veterans with crafts each week. She has recruited her post and the VFW to supply items including video games, razors, lap robes, batteries, body pillows and quilts to help make veterans more comfortable. Shirley Freeman, of Baltimore, has dedicated her career as a social worker to the VA Maryland Health Care System for the past 12 years. Social workers play an invaluable role in addressing the needs of veterans, particularly those that are homeless, elderly, sick or struggling with post-combat issues. As the Hospice and Palliative Care social worker for VA Maryland Health Care, Ms. Freeman works in all three area medical centers and has the respect and support of their physicians. Not only is Ms. Freeman a consummate professional, but her caring spirit sets her apart from other social workers. Please feel free to use the attached photograph in your publication. Individual photographs of each volunteer with the Congressman are also available upon request.
05.27.2011	17-Year Old Dymond Dantzler is a junior at Randallstown High School(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) met with Congressional Page, Dymond Dantzler on Capitol Hill this week. The 17-year-old is a junior at Randallstown High School in Baltimore County and participates in its mass communications magnet program.“Ms. Dantzler is a smart, outgoing and incredibly mature young woman who has a tremendous future ahead in whatever she decides to pursue,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “The Congressional Page Program trains America’s leaders of tomorrow. Ms. Dantzler is surely one of them.”Congressman Ruppersberger selected Ms. Dantzler from a pool of candidates for this prestigious and competitive program. As a page in the United States House of Representatives since January 23, Ms. Dantzler experienced first-hand the inner workings of the legislative branch. Her duties include assisting Members of Congress with their day-to-day administrative tasks, delivering correspondence and packages within the congressional complex, answering phones in the Member’s cloakroom and preparing the House Floor for sessions. Most pages, including Ms. Dantzler, live in the page Residence Hall just a few short blocks from the U.S. Capitol and the Library of Congress.Ms. Dantzler is a dancer in the marching band, a member of the National Honor Society and a talented singer. When she graduates, she plans to study journalism and wants to be a teacher. Please feel free to use the attached photo in your publication.
05.26.2011	About 440 soldiers from around the state serving on Sinai Peninsula in Egypt (Washington, DC) – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation written and introduced by Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger to help Maryland’s National Guard soldiers currently serving in Egypt come home to visit their families. The legislation, in the form of an amendment to the FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), passed in a 322-96 vote.“Never in my experience have I seen legislation go from introduction to passage so quickly and that is a testament to the bipartisan nature of my amendment. This is the way Congress is supposed to work,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Today, we have sent a message to the citizen soldiers of the National Guard serving everywhere that we appreciate their sacrifices and the sacrifices of their families.”About 440 Maryland Army National Guard Soldiers from around the state have been deployed to the Sinai Peninsula for one year. The National Guard has been working to maintain the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel as part of the Multinational Force and Observers, or MFO. Under current law, members of the MFO in the Sinai are not eligible for the military’s rest and recuperation benefits. This means Maryland’s soldiers must pay their own way home for leave and even family emergencies. Congressman Ruppersberger’s amendment to the NDAA adds the MFO, Egypt, to the rest and recuperation program. More than 30 family members of Maryland National Guard soldiers attended a press conference to announce Congressman Ruppersberger’s amendment earlier this month. The NDAA must now pass the U.S. Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.The soldiers are assigned to the 1st Battalion 175th Infantry Regiment. The peacekeeping mission on the Sinai has been ongoing for 30 years, but was assigned to the National Guard in 2002. The Maryland National Guard soldiers are manning remote observation posts and checkpoints throughout the peninsula. For many members, this is a second, third and even fourth tour of duty.
05.20.2011	Family of Matthew VanDyke last heard from him March 12 (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger on Monday will host a press conference with the mother of a Baltimore man who has been missing in Libya since March 12. Matthew VanDyke’s mother says her son went to Libya to witness the uprising against leader Moammar Gaddafi and write a book about it. Three Americans captured in Libya were released from custody this week, however, Matthew VanDyke was not among them.“As other American families welcome their loved ones home from captivity in Libya, we must not forget the Americans who remain missing,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We must use all means necessary to locate Matthew VanDyke and bring him home safely.” Matthew VanDyke, 31, lives in Baltimore. VanDyke graduated from the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, in 2002 with a Bachelor’s degree in political science. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Sharon VanDyke What: Ruppersberger to Host Press Conference on Baltimore Man Missing in LibyaWhen: Monday, May 23, 2011 1 PMWhere: The VanDyke Home 406 E Randall Street Baltimore, MD 21230
05.18.2011	About 440 soldiers from around the state serving on Sinai Peninsula in Egypt(Dundalk, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced new legislation to help Maryland’s National Guard soldiers currently serving in Egypt come home to visit their families. About 440 Maryland Army National Guard Soldiers from around the state have been deployed to the Sinai Peninsula for one year. The National Guard has been working to maintain the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel as part of the Multinational Force and Observers, or MFO.Under current law, members of the MFO in the Sinai are not eligible for the military’s rest and recuperation benefits. This means Maryland’s soldiers must pay their own way home for leave and even family emergencies. Congressman Ruppersberger will offer an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to add the MFO, Egypt, to the rest and recuperation program. The House of Representatives will consider the act next week.“This outdated policy ignores the current dynamic of a country next to Libya and Sudan facing their first real elections since the 1940s,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It also ignores the fact that our citizen soldiers have put their lives on hold to serve our country, just like our troops elsewhere around the world. In this difficult economy, we shouldn’t be adding to the financial burden that our military families are already facing. We need to show our troops – and their families – that we are grateful for their service and sacrifice. This is one small way to do that.”The soldiers are assigned to the 1st Battalion 175th Infantry Regiment. The peacekeeping mission on the Sinai has been ongoing for 30 years, but was assigned to the National Guard in 2002. The Maryland National Guard soldiers are manning remote observation posts and checkpoints throughout the peninsula. For many members, this is a second and even third tour of duty.In 2003, Congressman Ruppersberger launched “Operation Hero Miles,” which encourages people to donate unused frequent flyer miles so that troops and their families can receive free connecting flights home. Legislation making the program permanent was signed into law in 2004.
05.17.2011	About 440 soldiers from around the state serving on Sinai Peninsula in Egypt(Dundalk, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger tomorrow will announce new legislation to help Maryland’s National Guard soldiers currently serving in Egypt come home to visit their families. About 440 Maryland Army National Guard Soldiers from around the state have been deployed to the Sinai Peninsula for one year. Under current law, Egypt is not included in the military’s rest and recuperation absence program, which covers expenses for troops to come home for family emergencies and for simple leave.“The men and women of the National Guard are putting their regular lives on hold to serve our country and our allies,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “For their families, it’s hard to keep the home fires burning – there are empty seats at the dinner table, missed mortgage payments and unopened birthday gifts. We must work harder to provide these families with the resources they need to survive their tours of duty here at home and overseas.”The National Guard has been on the Sinai Peninsula since 2002, working to maintain the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger National Guard SpousesWhat: Ruppersberger to Announce Legislation to Help Maryland National Guardsmen Visit FamilyWhen: Wednesday, May 18, 2011 10:15 a.m.Where: Dundalk Armory 2010 North Point Boulevard Dundalk, MD 21222
05.13.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, praised passage of the Intelligence Authorization Act for FY 2011. Together with Democratic leadership, the Ranking Member was able to negotiate with the Majority an increase to the number of counterterrorism positions at the Central Intelligence Agency. These professionals, together with others members of the military and intelligence community (IC), were instrumental in locating Osama Bin Laden. “We must remain vigilant as we continue our fight against terrorism. It is our responsibility in Congress to give our intelligence professionals the resources, capabilities and authorities they need to keep our country safe. The way Congress conducts meaningful oversight and provides critical direction for the Intelligence Community is by passing an Intelligence Authorization bill. I am pleased this bill received strong bi-partisan support, including from Chairman Mike Rogers of Michigan. The Intelligence Committee has entered into a new era of bi-partisanship where both sides of the aisle are working together to do what is right for our nation,” said Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Intel Authorization bill for FY 2010 overwhelmingly passed the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 392 to 15. The bill allocates resources to important national security programs, including those that detect, interrupt and prevent potential terrorist attacks against the American people. It offers continued support to the men and women on the front lines around the world tirelessly working to protect our country. The FY 2011 bill builds on the Intelligence Authorization Act for FY 2010 which was passed under the leadership of Chairman Silvestre Reyes (D-TX). The FY 2010 bill was signed by President Obama on October 7, 2010, and was the first Intelligence Authorization Act signed into law since 2005. It provided meaning oversight and accountability to the Intelligence Community. The bill expanded important Congressional notification procedures, demanded more accountability of the IC through important reforms, improved management of the IC through conflict of interest regulations, security clearance reform and acquisition reforms, and created a statutory Inspector General for the Intelligence Community. The FY 2011 bill now heads to the Senate for consideration.
05.09.2011	Funding part of $2 billion in high-speed rail funding rejected by Florida(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today announced that Maryland has been awarded $22 million in federal rail funding to replace the century-old Susquehanna River Bridge, which currently causes frequent delays for commuters. The funding is included in a $795 million federal grant package for the country’s northeast corridor to increase the speed of travel from Washington to Boston. Congressman Ruppersberger lobbied the government to reprogram $2 billion in rail funding rejected by Florida to states that can use it – like Maryland.“This investment will give Maryland residents and commuters more options for train service and help make that service more reliable,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, whose district includes the southern portion of the Susquehanna Bridge. “We must make rail convenient and dependable to get people out of their cars and on to mass transit to reduce our already-congested roadways.”This project and others like it around the country will put thousands of Americans to work and boost U.S. manufacturing. A strict “Buy America” requirement for high-speed rail projects ensures that U.S. manufacturers and workers will receive the maximum economic benefits from this federal investment.The Baltimore metropolitan area ranks fifth in the nation in the average number of hours car commuters are delayed during peak periods, according to the Texas Transportation Institute’s Urban Mobility Report released earlier this year. Washington, DC, tied for first.
05.06.2011	Town Hall Style Event Will be Held at Baltimore County Retirement Community(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger on Friday will visit the Oak Crest Retirement Community in Baltimore County to speak with area seniors about the recent operation that resulted in the death of terrorist leader Osama bin Laden. As Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, Congressman Ruppersberger has received regular briefings on the top-secret operation and its implications for our nation’s future security. One of the largest retirement communities in Maryland, Oak Crest is home to 2,100 residents.“While the death of bin Laden is one of the most significant achievements in the war on terrorism, we are not yet in the clear,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I am looking forward to discussing the effects of this historic event and having a candid conversation about our national security priorities with my constituents.”Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Local SeniorsWhat: Ruppersberger to Share Insights on Bin Laden Raid, National Security with Baltimore SeniorsWhen: Friday, May 6, 2011 10 AMWhere: Oak Crest Retirement Community 8820 Walther Boulevard Parkville, MD 21234After entering the Oak Crest campus, proceed to the Crestview Station lobby. The event will be held in the John Erickson Hall.
05.06.2011	Williams retiring after 22 years at University of Maryland College Park(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released the following statement today on the retirement of University of Maryland College Park head basketball coach Gary Williams:“I first met Gary Williams when we were at the University of Maryland together. I played lacrosse and he played basketball. We have remained close friends since and I have been proud to watch him lead the men's basketball team through a generation of success, including a national championship. Having season tickets with my family for 20-plus years, I have enjoyed the opportunity to watch the Terps’ triumphs and disappointments over the years, but I have especially enjoyed watching Gary’s passion for the sport and the young men who play it.Not only is Gary an incredible coach and recruiter, but he has served as a role model and mentor for athletes over the past 20 years. He has demanded dedication, hard work and good sportsmanship from all of his players. These are qualities that have come to define what it means to be a ‘Terp.’ Gary's retirement marks the end of an era and I wish him all the best."
05.02.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI), released the following statement about the killing of Al-Qaeda and terrorist leader Osama Bin Laden. “Osama Bin Laden was a terrorist leader who was responsible for killing thousands of innocent Americans – Moms, Dads, brothers, sisters, friends and loved ones. 9-11 changed America forever. Today, the United States took extraordinary steps and killed Al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden. This is a great day for America. Bin Laden was a threat to the United States and a threat to the world. Bin Laden had the blood of thousands of people on his hands. Justice has now been done. The military and intelligence professionals who risk their lives every day to track terrorists like Bin Laden deserve our praise. They have been working tirelessly for a long time tracking this ruthless terrorist, never taking their eye off the ball. A grateful nation says 'thank you.'”
04.26.2011	Proposed Budget Could Cost Maryland $2 Billion Over the Next Five Years(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today visited a Community Health Center in the Cherry Hill neighborhood of Baltimore and discussed the impacts of proposed federal budgets on health care in Maryland. Budget proposals currently before Congress would cut government funding that helps these clinics operate, potentially costing Maryland $2 billion over the next five years.“As our country examines ways to reduce our federal deficit, I agree that everything must be on the table,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “However, health care cuts at this level will force our already cash-strapped state to reduce funding to a wide range of health care providers such as Community Health Centers and will severely hurt our seniors. Health care providers may have to lay off doctors and nurses – or worse, shut their doors – and our entire health care system will suffer.”Community Health Centers are often the first – and sometimes only – option for sick citizens because they are affordable and accessible. These centers save the national health care system as much as $17.6 billion a year by helping patients avoid emergency rooms and making better use of preventive services, according to the National Association of Community Health Centers. That translates to more than $1,200 in savings per patient annually in total care costs. They provide $20 billion in economic activity in communities nationwide annually and create nearly 200,000 jobs.Current budget proposals seek to end Medicaid and Medicare as they currently exist. One budget proposal would turn the Medicaid program into a block grant, which would result in cuts to eligibility and services covered by Medicaid, including Community Health Centers. If these proposals become reality, the state estimates that 140,000 Maryland residents may lose Medicaid coverage. A repeal of health care reform legislation would deny coverage to another 234,000 Marylanders.
04.22.2011	Proposed Budget Could Cost Maryland $2 Billion Over the Next Five Years(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger on Tuesday will visit a Community Health Center in Baltimore and discuss the impacts of proposed budgets on health care in Maryland. A well-functioning Community Health Center can keep patients out of the emergency room, which reduces health insurance costs for all Americans. These centers are often the first – and sometimes only – option for sick citizens because they are affordable and accessible. A budget proposal recently unveiled by the chair of the House Budget Committee would end Medicare and Medicaid as they currently exist. Medicare and Medicaid help seniors pay for prescriptions, insure the disabled and keep community clinics operating. Cuts to these programs could jeopardize these critical needs and cost Maryland $2 billion over the next five years. “As our country examines ways to reduce our federal deficit, I agree that everything must be on the table,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “However, health care cuts at this level will force our already cash-strapped state to reduce funding to a wide range of health care providers such as Community Health Centers and will severely hurt our seniors. Health care providers may have to lay off doctors and nurses – or worse, shut their doors – and our entire health care system will suffer.”Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Paula Brooks McLellan, Family Health Centers of Baltimore CEO Miguel McInnis, Mid-Atlantic Association of Community Health CentersWhat: Ruppersberger to Visit Baltimore Clinic, Speak Out Against Proposed Cuts to Health CareWhen: Tuesday, April 26, 2011 Clinic Tour at 12:00 PM Media Availability 12:30 PMWhere: Family Health Centers of Baltimore - Cherry Hill 631 Cherry Hill Road Baltimore, MD 21225
04.18.2011	(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released the following statement today on the passing of former Maryland Governor William Donald Schaefer:“I am deeply saddened by the passing of William Donald Schaefer, who was a close friend of my father. Governor Schaefer was a Baltimore icon who loved his city and state and dedicated his life to the service of its people. A master of politics, he reminded those of us in office to never forget the constituents we represent. From potholes to Baltimore’s magnificent Inner Harbor, he worked hard every day to improve his community. His colorful personality has contributed to some of Maryland’s most memorable moments and he will be sorely missed.”William Donald Schaefer served as Maryland’s 58th governor. He also gave his time and talent as Comptroller of the State for eight years and as Mayor of Baltimore for 15 years. He was 89 years old.
04.15.2011	New agency is housed in the largest office complex in Anne Arundel County(Fort Meade, MD) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger today congratulated the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) on the grand opening of its new facility at Fort Meade. Housed on a 95-acre campus, DISA now occupies the largest office complex in Anne Arundel County. DISA employs 7,500 military and civilian personnel on military bases around the U.S. and the world. “As Ranking Member of the House Committee on Intelligence, I know how critical DISA’s work is in keeping our nation’s defense and intelligence agencies communicating, connected and secure,” said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger. “DISA is making sure warfighters around the globe have real-time access to secure network information and the technologies that keep them safe. The thousands of jobs DISA will bring with this state-of-the-art building are a great windfall for Maryland and Anne Arundel County and I am proud to call this agency my new constituent.” In addition to its own warehouse, water supply, conference center, education center and various office and test and evaluation labs, the DISA complex also houses a large dining facility with various cuisines, a health center and a fitness center with exercise rooms and various cardio and strength training equipment. When the phased move is complete in August 2011, more than 4,000 government civilian employees, active duty military and contractors will work in the new facility.“This event is an opportunity for us to show our gratitude to all of our partners who have helped us to get here, and our employees who have made this move successful,” said DISA Director Army Lt. Gen. Carroll Pollett.
04.08.2011	Ruppersberger urging Congressional leaders to reach compromise, avoid shutdown(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today released the following statement on the threat of a government shutdown if Congress does not pass a budget bill by midnight tonight:With all of the political maneuvering going on between Republican and Democrats in Congress, I want to be clear. If the government shuts down, I will forego my taxpayer-funded paycheck. If federal employees are not paid, I will not be paid. If our troops are not paid, I will not be paid. It is shameful that those elected to office cannot reach a compromise to keep our government up and running and Congress should not be rewarded for its inability to work together. In the event of a government shutdown, I will donate my pay to the Army Emergency Relief Fund, which provides service men and women and their families with emergency help for food, rent, utilities and medical expenses. These families, many of which have small children, have sacrificed enough as they serve in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere around the world. Too many live paycheck to paycheck and cannot afford any delay in their salary.My offices in Timonium and Washington will remain open to continue to help constituents as best as we can during these difficult times.I continue to urge Congressional leaders to reach a compromise and avoid a government shutdown, which would be a huge blow to our economic recovery and job creation. A shutdown will affect everyone. For example, the government will not be able to process new Medicare and Social Security applications and many tax returns will be delayed. My district is home to more than 45,500 federal workers and thousands of contractors, many of which will not be able to spend paychecks at the grocery stores, gas stations or even child care. The ripple effect will hurt even more small businesses and families.The budget discussion is not about whether or not to cut – it’s about what to cut. We must identify what is working and get rid of what is not. We must reduce government spending but protect appropriate investments to restore American prosperity.
04.04.2011	Companies had 15 minutes to pitch their wares to NSA and its prime contractors(Linthicum, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today addressed about 250 local businesses interested in National Security Agency contracts at an event that took a unique spin on speed dating. Companies had 15 minutes to present their case for doing business with NSA to its prime contractors and government officers. The event, called “Business in a Minute,” was a great opportunity for local businesses to have face-to-face meetings with NSA representatives, ask questions and pitch their wares.Nearly all of the participants were small businesses. Companies were able to request their top five choices of NSA prime contractors and top three choices of NSA offices with which to meet. Briefings on policy changes, updates and the contracting process were also offered.“Expanding its contractor base and identifying new businesses to work with helps NSA stay on the cutting-edge and focus on its core intelligence missions,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “NSA is one of the largest employers and most significant economic engines in Maryland. The growth underway at NSA and Fort Meade is a major boost to local businesses, putting Marylanders back to work.”Last year, NSA awarded more than $2.5 billion in contracts to Maryland businesses. NSA supports more than 100,000 private sector jobs. With the new federal Cyber Command and BRAC-related growth, the Fort Meade area is projected to have a $5 billion annual impact on the regional economy.
04.03.2011	“This disingenuously named bill has nothing to do with preventing a government shutdown.”(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today released the following statement on the “Government Shutdown Prevention Act of 2011.”Today, I supported common-sense legislation to withhold pay from Members of Congress and the President in the event of a government shutdown. I agree that elected officials should not receive their taxpayer-funded paycheck if public services are not up and running. This legislation, which passed unanimously in the Senate on March 11, could have gone to the President for his signature had House Republicans supported it today.I did not support separate legislation known as the “Shutdown Prevention Act of 2011.” This disingenuously named bill has nothing to do with preventing a government shutdown. It is clearly an unconstitutional measure that would shut the U.S. Senate out of the budget process and undermine the democratic principles established by our forefathers. This measure is a desperate second attempt to pass H.R. 1, which would eliminate nearly 800,000 jobs and slash appropriate investments in job-rich initiatives.H.R. 1 cuts critical assistance to state and local law enforcement. It cuts billions in port and transit security, which harms the Port of Baltimore and BWI Airport. It cuts Chesapeake Bay clean-up funding by 20 percent, jeopardizing thousands of jobs dependent on a healthy Bay. It reduces border security funding and eliminates a program for homeless veterans. The bill will drastically reduce recipients of Pell Grants, which enable thousands of Marylanders to afford college, would kick more than 2,300 Maryland children out of the Head Start education program and mean a loss of 521 teaching jobs. It also jeopardizes key investments in rebuilding aging infrastructure, costing Maryland more than 3,000 jobs.The budget discussion is not about whether or not to cut – it’s about what to cut. We must identify what is working and get rid of what is not. I am urging House and Senate leaders to reach a compromise and avoid a government shutdown. We must reduce government spending but protect appropriate investments to restore American prosperity.
04.01.2011	Companies will have 15 minutes to pitch their wares to NSA and its prime contractors (Linthicum, MD) – On Monday, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger will address about 250 local businesses interested in National Security Agency contracts in a unique take on speed dating. Companies will have 15 minutes to present their case for doing business with NSA to its prime contractors and government officers. The event is a great opportunity for local businesses to have face-to-face meetings with NSA representatives, ask questions and pitch their wares.The event, called “Business in a Minute,” will be hosted by the Industry Outreach and Facilitation, Directorate of Acquisition. Nearly all of the pre-registered companies are small businesses.“NSA stays on the cutting-edge by expanding its contractor base and identifying new businesses to help it focus on its core mission,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “NSA is one of the largest employers and most significant economic engines in Maryland. The growth underway at NSA and Fort Meade is a major boost to local businesses, helping to get Marylanders back to work.”Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger NSA Representatives and Prime Contractors More than 250 companies looking to initiate or expand their business with NSA What: NSA to Host Speed Dating for Maryland BusinessesWhen: Monday, April 4, 2011 11:30 AMWhere: BWI Marriott 1743 West Nursery Road Linthicum, MD 21240
03.24.2011	Program readying Maryland for thousands of cyber jobs heading to I-95 Corridor(Glen Burnie, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and Maryland Labor Secretary Alexander Sanchez today promoted a new program to train future cyber workers, readying the state for thousands of technical jobs heading to the I-95 corridor. The new program, called the “Pathways to Cybersecurity Careers Consortium,” is operated by the Anne Arundel Workforce Development Corporation with a $4.9 million federal grant. The program aims to provide 1,000 new, dislocated or underemployed workers and recently separated veterans with the training they need to land jobs in the cyber industry.The cybersecurity industry is projected to grow 41 percent in the next 8 years, but is facing a critical shortage of workers. To jobseekers, the program provides career counseling, occupational training and certification as well as job placement assistance. To local businesses, it provides pre-screened cyber professionals, hiring incentives and tax credits.“Maryland is poised to become the cyber capital of the world and we must prepare a pipeline of qualified workers,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “These are high-quality, high-paying careers that will help strengthen our local economy and our national security. In this tough economy, I believe it is more important than ever to provide Marylanders with the skills they need so they can go back to work.”“In order to compete in the new economy, we need to build the best-equipped and most highly-trained workforce. Under Governor O’Malley’s leadership and because of the partnerships state government has forged with Congressman Ruppersberger and the rest of our federal delegation, Maryland has made the necessary investments in our human capital to recover more quickly than other states,” Secretary Sanchez said. “Cybersecurity and BRAC will create tens of thousands of jobs in Maryland. Partnerships like the Pathways to Cybersecurity Careers Consortium, the Skills2Compete initiative and other investments in workforce development are creating a strong workforce for the future.”Congressman Ruppersberger and Secretary Sanchez promoted the program at the Maryland One-Stop Career Center in Glen Burnie, which has been providing jobseekers with the tools necessary to find a job in today’s economy. These include Internet access, resume-writing help, an array of workshops, and free faxing, copying and telephone use. The center has seen a spike in clients since the recession began.“The purpose of the Anne Arundel Career Centers is to provide businesses with a skilled workforce that meets the demands of our regional economy,” said Kirkland J. Murray, President and CEO of Anne Arundel Workforce Development Corporation. “Occupational training opportunities, such as the Pathways to Cybersecurity program, give jobseekers the edge they need to be marketable in today’s job market and get back to work.”
03.23.2011	Program readying Maryland for thousands of cyber jobs heading to I-95 corridor (Glen Burnie, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and Maryland Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation Secretary Alexander M. Sanchez will promote a new program to train future cyber workers, readying the state for thousands of technical jobs heading to the I-95 corridor. Congressman Ruppersberger and Secretary Sanchez will also tour a Maryland One-Stop Career Center, which provides jobseekers with tools including a computer lab, resume-writing help, intensive career advising and career workshops. The center has seen a significant increase of clients since the recession.The cybersecurity industry is projected to grow 41 percent in the next eight years, but is facing a critical shortage of workers. The new program is targeting laid-off, terminated or underemployed workers as well as recently separated veterans.“Maryland is poised to become the cyber capital of the world and we must prepare a pipeline of qualified workers,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “In this tough economy, it is more important than ever to provide Marylanders with the skills they need so they can get back to work. This program not only prepares cyber workers to strengthen our economy, but cyber warriors to strengthen our national security.”Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Maryland Labor Secretary Alexander M. Sanchez Kirkland Murray, President, Anne Arundel Workforce Development Corp. Job-seekers What: Ruppersberger, Sanchez to Promote New Program to Train Future Cyber Workers When: Thursday, March 24, 2011 10:00 a.m. Career Center Tour 10:30 a.m. Press Conference Where: Glen Burnie One-Stop Career Center/Henry L. Hein Building 7480 Baltimore Annapolis Blvd., Suite 100 Glen Burnie, MD 21061
03.16.2011	More than 80 Employers Hold On-the-Spot Interviews(Fort Meade, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today kicked off a major job fair at Fort George G. Meade that featured 1,200 high-paying technical jobs. Ruppersberger welcomed a packed house from across the country that braved long lines snaking around the building well before the venue opened. The event featured 86 local and national businesses that have one thing in common: they’re hiring.“Even as the economy improves, my top priority remains creating and saving jobs in Maryland,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “When you have a job, you can support your family, your community and your country. Jobs are the fuel that powers our economy. I have been working hard to connect Maryland job-seekers to great employers through job fairs like this one.”The event was organized by the State of Maryland and the Anne Arundel Workforce Development Corporation, which assists 12,000 job-seekers annually in their job search and retraining to fit the needs of today’s job market. The fair featured positions for government contractors, private companies and military agencies. The new U.S. Cyber Command at Fort Meade also had a booth at the event. Maryland is on the receiving end of tens of thousands of jobs due to the base realignment and closure process known as BRAC, which will consolidate military organizations to reduce costs and increase efficiency. Three organizations will be moving to Fort Meade: the Defense Information Systems Agency, Defense Media Activity and the Colocation of Defense/Military Adjudication Activities. BRAC will bring at least 7,500 “direct” employees and their families to the area and have a $1 billion economic impact. In all, BRAC will bring as many as 60,000 jobs to Maryland.
03.14.2011	(Fort Meade, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger will kick off a Technical Job Fair Wednesday morning at Fort Meade. The job fair is open to the public and more than 1200 positions are open for recruitment. Congressman Ruppersberger will highlight the importance of the technical jobs coming to Fort Meade as a result of recent BRAC moves, Cyber Security and the highly skilled jobs coming to Maryland in general.More than 80 companies, including the Army Cyber Command and the Colocation of Defense/Military Department Adjudication Activities, will be participating in the job fair. Candidates with and without security clearances are encouraged to attend. Visitors to Fort Meade will need a photo ID and drivers must show proof of vehicle registration. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Col. Daniel L. Thomas, Fort Meade Installation Commander More than 80 Area Employers Job-seekersWhat: Ruppersberger to Speak at Fort Meade Job Fair With 1200 PositionsWhen: Wednesday, March 16, 2011 9 AMWhere: Club Meade 6600 Mapes Road Fort Meade, MarylandInterested media must meet public affairs staff no later than 8 a.m. For more information, or if you are interested in covering this event, please contact Veronica Castro in the Fort Meade Public Affairs Office at (301) 677-1465 or veronica.m.castro@us.army.mil.
03.08.2011	“Safe Haven for Heroes Act” Will Prevent Groups from Disrupting Military Funerals(Linthicum, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced new legislation to prevent protests during military funerals. The bill, called the “Safe Haven for Heroes Act,” responds to the recent Supreme Court decision that offensive anti-gay protests at the funeral of Lance Cpl. Matthew Snyder are protected under the First Amendment.The Snyder family fell victim to Kansas-based Westboro Baptist Church, which believes that God hates the United States for its tolerance of gay people and frequently uses signs bearing statements such as “Thank God for Dead Soldiers.” Westboro has picketed nearly 600 military funerals over the past 20 years. Maryland resident Matthew Snyder, 20, died in a vehicle accident while serving in Iraq.“I am grateful for the service and sacrifice of our American military fighting for our freedom,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “The right to free speech is a valuable liberty that we all cherish as Americans. While I respect the recent Supreme Court decision, I wanted to find a way to stop groups like Westboro from using military funerals as occasions to promote their own political agenda and inflict incalculable harm on the grieving families of our troops.” If passed, the “Safe Haven for Heroes Act” will prohibit protests for the 5 hours preceding a military funeral and the 5 hours after. It will also limits protests that do take place to 2,500 feet from the funeral facility. “I believe the Constitution allows for reasonable restrictions on the time, place and manner of protest activities,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This bill enables groups like Westboro to exercise their right to free speech without disrupting the funerals themselves or forcing funeral participants to encounter the protesters.”“I thank Congressman Ruppersberger for introducing this bill,” said Al Snyder, father of Matthew Snyder. “At this point, if the courts will not step in to help military families, we need all the help we can get from our elected officials.”
03.07.2011	“Safe Haven for Heroes Act” Will Prevent Groups from Disrupting Military Funerals(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger tomorrow will announce new legislation to prevent protests during military funerals. The bill, called the “Safe Haven for Heroes Act,” responds to the recent Supreme Court decision that offensive anti-gay protests at the funeral of Maryland resident Lance Cpl. Matthew Snyder are protected under the First Amendment.The Snyder family fell victim to Kansas-based Westboro Baptist Church, which believes that God hates the United States for its tolerance of gay people and frequently uses signs bearing statements such as “Thank God for Dead Soldiers.” Westboro has picketed nearly 600 military funerals over the past 20 years. Matthew Snyder, 20, died in a vehicle accident while serving in Iraq.“We need to thank God for the service and sacrifice of our American military fighting for our freedom,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “The right to free speech is a valuable liberty that we all cherish as Americans. While I respect the recent Supreme Court decision, I wanted to find a way to stop groups like Westboro from using military funerals as occasions to promote their own political agenda and inflict incalculable harm on the grieving families of our troops.”The bill seeks to enable groups like Westboro to exercise their right to free speech without disrupting the funerals themselves or forcing funeral participants to encounter the protesters.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Maryland VeteransWhat: Ruppersberger to Announce Legislation to Prevent Protests at Military FuneralsWhen: Tuesday, March 8, 2011 12:30 p.m.Where: Linthicum Veterans Memorial Camp Meade & Maple Road Linthicum, Maryland
03.02.2011	“Sparrows Point has a rich, proud tradition that can now continue.”(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released the following statement on the announcement that Severstal has agreed to sell its Sparrows Point steel plant to RG Steel LLC:“I have been meeting with all of the stakeholders over the past year, working to find a buyer willing to reopen the plant to its full capacity. For more than a century, the plant has produced steel that has literally built our country. Sparrows Point has a rich, proud tradition that can now continue. RG Steel’s decision to headquarter its operations at Sparrows Point shows the company’s commitment to the success of this plant, the community and American manufacturing.I am pleased with the prospect that this American company will take over operations. This news is a big step toward relieving the anxiety of the dedicated men and women who work at Sparrows Point, including more than 1,000 workers who have been laid off. Jobs provide the gasoline that fuels our country’s economic engine. When you have a job, you can support your family, your state and your country. I am hopeful that these jobs can now stay in Maryland and that these men and women will be able to provide for the families, help strengthen our local and national economies and maintain the tradition of steel production at Sparrows Point.”
02.28.2011	Federal funding enabled nonprofit to start remarkably successful job training program(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today visited a Baltimore nonprofit that is helping jobless Marylanders get back to work. HARBEL Community Organization, a Baltimore-based nonprofit, offers computer training, resume help, interview techniques and job counseling with the help of federal funding secured by Congressman Ruppersberger last year. More than 100 jobseekers have gone through the program since it began in November and 10 have landed full-time jobs with benefits.Congressman Ruppersberger helped secure $250,000 in federal funding, which enabled HARBEL to hire a small staff and purchase computers. Maryland’s unemployment rate has been holding steady at about 7.5 percent, with about 220,000 residents actively seeking work.“This program is a tremendous success story,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Everyday, unemployed Marylanders are seeking HARBEL’s help, especially seniors reentering the job market, young people, veterans and handicapped individuals. “In this tough economy, I believe it is more important than ever to provide Marylanders with the skills they need so they can go back to work and help strengthen our economy. HARBEL is doing just that.”HARBEL is a 40-year-old community service umbrella organization serving the Northeast section of Baltimore City. Comprised of all of the community and business associations, schools and churches in the area, HARBEL impacts more than 100,000 residents.“HARBEL continues to work diligently toward helping people return to the workforce and find meaningful jobs,” said HARBEL Executive Director Naomi Benyowitz. “We are constantly inspired by the determination and perseverance of our clients and are gratified with the positive response we have had from employers.”
02.25.2011	Federal funding enabled nonprofit to start remarkably successful job training program (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger will visit a Baltimore nonprofit that is helping jobless Marylanders get back to work. HARBEL Community Organization, a Baltimore-based nonprofit, offers computer training, resume help, interview techniques and job counseling with the help of federal funding secured by Congressman Ruppersberger last year. More than 100 jobseekers have gone through the program since it began in November.“Everyday, unemployed Marylanders are seeking HARBEL’s help, especially seniors reentering the job market, young people, veterans and handicapped individuals,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “In this tough economy, I believe it is more important than ever to provide Marylanders with the skills they need so they can go back to work and help strengthen our economy."Jobseekers as well as successfully placed HARBEL clients will be on hand for interviews. The press briefing will be preceded by a workshop for jobseekers at 9 a.m.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Maryland State Delegate Cheryl Glenn Naomi Benyowitz, Executive Director, HARBEL Successful Job-seekersWhat: Ruppersberger to Visit Successful Job Training ProgramWhen: Monday, February 28, 2011 10:30 a.m.Where: HARBEL Community Organization 5807 Harford Road, Baltimore, MD 21214Overflow parking is available in the church and union hall next door to HARBEL.
02.25.2011	Discovery is Fueled up for Final Flight Scheduled for this Afternoon(Washington, DC) – As the Space Shuttle Discovery prepares for its final flight this afternoon in Florida, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is calling for a new American strategy for space. President Obama announced last year he is cancelling Constellation, the plan to return astronauts to the moon by 2020. This move jeopardizes an $11.5 billion investment, puts thousands of skilled scientists out of work, and shakes the very heart of the space industrial base. At the same time, China and Russia are nipping at our heels. China is pumping money into its space plan, subsidizing private investments in space technology and setting its sights on a moon landing by 2020.“Constellation wasn’t perfect, but we must not give up on our quest to return to the moon, Mars and beyond. America needs a new plan to reinvigorate our space industry, get our young people excited about space and other sciences, and inspire people of all ages to dream about reaching for the stars. We must commit to a robust program run by NASA in partnership with private companies,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence that overseas the technical aspects of space. Improving America’s space industry, both manned vehicles and satellites, will also boost America’s national security. Satellites keep us safe. We use satellites and their images to track suspected terrorists around the world and stop future attacks. Satellites provide real-time data to our troops on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan and allow us to monitor important global developments. Back here at home, we use satellites to operate the GPS system in our cars or make a cell phone call. When you buy a toy for your child at a store, a satellite lets the distribution center know that shelf needs to be restocked. Satellites are an integral part of our worldwide communication system. Keeping skilled professionals working and American factories that produce satellites and their components buzzing is good for our economy and for our security. “In 1962, President John F. Kennedy so famously said, ‘We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard.’ We must do what is hard and necessary to stay ahead in this space race,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In its final mission, the Space Shuttle Discovery will deliver supplies and parts to the International Space Station. Today’s scheduled launch of Discovery comes after months of delays caused by a fuel leak and other problems. The Discovery will be the first of three shuttles NASA plans to retire this year.
02.22.2011	“We all have to work together to make sure vital services to our constituents are not halted.”(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released the following statement on the threat of a government shut-down if a spending bill known as a continuing resolution does not pass Congress by the March 4th deadline:Let’s face the music: we can no longer avoid making the tough decisions required to get our nation’s debt under control. The budget discussion is not about whether or not to cut – it’s about what to cut. We can’t just take a sledge hammer to the entire budget. We must identify what is working and get rid of what is not. These cuts must be smart and forward-thinking. Our priorities must be creating jobs and improving the economy. I agreed with some of the cuts contained in the spending bill that passed the House on Saturday, but we can’t throw out the baby with the bathwater. This bill includes unacceptable provisions that will undermine our progress. According to the Economic Policy Institute, this bill will eliminate nearly 800,000 jobs and slash appropriate investments in job-rich initiatives like education, security, our global competitiveness and rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure. The bill cuts critical assistance to state and local law enforcement. It cuts billions in port and transit security, which harms the Port of Baltimore and BWI Airport. It cuts Chesapeake Bay clean-up funding by 20 percent, reduces border security funding and eliminates a program for homeless veterans. The bill will drastically reduce recipients of Pell Grants, which enable thousands of Marylanders to afford college. It also jeopardizes key investments in rebuilding aging infrastructure, costing Maryland more than 3,000 jobs.Now that the bill has passed the House, it’s up to House leadership to work with the Senate to reach a compromise, without which the government will shut down. Government shut-downs hurt all Americans. Hundreds of thousands of workers would lose their pay, small businesses would be harmed and veterans may not receive their benefits. To avoid a government shut-down, House leadership and the Senate must compromise on a reasonable bill that reduces spending but protects the investments necessary to restore American prosperity. We all have to be work together to make sure vital services to our constituents are not halted.
02.22.2011	Ms. Sullivan will be the #2 Person at DNI(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, applauds the confirmation of Stephanie O’Sullivan as the Principal Deputy to the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Ms. O’Sullivan will be the second-highest ranking official after General James R. Clapper, the Director of National Intelligence. She will assist the DNI to ensure information is being shared across the 16 agencies of the Intelligence Community to connect the dots, prevent future terrorist attacks, and utilize the latest in technology.“Stephanie O’Sullivan will be a tremendous asset to the Director of National Intelligence. Many in the intelligence community refer to Ms. O’Sullivan as the ‘Q’ of the American intelligence world, referring to the movie character that supplies James Bond with sophisticated gadgets used to catch the bad guys. Ms. O’Sullivan has led the community’s most aggressive efforts to date to harness technology to keep Americans safe at home and abroad. Her efforts have created better systems and capabilities to collect and analyze intelligence worldwide, while at the same time streamlining how the community purchases the equipment necessary to do its job,” said Congressman Ruppersberger.The Senate unanimously confirmed Ms. O’Sullivan last night. Ms. O’Sullivan most recently was the Associate Deputy Director at the Central Intelligence Agency. Ms. O’Sullivan joined the CIA in 1995 after working for the Office of Naval Intelligence. She holds a Bachelor of Science degree in civil engineering from the Missouri School of Mines. General Michael Hayden, Lieutenant General Ronald Burgess, Donald Kerr, and David Gompert all previously held this position.
02.14.2011	“The budget discussion is not about whether or not to cut – it’s about what to cut.”(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released the following statement on the President’s budget proposal unveiled today in Maryland:I appreciate the difficult but necessary decisions reflected in the President’s budget proposal released today. This blueprint includes a 5-year freeze on all discretionary, non-security spending that will cut the federal deficit by $400 billion over the next decade and bring domestic spending to its lowest level since President Eisenhower was in office.This is a good first step. The budget discussion is not about whether or not to cut – it’s about what to cut. The sledge-hammer approach simply won’t work. Cuts must be smart and take us not just through 2011, but into the long-term future. The President’s suggestions now go to the Appropriations Committees, which will begin crafting the FY2012 budget. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure our priorities are protected and that all waste and redundancies are eliminated. We must make appropriate investments in job-saving and creating initiatives like science, technology, math and engineering education, research and development and rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure.The President unveiled his budget from Parkville Middle School and Center of Technology, which serves many of my constituents. The school is home to a STEM magnet program and is a model for the rest of the country for curriculums that will help prepare our students for the future, keep our country globally competitive and propel our economy forward.
02.11.2011	“This is a historic day for Egypt and for the world.”(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement about the resignation of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. “President Hosni Mubarak has listened to the voices of the people and stepped down as Egypt’s president. This is a historic day for Egypt and for the world. This moment of volatility and unrest is a real moment of promise for the Egyptian people when they can shape their future. There must be a peaceful transition to a real and lasting democracy. Egyptians deserve free, fair and open elections. I know the Egyptian people look forward to a future of greater opportunity with a government that is fair, just, and responsive. Egypt has been and should continue to be an important ally in the region. Our goals remain the same – a stable Middle East, a partner in the fight against global terrorism and the protection of vital energy supplies. The future government of Egypt must support the 30-year old peace treaty with Israel,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD).
02.09.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin (all D-Md.) today announced the Baltimore City Fire Department has won $1.3 million in competitive federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program to purchase firefighting equipment.“When our firefighters arrive on the scene of an emergency, they often have no idea what is waiting for them behind that front door,” Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger said. “These men and women put their lives on the line to protect us and deserve the best equipment available. This funding will help replace old, outdated breathing systems with new ones that will provide firefighters with life-saving air when they are in dangerous environments. This desperately-needed funding couldn’t have come a moment too soon.”“I know how important this funding is to Maryland communities – often it’s the difference between life and death. First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing them with the tools they need to do their jobs safer and smarter,” Senator Mikulski said. “Every day when our first responders report for duty, they don’t know what they will face. That’s why I fight every year for the equipment, training, and staffing our protectors and communities deserve.”“Now more than ever, we need to make sure that our first responders have the resources they need to protect our families and communities,” Senator Cardin said. “From fires to natural disasters to possible terrorist threats, these brave men and women put their lives on the line for all of us. Federal investment in our first responders is vital because we must ensure that they have the equipment and training they need to protect us from harm and to perform their jobs safely and efficiently.”The grant will allow the Baltimore City Fire Department to purchase 310 new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units, which allow firefighters to breathe inside smoke-filled buildings. The current SCBA units used by BCFD are more than 12 years old and are in need of replacement. For more information about the award, please contact Chief Kevin Cartwright, Public Information Officer, at 410-396-5616. AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention, as well as public fire safety education. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received more than $94 million in AFGP funding, more than $7 million of which has gone to the Baltimore City Fire Department.
02.08.2011	Report Requested by Ruppersberger Calls for Changes to Funding Formula(Washington, DC) – A new independent study conducted in part at the request of Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) has determined that the Defense Department should be responsible for paying for transportation improvements required by the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision affecting Fort Meade, Aberdeen Proving Ground and the entire region. The study says the Pentagon’s decision to add tens of thousands of commuters in one of the nation’s most congested areas will impose substantial costs on surrounding communities and may even be harmful to the military.“This independent report confirms my belief that the Department of Defense needs to step up to the plate and pay its fair share for transportation improvements that will benefit its employees,” said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger, whose district includes Fort Meade and Aberdeen Proving Ground. “BRAC is a tremendous opportunity for Maryland as long as we protect the great quality of life that our existing residents enjoy. Our cash-strapped state has already made major investments. The Pentagon should contribute to this mutually beneficial effort as well.”With strong support from the Maryland Congressional Delegation and Congressman Ruppersberger’s work on the House Appropriations Committee, Maryland has already spent $135 million in BRAC-related transportation improvements. The report says about $786 million are needed to accommodate 22,000 additional workers arriving at Fort Meade and the adjacent National Security Agency by September.Currently, the Pentagon only funds base expansion projects that double traffic. The report, conducted by the Transportation Research Board, recommends replacing this requirement with a fee the Pentagon would pay to fund improvements to highly-traveled roads. It also suggests Congress consider a 1-time emergency payment to support BRAC infrastructure improvements.The Baltimore metropolitan area ranks fifth in the nation in the average number of hours car commuters are delayed during peak periods, according to the Texas Transportation Institute's Urban Mobility Report released earlier this year. Washington, DC, tied for first.
02.07.2011	Recent Attacks Show America Needs to Step Up Cybersecurity Efforts (Laurel, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will speak at the Fort Meade Alliance Cyber Forum tomorrow, February 8, 2011. The Nasdaq was recently hacked. Supporters of the website Wikileaks cyber attacked MasterCard, Visa, Amazon, and Paypal when the organizations refused to collect donations for Wikileaks. Congressman Ruppersberger believes these recent events prove America needs to step up its cybersecurity efforts. The Congressman was recently named Ranking Member of the Intelligence Committee, which oversees the technical aspects of cyber security. The military’s center for cyber security, known as the Cyber Command, was recently located to Fort Meade in the Congressman’s District. Thousands of jobs are heading to the area as part of the Cyber Command as well as the Base Realignment and Closure decision known as BRAC. The forum called “Key to the Future” will bring together premier cyber experts, commercial leaders, Maryland educators and employment organizations to ensure we have a qualified workforce to fill these high-paying jobs. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Cybersecurity Experts EducatorsWhat: Ruppersberger to Address Cybersecurity ForumWhen: 11 a.m., Tuesday, February 8, 2011Where: Johns Hopkins University, Applied Physics Laboratory Kossiakoff Conference and Education Center 11100 Johns Hopkins Road Laurel, MD 20723
01.28.2011	“Our First Priority is Protecting the American People” (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is honored to be chosen to serve as Ranking Member of the Intelligence Committee. “Our first priority is protecting the American people. Good intelligence is our best defense against terrorism. We must ensure our men and women in the intelligence community have the resources they need to keep us safe. Al-Qaeda is still out there – organizing and plotting to harm Americans. We must do all we can to prevent additional attacks from Al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations. Through my four years as the Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee, I know we have a lot of work to do. We must prioritize our resources across the intelligence field and further our progress on cybersecurity, satellites and space. Russia and China are serious threats to our dominance and space. We must stay two steps ahead. The role of Congress is to provide effective oversight. We must build up the agencies efficiently while demanding accountability. In the face of tight budgets, we must do more with less. We must be strong on intelligence, but eliminate redundant programs. I look forward to working with Chairman Rogers and the entire membership to provide the Intelligence Community with the resources, technology, and capabilities it needs to carry out its mission,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “As a longtime Member of the Intelligence Committee and representing the district that houses the National Security Agency, Congressman Ruppersberger brings years of experience to his new role – and he will be a strong voice for safety in the 112th Congress,” said Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA). In addition to selection of Congressman Ruppersberger as Ranking Member, Leader Pelosi also announced the following re-appointments to the Committee: Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. Schakowsky of Illinois, Mr. Langevin of Rhode Island, Mr. Schiff of California, and Mr. Boren of Oklahoma. New Democratic members include Mr. Gutierrez of Illinois and Mr. Chandler of Kentucky. Congressman Ruppersberger is serving his fifth year in Congress representing Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. The 2nd District is home to the National Security Agency, Fort Meade, Aberdeen Proving Ground, BWI – Thurgood Marshall Airport, the Port of Baltimore, and the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay.
01.11.2011	Education Week Magazine Gives Maryland “B” or Better in 6 Categories(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today congratulated Maryland education leaders on its first-place ranking in the nation for the third straight year. The rankings by Education Week, the nation’s leading education newspaper, were based on six categories including graduation rates, achievement gaps, college readiness and the quality of its teachers. Maryland’s grade of a B+ topped the list of all other states, most of which received grades in the C range or below.“In addition to crabcakes and football, Maryland is now known for having the best public schools in the nation,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Our unprecedented number one ranking for the third straight year reflects Maryland’s commitment to the achievement of all students and our willingness to invest in the future. A solid education will prepare our children for the 21st century job market and help our state and country remain competitive in the global economy. Congratulations to all of our state’s education leaders, administrators, teachers and students.” Maryland last year became one of only a few states in the country to be awarded a portion of the federal government’s $4.3 billion “Race to the Top” program to reward states that break new ground in public school innovation. Congressman Ruppersberger supported the legislation creating the program and submitted letters in support of Maryland’s application.Competition was fierce, requiring states to propose bold plans to turn around persistently low-achieving schools, introduce new assessments to accurately reflect student progress and create new data systems. Maryland also had to propose a new teacher salary and tenure system to better reflect academic progress. With the money, Maryland is strengthening standards for students and educators, building a new data warehouse and constructing a foundation for further educational improvement.Education Weekly scored Maryland third in the country in 2008, the first year it published a national ranking. The state earned best-in-the-nation in 2009, 2010 and again in 2011.
01.10.2011	Ruppersberger Meets with His Staff to Discuss Beefing Up Security (Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is shocked and saddened by the tragic events in Arizona over the weekend involving Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, her staff, and her constituents. “First and foremost, my thoughts and prayers are with Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, her family, and the families of everyone involved in this unimaginable tragedy. I wish my friend Gabby a speedy and full recovery. She is a competent, compassionate and courageous public servant just doing her job when she was viciously attacked. My heart also goes out to the families who lost loved ones. What happened in Arizona is a senseless tragedy. Every American has a right to express their opinion on whatever issue they choose, but there is no place in our society for this kind of violence. I traveled to Iraq with Gabby several years ago. We walked the streets of Baghdad together and did not face the violence she faced over the weekend in her own country,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). First thing this morning, Congressman Ruppersberger met with his staff in both his Maryland and DC offices to discuss ways to beef up security to keep his staff and his constituents safe. The Congressman has asked Capital Police to conduct a thorough threat assessment of his Maryland office and advise him on how to improve security at public events. “I know as a Congressman I am a potential target, but I want to make sure people who come to talk to me at public meeting are safe as well. No one should have to think twice about their safety when they go to speak to their Congressman or attend a town hall meeting. That's the real tragedy here. It’s an attack on the democratic process,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD).
01.04.2011	Computers Will Allow Dispatchers to Locate a Deputy Immediately in an Emergency (Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) was joined by Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz, Baltimore County Sheriff Jay Fisher, and other local leaders to announce $200,000 for new computers for vehicles with the Baltimore County Sheriff’s Office. Deputies are out on the streets every day risking their lives to serve warrants, bring in suspects, and keep our court houses safe. “Here in Baltimore County, we have a top-notch group of men and women who go above and beyond the call of duty to do their job as a deputy sheriff. When a deputy knocks on a door to serve a warrant, he or she never knows what to expect or what will be on the other side of that door. They are our forgotten heroes. They deserve the best equipment available to do their jobs,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “The deputies of the Baltimore County Sheriff’s Office already do an outstanding job protecting the people of our County, but this addition is going to make them more efficient than ever, making our communities that much safer,” said Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz. “I thank Congressman Ruppersberger for continuing to work so hard on behalf of the people of Baltimore County. His efforts are still making this county a better place to live and we are extremely grateful.”These 25 computers will give the deputies access to the latest in technology from their sheriff vehicles as they work to keep our streets safe. The computers will allow deputies to book suspects electronically from their cars, cutting down on paperwork and time when transporting the suspect to the booking office. The technology will also allow the deputies to immediately log the status of warrants and other important information, let deputies communicate electronically freeing up dispatcher air time, and allow dispatchers to instantly locate a deputy vehicle in an emergency. Installation is expected to be complete this summer. Before serving in Congress, Rep. Ruppersberger was the Baltimore County Executive from 1994 to 2002. In both positions, public safety has been a top priority. The money was included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for FY 2010.
01.03.2011	Computers Will Allow Dispatchers to Locate a Deputy Immediately in an Emergency (Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will be joined by Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz, Baltimore County Sheriff Jay Fisher, and other local leaders to announce $200,000 for new computers for Baltimore County Sheriff cars. The computers will allow deputies to book suspects electronically from their cars, cutting down on paperwork and time when the officer delivers the suspect to the booking office. The technology will also allow the deputies to immediately log the status of warrants and other important information, let deputies communicate electronically freeing up dispatcher air time, and allow dispatchers to instantly locate a deputy vehicle in an emergency. Baltimore County Sheriff cars will be on display with a replica of the new computers. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz Baltimore County Sheriff R. Jay Fisher What: Ruppersberger, Kamenetz, Fisher to Announce $200,000 for New Computers in Sheriff Cars When: 11 a.m., Tuesday, January 4, 2011Where: Congressman Rupperberger’s District Office 375 West Padonia Road Timonium, MD 21093
12.10.2010	Company is Looking to Fill More Than 400 Open Positions(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) teamed up with ManTech International Corporation and held a job fair in Baltimore on Friday, December 10, 2010. ManTech, a defense contractor, is looking to fill more than 400 good-paying positions in Hanover, Aberdeen, and other locations around the area. Many of these jobs are being moved to Maryland as a result of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision. Most of the open positions are for professionals with security clearances. “Even as the economy improves, my top priority remains creating and saving jobs in Maryland. When you have a job, you can support your family, your community and your country. I have been working hard to connect Maryland job-seekers to great employers through job fairs like this one. Hundreds of people took this opportunity to update their resume and give their career a boost,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The event was free and was open to the public. Recruiters, project managers, and representatives from ManTech were on hand to meet one-on-one with job-seekers. This is the third job fair Congressman Ruppersberger has sponsored over the last few months. For information about future job fairs, please visit Congressman Ruppersberger’s website at www.dutch.house.gov.
12.06.2010	Company is Looking to Fill More Than 400 Open Positions (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is teaming up with ManTech International Corporation to hold a job fair in Baltimore on Friday, December 10, 2010. ManTech, a defense contractor, is looking to fill more than 400 good-paying positions in the area. Many of these jobs are being moved to Maryland as a result of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision. “Even as the economy improves, my top priority remains creating and saving jobs in Maryland. When you have a job, you can support your family, your community and your country. I have been working hard to connect Maryland job-seekers to great employers through jobs fairs like this one. Update your resume. Don’t miss this opportunity to give your career a boost,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The event is free and open to the public. Most of the open positions are for professionals with security clearances. Recruiters, project managers, and representatives from ManTech will be on hand to meet one-on-one with job-seekers. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Employees from ManTech International Corporation Job-Seekers What: Ruppersberger to Team up with ManTech to Hold Job Fair When: 11:00 a.m. - 4 p.m., Friday, December 10, 2010 Where: BWI Airport Marriott 1743 West Nursery Road Baltimore, Maryland 21090
12.02.2010	Measure Makes Tax Cuts Permanent for 98% of Americans (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) voted for the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010. The measure makes the tax cuts permanent for families making less than $250,000 a year and singles making less than $200,000 a year. This measure will extend this tax cut for 98% of Americans. It passed the United States House of Representatives by 234 to 188. "This is not the time to be raising taxes on hard-working Americans. I believe extending this tax cut to thousands of Maryland families is the right thing to do. Economists agree putting money back in the hands of people who will spend it is a great way to give our economy a boost and create jobs,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD).Congressman Ruppersberger also supports three other important tax cuts to help our struggling economy. The Congressman supports abolishing the estate tax. He believes this tax forces families to sell or break up job-creating assets like farms and other small businesses because families can’t afford to pay the taxes.Congressman Ruppersberger believes we need to permanently fix the alternative minimum tax. The AMT, as it is known, was established to make sure everyone pays taxes. Originally called the “millionaire’s tax,” it targeted only the wealthiest households, but it was not indexed for inflation. Without Congressional intervention, this year nearly a quarter of U.S. taxpayers, especially middle-class Americans, will be required to pay this tax that was never meant for them.The Congressman believes we should make the research and development tax credit permanent. This tax credit shows great promise in encouraging the growth of new and existing companies, big and small. With Fort Meade, Aberdeen Proving Ground, BWI Airport, the Port of Baltimore and tens of thousands of new jobs heading to the region through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision, this tax credit could help make the I-95 corridor an even stronger high-tech powerhouse. “I believe we need to expand tax credits and reduce tax burdens to help businesses grow. The more money we keep in private hands, the faster our economy will recover,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger.
11.29.2010	WikiLeaks Disclosure Puts People’s Lives in Danger and Threatens Alliances with Foreign Nations (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee, released the following statement after the release of hundreds of thousands of classified documents by the Website WikiLeaks.“As a Member of the Intelligence Committee, I condemn any leak of classified information that could hurt America. The website WikiLeaks published confidential discussions between some of our country’s most trusted allies. The leaks put people’s lives in danger, threaten our national security, and undermine our alliances with foreign nations. We now face the very real possibility that these leaks will compromise the diplomatic relationships that keep our country and her citizens safe. Foreign nations will not want to communicate with the United States in a frank and honest way, if they think their comments will be splashed on the front page of the newspaper. We must also remember this kind of intelligence gathered in the field is very often incomplete information by its very nature. It is a snapshot of a particular conversation taken out of context, but any unauthorized disclosure could hurt our country’s counter-intelligence efforts. This Wednesday, the House Intelligence Committee will be briefed by senior State Department and intelligence officials on the fall-out from this large-scale release of classified documents. Good intelligence is the best way to prevent terrorism. American diplomats are not spies, but do help collect critical information on a wide array of issues to keep Americans safe. Whoever is responsible for this leak must be held accountable. We must also put systems in place to prevent this from happening again. At the same time, we must make sure the intelligence community does not over-react to this situation. The attacks of 9-11 happened, in part, because the intelligence community did not ‘connect the dots’ and share critical information. Since 9-11, the intelligence community has made a concerted effort to share information across different agencies about those who want to harm us. We must make sure this continues and we do everything we can to keep our country safe.”
11.10.2010	New facility opens just in time for Veteran’s Day(Fort Meade, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today joined Secretary of the Army John McHugh, Army Surgeon General, Lieutenant General Erick B. Schoomaker, as well as Senator Ben Cardin and Congressman John Sarbanes in a ribbon cutting ceremony at the new Soldier and Family Assistance Center at Fort Meade. The facility will provide educational, career and financial counseling as well as other services to wounded, injured and ill soldiers who are returning to active duty or to civilian life. The new center will be a one-stop-shop for services ranging from computer training to substance abuse counseling to financial help for the entire family.“I can’t think of a better way to celebrate Veteran’s Day than opening this new facility to help soldiers and their families work through what may be a very difficult time,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Our wounded warriors and their families have sacrificed so much. They deserve a top-notch facility to help them transition back into the community. It fills the practical needs of our soldiers while being a symbol of our obligation to improve the quality of life for the men and women in uniform.”The new facility comprised of two modular buildings includes office space, a conference and training room, a handicapped-accessible kitchen, a child activity room and a playground. The project was completed thanks to a partnership between the USO of Metropolitan Washington’s Operation Enduring Care Campaign and the Fort Meade Alliance. Corporate and individual donors contributed funds to the USO, which were used to purchase computers, kitchen appliances, children’s toys and office furniture. The fund raising effort raised more than $140,000 in less than one month.The Army created 35 Warrior Transition Units at Army installations in 2007 to assist troops and their families. In addition to the Soldier and Family Assistance Center, a second modular building will house the Warrior Transition Unit’s administrative offices. The Warrior Transition Unit provides critical support to wounded and ill soldiers who are expected to require six months of rehabilitative care. The units have physicians, nurses, squad leaders, platoon sergeants and mental health professionals.
11.04.2010	$3.4 Million for Environmental Projects Across the Watershed (Dundalk, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), and Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith joined officials from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation to announce $3.4 million for the Chesapeake Bay. The money will fund innovative projects to reduce water pollution and get citizens excited about protecting the Bay. The Bay contributes $1 trillion to the Watershed’s economy each year. Saving the Bay means saving jobs“The Chesapeake Bay is one of Maryland’s greatest resources. We must protect it so our children and grandchildren can enjoy it,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), whose district includes hundreds of miles of coastline along the Bay. “Whether it is eating perfectly steamed blue crabs harvested from the Bay, hiking along the many historic trails in the Watershed, or spending a beautiful day on a historic skipjack, the Chesapeake Bay adds so much to our quality of life here in Maryland while also supporting thousands of jobs across our state.” The money will fund 34 projects across the Chesapeake Bay Watershed, including the “Urban Tree Canopy Campaign” in Dundalk in Baltimore County. Volunteers will plant trees to improve wildlife habitats and minimize pollution runoff to local streams, creeks and rivers that drain into the Chesapeake Bay. The Chesapeake Bay Watershed includes six states, Maryland, Delaware, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia, and the District of Columbia.
11.03.2010	$3.4 Million for Environmental Projects Across the Watershed (Dundalk, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) will join officials from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation to announce $3.4 million for the Chesapeake Bay. The money will fund innovative projects to reduce water pollution and get citizens excited about protecting one of Maryland’s greatest treasures. The money will fund 34 projects across the Chesapeake Bay Watershed, including the “Urban Tree Canopy Campaign” in Dundalk in Baltimore County. Volunteers will plant trees to improve wildlife habitat and minimize pollution runoff to local streams, creeks and rivers that drain into the Chesapeake Bay.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith Shawn Garvin, EPA Regional AdministratorWhen: 10 a.m., Thursday, November 4, 2010Where: Dundalk Veterans’ Park 7 Shipping Place Dundalk, MD
10.26.2010	Ruppersberger, Mikulski, Cardin, Sarbanes, O’Malley, Smith, and Local Leaders Are Committed to Creating and Keeping Jobs in Maryland (Sparrow’s Point, MD) – Today, Team Maryland sat down with leaders of Severstal Sparrows Point and the United Steelworkers of America to discuss the future of the plant in Eastern Baltimore County. Sparrows Point has a rich, proud tradition. For more than a century, the facility has produced steel that has literally built our country. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), who organized the meeting together with Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD), Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD), Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith (D-MD), and local leaders are committed to creating and keeping jobs in Maryland. “Jobs provide the gasoline that powers our country’s economic engine. When you have a job, you can support your family, your state, and your country. Today’s meeting shows an unwavering commitment to the local steel workers in this difficult time as our federal, state, and local partners work together with Severstal to fight to keep these jobs in Maryland,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, whose District includes Sparrows Point. “Saving Sparrows Point is an important jobs issue. It’s also a national security issue,” Senator Barbara A. Mikulski said. “We encouraged Severstal to do everything they can to fully reopen the plant or to find an owner who will. We urged them to communicate honestly and openly on their intentions for the plant. And we asked them to let us know what Team Maryland can do to save this plant and its jobs. The U.S. steel industry has been battered by decades of unfair, illegal trade practices. But America must never become dependent on foreign suppliers.”"I continue to fight for a sensible trade policy that will keep steel jobs in America,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin. "This meeting with Team Maryland was productive and Severstal understands our commitment to keeping steel production at Sparrows Point and these high-wage jobs in Maryland.""We continue to fight for good, high-quality jobs," said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin. "This was a productive meeting and Severstal understands the importance of keeping Sparrows Point and these high-wage jobs in Maryland."“I think today’s meeting, which included Maryland officials at all levels of government, shows our commitment to fight for every job in Maryland,” said Congressman John Sarbanes. “I am committed to doing whatever it takes to get our economy working as it should for all Americans.”"So far this year, we've had the strongest period of new job creation since 2000,” said Governor Martin O’Malley. “We remain committed to creating and saving jobs for Maryland families as we come through this national recession stronger and more quickly than other states. The Severstal steel plant has a long history in our state, and many Maryland families depend on its continued operation. We will do whatever we can to protect those jobs for the moms and dads who work there.” "We're committed to doing everything we can to ensure that steelmaking continues at Sparrows Point," said Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith.
10.21.2010	Existing Station Termite-Infested and Structurally Unsound(Glen Burnie, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, U.S. Senator Barbara A. Mikulski and Congressman John Sarbanes as well as Anne Arundel County Executive John Leopold today to participate in a groundbreaking ceremony for Anne Arundel County’s new Marley Fire Station, funded in part by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.“Finally, the dedicated firefighters of Station 18 are getting a facility they can be proud of,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “These firefighters have answered the call to serve their community and deserve a station that is better than what they have. I am honored to be in a position to help get this project off the ground and create jobs in the process.”“The Department of Homeland Security is committed to getting resources out of Washington, D.C., and into the hands of the men and women serving on the front lines in American communities,” said Secretary Napolitano. “The construction of the new Marley Fire Station will fulfill DHS' Recovery Act goals of strengthening security while boosting our economy.”The new Marley Fire Station was funded by a $1.86 million in Department of Homeland Security ARRA Fire Station Construction Grant with a $1.69 million match provided by Anne Arundel County. The current Marley Fire Station, which was originally built in 1943, is structurally unsound and termite-infested. The new station will improve officer safety, reduce response times and accommodate a 32-member staff.
10.20.2010	(Edgewater, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD) and Maryland Speaker of the House Michael Busch (D-MD) to announce new, state-of-the-art helicopters will be purchased to replace the Maryland State Police’s aging fleet. The medevacs transport people seriously injured in a car crash or other accident to Shock Trauma at the University of Maryland or to other trauma systems across the state. The six new helicopters will replace the current aircraft that are anywhere from 10 to 20 years old. Congressman Ruppersberger’s life was saved at Shock Trauma. As a young state’s attorney in the 1970’s, the Congressman was seriously injured in a car accident. Thanks to the dedication of the doctors, nurses, and medical technicians at Shock Trauma, Congressman Ruppersberger survived. Mr. Ruppersberger ran for public office to repay the medical system for saving his life. “Right after my car accident, I was incredibly lucky to be taken by medevac to Shock Trauma, one of the best trauma systems in the world. They saved my life. I want others facing a life-threatening situation to have the same opportunity to receive the best care. These new helicopters will help make this happen,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) who remains an active supporter of Shock Trauma and is Vice Chairman of the Board of Visitors. Maryland State Police will also use these helicopters to rescue trapped motorists from floods and respond to other emergencies. Maryland leaders signed the contract, valued at $72 million, today.
10.20.2010	(Edgewater, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will join Maryland leaders in major public safety announcement at Lee Airport on Wednesday, October 20, 2010. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD) Speaker Michael Busch (D-MD) What: Ruppersberger to Join Maryland Leaders in Major Public Safety Announcement When: 1:00 p.m., Wednesday, October 20, 2010Where: Lee Airport 3094 Solomons Island Road Edgewater, MD
10.18.2010	Renewable Energy Project will be Catalyst for Revitalization of Curtis Bay Industrial Park(Curtis Bay, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD) to announce the creation of a renewable power plant that will create hundreds of jobs in the Curtis Bay area. The new plant owned by Energy Answers International will make fuel from trash on the Fairfield Peninsula, a former brownfield site, reducing landfill waste and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The project hopes to spark a revitalization of the area. The company hopes to sell the power it generates to nearby businesses in the “eco-industrial park.” The project will create up to 400 construction jobs and 180 permanent jobs when the power plant is complete.“Green energy is a growing field. It is exciting to have a state-of-the-art, renewable power plant created right here in Curtis Bay. It will create 180 ‘green collar’ jobs and is expected to pump millions of dollars into the local economy through salaries and spin-off businesses. This is great news in this struggling economy,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Renewable Energy Power Plant will generate its own power for its internal use and will not require any power from the local grid. The plant will also use solar panels to capture additional energy. Energy Answers has received all necessary permits and approvals. Construction is slated to begin at the end of this year and scheduled to be complete by the end of 2013.
10.18.2010	Renewable Energy Project will be Catalyst for Revitalization of Curtis Bay Industrial Park(Curtis Bay, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will join Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD) to announce the creation of a renewable power plant that will create hundreds of jobs in the Curtis Bay area. The new plant owned by Energy Answers International will make fuel from trash on the Fairfield Peninsula, a former brownfield site. The project hopes to spark a revitalization of the area and the company hopes to sell the power it generates to nearby businesses in the “eco-industrial park.” The project will create up to 400 construction jobs and 180 permanent jobs when the power plant is complete.WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Governor Martin O'Malley Bob Perciasepe, Deputy Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency Patrick Mahoney, President & CEO, Energy Answers International Community, Union and Business LeadersWHAT: Ruppersberger, Governor O’Malley to Announce New Jobs in Baltimore WHEN: 10:30 a.m., Monday, October 18, 2010 WHERE: 1701 East Patapsco Avenue Baltimore, MD 21226 (former FMC plant site)Media pre-registration is required to access the private event. Please contact Jean Miskimon to obtain press credentials at jeaninkpr@gmail.com or 410-215-9891.
10.13.2010	Baltimore awarded one of only six grants in nation to fight gun violence (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, Police Commissioner Frederick H. Bealefeld III and representatives from Johns Hopkins University today to announce a highly competitive grant award to aid in Baltimore’s fight against gun violence. The $300,000 Smart Policing Grant, one of only six awarded in the nation, will fund the Baltimore Police Department’s Violent Crime Impact Section efforts in arresting and convicting violent gun offenders through partnerships with state and federal prosecutors and the U.S. Attorney’s EXILE program.“We have an obligation to keep our neighborhoods safe. We must give law enforcement the tools they need to protect our families and our communities. This program will get illegal guns off our streets and help reduce violent crime,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), a member of the House Appropriations Committee.“Reducing gun violence is our number-one public safety priority,” said Mayor Rawlings-Blake. “This year, the BPD has arrested more than 700 individuals on illegal gun possession charges and seized nearly 1,800 illegal guns from city streets. With this additional support from our federal partners, we will continue to enhance our gun suppression strategies.”“The men and women of the Baltimore Police Department have done a tremendous job putting intense, sustained pressure on criminals using illegal guns,” said Commissioner Bealefeld. “Year-to-date, non-fatal shootings are down 10% and overall gun crime is down 15%.”The Smart Policing Grant will also fund aspects of the city’s Gun Offender Registry which provides valuable intelligence to law enforcement agencies on the identity and whereabouts of convicted gun offenders. The Registry was created in 2008 and since that time the City has registered over 1,000 gun offenders. Today, there are 463 registered gun offenders living in Baltimore City being actively monitored by the Gun Registry Unit and patrol officers. Less than 25% of the registered gun offenders have been rearrested on another charge, and only 3 percent are non-compliant with registration requirements.The funding will also be used to evaluate the effectiveness of BPD’s strategy in reducing gun violence. The evaluation will be led by Dr. Daniel Webster with the Center of Gun Policy and Research at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.“I am excited to partner with the Baltimore Police Department to provide a scientifically rigorous evaluation of these innovative initiatives,” said Dr. Webster.
10.12.2010	In Light of Recent Paperwork Problems with Several Large Banks, Ruppersberger to Hold Foreclosure Prevention Workshop in Joppa(Joppa, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is calling for an immediate stop to foreclosures in Maryland. Congressman Ruppersberger joined Maryland leaders in a letter to the Maryland Court of Appeals asking for a 60-day moratorium on foreclosures. The financial institutions are accused of filing faulty paperwork and not properly reviewing documents for accuracy. Click here to read the letter.“The allegations against several big banks are troubling. A temporary halt to foreclosures in Maryland will allow the process to be properly reviewed to ensure that Maryland families are not being unfairly evicted from their homes,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In light of recent paperwork problems with several large banks, Congressman Ruppersberger will hold a foreclosure prevention workshop in Joppa. Several large mortgage lenders will participate in the workshop. Homeowners planning to attend the event are encouraged to bring the following materials to the workshop: Hardship LetterLast Two Months’ Bank StatementsLast Two Pay Stubs2008 or 2009 Tax ReturnAny Notification Regarding ForeclosureAny Other Relevant Documentation“This struggling economy has been tough on Maryland families. If you are in danger of losing your home, we can help. Please join me at my Foreclosure Prevention Workshop where you will have the chance to sit down, one-on-one, with housing counselors, mortgage lenders and other experts to discuss your options to keep you in your home,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Mortage Lenders Housing CounselorsWhat: Ruppersberger to Hold Foreclosure Prevention Workshop When: Tuesday, October 12, 2010 6:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.mWhere: Joppatowne High School 555 Joppa Farm Road Joppa, Maryland 21085
10.06.2010	Event to feature job-seeking seminars, proceeds to benefit seniors(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will join Governor Martin O’Malley and Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith at the Baltimore County Baby Boomer Expo / Senior Expo tomorrow at the Maryland State Fairgrounds. Congressman Ruppersberger has been attending the Expo, now in its 23rd year, since his days as Baltimore County Executive.Baltimore County is home to some of the most active seniors in the country. Congressman Ruppersberger has made seniors a top priority in office, assisting more than 2,200 with Social Security and Medicare issues and more than 500 veterans with accessing the benefits they deserve.This year’s Expo will feature job-seeking seminars. In these trying times, Congressman Ruppersberger is doing everything he can to help seniors who have lost their retirement savings or must go back to work. In addition to several job fairs, Congressman Ruppersberger secured funding to teach seniors the technology skills they need to compete in today’s job market. He also sponsored legislation to provide scholarships to retired professionals who want to pursue their teaching certificates.WHAT: Ruppersberger to Help Kick Off 23rd Annual Senior/Baby Boomer Expo in Baltimore CountyWHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Governor Martin O’Malley County Executive Jim SmithWHEN: 1:00 p.m., Wednesday, October 6, 2010WHERE: Maryland State Fairgrounds/Cow Palace 2200 York Road Timonium, MD
10.04.2010	Work is Necessary to Prepare for Thousands of New Jobs and Workers(Aberdeen, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will join Maryland Lieutenant Governor Anthony Brown and Congressman Frank Kratovil (D-MD) to break ground on critical upgrades to roads near Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG). The project will improve access to the main gate at APG which will be busier as an additional 8,800 workers move there from other military bases closing around the country through a process known as BRAC. The $42.6 million project will upgrade the US 40 / MD 715 interchange and the MD 715 / Old Philadelphia Road intersection. MD 715 will be widened from four to six lanes to improve access to the new main gate at APG, allowing more space for vehicles to line up to get checked into the military base. This is the first BRAC project in Harford County to move from planning to construction. The construction project will create an additional 450 jobs.“In these difficult economic times, it is great news to talk about the tens of thousand of high-paying jobs moving to Maryland through military base reorganization,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee who secured federal funding for the project. “It is also a great challenge as we work to preserve the excellent quality of life that our existing residents enjoy. That’s what this project is all about. We’re creating even more jobs in the process.”WHAT: Ruppersberger and Brown to Break Ground on Critical Upgrades to Roads Near APG WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Congressman Frank M. Kratovil, Jr. (D-MD) Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown (D-MD) Deputy Secretary Harold Bartlett, Maryland Department of Transportation Harford County Council President Billy BonifaceWHEN: 11:00a.m., Tuesday, October 5, 2010WHERE: MD 715 at Cirelli Court (in parking lot of Borghi USA) Aberdeen, MD
09.27.2010	Called on Area Kids to Submit Design Ideas for Coin (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD), and former Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD) honored Fort McHenry, the War of 1812, and the critical role Maryland played in the growth of our young nation with a Star-Spangled Banner Commemorative Coin. H.R. 2097, the legislation creating the coin, just passed the House and Senate and was recently signed into law by the President.“It is a great honor for Baltimore to have a special Star-Spangled Banner commemorative coin minted to draw attention to the important role Marylanders played as our nation fought for survival. Preparations are already underway for an exciting celebration to honor the 200th Anniversary of the War of 1812. The Star-Spangled Banner commemorative coin will be a wonderful addition to these festivities and help raise much needed awareness and funds to make these events possible,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) who sponsored the legislation in the United States House of Representatives. “As Marylanders, we are proud of the unique role our state has played in our nation’s history, and the creation of this commemorative coin to coincide with the 200th anniversary of the War of 1812 will make it possible for us to focus national attention on this bicentennial celebration. Often referred to as the Second War of Independence, we have an opportunity to ensure that all Americans remember the war that finally secured our nation’s freedom,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), who sponsored the coin bill in the U.S. Senate.The lawmakers called on area kids to submit their design ideas for the coin to the Maryland War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission. Artwork should be sent to the following address by October 8, 2010: Maryland War of 1812 Bicentennial CommissionAttention: Kate MarksMaryland Office of Tourism/DBEDWorld Trade Center, 14th Floor 401 E. Pratt StreetBaltimore, Maryland 21202The Star-Spangled Banner Commemorative coin will be minted in 2012 in coordination with the 200th Anniversary of the War of 1812. A portion of the proceeds will go to the Maryland War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission to support bicentennial activities, assist in educational outreach, and preserve sites and structures relating to the War of 1812. After a 25-hour British bombardment of Fort McHenry during the War of 1812, Francis Scott Key saw an enormous American flag proudly flying over the fort, which was defending the City of Baltimore. Key was inspired to write The Star-Spangled Banner that eventually became our national anthem.
09.23.2010	Bill expands much-needed lending and tax help to millions of small businesses(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today voted to support legislation expanding much-needed lending to millions of small businesses and offer tax incentives to help small businesses grow, hire and fuel our economic recovery. The “Small Business Jobs Act,” which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a 237-187 vote, is expected to create 500,000 jobs. The bill passed the Senate last week and now must be signed into law by the President.The legislation provides small businesses with $12 billion in tax cuts to spur investment, growth, and hiring. It creates a $30 billion lending fund to provide the smallest community banks with capital to increase small business lending. It excludes small business investments from capital gains taxes and entitles business owners to a refund of taxes paid in the previous 5 years to make up for losses during the economic down-turn. It expands purchases that qualify as tax write-offs and allows businesses to write-off 50 percent of new equipment investments immediately. The bill also doubles to $10,000 the tax deduction for the start-up costs of new businesses, among many other benefits.The legislation is completely paid for by closing tax loopholes that encourage corporations to ship jobs overseas and ending a loophole that allows paper mills to claim a biofuel tax credit for an oil-based waste byproduct. Banks are expected to repay funds over the next decade, but the bill includes strong incentives for banks to pay back the money in less than five years.In Maryland, nearly 98 percent of employees work for small firms, which create two of every three new jobs. The legislation was passed the same day Congressman Ruppersberger held a small business resource workshop in his district.“In this difficult economy, our local business owners don’t need a pep talk – they need real tools to overcome the challenges they are facing like struggling to meet payroll, expanding research and development and securing credit,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Access to capital is one of the most important things we can do to help small businesses back on their feet while empowering small, community banks to be part of the solution.”
09.23.2010	Calling on Area Kids to Submit Design Ideas for Coin (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) will honor Fort McHenry, the War of 1812, and the critical role Maryland played in the growth of our young nation with a Star-Spangled Banner Commemorative Coin. H.R. 2097, the legislation creating the coin, just passed the House and Senate and was recently signed into law by the President. The lawmakers are calling on area kids to submit their design ideas for the coin to the Maryland War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission. The Star-Spangled Banner Commemorative coin will be minted in 2012 in coordination with the 200th Anniversary of the War of 1812. A portion of the proceeds will go to the Maryland War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission to support bicentennial activities, assist in educational outreach, and preserve sites and structures relating to the War of 1812. After a 25-hour British bombardment of Fort McHenry during the War of 1812, Francis Scott Key saw an enormous American flag proudly flying over the fort, which was defending the City of Baltimore. Key was inspired to write The Star-Spangled Banner that eventually became America’s national anthem. WHAT: Ruppersberger, Cardin to Honor Fort McHenry and War of 1812 With Star-Spangled Banner Commemorative CoinWHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Senator Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) Mr. Bill Pencek, Director of the Maryland War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission Mr. Alan Walden, Friends of Fort McHenry Area kids with Drawings of their Coin Design Ideas Re-Enactors in Period Dress WHEN: 11:00 AM, Monday, September 27, 2010 WHERE: Fort McHenry 2400 East Fort Avenue Baltimore, MD 21230-5393
09.23.2010	About 50 local business owners turn out for free tools to success(Annapolis Junction, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today hosted an event in Annapolis Junction to give small businesses a much-needed boost in this economy. “Boosting Your Bottom Line” provided current and aspiring business owners with the resources they need to survive and thrive during these challenging times. Representatives from the U.S. Small Business Administration, Federal Reserve, Maryland Small Business Development Center as well as business counselors with SCORE were on hand to equip business owners with the tools they need to start, grow and succeed. SCORE is a top national source for free small business advice and helps 20,000 businesses start each year.Small businesses create two of every three jobs and are the backbone of our economy, representing 99.7 percent of all employer firms. Baltimore is ranked by CNN Money as the 10th best city to start a new business.“In this difficult economy, our local business owners don’t need a pep talk – they need real tools to overcome the challenges they are facing like struggling to meet payroll, expanding research and development and securing credit,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Sometimes, the biggest hurdle is information and we have many resources readily available right here in Maryland to help our local business owners make money and fuel our nation’s economic recovery.”One of the major topics of discussion was access to credit. Congressman Ruppersberger is committed to helping small businesses both on Capitol Hill and in the district. The seminar was one in a series of conferences, seminars and job fairs his office has organized to help businesses back on their feet.
09.22.2010	More than 100 local business owners slated to attend seminar to strengthen economy(Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will host a seminar on Thursday in Annapolis Junction to give small businesses a much-needed boost in this economy. “Boosting Your Bottom Line” will provide current and aspiring business owners with the resources they need to survive and thrive during these challenging times. Representatives from the U.S. Small Business Administration, Federal Reserve, Maryland Small Business Development Center, SCORE business counseling and more will be on hand to equip business owners with the tools they need to start, grow and succeed. Small businesses create two of every three jobs and are the backbone of our economy, representing 99.7 percent of all employer firms. “In this difficult economy, our local business owners don’t need a pep talk – they need real tools to overcome the challenges they are facing like struggling to meet payroll, expanding research and development and securing credit,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Sometimes, the biggest hurdle is information and we have many resources readily available right here in Maryland to help our local business owners make money and fuel our nation’s economic recovery.”What: Ruppersberger Event to Help Small Businesses Survive and Thrive When: 9:00 a.m., Thursday, September 23, 2010 Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Representatives of local, state and federal business organizations More than 100 current and aspiring business owners Where: L-3 Communications 2720 Technology Drive Annapolis Junction, MD 20701
09.22.2010	Ruppersberger to Receive Top Honor for Promoting Family-Friendly Policies(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will receive the “Best of Congress” award from Working Mother magazine for promoting family-friendly policies in Congress as well as in his Washington, DC, and Timonium, Maryland, offices. In the House of Representatives, Congressman Ruppersberger supports legislation that helps employees manage a good work-life balance. The Congressman authored H.R. 460, the “Right Start Child Care and Education Act”, to help ease the financial burden on Maryland families while helping ensure quality, affordable child care is available. Congressman Ruppersberger has also hosted several job fairs to connect job-seekers with hiring companies to help give families financial stability. In addition, the Congressman has hosted forums on college financial aid, Internet safety, and home foreclosure prevention. The Congressman implements flexible work policies in his Congressional offices. Employees receive three months of paid maternity leave and three weeks of paid paternity leave. Congressman Ruppersberger also provides new mothers with the option of working a compressed work week, a part-time schedule, or telecommuting from home. All employees are given a Blackberry that makes telecommuting or working outside the office more manageable. What: Ruppersberger to Receive the “Best of Congress” Award from Working Mother Magazine When: 8:00 am, Wednesday, September 22, 2010 Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Representatives from Working Mother Magazine Where: Charlie Palmer’s Steak House 101 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC
09.20.2010	Ruppersberger, U.S. Trade Representative Tour Port, Meet with Business Owners(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Congressman John Sarbanes and U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk today toured the Port of Baltimore and discussed the need to increase exports to create jobs in Maryland. The Port of Baltimore is one of the biggest economic engines in Maryland, supporting 120,000 jobs and generating $3.6 billion in wages and salaries for Marylanders every year.“Boosting international trade is a great way to help reenergize the U.S. economy and spur job growth here in Maryland,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, whose district includes the Port of Baltimore. “We need to help small and medium businesses, which create the vast majority of new jobs. We must open new markets for American products. If you already export, we want to get you into new markets. If you don’t currently export, we want to educate you on the process so you can start.”The event comes as the National Export Initiative – a plan to create 2 million jobs nationwide by doubling U.S. exports to the world over the next five years – gets underway. Congressman Ruppersberger and Ambassador Kirk also met with Maryland business leaders and workers to discuss how trade affects our companies and jobs.Maryland exports to Asia alone accounted for $1.9 billion in 2009. In 2009, Maryland was the 28th largest state exporter of goods, totaling $9.2 billion, according to the U.S. Department of Commerce. In 2008, the Baltimore-Towson metropolitan area was responsible for 63 percent of Maryland’s total goods.
09.17.2010	(Towson, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will kick off a foreclosure prevention workshop at the Towson National Guard Armory on Saturday, September 18, 2010. Home foreclosures are still a major problem in Maryland. “This struggling economy has been tough on Maryland families. If you are in danger of losing your home, we can help. Please join me as I kick off this Foreclosure Prevention Workshop where you will have the chance to sit down, one-on-one, with housing counselors, mortgage lenders and other experts to discuss your options to keep you in your home,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD).The event is part of Baltimore County’s annual African American Cultural Festival being held from 10 a.m. until 6 p.m. at the Towson Courts Patriot Plaza. The free event features music, food, historical exhibits and children’s activities.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Joyce Richardson, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Mortgage Lenders Real Estate Attorneys What: Ruppersberger to Kick Off Foreclosure Prevention SeminarWhen: 9:00 a.m., Saturday, September 18, 2010 Where: Towson National Guard Armory 307 Washington Avenue Towson, Md. 21204
09.17.2010	Jobs at Historical Steelmaking Facility Important to Maryland and Nation (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today joined Governor Martin O’Malley, Senators Barbara Mikulski and Benjamin Cardin as well as Congressmen Elijah Cummings and John Sarbanes in issuing the following statement on the potential job losses at the Sparrows Point plant: “The potential loss of jobs at this facility and the negative impact that this will have on hundreds of additional workers, including the contractors and vendors that service the Sparrows Point plant, are deeply troubling. Unemployment benefits for steelworkers and their families are only temporary solutions. We need the jobs and the significant economic asset that the Sparrows Point facility represents. “The continued success of the Sparrows Point steelmaking operation is important to Maryland and to the national economy. We will remain closely engaged throughout this process so the workers of the Sparrows Point facility receive the straight answers they deserve.” Congressman Ruppersberger, whose district includes Sparrows Point, said he will do everything he can to protect the employees at the facility. Last month, he wrote a letter to the new owner of the Severstal plant, asking for clarification on his intentions, which greatly affect the livelihood of the dedicated employees and their families, as well as a significant portion of the domestic steel industry in the United States. Click here to read the letter.
09.16.2010	Hundreds of Good-Paying Jobs Moving to Maryland from New Jersey(Aberdeen, MD) – Together with Maryland leaders, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will cut the ribbon and tour a new high-tech facility at Aberdeen Proving Ground on Friday, September 17, 2010. The facility will be the new home for hundreds of good-paying jobs being moved to Maryland from New Jersey through the Base Realignment and Closure decision known as BRAC. The Command known as “C4ISR” for Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance will now be located at APG. The goal is to connect soldiers to one another and to information they need to keep our country safe and protect themselves on the battlefield and in locations around the world. Congressman Ruppersberger will tour the facility with local leaders. General Dynamics, a defense contractor who creates cutting-edge equipment for our military personnel, will demonstrate a wearable computer, a special state-of-the art radio, the first Smartphone certified by the National Security Agency, and much more. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) General Dynamics Employees Local Elected Officials What: Ruppersberger to Cut Ribbon and Tour New High-Tech Facility at APG When: 11:30 a.m., Friday, September 17, 2010 Where: 6245 Guardian Gateway Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md. 21005**Due to security requirements, all media covering the event must RSVP to Fran.Jacques@gdc4s.com or (480) 441-2885 by close of business on Thursday, September 16, 2010.**Directions to the General Dynamics facility: After leaving the main gate, proceed southwest on Maryland Avenue, turn left on Deer Creek Road (second traffic light); After approximately 65 yards, take the first left onto the newly constructed Guardian Gateway Road and follow the General Dynamics ‘Grand Opening’ signs. The General Dynamics facility is located in a single-story brick building on the right-hand side of the road. Note that the address may not be updated in most GPS systems.
09.16.2010	Buy American Strategy Will Put Americans Back to Work(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today voted to support legislation requiring Congress and the Department of Homeland Security to purchase products that are made in America. The U.S. House of Representatives passed two bills that are part of a national “Make it in America” strategy to create high-skilled, high-paying manufacturing jobs and promote America’s global competitiveness.The “Congressional Made in America Promise Act” requires Congress to buy goods and services made by American workers for the first time since “Buy American” rules were instituted for federal agencies under President Roosevelt in 1933. The “Berry Amendment Extension Act” extends “Buy American” principles currently applied to the Department of Defense to the Department of Homeland Security. “Especially in this difficult economy, we need to do everything we can to promote American businesses and take pride in the quality products they provide us. This legislation is about creating jobs, rebuilding our manufacturing base and supporting our own businesses before we support those overseas,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The “Make it in America” strategy also includes closing tax loopholes that encourage corporations to outsource U.S. jobs overseas and providing tax credits to help small businesses hire new employees and sell their products overseas. Congressman Ruppersberger also supports requiring China and other countries to honor fair trade principles or losing America’s business.
09.14.2010	Measure Bars Big Money Corporations from Hijacking Campaigns, Supports Public Financing of Campaigns, and Limits Influence of Special Interest Lobbyists (Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) signed a pledge today to reform government. The measure bars big money corporations from hijacking campaigns, supports public financing of campaigns, and limits the power of special-interest lobbyists. “The role of government is to help people, not big corporations or special interest groups. I signed this pledge to keep government for the people and by the people. The measure ensures people, not big companies, elect their leaders. It makes sure elections can’t be bought by corporations or the wealthy pumping billions of their own money into the campaign. It also severely curtails the influence of lobbyists,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The “Fight Washington Corruption Pledge” sponsored by MoveOn.org: Calls for an amendment to the Constitution to reverse the Supreme Court’s Citizens United ruling allowing unlimited corporate campaign donations.Calls for passage of the Fair Elections Now Act providing public financing for candidates who are supported by small donors to allow them to compete with corporate-backed and self-funded candidates. The Congressman co-sponsored this legislation in the House of Representatives. Calls for lobbying reforms reducing their power and influence.
09.09.2010	Ruppersberger Helped Secure More than $31 Million to Protect American Troops (Aberdeen, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined Maryland leaders and military officials today to cut the ribbon for two, state-of-the-art research facilities at Aberdeen Proving Ground in Harford County. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the Appropriations Committee, helped secure more than $31 million to build these centers to test equipment and armor used to protect American troops around the world. The Automotive Technology Evaluation Facility is a high-speed track where researchers can test armored vehicles, tanks and other important military equipment in varied conditions. The Rotorcraft Survivability Assessment Facility will analyze protective helicopter armor used by U.S. Servicemen and women. The goal of both research centers is to simulate the rugged conditions military personnel face in hot spots like Iraq, Afghanistan and other locations around the world. This testing helps ensure the military equipment operates properly to protect American Service members and save lives. “I have been to Iraq and Afghanistan many times to thank our men and women in uniform for their service and sacrifice. Our military personnel deserve the best equipment America can create to protect them as they risk their lives for their country. These two facilities will ensure our troops around the world have the latest in technology while also creating high-quality, good paying jobs here at home at Aberdeen Proving Ground. This is critically important in this tough economy,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Maryland is expected to gain 60,000 new jobs through military base closures in other states, a process known as BRAC. Together with Team Maryland, Congressman Ruppersberger is committed to ensuring the region has the proper infrastructure in place to support these new positions, allow the area to thrive, and preserving the great quality of life in Harford County. Team Maryland has secured millions of dollars to upgrade our roads, highways, and bridges, improve our mass transit options, expand our schools and hospitals, and increase support for our first responders and law enforcement officials while also protecting the environment.
09.03.2010	Grant will help streamline passenger travel and improve conditions for ground personnel (Hanover, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today joined federal and state transportation officials in announcing $15 million in federal funds for massive safety improvements to the tarmac at BWI Thurgood Marshall Airport. The 30-year-old tarmac is long overdue for safety improvements and the upgrades will help planes move easier to and from the terminal. Ultimately, the project should mean smoother travels for airline passengers. BWI received a $15 million federal grant from the Federal Aviation Administration under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The funding is part of a larger $36.7 million remodeling project that supported 36 full-time jobs in its first year of construction. Airport officials said the funding will permit up to 200 workers who have experience at BWI to stay there.The project also includes upgrades to the airport’s utility systems including gas and electricity, which are located beneath the pavement that is being reconstructed, as well as an environmentally-friendly way to collect hazardous fluids used to keep ice off the tarmac.“BWI is one of Maryland’s most vital economic engines, supporting nearly 100,000 jobs and generating more than $5 billion in business revenues each year,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This project is about investing in our state’s future and preserving those jobs for years to come. Rebuilding the airport’s fundamental organs – the tarmac – will lead to safer working conditions for ground crews and happier passengers.”
09.03.2010	Goal is to Get Students Interested in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math Now to Prepare Them for Good Paying Jobs Later (Essex, MD) – Just in time for back to school, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today joined former NASA astronaut Don Thomas as well as students and teachers in announcing an interactive science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) initiative in Maryland public schools. The goal of the $1 million dollar program is to get students interested in STEM education now to prepare for them high-paying jobs in the future.The Baltimore Excellence in Science Teaching (BEST) Partnership provides area teachers with top-notch training and funds to conduct interactive science and math fairs and classes for public school students. Towson University, Coppin State University and the Maryland BioLab are teaming up with Towson University’s Hackerman Academy – led by former NASA astronaut Don Thomas – and school systems across the state to get elementary and middle school kids excited about science and math. “Studies show we have to get to kids early, in elementary and middle school, so they can develop an interest and aptitude for the dynamic STEM fields. We can open students up to a world of learning now that will benefit them later with a career in a booming industry and a good-paying job. Chances are that job can be right here in Maryland with the expansion of high-tech companies, even in this tough economy,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), a Member of the House Appropriations Committee. "We need to support and energize our teachers so they can excite students about science and engineering," said U.S. Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), who, as Chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee that funds NASA, fought to include $1 million for this program in the federal checkbook. “When we give students a science mentor, we give them a love of science for life. That’s why I fought to put the funds in the federal checkbook for the BEST Partnership to recruit and train science and math teachers for Maryland’s classrooms.”Mr. Thomas is a veteran of four space flights, logging over 1,040 hours in space. The announcement was followed by a hands-on presentation by Mr. Thomas and Oliver Beach students.
08.31.2010	Grant will help streamline passenger travel and improve conditions for ground personnel(Hanover, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will join federal aviation officials tomorrow to announce a major grant that will help fund massive improvements to the tarmac at BWI Thurgood Marshall Airport. The 30-year-old tarmac – the airplane parking area that allows passengers to board from a gate – is long overdue for safety improvements. The upgrades will help planes move more easily around the tarmac and should mean smoother travels for airline passengers. The project creates jobs and permits workers who have experience at BWI to stay there. It also includes upgrades to the airport’s utility systems including gas and electricity, which are located beneath the pavement that is being reconstructed.The event will include a tour of the construction area.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Congressman Elijah Cummings U.S. Deputy Secretary of Transportation John Porcari FAA Administrator Randy Babbitt Maryland Secretary of Transportation Beverley K. Swaim-Staley Maryland Aviation Administration Executive Director Paul Wiedefeld What: Congressman Ruppersberger to Announce Critical Safety Improvements at BWI AirportWhen: 10:00 a.m., Thursday, September 2, 2010Where: BWI Observation Gallery Upper level of the terminal between Concourses B and C Hanover, MDMedia planning to attend this event and tour the construction site should RSVP to Marcia Alexander-Adams at Marcia.adams@faa.gov by noon Wednesday with your name, date of birth and driver’s license number. Please bring your driver’s license to the event.
08.30.2010	Goal is to Get Students Interested in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math Now to Prepare Them for Good Paying Jobs Later (Essex, MD) – Just in time for back-to-school, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will join a former NASA astronaut, students and teachers at Oliver Beach Elementary School on Wednesday in Essex to announce a new, interactive science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) initiative in Maryland public schools. The goal of the $1 million dollar program is to get students interested in STEM education now to prepare them for good paying jobs later. The Baltimore Excellence in Science Teaching (BEST) Partnership provides area teachers with top-notch training and funds to conduct interactive science and math fairs and classes for public school students. Towson University, Coppin State University and the Maryland BioLab are teaming up with former NASA Astronaut Don Thomas and different school systems across the state to get elementary and middle school kids involved in science and math. “Studies show we have to get to kids early, in elementary and middle school, so they can develop an interest and aptitude for the dynamic STEM fields. We can open students up to a world of learning now that will benefit them later with a career in a booming industry and a good-paying job. Chances are that job can be right here in Maryland with the expansion of high-tech companies, even in this tough economy,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), a Member of the House Appropriations Committee. The short press conference will be followed by a hands-on science presentation by Mr. Don Thomas and some Oliver Beach Elementary School students. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Dr. Robert Caret, President Towson University Mr. Don Thomas, Former NASA Astronaut and Director of the Willard Hackerman Academy for STEM Education and Outreach Students TeachersWhat: Ruppersberger to Announce Exciting, New STEM Initiative When: 10:30 a.m., Wednesday, September 1, 2010Where: Oliver Beach Elementary 12912 Cuninghill Cove Road Essex, MD 21220
08.24.2010	Program rewards Maryland for breaking new ground in public school education(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today congratulated Maryland education leaders on winning Phase II of the “Race to the Top” grant competition, making the state eligible for $250 million in federal funds over the next four years. Half of those funds will flow directly to school districts to attract and maintain better teachers and reduce achievement gaps among students.“Race to the Top” is the U.S. Department of Education’s $4.35 billion grant program to reward states that break new ground in public school innovation. The initiative is part of the federal government’s “American Recovery and Reinvestment Act” program, which Congressman Ruppersberger voted to support. The program emphasizes linking student achievement data to individual teachers and principals and turning around low-performing schools. Congressman Ruppersberger submitted a letter in support of Maryland’s application for the competition in May 2010.“This unprecedented competition is based on the simple principle of whether or not a state is ready to do what works,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I strongly believe that these reforms are the right things to do so that all Maryland students can achieve. Education is not an expense, but an investment. This plan will enable our children to be competitive in the 21st century job market and help our economy grow. Tens of thousands of high-quality, high-tech jobs are coming to Maryland over the next decade, and we must prepare our students to take advantage of these tremendous opportunities.”Competition was fierce, requiring states to propose bold plans to turn around persistently low-achieving schools, introduce new assessments to accurately reflect student progress, create new data systems, redesign capital systems so that tenure and compensation reflect academic progress and design new science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) programs. Maryland was one of 35 states and the District of Columbia to submit an application for the competition’s second round and 10 to receive funding.
08.11.2010	Legislation Will Save an Estimated 2,500 Positions in Maryland (Washington, DC) –Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today supported a bill to create and save nearly 320,000 jobs for teachers, police officers, firefighters and nurses as well as help states provide critical health care. H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act, passed during a special Congressional session today. Not only is the legislation completely paid for, but the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office says it will reduce the deficit by $1.4 billion over 10 years by closing tax loopholes that encourage corporations to ship American jobs overseas and cutting other spending. In Maryland, H.R. 1586 will save an estimated 2,500 positions, according to data from the Council of Economic Advisors. The Act provides financial assistance to the states to pay teacher salaries and prevent layoffs of police officers, firefighters, nurses and other first responders. More than half of the jobs created under this bill will be in the private sector, including workers who contract for or supply services to state and local governments.“Proving top-notch public safety and education are top priorities for local and state governments, but times are tough all across our country,” said Representative C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) who was the Baltimore County Executive before coming to Congress. “We don’t want states like Maryland to have to choose between educating our children or keeping people safe. This legislation gives states a boost and saves an estimated 2,500 jobs in Maryland. It will save money in the long-term while still creating jobs and keeping those jobs in America.” H.R. 1586 provides $10 billion in funding to save more than 160,000 teaching positions nationwide. It also provides $16.1 billion in health assistance to states, which will keep many other citizens on the job, including police officers, firefighters, nurses, and other first responders. The measure is supported by a majority of the nation’s governors, including 16 Republican Governors like Robert McDonnell (R-VA) and Chris Christie (R-NJ). The bi-partisan National Conference of State Legislatures, the Leadership Council of Aging Organizations, and the National Association of Counties (NACO) also support the bill. Congressman Ruppersberger was a Member of NACO when he was Baltimore County Executive. The legislation passed the Senate on August 5, 2010. It must be signed by the President before it can become law.
08.03.2010	Star-Spangled Banner Coin Bill Headed to the President’s Desk (Washington, DC) – Legislation authored by Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) creating a special Star-Spangled Banner coin passed the Senate last night and is headed to the President’s desk for his signature. H.R. 2097, the Star-Spangled Banner Bicentennial Commemorative Coin Act, honors Fort McHenry, the War of 1812, and the critical role Maryland played in the growth of our young nation. After a 25-hour British bombardment of Fort McHenry during the War of 1812, Francis Scott Key saw an enormous American flag proudly flying over the fort, which was defending the City of Baltimore. Key was inspired to write The Star-Spangled Banner that eventually became America’s national anthem. “It is a great honor for Baltimore to have a special Star-Spangled Banner commemorative coin minted to draw attention to the important role Marylanders played as our young nation fought for survival. Preparations are already underway for an exciting celebration to honor the 200th Anniversary of the War of 1812. The Star-Spangled Banner commemorative coin will be a wonderful addition to these festivities and help raise much needed awareness and funds to make these events happen,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “The War of 1812 is often referred to as the Second War of Independence and deserves broad, national recognition,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) who championed the legislation in the Senate. “As Marylanders, we are all proud of the role our state has played in our nation’s history and the creation of these commemorative coins will make it possible for us to bring greater attention to this bicentennial celebration.”H.R. 2097 passed the House of Representatives in May, 2008. The Star-Spangled Banner Commemorative coin will be minted in 2012 in coordination with the 200th Anniversary of the War of 1812. A portion of the proceeds will go to the Maryland War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission to support bicentennial activities, assist in educational outreach, and preserve sites and structures relating to the War of 1812.
07.29.2010	Millions in Federal Funding for Maryland Hinge on Accurate Count(Timonium, MD) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is reminding Marylanders that tomorrow is the deadline to participate in the 2010 Census. Those who did not receive a form, mail a form back or receive a visit from a Census taker are urged to call the Census to complete the brief questionnaire over the phone.The Census is conducted every 10 years to determine Congressional representation and how more than $400 billion in federal funding is allocated each year to local and state governments. An accurate count of all Marylanders could result in more than $57 billion for our state over the next decade. The 2010 Census form is one of the shortest census questionnaires in history.“I am urging every Marylander to be counted so that our tax dollars are returned to our communities,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, who earlier this year promoted the 2010 Census with the help of Baltimore Raven Domonique Foxworth. “Everyone’s participation will help Maryland get the federal funding it needs for things like new schools, senior centers, libraries, roads, bridges, police and fire stations.”Residents who still need to complete their Census form can participate in a quick and confidential phone interview by calling the following U.S. Census Bureau phone numbers from 8 a.m. until 9 p.m. tomorrow. Participation is required by law.1-866-872-6868 General toll-free English language assistance line1-866-928-2010 Spanish language assistance line1-866-935-2010 Chinese language assistance line1-866-945-2010 Vietnamese language assistance line1-866-965-2010 Russian language assistance line1-866-955-2010 Korean language assistance line1-866-939-2010 Puerto Rico English language assistance line1-866-929-2010 Puerto Rico Spanish language assistance line
07.29.2010	$2.4 Billion Included in 2011 Military Construction & Veterans Affairs Appropriations(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today praised the House’s passage of a $77.3 billion discretionary spending bill for projects and programs critical to America’s veterans and military troops and their families. The 2011 Military Construction & Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, which passed today in a 411-6 vote, will fund veterans’ benefits and healthcare, military family housing, barracks improvements and training facilities. It also includes $2.4 billion for the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision, which is scheduled for completion by September 2011. The House and Senate must now resolve differences between their versions of the bill in conference.“During these difficult financial times, American families are asking us to cut spending and create jobs,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This bill fully funds BRAC 2005, which will consolidate our military organizations to reduce costs and increase efficiency. It will also bring tens of thousands of new, high-paying jobs to Fort Meade and Aberdeen Proving Ground, both of which are in my district. Team Maryland has worked hard to prepare for the move, improving our roads, expanding our schools and hospitals, and supporting local government. We are starting to see the fruits of our labor and I am proud that our state will continue to lead the nation in improving our country’s security.”The bill provides $56.8 billion in discretionary funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs and $64 billion for mandatory VA programs. It also includes $18.7 billion for military construction and family housing and $1.3 billion in emergency appropriations for military construction projects in support of the war in Afghanistan. The investments in the bill address several significant priorities, including:First-time advance funding for veterans health benefits to ensure stable and timely servicesProviding new family caregiver benefits for disabled veteransHiring 4,000 claims processors to tackle VA claims backlogs and processing new educational benefits under the new GI Bill enacted last CongressModernizing Army troop housing for traineesFunding critical construction projects of the Guard and ReserveExpediting environmental cleanup on closed military bases.
07.27.2010	“77 Time-Tested Proven Secrets for Getting Back on Track” (Timonium, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) hosted a workshop in Timonium, Maryland, to give small businesses a boost in this tough economy. "77 Time-Tested Proven Secrets for Getting Back on Track" provided existing business owners and aspiring entrepreneurs with the resources they need to grow and make money even in these trying times.Small businesses in Maryland create two of every three jobs and are the backbone of our economy. In fact, they are fueling America’s recovery. Congressman Ruppersberger believes we must give small businesses incentives to hire employees and buy equipment so they can grow and thrive. “When you have a job, you can support your family and your community. Small businesses are such a great source of job growth in the State of Maryland. In Congress, I support progressive, pro-business policies that help give small businesses the tools they need to be successful. Seminars like this are great because they allow entrepreneurs and business people to collaborate and share ideas on how they transformed their idea for a small business into a reality,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). For those who are serious about getting ahead even in this economic environment, the conference was a “must attend”. The event was free. The seminar featured two inspiring speakers who have made it in the business world. They shared their secrets to their success.
07.26.2010	
07.26.2010	Congressman Returns to Alma Mater for Major Renovation and Expansion(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today joined Baltimore City Public Schools CEO Andres Alonso and other Maryland and Baltimore leaders in breaking ground on the new Leith Walk Elementary and Middle School in Baltimore City. The $41 million project will renovate the existing elementary school building and create a new middle school. Congressman Ruppersberger is an alumnus of Leith Walk Elementary.The community has long wanted the school to expand to a prek-8 school. Built in 1954, the existing building is in need of major modernization. There are also seven portable classrooms on the site to accommodate overcrowding. Over the years, classes have been held in every possible space in the school building, including the library and former health suite. Leith Walk is one of the highest performing schools in the city system.“Returning to Leith Walk always brings back great memories of growing up in this vibrant community, but the school is overcrowded and needs some serious updates,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “As some of the best in the city, the students at Leith Walk deserve better. I am proud to help break ground on this new project. In addition to creating construction jobs, this expansion invests in tomorrow’s workforce while providing today’s students with the facility they need to thrive.”The project includes a 70,000-square foot renovation and 109,000-square foot addition, which will be the new middle school.As part of today’s groundbreaking, a tree was planted in honor of Jaeden Dulin, a first-grader at Leith Walk who was killed in a fatal car accident on May 30, 2010. According to Jaeden’s teacher, Jaeden loved people and his school. His score on the Stanford Achievement Test (Stanford 10) was a 97 percent.
07.22.2010	Congress Passes Extension of Unemployment Benefits (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today praised Congress’ passage of an extension of unemployment benefits to provide emergency relief for jobless Marylanders. After months of stalling, the U.S. Senate passed the desperately-needed measure Wednesday in a 59-39 vote, and the House quickly followed suit with a 272-152 vote. President Obama is expected to sign the measure later today.“The economy is improving, but millions of Americans are still searching for work,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “In these difficult economic times, Congress must do whatever it can to help Marylanders get back on their feet. Economists agree that extending unemployment benefits is the most immediate and cost effective thing Congress can do to stimulate the economy. This bill provides struggling families with a critical lifeline to cover their basic needs until the economy can fully rebound.”The U.S. House of Representatives has passed unemployment extensions several times, most recently on July 1, but no action was taken by the Senate. In a letter dated July 15, Congressman Ruppersberger urged Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to bring the measure to an immediate vote. By the end of last week, 17,700 Marylanders and 2.5 million Americans had lost their unemployment benefits. In today's tough labor market, there are currently five unemployed workers for every one job opening. A family of four receiving unemployment benefits receives an average of $293 each week, which is 74 percent of the poverty level. Research shows that every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates more than $1.60 in new economic growth. Nearly every penny is quickly spent on basic necessities. Previous extensions provided Maryland families with $819 million more in emergency benefits over the past fiscal year, contributing $1.3 billion to the state economy.The bill extends the Emergency Unemployment Compensation and Extended Benefits programs through November 30, 2010. The legislation would retroactively restore benefits to people who may have started losing their benefits as early as the end of May when funding for the program ran out, some after just 26 weeks.
07.21.2010	Navy Proposal Would Move Medical Ship From Homeport In Baltimore To Norfolk, Va.(Washington, DC) – An amendment to an appropriations bill offered by Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) requiring the U.S. Navy to justify moving the U.S.N.S. Comfort passed the committee level late yesterday. The Navy is considering moving the medical ship to Norfolk, Va., from Baltimore. Congressman Ruppersberger believes the relocation of the medical ship may hurt her ability to quickly respond to a life-saving military mission or humanitarian crisis and could waste money.$10 million to build a new berth in Norfolk is included in the Military Construction/Veteran’s Affairs appropriations legislation, known as MILCON, for fiscal year 2011. Yesterday, Congressman Ruppersberger, who is a member of the Appropriations Committee, offered an amendment requiring the U.S. Navy to first conduct a thorough cost-benefit analysis of the potential move. The amendment was accepted and will be included in the final appropriations legislation that will move to the full House of Representatives. Previously, Congressman Ruppersberger unsuccessfully tried to block funding for the move in an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2011.“I am not convinced that moving the Comfort from Baltimore, her home for the past 23 years, is a good idea,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We must make sure this move won’t hurt the Comfort’s ability to quickly respond to urgent military and humanitarian missions and unnecessarily waste taxpayer dollars. Clearing committee is an important step and I will continue to fight to keep this Baltimore icon home, where it belongs.”A study shows that Maryland received $150 million over a 5-year period for activities generated by the Comfort. The Navy recently spent $5 million to upgrade the Comfort’s pier in Baltimore, allowing it to lay berth there for another 20 years. Congressman Ruppersberger believes moving the ship now would waste that investment.Baltimore is an easy drive for military doctors, nurses, technicians, and other personnel stationed at Bethesda Naval Hospital who staff the ship. For the past 23 years, the Navy has required the Comfort to have her home port no more than 50 miles from Bethesda. The government pays more than $1 million to dock the Comfort in Baltimore.The Comfort has been deployed to Kuwait under Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm and the Persian Gulf in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Her team of medical professionals has treated victims of the September 11th terrorist attacks in New York City, Hurricane Katrina in the Gulf, and the devastating earthquake in Haiti. Congressman Ruppersberger boarded the Comfort as it was preparing for its departure to Haiti earlier this year and was impressed by the quick and well-orchestrated effort.
07.20.2010	Moving the Medical Ship Could Hurt Response Time to a Crisis and Waste Money (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is fighting to keep the U.S.N.S. Comfort at her home berth in the Port of Baltimore. The Navy is making plans to move the ship to Norfolk, Va. Congressman Ruppersberger believes the relocation of the medical ship may hurt her ability to quickly respond to a life-saving military mission or humanitarian crisis and could waste money. A virtual “floating hospital,” the Comfort provides emergency medical care for U.S. troops at war as well as disaster and humanitarian relief around the world. Since 1987, the Comfort has been docked in Baltimore’s Harbor when not actively deployed. The harbor is an easy drive for military doctors, nurses, technicians, and other personnel stationed at Bethesda Naval Hospital who staff the ship. For the past 23 years, the Navy has required the Comfort to have her home port no more than 50 miles from Bethesda. The government pays close to $1 million to dock the Comfort in the Baltimore Harbor.$10 million to build a new berth in Norfolk is included in the Military Construction/Veteran’s Affairs appropriations legislation, known as MILCON, for fiscal year 2011. The Navy recently spent $5 million to upgrade the Comfort’s pier in Baltimore, allowing it to lay berth there for another 20 years. Congressman Ruppersberger believes this extra expense is a massive waste of money.Today, Congressman Ruppersberger will introduce an amendment requiring the U.S. Navy to first conduct a thorough cost-benefit analysis of the potential move. Congressman Ruppersberger recently tried to block funding for the move in an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2011. The amendment was unsuccessful.“The U.S.N.S. Comfort has long been a source of pride and jobs for its home, the Port of Baltimore, and the rest of the region. When a catastrophe like Hurricane Katrina or the recent earthquake in Haiti strikes, time is of the essence. The Comfort and its team of military medical professionals quickly answer the call to serve,” said Congressman Ruppersberger who boarded the ship while it was preparing to depart to Haiti earlier this year. “I was amazed at how quick and well-orchestrated the extensive undertaking was. I fear moving the ship to Norfolk will make that job harder and waste taxpayer dollars in a time when every dollar matters.”The Comfort has been deployed to Kuwait under Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm and the Persian Gulf in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Her team of medical professionals has treated victims of the September 11th terrorist attacks in New York City, Hurricane Katrina in the Gulf, and the massive earthquake in Haiti.
07.19.2010	Study of Bay’s bacterial composition especially important in light of Gulf oil spill(Annapolis, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today announced $100,000 in federal funding to launch a critical study of the microorganisms that make up much of the Chesapeake Bay’s ecosystem. The study, which will be conducted by scientists at the University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science, will be the first of its size and will spark research breakthroughs to solve some of the Bay’s most pressing problems. The Chesapeake Bay supports over 28 million jobs in the fishing, seafood, aquaculture, tourism and recreational industries.Scientists said the new technology used in the study could also help evaluate the potential for bacteria to degrade oil released during spills like the one currently underway in the Gulf of Mexico.“For years, we have been researching the life cycles of critical Bay species like the blue crab and oysters,” but understanding the environment in which they are trying to survive is just as important,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This study will ultimately lead to a healthier Bay and stronger, more productive fisheries.”“The best efforts to protect and restore the Chesapeake Bay are those built upon a foundation of sound science,” said UMCES President Dr. Donald F. Boesch. “By undertaking a genomic analysis of the Chesapeake Bay ecosystem, we hope to develop a better understanding of the key roles that micro-organisms play. Coupled with the other research we undertake, this will lead to new insights and innovations to help improve the health of the Bay.”The study will apply the science of metagenomics to the Chesapeake Bay’s microbial communities so that we can better understand how they serve to cycle nutrients and remove them from the ecosystem. Metagenomics involves cloning the DNA of microorganisms. The study will revolutionize Maryland’s understanding of processes that affect fish species, water quality and even harmful algal blooms. The funds were included in the collective spending bill known as the omnibus for fiscal year 2010.
07.16.2010	Study of Bay’s Bacterial Composition Especially Important in Light of Gulf Oil Spill(Annapolis, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will announce federal funding that will launch a critical study of the microorganisms that make up much of the Chesapeake Bay’s ecosystem. The study, which will be conducted by scientists at the University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science, will be the first of its size and will spark research breakthroughs to solve some of the Bay’s most pressing problems. The Chesapeake Bay supports over 28 million jobs in the fishing, seafood, aquaculture, tourism and recreational industries. Scientists said the new technology used in the study could help evaluate the potential for bacteria to degrade oil released during spills like the one currently underway in the Gulf of Mexico.“For years, we have been researching the life cycles of critical Bay species like the blue crab and oysters, but understanding the environment in which they are trying to survive is just as important,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This study will ultimately lead to a healthier Bay and stronger, more productive fisheries.”Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Feng Chen, Ph.D, Associate Professor, University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science Members of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation What: Congressman Ruppersberger to Announce Federal Funds for Groundbreaking Chesapeake Bay StudyWhen: 12:00 p.m., Monday, July 19, 2010Where: Chesapeake Bay Foundation Headquarters Philip Merrill Environmental Center 6 Herndon Avenue Annapolis, MD 21403
07.15.2010	Senate Needs to Pass Extension of Unemployment Benefits Immediately (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today urged the United States Senate to pass a desperately-needed extension of unemployment benefits for millions of American families. On July 1, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5618, the “Restoration of Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act,” but the Senate has not acted on the bill.In a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Congressman Ruppersberger wrote, “America is pulling itself out of the worst recession since the Great Depression. We have seen six months of job growth, but millions of Americans are still searching for work. In these difficult economic times, Congress must do everything it can to get Americans back on their feet. The clock is ticking. If the Senate does not act now, more families will suffer.”By the end of this week, 17,700 Marylanders and 2.5 million Americans will lose their unemployment benefits. Economists agree that extending unemployment benefits is the most immediate and cost effective thing Congress can do to stimulate the economy. In fact, research shows that for every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates more than $1.60 in new economic growth. Nearly every penny is quickly spent on basic necessities. Previous extensions provided Maryland families with $819 million more in emergency benefits over the past fiscal year, contributing $1.3 billion to the state economy.The bill is simply about common sense and compromise. It extends the Emergency Unemployment Compensation and Extended Benefits programs through November 30, 2010. The legislation would retroactively restore benefits to people who may have started losing their benefits as early as the end of May, some after just 26 weeks. It will provide struggling families with a critical lifeline until the economy can fully rebound.Click here to read the full text of Congressman Ruppersberger’s letter to Senator Reid.
07.15.2010	Legislation Expands Access to Telework and Ensures AccountabilityWashington, D.C. – Today, in a bipartisan vote, (290 -131) the House of Representatives approved the "Telework Improvements Act of 2010" to expand telework opportunities for all federal workers. The bill allows federal employees to perform their duties and responsibilities from home or another work site removed from their regular place of employment. “Telework can be a great way to increase worker productivity, reduce traffic congestion, and protect the environment," said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger, an original cosponsor of the bill. "This legislation will help the federal government make telework a priority when it is appropriate. It just makes sense."“I believe this legislation is necessary so that a formal telework policy can be enacted across the Federal Government and sustained into future Administrations,” said Congressman John Sarbanes, who drafted the bill. “A robust telework program will not only improve government operations during a disaster, it could be used as a tool to reduce traffic congestion in the DC area. Telework has a positive impact on productivity, quality of life and the environment. If fully integrated, it can save taxpayers money by increasing efficiency, reducing federal office space and improving employee retention.”The government lost $71 million worth of productivity for each day it remained closed during the recent blizzards that blanketed our region, according to an updated estimate released by the Office of Personnel Management. This estimate was reduced from a projected loss of $100 million per day because roughly 30 percent of federal workers in the Washington area teleworked during the storm, OPM announced.Once enacted, the bipartisan bill would: Instruct the Office of Personnel Management to develop a uniform, government-wide telework policy for federal employeesStrengthen the federal government’s capacity to effectively integrate telework into Continuity of Operations Planning (COOP)Designate one person as a Telework Managing Officer within every agencyProvide telework training and education to both employees and supervisorsRequire the Office of Personnel Management to compile government-wide data on teleworkRequire the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to evaluate agency compliance and produce an annual report to Congress that is publicly available on the internet.“Traffic gridlock in our region results in lost productivity, less time spent with families, and pollution that poisons our air and alters our climate,” said Sarbanes. “If more federal employees telework, not only will we improve their quality of life, we will relieve the overall strain on our transportation infrastructure and improve the daily commute for all area workers.”
07.02.2010	Bill Requires Mass Transit Operators to Provide Food, Water, and Critical Information to Passengers on Disabled Transit (Baltimore, MD) – In light of the recent mishaps on MARC trains, today Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) introduced the federal “Commuter’s Bill of Rights” to protect the safety and comfort of passengers riding mass transit. The “Commuter’s Bill of Rights” requires public transit operators to:Provide food, water, restrooms, ventilation, medical services, and critical information to passengers on a disabled train or other form of public transportationGive passengers a time frame for when they will be allowed to exit a disabled or delayed vehicleDistribute information about how they will be redirected to their final destination in a timely mannerSubmit an emergency plan to the Department of Transportation or face a fine A consumer hotline will also be established for passenger complaints.“Public transportation must be safe, reliable, convenient, and affordable for it to be effective,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a long-time advocate of mass transit who frequently rides the MARC train to and from his office in Washington, D.C. “The Commuters’ Bill of Rights will establish important guidelines to improve the quality of mass transit service in Maryland and across the country.”On June 21, 2010, more than 900 MARC commuters were left stranded on a stalled train for more than two hours in terrible conditions. Passengers including babies, pregnant women and senior citizens were left on the train with no ventilation or access to water when power failed between Union Station and the New Carrollton stations. Prince George’s County Fire and Rescue treated ten passengers for heat-related illness. Three people were transported to the hospital, according to media reports. Since, a series of other MARC disruptions have frustrated passengers and officials, including a train that missed a stop due to a conductor’s error.
07.01.2010	Congressman to Require Mass Transit Operators to Provide Food, Water, and Critical Information to Passengers on Disabled Transit (Baltimore, MD) – In light of the recent mishaps on MARC trains, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will introduce the federal “Commuter’s Bill of Rights” to protect the safety and comfort of passengers riding mass transit. The “Commuter’s Bill of Rights” requires public transit operators to: Provide food, water, restrooms, ventilation, medical services, and critical information to passengers on a disabled train or other form of public transportationGive passengers a time frame for when they will be allowed to exit a disabled or delayed vehicleDistribute information about how they will be redirected to their final destination in a timely mannerSubmit an emergency plan to the Department of Transportation or face a fine A consumer hotline will also be established for passenger complaints. On June 21, 2010, more than 900 MARC commuters were left stranded on a stalled train for more than two hours in terrible conditions. Passengers including babies, pregnant women and senior citizens were left on the train with no ventilation or access to water when power failed between Union Station and the New Carrollton stations. Prince George’s County Fire and Rescue treated ten passengers for heat-related illness. Three people were transported to the hospital, according to media reports. Since, a series of other MARC disruptions have frustrated passengers and officials, including a train that missed a stop due to a conductor’s error.“Public transportation must be safe, reliable, convenient, and affordable for it to be effective,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a long-time advocate of mass transit who frequently rides the MARC train to and from his office in Washington, D.C. “The Commuters’ Bill of Rights will establish important guidelines to improve the quality of mass transit service in Maryland and across the country.”Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Maryland Transportation Officials Commuters What: Congressman Ruppersberger to Introduce “Commuters’ Bill of Rights”When: 10:30 a.m., Friday, July 2, 2010Where: The BWI MARC Station 7 Amtrak Way Linthicum Heights, MD 21090
06.30.2010	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today praised passage of legislation that will extend the deadline for a federal tax credit for certain first-time homebuyers until Oct. 1, 2010. Under current law, the tax credit of up to $8,000 is set to expire on June 30, 2010. The extension will help families already in the process of buying a home, but facing unforeseen delays closing on the property before the current deadline. H.R. 5623, the “Homebuyers Assistance and Improvement Act,” which passed the House 409-5, now goes to the Senate, where a similar bill has been introduced. The new deadline applies only to homebuyers who signed purchase agreements by April 30, 2010. So far, the tax credit has helped more than 4 million families achieve the American dream. This bill will assist an additional 180,000 Americans, many who are encountering a backlog getting their mortgage processed and the deal finalized.“This tax credit is working. It gave a much-needed boost to Maryland’s housing market. When buying a home, there can be many unforeseen delays. This legislation gives Maryland families a little extra time to close the deal and make the dream of home ownership a reality,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The tax credit for first-time homebuyers took effect last year. A study from the National Association of Realtors found the tax credit was responsible for half of all homes purchased in Maryland in 2009. Congress also created a new credit of up to $6,500 for existing property owners who sell their home and buy another during the same period of time.
06.29.2010	Katherine Brantley Shows Great Dedication to Education (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today honored Reisterstown teacher Katherine Brantley, who was selected from a highly-competitive applicant pool to participate in the House Fellows Program for secondary educators. Mrs. Brantley, a government and economics teacher at Franklin High School in Reisterstown, visited Congressman Ruppersberger in the U.S. Capitol today.As a Fellow, Mrs. Brantley will participate this week in an intensive Capitol Hill workshop that provides educators with a real-life glimpse into the House of Representatives. In her words, the workshop shows educators “how the legislative process actually works, rather than how we teach the legislative process works.” Mrs. Brantley will tour the Capitol complex, attend briefings on House history, participate in seminars at the National Archives and Smithsonian Institution and develop materials on the history and practice of the House to use in her school. She is required to prepare a brief lesson plan on a Congressional topic that will become part of a teaching resource database.“Katherine Brantley’s dedication and enthusiasm for teaching is inspiring. Her experience on Capitol Hill will provide her with a wealth of first-hand knowledge to share with her students. I appreciate the time and energy she has invested in this important program and in our country’s future leaders,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Mrs. Brantley is a 2002 graduate of Western Maryland College (now McDaniel College) in Westminster. Currently, she is working toward a Masters in Public Policy at The University of Maryland, Baltimore County. Born and raised in Havre de Grace, Mrs. Brantley now resides in the Canton area of Baltimore City.
06.16.2010	Local Heroes Recently Returned from Iraq and Afghanistan Will Be Honored (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will welcome Maryland troops home from Iraq and Afghanistan at two ceremonies Sunday, June 13, 2010, in the Baltimore area. Soldiers from the 323rd Military Intelligence Battalion of the Army Reserves and Airmen from the 175th Wing of the Maryland National Guard recently returned home.The first event will be held at Fort McHenry honoring 112 Army Reserve soldiers from the Alpha Company of the 323rd who just returned from Iraq after completing a one year deployment in support of the Multi-National Corp and the United States Forces in Iraq. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Congressman Frank Kratovil Governor Martin O’Malley Men and Women of the Alpha Company, 323rd, Army Reserves and their FamiliesWhat: Ruppersberger to Welcome Home Maryland Troops When: 10:30 a.m., Sunday, June 13, 2010 Where: Fort McHenry National Monument 2400 East Fort Avenue Baltimore, Maryland The second event will be held at Warfield Air Base at Martin State Airport honoring several hundred Airman from the Maryland National Guard as part of a national campaign to recognize all National Guardsmen deployed since September 11. These local heroes served in Operations Noble Eagle, Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom and other related operations.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Governor Martin O’Malley Men and Women of the 175 Wing, Maryland National Guard and their FamiliesWhat: Ruppersberger to Welcome Home Maryland Troops When: 1:30 p.m., Sunday, June 13, 2010 Where: Warfield Air Base Martin State Airport 2701 Eastern Boulevard Middle River, Maryland
06.16.2010	Local Heroes Recently Returned from Iraq and Afghanistan Were Honored (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) welcomed Maryland troops home from Iraq and Afghanistan at two ceremonies today in the Baltimore area. Soldiers from the 323rd Military Intelligence Battalion of the Army Reserves and Airmen from the 175th Wing of the Maryland National Guard recently returned home.The first welcome home ceremony was held at Fort McHenry honoring 112 Army Reserve soldiers from the Alpha Company of the 323rd who just returned from Iraq after completing a one year deployment in support of the Multi-National Corp and the United States Forces in Iraq. The second ceremony was held at Warfield Air Base at Martin State Airport honoring several hundred Airman from the Maryland National Guard as part of a national campaign to recognize all National Guardsmen deployed since September 11. These local heroes served in Operations Noble Eagle, Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom and other related operations.“Our men and women in uniform have answered the call to serve their country. These local heroes put their lives on the line around the globe, so we can enjoy freedom and liberty here at home. We are grateful they have returned home safely. I am sure the families of the military personnel are grateful, too, and are incredibly proud of a job well done,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger is a Member of the Intelligence Committee and has traveled to Iraq and Afghanistan close to a dozen times to meet with troops on the front lines. The Congressman is committed to ensuring military personnel have the proper resources and equipment they need to safely complete their mission.
06.16.2010	Congressman Mobilizes Team of Expert Caseworkers in One-of-a-Kind Workshop (Edgewood, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) tonight took his team of expert caseworkers on the road with him in a one-of-a-kind service workshop in Edgewood. Skilled in areas including child support, unemployment, Social Security, veterans’ issues, financial aid, foreclosure, Medicare and worker’s compensation, Dutch’s caseworkers were on hand to help constituents who may not be able to contact his office during normal business hours.“During these tough financial times, Marylanders have been reaching out to my office for help in record numbers,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This unique workshop gave my constituents a chance to sit down, one-on-one with a caseworker experienced with handling all sorts of problems. We’re trying to make it easier for residents by bringing my office to them.”Constituent service has been a hallmark of Congressman Ruppersberger’s time in office. His staff is well-trained in many government issues and has an impressive success rate, for example, helping more than 100 families avoid foreclosure in the past 18 months. Constituents were able to meet one-on-one with the caseworker who specializes in their area of need.Congressman Ruppersberger was joined by several representatives of Harford County agencies – including Social Services, Family Investment and Child Support – who work closely with his office to resolve constituent issues. Ms. Judy Mason, Executive Director of the Harford Community Action Agency, a non-profit association that advocates on behalf of low-income Maryland families, was also on hand.
06.16.2010	(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined Maryland leaders and broke ground for a new Trauma and Critical Care Tower at the University of Maryland’s Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore. The new $160 million, nine-floor tower will substantially boost capacity in the emergency department and intensive care unit. Shock Trauma is currently operating at twice its intended capacity. The new 140,000 square foot building will house 10 new state-of-the-art operating rooms and 64 new and replacement critical care beds. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the Appropriations Committee, helped secure $2.4 million for the project. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger’s life was saved at Shock Trauma. The Congressman was in a serious car accident in 1975 when he was a young State’s Attorney investigating drug trafficking cases. Thanks to the unwavering dedication of the doctors, nurses, and technicians at Shock Trauma and a little luck, the Congressman survived. The Congressman makes supporting Shock Trauma one of his top priorities. “For decades, Shock Trauma has been saving lives, including my own, and has been operating well beyond capacity for far too long. This expansion means Shock Trauma will be able to save even more lives for years to come. I am proud to have played a part in making this important project a reality,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Shock Trauma is the cornerstone of Maryland’s EMS Trauma System and provides the highest level of trauma care in the state. Its physicians, nurses, and technicians care for more than 8,000 injured patients each year. In addition, medical personnel from the United States Military complete monthly rotations at Shock Trauma to help prepare them for their assignments in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world. Injuries suffered by troops on the battlefield resemble injuries sustained by law enforcement personnel and other accident victims here at home.
06.16.2010	Vivian Ekey is a Franklin High School Grad and Attends University of Maryland, Baltimore County (Washington, DC) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) honored Reisterstown resident Vivian Ekey who was recently awarded the prestigious David L. Boren Scholarship for International Studies. Ms. Ekey is a rising senior at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County and an alumna of Franklin High School in Reisterstown. The National Security Education Program run by the Department of Defense awards scholarships to United States citizens so they can understand foreign cultures, strengthen U.S. economic competitiveness and enhance international cooperation and security. Scholarship recipients plan to live abroad in areas playing a key role in American national security and agree to work for the government for a year when they graduate. “As the Chairman of an Intelligence Subcommittee, I understand how important it is to attract the best and the brightest students to fields involving national security. Ms. Vivian Ekey is an exceptional student and leader. She will have the opportunity to learn about other cultures first-hand in ways she could never learn in a textbook. Her experiences abroad will help her grow and learn for whatever career path she may choose,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The scholarship will pay up to $10,000 for the cost of Ms. Ekey’s study abroad in Brazil where she plans to learn Portuguese. Ms. Ekey was in Washington for a special awards ceremony on June 10, 2010.
06.15.2010	Legislation Comes Amid Reports BP May Have Cut Corners Causing the Disaster(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is an original co-sponsor of legislation requiring BP to deposit $25 billion into a special fund to pay for clean-up as well as economic and environmental damage caused by the Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. The “Oil Spill Responsibility Act of 2010” comes amid reports that BP was involved in risky practices and may have cut corners causing the disaster. President Obama is scheduled to address the nation about the situation this evening. The $25 billion equals the most recent cost estimates for the spill and is less than 2008 profits for the oil company. The escrow account will be administered by an independent entity. “Congress has a message for BP: when you drill and spill, you must pay the bill. This will not be a government bail out of big business. This legislation guarantees that American taxpayers will not be stuck paying for this disaster that BP caused. BP has said it will cover the cost of clean up and will reimburse people who are losing their livelihoods on the Gulf Coast. This bill will hold BP’s feet to the fire, ensure BP pays for the clean up, and reimburse victims in a fair and timely manner.” The bill, drafted by Congressman Steve Kagen (D-WI), requires BP to deposit $25 billion in an account at the Department of Treasury to pay for the economic and environmental damages caused by the spill. The Secretary of Interior will have the authority to distribute the money. These funds will also be used to reimburse the federal government for expenses incurred in the course of providing relief and aiding in the clean-up efforts.Last week, Congress passed a bill that allows the Coast Guard to access more funds from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to initially cover the cost of the clean-up. BP is required to repay this money. The trust fund is supported by an 8-cent fee collected from the oil companies on every barrel of oil sold.
06.15.2010	ManTech Will Create 300 Jobs and Be First Tenant at Water’s Edge Corporate Campus (Aberdeen, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined Maryland leaders and broke ground on a new corporate campus to house hundreds of new, good-paying, high-tech jobs coming to Harford County as part of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision. ManTech International Corporation, a government contractor, expects to bring 300 jobs to the area and will be the first tenant at the Water’s Edge Corporate Campus near Aberdeen Proving Ground. “Jobs are the gasoline that powers our nation’s economy. When you have a job, you can support your family and your community. Jobs are tough to come by in this challenging economy. It is exciting news to hear that ManTech is expanding and growing here in Harford County,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. “Maryland prides itself on offering businesses a well-educated, highly skilled workforce. ManTech is tapping into this great resource.” The estimated 60,000 new jobs coming to Aberdeen Proving Ground, Fort Meade, and other bases in Maryland through BRAC are a boon for the local economy if done correctly. The Maryland Delegation lobbied for these good paying jobs and has ensured Maryland has the necessary resources to upgrade and expand Maryland’s infrastructure to prepare for them. Through Congressman Ruppersberger’s work on the Appropriations Committee, he has helped secure millions of dollars for dozens of infrastructure projects – everything from upgrading our roads, highways, and bridges, improving our mass transit options, increasing support for our first responders and law enforcement officials, expanding our schools and hospitals and protecting the Chesapeake Bay and our environment. ManTech currently has 9,000 employees worldwide. 700 of those positions are already in Maryland. The 63,000 square-foot facility is scheduled to be finished in March 2011.
06.09.2010	GE and Middle River Aircraft Systems Announce Major Expansion(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger today praised GE Aviation’s plans to expand a Middle River facility and bring 200 new jobs to Maryland. Middle River Aircraft Systems, a part of GE Aviation, will employ more than 1,000 people at the facility over the next year.In the last five years, GE has invested more than $200 million in the Middle River facility and new program investments. The 200 new high-tech manufacturing jobs will support the development and manufacturing of the GEnx-2B engine thrust reverser for the Boeing 747-8 commercial aircraft. The next-generation technology will improve the fuel efficiency of current and future jet engines that will power commercial aircraft.“Here in Maryland, we pride ourselves in having an exceptionally educated workforce,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “It is great to see GE and Middle River Aircraft Systems, a well respected technology company, tapping into this resource and choosing to grow in Maryland especially in these tough times. Jobs provide the gasoline that runs our country’s economic engine. When you have a job, you can support your family and your community.”. “We have an 80-year lineage in Baltimore and have a great partnership with Maryland. We want to accelerate our growth in the State,” said Sagar Patel, president, Mechanical Systems for GE Aviation. “There are a number of talented, experienced professionals in the Maryland workforce and recent college graduates with strong advanced technology and manufacturing capabilities. Growth in Maryland means growth for GE and this growth also flows out to local suppliers who support our business.” GE currently employs more than 1,700 people in Maryland at eight facilities. With the expanded jobs, GE will bring its total Maryland employment to approximately 2,000 employees across several facilities including those in Baltimore, Bethesda, Germantown, Glen Burnie, Hanover, Hunt Valley, Laurel and Silver Spring. The Middle River Aircraft Systems facility in Baltimore is the focal point for GE Aviation’s efforts and currently employs more than 800 experienced engineering, manufacturing and operations professionals. “Today’s announcement was about jobs, jobs, jobs. Jobs here in Maryland, where they mean economic security for more Maryland families,” Senator Mikulski said. “The old saying goes, a country that doesn’t make something, can’t make something of itself. In order to return to a strong economy that creates jobs, we have to have more manufacturing like the kind we saw today at the Middle River Aircraft Systems plant. I am so proud of the GE workers and leaders who worked hard to make this expansion possible.”"It is great news to have such a world leader in innovation as GE and Middle River Aircraft Systems, who are hiring up to 200 new employees, continue to expand in Maryland," Governor Martin O'Malley said. “It’s businesses like Middle River Aircraft Systems that help in our efforts to create jobs, protect jobs, empower small businesses, and defend the hard-won progress of Maryland's hard-working families." "I join Governor O'Malley and Senator Mikulski to salute GE and Middle River Aircraft Systems for investing in Maryland's human capital and creating new jobs in our state," Lt. Governor Brown said. "We are proud of the partnerships we have forged with the private sector and look forward to continuing our work with GE and Middle River Aircraft Systems to strengthen and grow our middle class." "The new jobs at Middle River Aircraft Systems send a strong signal that aviation and defense design, engineering and manufacturing continue to be a vital, growing force in our County and State economy," stated Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith. Maryland has world-class educational institutions and a concentration of highly trained engineers and skilled manufacturing employees. Middle River is working with the Baltimore County, Maryland Workforce Exchange for recruitment and training programs. Interested applicants should call the Baltimore County Workforce Middle River info line at: 410 288 9050, extension 313 or click here for more information.
06.09.2010	Congressman Describes Clapper as a “True, Patriotic American” (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today endorsed President Obama’s choice of Lt. Gen. James Clapper for Director of National Intelligence and urged his colleagues in the U.S. Senate to quickly confirm the nomination. A member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Subcommittee, Congressman Ruppersberger has gotten to know General Clapper through their joint work in the intelligence field.An Air Force veteran of 32 years, General Clapper commanded a signals intelligence wing at Fort George G. Meade, located in Congressman Ruppersberger’s district. He has headed the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency and currently serves as the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence. He has also worked as an executive in several private companies such as Booz Allen Hamilton, SRA International and the former Detica DFI, which is now a subsidiary of BAE Systems.“General James Clapper tells it like it is and gives honest assessments of situations. He is true to his beliefs. General Clapper is comfortable speaking truth to power even when those in power don’t want to hear it, or if it costs him his job, as it once did. He is a true, patriotic American that I have always respected,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. “This position requires someone with both public and private sector experience, as well as someone who can negotiate turf battles among our nation’s intelligence agencies to prevent future terrorist attacks. Good intelligence is the best way to prevent terrorism. I am confident General Clapper can successfully lead our nation’s intelligence team. He is the right man for the job.”
05.27.2010	Congress Passed and President Signed Bill In Honor of Memorial Day (Dundalk, MD) – In honor of Memorial Day, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) announced comprehensive legislation to help wounded warriors, women warriors and all of America’s veterans at a special ceremony at American Legion Post 38 in Dundalk. S. 1963, the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010, honors the service and sacrifice of America’s military servicemen and women. Maryland is home to more than 484,000 veterans, many of which will spend years or lifetimes recovering from injuries sustained in combat. In fact, more than 37,000 military servicemen and women have been injured in Iraq and Afghanistan alone. Many times, the day-to-day care of a disabled service member is provided by a spouse, child, or parent. Twenty percent of these caregivers give up a job to provide this care, according to the Dole-Shalala Commission. S. 1963 will offer these caregivers training, financial support, health care and respite care. “America’s men and women in uniform courageously answered the call to serve their country. Many more wounded warriors are returning home than ever before. We must honor our promise to our veterans and make sure they have the comprehensive services they need and deserve. This legislation helps us do that,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The bill also provides women warriors with critical health care and child care benefits, investigates the tragically high suicide rate among veterans, expands treatment for veterans with traumatic brain injuries and increases opportunities for transitional housing for homeless veterans. The Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 passed Congress in late April and was recently signed into law by the President.
05.26.2010	Congress Passed and President Signed Bill In Honor of Memorial Day (Dundalk, MD) – In honor of Memorial Day, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will announce comprehensive legislation to help wounded warriors, women warriors and all of America’s veterans. Maryland is home to more than 484,000 veterans, many of which will spend years or lifetimes recovering from injuries sustained in combat. In fact, more than 37,000 military servicemen and women have been injured in Iraq and Afghanistan alone. Twenty percent of their caregivers have had to give up a job to care for them, according to the Dole-Shalala Commission. The new federal legislation will offer these caregivers training, financial support, health care and respite care.The bill also provides women warriors with critical health care and child care benefits, investigates the tragically high suicide rate among veterans, expands treatment for veterans with traumatic brain injuries and increases opportunities for transitional housing for homeless veterans. “America’s men and women in uniform courageously answered the call to serve their country. Many more wounded warriors are returning home than ever before. We must honor our promise to our veterans and make sure they have the comprehensive services they need and deserve. This legislation helps us do that,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Veterans What: Ruppersberger to Announce Comprehensive Legislation for Wounded Warriors Female Soldiers and all of America’s VeteransWhen: 10:00 a.m., Thursday, May 27, 2010 Where: American Legion Post 38 3300 Dundalk Avenue Dundalk, Maryland
05.24.2010	Ruppersberger is Chairman of Intelligence Subcommittee that Overseas Technical Aspects of Cyber Security(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) praised the move to make Fort Meade the country’s new center for cyber security. The center known as the Cyber Command will protect our nation’s networks that power much of what we do every day. Congressman Ruppersberger attended the ceremony at Fort Meade on Friday, May 21, 2010, where General Keith Alexander was officially sworn in to head the new Cyber Command. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, General David Petraeus, and Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, were also in attendance. By the end of 2010, 21,000 soldiers and civilians in all branches of the military will make up the new Cyber Command. Many will relocate to Fort Meade giving the local economy a boost while keeping our country safe. Congressman Ruppersberger is Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee that overseas the technical side of cyber security. “Our nation’s networks are being attacked every day. The threat is real and the time to act is now. We must develop cutting-edge capabilities to stay ahead of our enemies and protect our nation’s critical infrastructure here at home and protect the war-fighter on the battlefield. Much of this work will be done at the new Cyber Command right in Maryland at Fort Meade. I will work hard in Washington to make sure these trailblazers have all of the support they need to get the job done,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), whose District includes Fort Meade. The Cyber Command will focus on military and intelligence networks and assist the Department of Homeland Security as it protects other critical infrastructure. Our nation’s networks power our computers, our cell phones, our Blackberries, and our I-pods. They power the electrical grid that allows us to turn the lights on, the classified military and intelligence networks that protect the war-fighter on the battlefield, and the broadband networks that link our homes, our schools, our hospitals, and our businesses.
05.17.2010	Major Job Fair Held in White Marsh(White Marsh, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today teamed up with the Cintas uniform company to host a major job fair in White Marsh, hoping to connect unemployed Marylanders with hiring companies. Ranging from hair studios to insurance firms, the event featured many local businesses that have one thing in common: they’re hiring“If you’ve been laid off or if you’re just looking to give your career a boost, this is the perfect opportunity to get yourself your own personal economic stimulus – a new job,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “In Maryland, employers hired close to 36,000 new workers last month, so the timing was right to hold a job fair. Jobs are the fuel that drives our economy. When you have a job, you can support your family and your community."Known for providing uniforms, Cintas provides services of all kinds to more than 800,000 businesses across the country. They invited their clients in the Baltimore area to the fair to connect with job-seekers looking for full and part-time positions.“With over 800,000 customers – small and large – Cintas understands the desperate need for forums to connect job seekers with employment opportunities,” said Robin Everhart, Cintas vice president of government affairs and corporate communications. “We jumped at Congressman Ruppersberger’s invitation to host a job fair in his district and extended the invitation to our local customers, 25 of whom answered the call with openings. We intend to spread the Congressman’s idea with job fairs in other cities, with the assistance of our dedicated employees and loyal customers.”Participating employers include: Advanced Auto Parts, Aflac, Alexandria’s Hair Studio, AlliedBarton Security, Arena Club, BH Trucking, Celebree Learning Center, Consumer Credit Counseling, Enterprise Holdings, EQ Northeast Inc., Goodwill Staffing Services, Manor Care Health, Nutramax Labs, Oak Crest Village, Pall Corporation, Quick West Towing, Santoni’s, United Insurance Company of America, U.S. Navy and Veolia Transport.
05.14.2010	Major Job Fair to Be Held in White Marsh (Towson, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is teaming up with the Cintas uniform company to host a major job fair Monday in White Marsh to connect unemployed Marylanders with hiring companies. Ranging from hair studios to insurance firms, the event will feature many local businesses that have one thing in common: they’re hiring.“If you’ve been laid off or if you’re just looking to give your career a boost, this event is the perfect opportunity to get yourself your own personal economic stimulus – a new job,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “In Maryland, employers hired close to 36,000 new workers last month, so the timing is right to update your resume and come on out.”Known for providing uniforms, Cintas provides services of all kinds to more than 800,000 businesses across the country. They’ve invited their clients in the Baltimore area to the fair to connect with job-seekers looking for full and part-time positions. All are welcome.Interviews with job-seekers and hiring employers will be available. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Companies Looking to Hire New Workers What: Ruppersberger, Cintas Partner to Host Job Fair in White MarshWhen: 10:00 a.m. - 2 p.m., Monday, May 17, 2010 Where: White Marsh Hilton Garden Inn 5015 Campbell Boulevar Baltimore, MD 21236
05.14.2010	Congressman Mobilizes Team of Expert Caseworkers in One-of-a-Kind Workshop(Edgewood, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is taking his team of expert caseworkers on the road with him in a one-of-a-kind service workshop Monday in Edgewood. Skilled in areas including child support, unemployment, Social Security, veterans’ issues, financial aid, foreclosure, Medicare and worker’s compensation, Congressman Ruppersberger’s caseworkers will be on hand to help constituents who may not be able to contact his office during normal business hours.“During these tough financial times, Marylanders have been reaching out to my office for help in record numbers,” Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger said. “This workshop will give my constituents a chance to sit down, one-one-one with a member of my staff experienced with handling all sorts of problems. We’re trying to make it easier for residents by bringing my office to them.”Constituent service has been a hallmark of Congressman Ruppersberger’s time in office. Caseworkers and constituents in need will be available for interviews. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Congressman Ruppersberger’s Team of Caseworkers Constituents who need Congressman Ruppersberger’s help What: Ruppersberger to Present: Dutch on DemandWhen: 7 p.m. - 9 p.m., Monday, May 17, 2010 Where: Edgewood Community Center 1980 Brookside Drive Edgewood, MD 21040
05.12.2010	Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger will join Maryland leaders to break ground for a new Trauma and Critical Care Tower at the University of Maryland’s Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore. The new $160 million, nine-floor tower will substantially boost capacity in the emergency department and intensive care unit. The 140,000 square foot building will house 10 new state-of-the-art operating rooms and 64 new and replacement critical care beds. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the Appropriations Committee, helped secure $3 million for the project. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger’s life was saved at Shock Trauma. The Congressman was in a serious car accident in 1975 when he was a young State’s Attorney investigating drug trafficking cases. Thanks to the unwavering dedication of the doctors, nurses, and technicians at Shock Trauma and a little luck, the Congressman survived. The Congressman makes supporting Shock Trauma one of his top priorities. Shock Trauma is the cornerstone of Maryland’s EMS Trauma System and provides the highest level of trauma care in the state. Its physicians, nurses, and technicians care for more than 8,000 injured patients each year. In addition, medical personnel from the United States Military complete monthly rotations at Shock Trauma to help prepare them for their assignments in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world. Injuries suffered by troops on the battlefield resemble injuries sustained by law enforcement personnel and other accident victims here at home. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley Dr. Thomas Scalea, Physician-In-Chief, Shock Trauma What: Ruppersberger to Join Maryland Leaders and Break Ground for New Shock Trauma Building When: 10 a.m., Thursday, May 13, 2010 Where: The Location of the New Building Corner of Penn and Lombard Streets The University of Maryland Medical Center Baltimore, MD 21201
05.06.2010	Investment in Mexican Border Security Critical to our Nation’s Safety(Washington, DC) – Congressman Ruppersberger today called on Congress to include $137 million to secure our nation’s border with Mexico in the supplemental spending bill being crafted in Congress. The money will allow the government to hire hundreds of new border agents and beef up the equipment they need to keep our frontlines safe. Ruppersberger joined a bipartisan coalition of more than 40 of his colleagues in the House of Representatives who are urging Speaker Nancy Pelosi to include this much-needed money in the supplemental appropriations bill for fiscal year 2010. The group formalized their request in a letter to Speaker Pelosi. “Border patrol agents are critically important to keep our families and our communities safe by preventing terrorists, guns and drugs from slipping into our country unnoticed. This $137 million federal investment in border security is critical to the safety of our nation. We need the money and we need it now,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee.The recent murders of American citizens connected to the U.S. consulate in Ciudad Juarez and the death of an Arizona rancher on American soil highlight the need for more resources. An estimated 15,000 lives have been lost to the drug war along the Mexican border over the past three years.The group of lawmakers is requesting he following funds be included in the supplemental:$32.2 million to hire 207 new Border Patrol agents. The recent spike in violence at the border underscores the need for more agents, who protect the frontlines of our nation.$25 million to equip the U.S. Border Patrol with the tools they need to secure the border and protect themselves. The funding will go toward operating bases, communication equipment, surveillance equipment and other resources.$30 million for the National Guard Counter Drug program activities, which provide military soldiers and airmen to support local, state and federal law enforcement agencies fighting drugs.$50 million for Operation Stonegarden, a federal grant program that helps local law enforcement hire additional agents, pay overtime and travel expenses. Operation Stonegarden is often the only federal resource available to help rural local law enforcement agencies.Click here to see the full text of the letter.
05.05.2010	Ruppersberger Brought Together Local, State, Federal, and Community Leaders to Curb Gang Violence(Brooklyn Park, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) hosted a Gang Prevention Summit in Anne Arundel County today at Brooklyn Park Middle School. The Congressman is deeply concerned about gang activity in Maryland, including the recent killing of a Crofton teenager in a suspected gang attack while riding his bike near his home. “Unfortunately, gang violence is a reality in Maryland. Simply arresting and prosecuting our way out of this gang problem won’t work. We need a comprehensive approach that includes prevention as well as tough tactics to lock up gang members. I have made combating gangs and protecting our neighborhoods and communities one of my top priorities,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger secured close to $5 million for his Gang Elimination Task Force. He believes we must:Utilize the latest in technology to help law enforcement officers locate, catch, and prosecute gang membersGet to kids early and support programs like Girls and Boys Clubs, Pal Centers, and Rec Councils to give kids something to do instead of joining a gangArm parents with information about the warning signs that indicate their child is being recruited by a gangThe Congressman brought together local, state, federal and community leaders to help curb gang activity and gang violence at his Gang Prevention Summit.
05.03.2010	Ruppersberger to Bring Together Local, State, Federal, and Community Leaders to Curb Gang Violence (Brooklyn Park, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will host a Gang Prevention Summit in Anne Arundel County on May 4, 2010. The Congressman is deeply concerned about gang activity in Maryland, including the recent killing of a Crofton teenager in a suspected gang attack while riding his bike near his home. The Congressman will bring together local, state, federal and community leaders to help curb gang activity and gang violence. Congressman Ruppersberger secured close to $5 million for his Gang Elimination Task Force. He believes we must:Utilize the latest in technology to help law enforcement officers locate, catch, and prosecute gang membersGet to kids early and support programs like Girls and Boys Clubs, Pal Centers, and Rec Councils to give kids something to do instead of joining a gangArm parents with information about the warning signs that indicate their child is being recruited by a gang“Unfortunately, gang violence is a reality in Maryland. Simply arresting and prosecuting our way out of this gang problem won’t work. We need a comprehensive approach that includes prevention as well as tough tactics to lock up gang members. I have made combating gangs and protecting our neighborhoods and communities one of my top priorities,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD).Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Anne Arundel County Police Members of the Boys and Girls Club Former Gang Member What: Ruppersberger to Host Gang Prevention Summit When: 7:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m., Tuesday, May 4, 2010Where: Brooklyn Park Middle School 200 Hammonds Lane Baltimore, Md
05.03.2010	“Keep America Working Job Fair” Held in Towson(Towson, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) teamed up with Monster.com and held the “Keep America Working Job Fair” in Towson today. The economy is showing signs of recovery. In Maryland, employers hired close to 36,000 new workers last month, according to the U.S. Labor Department. That’s the largest hiring increase in a single month in Maryland since 1970. “This is the perfect time to hold a job fair in Maryland because businesses are hiring new workers. Jobs provide the gasoline that runs our economy. When you have a job, you can support your family and your community. Hundreds turned out for the ‘Keep America Working Job Fair’ to give their career a boost,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD).“After a successful 2009 Keep America Working tour that brought out more than 2,100 employers, we continue to see encouraging news on the hiring front. This year, we are happy to return to communities like Towson, Maryland. With the support of Congressman Ruppersberger, we believe we can help accelerate the recovery in communities across the Baltimore region by providing a forum to help match job seekers with local employers who are actively hiring in the area,” said Sal Iannuzzi, Chairman, President and CEO of Monster Worldwide.A broad range of employers including car companies, financial firms, child care providers, marketing firms, insurance companies, department stores, cell phone companies, and more were on hand to meet with job seekers at the Sheraton Hotel in Towson.
04.29.2010	(Baltimore, MD) – After the overwhelming success of a foreclosure prevention workshop earlier this week in Overlea, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) announced today his office will host another in Essex on Monday, May 3, 2010. Once again, the workshop will connect major lenders together to Marylanders who are at risk of losing their homes.Maryland families need help now more than ever. Home foreclosures in Maryland and are up 80 percent from last year, while foreclosures in the rest of the country have stabilized, according to Realty Trac, Inc., a California-based foreclosure-tracking firm. Congressman Ruppersberger’s office was able to help about 50 Maryland families meet one-on-one with their lender at his first workshop April 26. More are expected at “Round 2.” All major mortgage lenders have been invited to attend. Families that received assistance at the first workshop are available for interviews prior to the event.Attendees are encouraged to bring the following materials to the workshop: • Hardship Letter• Last Two Months’ Bank Statements • Last Two Pay Stubs • 2008 or 2009 Tax Return • Any Notification Regarding Foreclosure • Any Other Relevant Documentation Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Mortgage Lenders Housing Counselors What: Ruppersberger to Host “Round 2” Foreclosure Prevention Workshop When: 6:30 p.m. – 9:30 p.m., Monday, May 3, 2010 Where: Stemmers Run Middle School 201 Stemmers Run Road Baltimore, MD 21221
04.28.2010	(Washington, DC) –Congressman Ruppersberger today announced that employer-provided health coverage for adult children under the age of 27 is now tax-free for Marylanders. These changes will immediately allow many employees to begin making pre-tax contributions to their health plan, saving them valuable dollars. “This gives employers a great opportunity to offer a worthwhile benefit to the employees – helping them attract a better workforce and helping young people stay healthy,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “As the changes under health care reform are implemented, I believe we will continue to see better deals for Maryland families.”This key provision of the recently-passed health care reform bill affects employers who offer cafeteria plans, which allow their employees to choose from a menu of benefit options, such as cash, childcare assistance, life insurance and paid leave. Beginning in September, health plans will be required to allow adult children to remain on their parents’ policy up until age 26. Employers and employees can choose to have adult children to remain on the policy on a tax-free basis up until age 27. For more information, click here.
04.27.2010	“Keep America Working Job Fair” to be Held in Towson on Friday(Towson, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is teaming up with Monster.com to hold the “Keep America Working Job Fair” in Towson on Friday, April 30, 2010. The economy is showing signs of recovery. In Maryland, employers hired close to 36,000 new workers last month, according to the U.S. Labor Department. That’s the largest hiring increase in a single month in Maryland since 1970. “This is the perfect time to hold a job fair in Maryland because businesses are hiring new workers. Jobs provide the gasoline that runs our economy. When you have a job, you can support your family and your community. Update your resume and join us for the ‘Keep America Working Job Fair.’ Don’t miss this opportunity to give your career a boost,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). A broad range of employers including car companies, financial firms, child care providers, marketing firms, insurance companies, department stores, cell phone companies, and more will be on hand to meet with job seekers. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Companies Looking to Hire New WorkersWhat: Ruppersberger to Team up with Monster.com for “Keep America Working Job Fair”When: 10:00 a.m. - 2 p.m., Friday, April 30, 2010Where: The Sheraton Hotel 903 Dulaney Valley Road Towson, Maryland 21204
04.20.2010	Humanitarian Passed Earlier Today at the Age of 98(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today mourned the passing of Civil Rights advocate Dr. Dorothy Height earlier this morning and co-sponsored a House Resolution honoring her life and legacy.Widely regarded as one of the founding members of the Civil Rights movement, Dr. Height fought for equal rights for both women and blacks. She marched alongside Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and spoke out for voting rights, employment opportunities and the desegregation of schools. She was the recipient of 36 honorary degrees, the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal. After being turned away from Barnard College because it had already reached its quota of two black women, Dr. Height went on to earn Bachelor's and Master's degrees from New York University and did postgraduate work at Columbia University and the New York School of Social Work. “Dr. Height did not let anything stop her. She was a driving force in the fight for issues that affected not just black women, but all women,” Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger said. “She stood for affordable child care for working mothers, proper health care and housing for families in need. Her entire life was dedicated to correcting the social wrongs she witnessed around her, though her work was often overshadowed by the male civil rights leaders of the day. Dr. Height was the true underdog of the movement.”For more than 40 years, Dr. Height presided over the National Council of Negro Women, which connects more than 4 million women worldwide.
04.13.2010	(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will hold a Foreclosure Prevention Workshop in Overlea on April 26, 2010. Home foreclosures in Maryland and are up 80 percent from last year, while foreclosures in the rest of the country have stabilized, according to Realty Trac, Inc.,a California-based research firm. “This struggling economy has been tough on Maryland families. If you are in danger of losing your home, we can help. Please join me at my Foreclosure Prevention Workshop where you will have the chance to sit down, one-on-one, with housing counselors, mortgage lenders and other experts to discuss your options to keep you in your home,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. Financial Experts will be ready to discuss the following: The Making Home Affordable ProgramPartial Claim Program for FHA LoansRefinancing OptionsAttendees are encouraged to bring the following materials to the workshop:Hardship LetterLast Two Months’ Bank StatementsLast Two Pay Stubs2008 or 2009 Tax ReturnAny Notification Regarding ForeclosureAny Other Relevant Documentation Many mortgage lenders have been invited to attend. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Mortage Lenders Housing CounselorsWhat: Ruppersberger to Hold Foreclosure Prevention Workshop When: Monday, April 26, 2010 6:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.Where: Overlea High School 5401 Kenwood Avenue Baltimore, MD 21206
04.08.2010	Strategy will boost energy efficiency and reduce costs in Washington office(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today announced a strategic plan to increase energy efficiency, save resources and cut costs in his Washington, DC, office. As a participant in the “My Green Office” program, Congressman Ruppersberger’s Capitol Hill digs underwent an energy evaluation. The Congressman and his staff are implementing new practices and technology to reduce energy consumption and operational costs. Changes are already underway, such as:• Installing new smart power strips that automatically turn off when computers are not in use• Replacing traditional light bulbs with energy-efficient ones• Eliminating the use of bottled water with a new water filtration system• Switching to reusable coffee mugs and glassesOther changes, such as new solar shades and composting bins, are on their way.“These changes may seem simple and insignificant, but if every House office participates, we can save nearly $1 million and keep up to 3,000 pounds of garbage from filling up landfills every year,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a member of the House Appropriations and Intelligence Committees. “When it comes to our energy independence, every little bit counts. We must do everything we can to free our nation from its reliance on unstable foreign nations for oil and lead us to a better, cheaper and more secure energy future.”The office’s full participation in the program over the course of a year will:• Reduce electricity consumption at the House of Representatives by more then 7,500 kWH• Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 16,000 pounds of greenhouse gas emissions• Result in savings of more than $1,300 from reduced electricity and procurement costsCongressman Ruppersberger plans to take the program home by working with his District Office in Timonium, Maryland, to make similar improvements. He is also asking constituents to join him in doing their part to save resources and increase energy efficiency both at home and in the office.
04.05.2010	As you may know, the U.S. House of Representatives recently passed legislation to reform our health care system and reign in costs that are spiraling out of control. I voted in favor of this bill because I believe it was the right thing to do. No legislation is ever perfect, but this bill met my expectations on my three top concerns – cost, the wellbeing of seniors and young people, and protection for small business.On the issue of cost, many Americans do not realize how much their insurance premiums have increased, or how much they are paying to cover the medical care of those without health insurance. The average American family will pay $25,000 a year for health insurance premiums in 10 years if we do nothing. Who can afford that?Here in our district, this bill will help 155,000 working families and 15,100 small businesses afford health coverage. This eases the unfair burden to the 450,000 residents who do have insurance but must bear the brunt of the cost for those without. In fact, the average family shells out $1,100 a year in higher premium costs to cover the uninsured.For those who have insurance you like, this bill will not significantly impact you. It will, however, provide important benefits that will improve your existing coverage by:Ensuring the 9,900 residents in our district with pre-existing conditions like cancer, heart disease and diabetes will no longer be denied insurance coveragePreventing your insurance company from cancelling your coverage if you get sick Limiting your annual out-of-pocket cost, prohibiting lifetime limits and reducing the cost of preventive careThis bill helps two groups of people who struggle to find affordable care: seniors and young people. Under the bill, young adults will now be allowed to remain on their parents’ insurance policies until they turn 26. It creates new affordable policies for people under 30 to protect themselves from catastrophic health care costs.Seniors make up a huge proportion of our district, and I would not vote for anything that would hurt their health care coverage. There are 96,000 Medicare beneficiaries in our district, and this bill provides them with many benefits:Free preventive and wellness careElimination of the donut hole in Medicare Part D. Each year, 7,000 Medicare beneficiaries in our district enter the “hole” and have to pay the full cost of their prescription drugs. A typical beneficiary who enters the donut hole will save more than $700 in 2011 and more than $3,000 by 2020A $250 rebate this year for seniors who hit the donut holeHalf price brand-name prescription drugs starting next yearShoring up the Medicare Trust Fund for nearly 10 years to comeThere has been much talk about this bill “cutting Medicare.” This is simply not true. We fund the Medicare fixes in this legislation by equalizing payments in Medicare Advantage. Medicare Advantage was designed to be a test program that gave certain Medicare beneficiaries the option of receiving their benefits through private insurance plans. Unfortunately, these private insurers have been charging Medicare 14 percent over what traditional Medicare pays out, and provide the same or often fewer benefits than traditional Medicare. More than 31 million seniors and people with disabilities enrolled in traditional Medicare are forced to pay higher premiums each month to subsidize these excess payments.Recapturing these overcharges will save $156 billion in Medicare over the next decade. This will go a long way toward shoring up the Medicare Trust Fund. We will also look for savings by cutting administrative waste, improving efficiency and technology and eliminating fraud. Frankly, these are things we should be doing anyway.This bill will extend health care coverage to 35,000 uninsured residents in our district. Those who do not receive insurance from their employer will be able to purchase coverage at group rates through the newly created insurance exchange. By law, Members of Congress and their staff must also purchase insurance from this exchange. Families with incomes up to $88,000 will receive tax credits to help pay for this coverage. Most residents in our district are not affected by the fees and taxes created to pay for this bill. These include:A small increase in investment income and Medicare payroll taxes a) only for people who make more than $200,000 a year and couples that make more than $250,000 and b) only on the income in excess of these thresholdsA new tax on high-cost insurance plans and a fee on the makers and importers of brand-name drugs and certain medical devicesAn annual fee on insurance providersA repeal of a tax loophole that affects paper manufacturersOur economic engines – small businesses – are always a top priority for me, but especially so in this financial climate. This bill will help 16,900 small businesses in our district that have 100 employees or less by enabling them to purchase insurance at group rates on the exchange. Companies that have 50 employees or less will not be required to offer health insurance to their employees and will not be penalized. But companies with 25 employees or less can receive tax credits up to 50 percent if they chose to offer insurance benefits.I heard from some constituents who opposed the bill based on right-to-life provisions. Many prolife Members of Congress (including vocal right-to-life supporter Rep. Bart Stupak of Michigan) felt the language was clear: taxpayer dollars will not pay for abortion. The President reaffirmed this law in a recent Executive Order. No health plan is required to cover abortion, and, in plans that do, customers will have to pay for it separately. That money must be kept in a separate account from taxpayer money. This was one of many myths about the bill; others included special favors for union members and exemptions for certain states.Like some of you, I was not happy with the process that played out in Congress. Along with Rep. Dennis Cardoza, a colleague from California, and other members, I was able to persuade House leadership to allow us to cast an up-or-down vote on both the Senate bill and reconciliation. I support an open and transparent process that allows Members of Congress to be held accountable for their votes. I stand by mine and hope that, in time, the benefits of this bill will become clearer than the myths and misconceptions that clouded debate. It’s time to talk about the facts.As always, I appreciate hearing from you. If you have any additional questions or concerns about this legislation, please do not hesitate to contact my office.Sincerely,Dutch RuppersbergerMember of Congress
03.31.2010	Congressman Ruppersberger and Baltimore Raven Team Up to Promote 2010 Census(Randallstown, MD) – U.S. Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today teamed up with Baltimore Ravens starting cornerback Domonique Foxworth to promote participation in the 2010 Census. The two visited the Liberty Senior Center in Randallstown to help seniors complete their census forms and give fans a chance to meet their hometown star.The Census is conducted every 10 years to determine Congressional representation and how more than $400 billion in federal funding is allocated each year to local and state governments. An accurate count of all Marylanders could result in more than $57 billion for our state over the next decade. The 2010 Census form is one of the shortest census questionnaires in history and takes about 10 minutes to complete. The event came one day before national “Census Day,” which is the target for returning completed forms in the mail. “Completing your form is as easy as breaking the Steelers’ defense,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It only takes 10 minutes to fill out and comes with a pre-paid envelope so you can mail it back as quickly as possible. Responses – which are required by law – are completely confidential and secure. I am urging every Marylander to be counted so that our tax dollars are returned to our communities.”“Filling out your Census form will help Maryland get the federal funding it needs for things like new schools, senior centers, libraries, roads, bridges, police and fire stations,” Domonique Foxworth said. “It’s important we count everyone in Maryland so everyone wins.”The event was held at the Liberty Senior Center in Randallstown, where Domonique Foxworth grew up, to highlight important implications that Census will have on senior programs and needs. The Census, for example, determines critical allocations for Social Security, Medicare, adult education and senior centers as well as disease prevention and health programs.Census takers will be visiting households through July that do not return a form by mail.
03.30.2010	Mobile Job Search Center Offers Assistance for Ex-Offenders(Randallstown, Md.) – Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today joined Congressman Elijah E. Cummings and Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith as they dedicated a one-stop Mobile Career Center to serve ex-offenders. The center was made possible, in part, with $329,000in federal funds to equip the center with state-of-the-art computer technology.The Mobile Career Center provides access to computer stations, the Internet, phone and fax service as well as the hands-on assistance of professionally trained workforce development staff. When the Mobile Career Center is not being used to provide services to this often-times forgotten population, it will be used by various Baltimore County agencies to provide services to county residents.“This Mobile Career Center in a unique one-stop shop to help Marylanders find work, especially ex-offenders who have a harder time re-entering society and contributing to the economy,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Sometimes just accessing the right information is a challenge, and this project is just one more tool to help bridge that gap and get Marylanders back to work during these challenging times.”“Funding was obtained as a direct result of the commitment of Congressman Ruppersberger and Congressman Cummings,” said County Executive Jim Smith. “This funding will help Baltimore County ex-offenders find work. When ex-offenders are employed, they are less likely to re-offend.”“It is imperative that people with a criminal record are not left out of the economic recovery in our region,” said Barry F. Williams Director of the Baltimore County Office of Workforce Development. “The Mobile Career Center provides support by bringing job search assistance to ex-offenders where they live.”For more information on the Mobile Career Center and the services and resources available through the Baltimore County Office of Workforce Development, click here.
03.30.2010	As families prepare for the Passover and Easter holidays, attention turns to Maryland’s hungryBaltimore, Md. – U.S. Congressmen Dutch Ruppersberger, Elijah Cummings and John Sarbanes along with U.S. Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (all D-MD) today presented the Maryland Food Bank with a check for $492,000 to help the non-profit organization feed the growing number of Marylanders who are hungry. The funding for the Maryland Food Bank was included in the omnibus appropriations bill that was enacted into law in December 2009.The Maryland Food Bank provides meals to approximately 44,600 Marylanders a week and 261,000 people a year. Since the economic downturn began in 2008, the Maryland Food Bank has reported a 30 to 50 percent increase in the demand for food. Many of its clients work full time and were considered middle class before the recession.“This funding couldn’t have come at a better time – when the fastest-growing segment of those in need is people who work full-time and were considered middle-class before the economic recession,” Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger said. “The Maryland Food Bank has been helping Maryland families get back on their feet for decades and this funding will now help them put a new roof over their own heads. I am proud to be a part of Team Maryland and will continue to fight to ensure Marylanders have the resources they need to weather this financial storm.” “In this recession, too many Marylanders have been faced with the difficult decision of whether to buy food or pay other bills such as rent, heat or health care,” said Senator Cardin, a member of the Senate Budget Committee. “The Maryland Food Bank provides a valuable service in helping to feed our state’s hungry, and I am committed to ensuring they have the resources they need to carry out their mission.” “The mission of the Maryland Food Bank is one of mercy,” said Congressman Cummings. “That our land of plenty has citizens who go hungry is a national embarrassment. The Maryland Food Bank has done incredible work to fix this problem, and I am proud to help it continue that mission, in the words of its motto, until hunger ends.”“In these difficult economic times, the Maryland Food Bank is playing a critical role providing food for the hungry,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “The Maryland Food Bank has been a lifeline for struggling families who didn’t know where their next meal was going to come from.The Maryland Food Bank, an affiliate of Feeding America, was founded in 1979 to coordinate the procurement and distribution of food donations from manufacturers, wholesalers, retailers and government agencies to organizations providing free food to the state's hungry. It provides nearly 14 million pounds of food annually to 1,000 Network Partners -- including food pantries, soup kitchens, emergency shelters, low-income day care centers, after-school programs, senior centers, rehabilitation centers, and other feeding programs.
03.24.2010	Funding to benefit Maryland Food Bank amid increasing demand (Baltimore, MD) – U.S. Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and Congressman Elijah Cummings (all D-MD) will announce much-needed federal funds to help the Maryland Food Bank feed the state’s hungry. The Maryland Food Bank is a nonprofit organization that solicits food donations from manufacturers, wholesalers, grocery stores and private citizens and distributes it to soup kitchens, food pantries and homeless shelters across the state.The Maryland Food Bank reports that it has seen a 30 to 50 percent increase in the demand for food over the last 18 months, largely due to the economic climate. Many of its new clients were considered middle class before the economic recession took hold. In fact, the fastest-growing segment of those in need is people who work full-time. Team Maryland believes it is important to ensure all families have food on their table, particularly as the Passover and Easter holidays begin.The event will include a tour of the improvements planned for the Food Bank’s warehouse and a “Community Kitchen” that will open next year.Who: Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD) Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) Maryland Food Bank CEO Deborah Flateman Maryland Food Bank Chief Operations Officer John MayWhat: Team Maryland to Announce Critical Funding to Help Curb State’s Growing Hunger ProblemWhen: 10:00 a.m., Monday, March 29 Where: Maryland Food Bank 2200 Halethorpe Farms Road Halethorpe, MD 21227
03.17.2010	Edgewood native and combat medic Gustavo Rodriguez served 40 months in Iraq(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today recognized Army Staff Sergeant Gustavo Rodriguez as he was honored with the “Angels of Battlefield” award by the Armed Services YMCA. A native of Edgewood, Sergeant Rodriguez served as a combat medic in the United States Army for the past 15 years.Sergeant Rodriguez served three tours of duty in Iraq for a total of 40 months. He was a mentor and comrade to his colleagues, who nicknamed him “Doc.” The Armed Services YMCA worked with the military services to select corpsmen and medics from the Army, Army Reserve, Navy, Navy Reserve, Air Force, Air Force Reserve, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and Army Guard to represent their respective services and receive the “Angels of the Battlefield” award on behalf of their fellow corpsmen and medics for their dedication and commitment to service. “Combat medics are asked to perform life-saving tasks under the most extreme conditions,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “They have to have extraordinary medical skills, the ability to keep cool under pressure and a selflessness that allows them to put the lives of their colleagues before their own. Sergeant Rodriguez’s service is an inspiration to all of us, and I am proud to represent him.”Sergeant Rodriguez is also the recipient of the “Bronze Star” medal, the fourth-highest combat award for bravery in the U.S. Armed Forces. Sergeant Rodriguez recounted a recent incident in which he treated an Iraqi Army Captain who suffered eight gunshot wounds during a firefight outside his compound. The only combat medic present, Sergeant Rodriguez was able to stabilize him until he could be evacuated.A photo is available upon request.
03.15.2010	Funding to reduce youth-involved crime, help ex-offenders become productive citizens(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today was joined by Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) and Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake (D) in announcing $1.8 million in federal funding for several crime prevention and enforcement initiatives. The funding will help Baltimore City Police disrupt the gun pipeline, combat gangs and encourage students to stay in school. A portion of the funding will also help ex-offenders develop new skills to land – and keep – a job, helping them to become productive members of society.The announcement was made from Northwood Plaza, the site of the murder of former Baltimore City Councilman Ken Harris, who was shot to death September 20, 2008, in what police say was a botched robbery. Three suspects, including two teens, have been charged in the crime. The Northwood community was identified by Baltimore City Police as an area that could specifically benefit from this funding.“Ken Harris could see a better future for his city and wasn’t willing to sit on the sidelines and wait for someone else to make it a reality,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. “His murder was a senseless example of the destruction that guns and gangs can cause, robbing our city of a great leader. It is my hope that this funding will take Baltimore one step closer to Ken Harris’ dream – getting illegal guns off the streets, keeping kids in school and helping ex-offenders avoid lifetimes of crime.”“Talking tough about crime is cheap,” Congressman Elijah Cummings said. “It’s time for us to focus on programs that work, provide the funding that they need to be effective and get the job done. These federal initiatives that we are announcing will not solve all of our challenges. However, each represents a well-thought-out response toward achieving a safer community for our families.”“We have an obligation to keep our communities safe so that families can feel secure in their homes,” said Senator Mikulski, chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations subcommittee that puts funds in the federal checkbook for the Federal Bureau of Investigation. “We also have an obligation to the kids who need to be kept safe and who need to be given alternatives. I am committed to giving law enforcement the tools they need to clean up the streets, protect our families and keep Baltimore’s neighborhoods safe.”“I would like to thank Congressman Ruppersberger, Congressman Cummings and our entire Congressional Delegation for their steadfast commitment to making Baltimore a better, safer and stronger City,” Mayor Rawlings-Blake said. “This federal criminal justice funding will go a long way to reduce gun violence and recidivism, dismantle gang networks and keep our City’s young people out of trouble and out of harms way.”The funds were included in the collective spending bill known as the omnibus passed by Congress and signed into law in December:• $1.1 million for the Baltimore City Gun Violence Reduction Initiative. The funds will be used to hire dedicated crime analysts to research and track known gun offenders and collect gun trace data and support Baltimore EXILE – a program that guarantees jail time for any felon who carries a gun in Baltimore.• $200,000 for Baltimore City’s Juvenile Screening and Diversion Program. The fund will support a pilot intervention program for youth arrested for nonviolent offenses in two city police districts. The goal is to prevent juvenile crime, reduce gang involvement and improve school attendance and performance.• $500,000 for the Jericho Reentry Program operated by the nonprofit Episcopal Community Services of Maryland to help ex-offenders in Baltimore develop employment skills, secure a position and keep the job. The funding will increase the capacity of Jericho’s existing program, making communities safer and reducing recidivism.
02.25.2010	2010 Intelligence Authorization Bill hits House floor today(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today urged his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to authorize allocations that will boost intelligence collection and counterintelligence efforts in targeted areas that have been underfunded in recent years.The House is considering H.R. 2701, the Intelligence Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010, which authorizes a classified funding level for the16 organizations of the Intelligence Community, including the CIA, National Security Agency and the Defense Intelligence Agency. A member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and chairman of its Technical and Tactical Subcommittee, Congressman Ruppersberger said the bill reprioritizes two of his top national security concerns: cybersecurity and space dominance.“The repeated cyber attacks on the information technology systems of the federal government and private industry over the past year prove that the time to act was yesterday,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Our nation’s cyber networks power so much of what we do – from our electrical grid to systems that provide critical data to troops in combat. To allow them to remain vulnerable is unacceptable.”“This bill also makes important investments in space by supporting both the President and Senate’s classified plans to develop new satellite capabilities. We are the strongest country in the world because we control the skies, but we are losing our preeminence in space to foreign countries. We have to get back on track to keep our families here at home and our troops around the world safe.”The bill:• Increases funding for human intelligence collection and counterintelligence activities – vital tools that have been under-resourced in recent years. • Authorizes essential funding in support of U.S. efforts in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan.• Includes provisions to improve oversight of the intelligence community, including creating a statutory, Senate-confirmed Inspector General for the entire Intelligence Community. • Includes provisions to enhance the nation’s cybersecurity efforts and to better fight the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. • Includes provisions that prohibit the release or transfer of any individual held at Guantanamo Bay to the United States until the President provides a plan to Congress for dealing with these detainees and for mitigating any possible risk. • Includes provisions to improve the language capabilities of the Intelligence Community, which has been a long-time problem area, as well as to better ensure a diverse and robust workforce. • Requires the Director of National Intelligence, along with the Attorney General, to provide a report on how the United States will balance intelligence collection needs with the interest of the United States in prosecuting terrorist suspects.• Creates a statutory and independent Intelligence Community-wide Inspector General, with responsibility for identifying problems in areas within the jurisdiction of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) or in the interaction between Intelligence Community agencies.
02.22.2010	Critical federal unemployment benefit extension set to expire this week(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today urged his colleagues in the U.S. Senate to pass a federal jobs bill that will help thousands of laid-off Maryland workers get back on their feet. A much-needed extension of unemployment benefits will expire Feb. 28 if legislation is not passed before then.A $154 billion jobs package that passed the U.S. House of Representatives in December would extend unemployment benefits through the end of June, but the legislation has since stalled in the Senate. If the extension expires, benefits will end for as many as 54,000 jobless Marylanders.“Emergency aid to laid-off workers isn’t a Republican or Democratic issue,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This is about helping Marylanders and United States citizens who have lost their job through no fault of their own pay for basic necessities like food and heat until they can find work. Research shows that every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates more than $1.60 in new economic demand. This extension is one of the most cost-effective and immediate ways we can stimulate the economy because the money is spent quickly.”
02.19.2010	Federal Recovery Act helps Maryland police departments hire 112 officers; State touts significant reductions in violent crime(Baltimore, MD) – Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger joined Maryland Lt. Governor Anthony G. Brown, Baltimore City Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, Director of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Bernard K. Melekian, Congressman Elijah Cummings, Congressman John Sarbanes, Baltimore Police Commissioner Frederick H. Bealefeld, III, Prince George’s County Police Chief Roberto L. Hylton and local law enforcement leaders today to tout the effectiveness of the Federal Recovery Act, signed one year ago this week by President Barack Obama.The Federal Recovery Act allowed Maryland to hire 112 police officers through $23.25 million in grants awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice’s COPS Hiring Recovery Program.“Economists on both sides of the aisle agreed that the Recovery Act was necessary to stave off another depression. Here in Maryland, it also helped us get more than 100 police officers back to work to support their families and keep us safe in the process. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. One year later, the state’s violent crime rate has been reduced and more Maryland families are back on their feet,” said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger.“One year ago, President Obama took swift action to pull us out of the recession and put Americans to work. Here in Maryland, the Federal Recovery Act has saved and created thousands of jobs, and public safety is no exception,” said Lt. Governor Brown. “With the help of COPS and our strong federal and local partners, we now have more police officers patrolling our streets, securing our neighborhoods and protecting our families.”“One year ago this week, the President signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act into law, and we are pleased that it has translated into jobs being saved and created in Maryland. Cops count and every officer can have a positive impact on making communities safer places to live and work,” said COPS Director Bernard K. Melekian.The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which was signed into law by President Barack Obama one year ago this week, included $1 billion for COPS hiring grants to be awarded to police departments to hire new police officers or rehire officers who would have otherwise been laid off due to budget constraints. In July 2009, Vice President Biden announced that the COPS Office would award 1,046 grants to hire or rehire 4,699 law enforcement officers across the nation. Eight Maryland agencies received grants totaling more than $23 million to hire 112 officers, including Baltimore City which was awarded a $10 million grant to hire 50 officers.“In the past decade, Baltimore has seen a significant decline in crime rates,” said Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. “COPS funding will allow us to continue to build on these achievements, making every community in Baltimore safer and stronger.”Last year, Maryland reported the lowest violent crime rate since 1987 and the largest three-year reduction in homicides since the 1970s, including a 46 percent reduction in juvenile homicides over the same period of time. Between 2008 and 2009, Prince George’s County and Baltimore City reduced juvenile homicides by 45 and 53 percent, respectively.Of the 71 Maryland law enforcement agencies that applied for a grant, eight agencies were awarded a combined $23.25 million to hire or retain 112 officers:Baltimore City Police Department - $10,131,050 for 50 officer positionsTown of Bladensburg - $221,672 for one officer positionCambridge Police Department - $356,212 for two officer positionsCity of Laurel - $726,411 for three officer positionsPrince George’s County Police Department - $10,630,950 for 50 officer positionsTown of Princess Anne - $187,437 for one officer positionRiverdale Park Police Department - $203,727 for one officer positionCity of Salisbury - $795,068 for four officer positions“At the one year anniversary of the Recovery Act, I am even more proud to have cast my vote for it,” said Congressman Elijah Cummings. “Those who say it has failed should come to Baltimore and meet the police officers whose jobs have been saved and whose incredible work, day in and day out, makes our city a safer place to live. I am certain that their fine work will continue, that they will continue to protect and serve the citizens of Baltimore. Voting for the Recovery Act helped keep officers on the streets, and I will consider it my sworn duty to continue helping them in any way possible.”The funding made available by the COPS Office covers entry-level salaries and benefits. The Maryland Governor’s Office of Crime Control and Prevention (GOCCP) made additional funding available to local police departments to help defray the costs of training and equipment for the new positions. GOCCP provided the agencies with the opportunity to apply for up to $10,000 in funding for each new position funded by the COPS office. To date, four agencies have received matching grants from GOCCP, including Baltimore City Police Department, City of Salisbury, Cambridge Police Department and Town of Princess Anne.“This is a terrific example of how the Recovery Act is putting people to work and making our communities safer,” said Congressman John Sarbanes. “The men and women who serve in Baltimore’s dedicated police force are the backbone of our city and I am pleased that these resources will go to expand their ranks.”The COPS Office, a component of the U.S. Department of Justice, awards grants to state, local, territory and tribal law enforcement agencies to hire and train community policing professionals, acquire and deploy cutting-edge crime-fighting technologies, and develop and test innovative policing strategies. COPS Office funding also provides training and technical assistance to community members and local government leaders and all levels of law enforcement.By the end of FY2008, the COPS Office had helped more than 13,000 of the nation’s 18,000 law enforcement agencies hire 117,000 additional officers. Nearly 500,000 law enforcement personnel, community members, and government leaders have been trained through COPS Office-funded training organizations.“I want to thank Governor O'Malley, Lt. Governor Brown and our federal delegation for their continued commitment to Baltimore by providing these much needed funds to put more police officers on foot patrols in our neighborhoods,” said Baltimore Police Commissioner Frederick Bealefeld III.“Police officers and technology cost money that local agencies just don’t have right now, given the current economic climate. Stimulus funds have become critical for us to maintain safe communities. For example, the Prince George’s County Police Department received federal stimulus money that allowed us to hire 50 new police officers that we otherwise wouldn’t have been able to afford. We cannot express how much we appreciate the assistance of the federal government in our efforts to protect the public,” said Prince Georges County Police Chief Roberto Hylton.President Obama’s American Recovery and Reinvestment Act helped crate or save an estimated 2 million jobs nationwide, including nearly 20,000 in Maryland, and helped our national economy to grow by 5.7 percent in the fourth quarter. The Recovery Act also provided over $100 billion in tax relief for American businesses and families.“Our state and local law enforcement work around the clock to keep violent crime in check and our children and communities safe. We have a responsibility to make sure they’re not walking a thin blue line when it comes to funding and resources,” Senator Barbara Mikulski said. “I was proud to fight to include funding in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for the COPS Hiring Recovery Program. I knew this funding would mean more cops on the beat cleaning up our streets and protecting our neighborhoods.”The latest round of reporting required by the federal government to account for Maryland’s share of the funding through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was recently completed. These reports detail the use of these funds that been used and invested through our state so far. A summary of report is now available, and can be found at www.recovery.maryland.gov.
02.18.2010	Funding will enable Baltimore nonprofit to expand workforce training district-wide(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger was joined today by Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings Blake in announcing $250,000 in federal funding to help out-of-work Marylanders gain the skills they need to secure their future. The funding will allow HARBEL Community Organization, a Baltimore-based nonprofit, create a pilot program to help unemployed workers – especially seniors, teens, displaced homemakers, veterans, handicapped individuals, ex-offenders, and people finishing substance abuse programs – find a job.HARBEL will counsel job seekers by helping them determine what kind of job they would like, what skills they need to gain to get that job, and where they can get those skills. The organization will also connect job seekers with their business partners willing to show them the ropes with the ultimate goal of a permanent position. The funding will also pay for new computers for important technology training. The funds were included in the $ collective spending bill known as the omnibus passed by Congress and signed into law in December.Maryland’s unemployment rate is currently about 7.5 percent – the highest level since 1983 – with about 220,000 residents actively seeking work. In this tough economy, Congressman Ruppersberger believes it is more important than ever we help Marylanders get the skills they need so they can go back to work.“If you don’t have a job, you can’t support your family or your community,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “This funding is critically important to help job-seekers get the skills they need to get back on their feet and land that perfect position. I am pleased to be able to bring this money to Maryland.”“By helping guide the unemployed into stable, good paying jobs, the entire city will benefit,” said Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. “I am grateful for Congressman Ruppersberger’s support as Baltimore recovers from this global recession."HARBEL is a well-established community service umbrella organization serving the Northeast section of Baltimore City. Comprised of all of the community and business associations, schools, and churches in the area, HARBEL impacts more than 100,000 Maryland residents.“We are grateful to Congressman Ruppersberger for facilitating this earmark for HARBEL to develop a workforce program,” said HARBEL Executive Director Naomi Benyowitz. “We will be helping Maryland residents get back on their economic feet and once again be gainfully employed. We will be seeking employers who need a job niche filled and match them with people who are willing to undergo training to fill that niche. We are excited about having this opportunity to help Marylanders recover from this recession and get a better handle on their own lives by holding a job with which they support their family.”
02.17.2010	Endeavour Astronauts installed high-tech sunroom on International Space Station(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) tonight will join President Barack Obama on a conference call to astronauts – including two from Maryland – who today delivered a new room and observation deck aboard the International Space Station that will provide a panoramic view of Earth.Six astronauts aboard the Endeavor arrived at the space station early Wednesday. Pilot Terry Virts, of Baltimore, opened the shutters of the new “cupola” for the first time. Virts, a Colonel in the U.S. Air Force who graduated from Oakland Mills High School before going into the Air Force Academy, was the first to open the curtains on what one crew member called the “bay window to the world.” Also aboard is Timothy J. Creamer of Upper Marlboro, a graduate of Loyola College in Baltimore and Colonel in the U.S. Army. Creamer has lived and worked aboard the space station since December and serves as a flight engineer.“I am so proud of our Marylanders who were aboard the International Space Station to help complete this important mission,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This new window will function as a central command for the station’s robotics work and give us a view of Earth like we’ve never seen before. It is the dedication of today’s astronauts like T.J. Creamer and Terry Virts that will help our country maintain its preeminence in space and inspire young students to once again dream of becoming astronauts.”A member of the House Intelligence Committee, Congressman Ruppersberger chairs the Technical and Tactical subcommittee, which oversees the space intelligence program. On the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Ruppersberger sits on the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science, which has jurisdiction over the budget for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).Congressman Ruppersberger will sit in on the President’s conference call, scheduled for 5:15 p.m. tonight from the Roosevelt Room of the White House. The White House Press Office has organized pool coverage of the conference call.
02.12.2010	Shock Trauma currently operating at double capacity, plans to break ground in Spring(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today was joined by Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) and Jeffrey Rivest, President and CEO, University of Maryland Medical Center as he announced $2.4 million to support new state-of-the-art operating suites in a major expansion of the University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center.The University of Maryland Medical Center will build a new, state-of-the-art building at the corner of Lombard and Penn Streets in Baltimore, connected to the existing Shock Trauma Center and Weinberg buildings. The building will house 64 new and replacement critical care beds, 10 new operating rooms and expanded adult and pediatric Emergency Department services. It will also include a new National Trauma and Emergency Training Center to be at the forefront of advancing the care of trauma patients, educating both civilian and military health care professionals.“Shock Trauma has been savings lives, including my own after a terrible car crash, while educating our military medics for the past 20 years,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Now it is operating at double capacity and these funds will support a sorely-needed expansion. I am proud that Shock Trauma will be able to continue and strengthen its mission to provide the most technologically-advanced care possible for Marylanders – and the world – for decades to come.”“I am proud that we are able to help bring quality emergency care to the people of Baltimore,” said Congressman Cummings. “In an area that so badly needs their services, Shock Trauma has been operating well over capacity for too long. The improvements these funds will provide are critical for helping maintain the quality of emergency and traumatic care that people throughout Maryland have come to expect.”“We greatly appreciate this funding and the tremendous, ongoing support by Congressman Ruppersberger, Congressman Cummings, and the entire Maryland Delegation,” said Jeffrey A. Rivest, President and CEO of the University of Maryland Medical Center. “This appropriation will enable us to meet the growing need for the highest level of trauma and critical care for Maryland residents and also expand our ability to train trauma doctors and nurses, along with military health care professionals, through our partnership with the U.S. Air force.”The funds were included in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2010, under the budget for the U.S. Air Force, which has a large training program for military doctors and nurses who rotate in and out of Shock Trauma each month. The program, called C-STARS, improves the readiness of our nation’s military medics. With the approval from the Maryland Healthcare Commission, the University of Maryland Medical Center hopes to break ground on the new building this spring and open in 2013.
02.04.2010	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today voted to help restore stability to our nation’s economy by voting for legislation that requires tax cuts or new spending to be paid for with new revenue or cuts to other programs. The U.S. House of Representatives passed a final version of the pay-as-you-go legislation in a vote of 233-187, clearing the bill to the President’s desk for his signature.PAYGO simply means that new spending is approved only if there is an identifiable funding source or if a budget cut is available to cover the cost. The cost cannot contribute to any deficit spending if it is approved as part of each year’s federal budget. This is the second time Congressman Ruppersberger has voted in favor of PAYGO legislation during the 111th Congressional session. PAYGO is a proven tool for turning deficits into surpluses and is a necessary step to cut unnecessary spending, especially during these difficult financial times. PAYGO had been the rule of the House in the 1990s until it expired in 2002.“I know from my experience as Baltimore County Executive that submitting a balanced budget, which I was statutorily required to do each year, is very difficult,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We are facing the worst deficit in history. This bill provides a common sense rule that can prevent things from getting worse. Just as all American families budget their spending, we must tighten some areas when others expand. We can’t spend what we don’t have.”
02.03.2010	Shock Trauma currently operating at double capacity(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger will be joined by Congressman Elijah Cummings (both D-MD) in announcing federal funds for state-of-the-art operating rooms in a new University of Maryland Medical Center building. The building will expand the facilities of the world-renowned University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center to accommodate increased demand for trauma, critical care and emergency services in the coming years. The current Shock Trauma building now cares for more than 7,000 patients in a building designed for 3,500 when it opened 20 years ago.The medical center expects to break ground on a new building in the spring of 2010 and open in 2013. It will also include a new National Trauma and Emergency Training Center to educate both civilian and military health care professionals.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Congressman Elijah Cummings Jeffrey Rivest, President and CEO, University of Maryland Medical Center Dr. Stephen Bartlett, Surgeon-in-Chief, University of Maryland Medical Center Dr. Thomas Scalea, Physician-in-Chief, University of Maryland Shock Trauma Col. David Powers, U.S. Air Force Center for Sustainment of Trauma & Readiness Skills, an intensive training program at Shock Trauma for Air Force medics. What: Ruppersberger, Cummings to Announce Funds for University of Maryland Medical Center’s Shock Trauma/Critical Care ExpansionWhen: Friday, February 5, 2010 12:30 PMWhere: University of Maryland Medical Center 22 S. Greene Street, Baltimore, MD 21201 Second Floor News Conference RoomPlease use the main entrance. Staff will escort the media from the lobby to the news conference.
02.03.2010	(Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger today urged his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to pass H.R. 4061, the “Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2009.” The bipartisan bill is designed to advance cybersecurity research and development, to strengthen cybersecurity in both the public and private sectors, educate the public about cyber vulnerability and address the shortage of cybersecurity professionals.Congressman Ruppersberger chairs the Technical & Tactical Subcommittee of the House Intelligence Committee, which oversees the technical aspects of cybersecurity. “Our cyber networks – which power everything from computers and cell phones to the electric grid and intelligence networks that keep us safe – are under attack every day,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “Cyber attacks cost our country $1 trillion last year alone and put classified information in the hands of our enemies. The public and private sectors must be on the same page to shore up our systems and make sure our cyber networks don’t become weapons used against us.”Among other provisions, H.R. 4061 requires the National Science Foundation and the Maryland-based National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to develop international cyber standards and develop a public education program. It also provides scholarships to students who agree to work as cybersecurity specialists after graduation.“Already home to the National Security Agency, the new Navy Fleet Cyber Command and the future home of the Defense Information Systems Agency, I am proud that Maryland’s own NIST will play a critical role in the development of cybersecurity technical standards,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Maryland is truly leading the nation in cybersecurity.”
01.28.2010	Billions for high-speed rail include new train tunnel, station in Baltimore(Washington, DC) – A historic $8 billion investment in high-speed rails announced by President Obama this morning includes nearly $69.5 million for much-needed projects in Baltimore, including a new train station at BWI airport.The federal stimulus money will be distributed across the country to develop America’s first national program of high-speed intercity passenger rail service. A total of $112 million was awarded to the northeast region from Washington, DC, to Boston, including $60 million for the engineering and environmental work for a new tunnel in Baltimore and $9.4 million for a new rail station at Baltimore Washington Thurgood Marshall Airport.“Baltimore is an integral part of the northeast corridor. This investment will give Maryland residents and commuters more options for train service and help make that service more reliable,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, whose district includes the airport. “We must make rail convenient and dependable to get people out of their cars and on to mass transit to reduce our already-congested roadways. I am pleased that the President knows these funds will be well-spent in Baltimore to help reduce traffic congestion.”The northeast is one of 13 new large-scale high-speed corridors across the country. The project will create well-paying jobs in track-laying, manufacturing, planning, engineering and maintenance.
01.27.2010	President proposes legislation similar to Ruppersberger’s bill to help working families(Washington, DC) – U.S. Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today praised President Obama’s efforts to help middle-class parents afford child care by nearly doubling the federal child care tax credit for families earning less than $85,000 and increasing it for families making less than $115,000. The President is expected to outline his proposal during his State of the Union address tonight.Since 2007, Congressman Ruppersberger has introduced legislation to create a similar expansion of the child care tax credit. H.R. 460, the “Right Start Child Care and Education Act,” would update and expand the child care tax credit so parents don’t have to choose between caring for their children and working.“Child care is the second biggest expense working American families pay after their mortgage or rent,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “It is critical to provide affordable, quality child care so Americans can get back to work. I am pleased that President Obama also recognizes the need for tax relief, particularly when child care costs are rising twice as fast as household incomes.”If passed, Congressman Ruppersberger’s legislation would:• Increase the maximum federal child care tax credit for families from $3,000 to $6,000 per child. • Increase the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account from $5,000 to $7,500. • Expand the tax credit from $150,000 to $225,000 for employers to construct workplace child care facilities. • Provide a tax credit of up to a $2,000 a year for three years for college graduates who decide to enter the child care field. More than 200,000 children and their families in Maryland rely on licensed child care services in order for parents to go to work, school, or attend other activities, according to the Maryland Committee for Children. The average family in the Baltimore–Washington region pays $20,752 a year in child care.
01.26.2010	House passes emergency aid for Americans in Haiti during Jan. 12 quake(Washington, DC) – U.S. Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today voted to support a bill to increase funding for a federal repatriation program, which will assist thousands of Americans seeking to return to the United States after the devastating disaster. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously and now must be signed into law by the President.The bill increases the annual funding limit for the U.S. Health and Human Services Department’s repatriation program from $1 million to $25 million. Nearly 45,000 Americans lived in Haiti before the earthquake and many need support such as connecting flights, temporary lodging, medical assistance and food. Those who receive aid must eventually repay the government, except in certain hardship cases. The Senate passed the bill yesterday by unanimous consent.“This funding goes a long way toward helping the tens of thousands of U.S. citizens who have been living, and providing aid, in Haiti,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This will help them return to the United States, where they can begin rebuilding their lives. We must do everything we can to help the hundreds of thousands of earthquake victims, especially our own citizens.”
01.25.2010	Funds will support road improvements near Ft. Meade and Aberdeen Proving Ground(Severn, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), joined by U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin, along with Congressmen John Sarbanes and Frank Kratovil (all D-MD), today announced $5.6 million to help prepare Maryland for nearly 30,000 jobs heading to the state through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. Maryland State Highway Administrator Neil J. Pedersen and Anne Arundel County Executive John Leopold also attended the exciting announcement.The federal funds, which were included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act, or omnibus, passed by Congress last month, will pay for much-needed road improvements near Fort Meade in Anne Arundel County and Aberdeen Proving Ground in Harford County. The announcement was made from the busy intersection of MD-175 and Rockenbach Road in Hanover, near the Rockenbach Gate entrance to Fort Meade. The intersection is expected to become increasingly congested with the influx of Fort Meade employees under BRAC.“In these trying economic times, additional high-paying jobs are music to our ears,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. “But we need to make sure that we preserve the great quality of life that residents enjoy across our state. Together, Team Maryland has worked hard over the last four years to make sure we have the proper infrastructure in place – everything from roads to schools to hospitals to public safety – to make the transition as smooth as possible as we welcome our new residents.”“I fought to BRAC-proof Maryland’s bases, now I am working to BRAC-ready our transportation systems. Fort Meade will house high-tech, high-pay jobs of the future,” Senator Mikulski said. “Their genius club at NSA, and soon-to-be DISA and Navy’s Cyber Command, will combat cyber spies, cyber criminals and cyber terrorists trying to steal our secrets and take our systems down. I wanted to make sure they – and the surrounding community – weren’t stuck in a traffic logjam. I am proud to partner with my Team Maryland colleagues to make BRAC a success and secure the federal funding needed to meet the increased demands on our communities.”“The relocation of thousands of BRAC-related jobs to Maryland brings with it great responsibility and enormous economic opportunity,” said Senator Cardin. “This year, Team Maryland secured more than $138 million in BRAC-related infrastructure improvements for Harford, Anne Arundel, Prince George’s and Montgomery counties that will make it possible for employees to get to their jobs safely and efficiently.” “BRAC is bringing thousands of new, good paying jobs to Maryland during difficult economic times,” said Congressman John Sarbanes. “It is critical that we bolster our transportation infrastructure around Fort Meade so this economic growth is not stunted by traffic gridlock and does not diminish the quality of life in the surrounding area.”“BRAC will bring new jobs while reinvigorating the workforce, commerce and economy of our region; but we need to be ready in order to fully realize the economic benefit it presents,” said Rep. Frank Kratovil. “We fought for these funds because they represent a significant federal investment in the future Fort Meade and Aberdeen Proving Grounds, the surrounding counties and the families who live there.”“Our congressional delegation has fought tirelessly to secure the necessary funding for physical and human infrastructure to accommodate Base Closure and Realignment,” County Executive Leopold said. “Improvements to Route 175 at Rockenbach Road and Disney Road are critical projects to handle the growth of Fort Meade.”“The Maryland Department of Transportation’s relationship with Congressman Ruppersberger and our other federal partners has brought much needed and greatly appreciated funding for projects that benefit all who travel throughout Maryland,” said State Highway Administrator Neil J. Pedersen. “The funds announced today will certainly help prepare for enhanced safety, improved traffic flow and ease of congestion for the Ft. Meade community.”
01.22.2010	Funds will support road improvements near Ft. Meade and Aberdeen Proving Ground(Hanover, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Senator Ben Cardin, along with Congressman John Sarbanes and Frank Kratovil (all D-MD) will be joined by Maryland State Highway Administrator Neil Pedersen and Fort Meade Installation Commander Col. Daniel Thomas in announcing $5.6 million to help prepare Maryland for nearly 30,000 jobs heading to the state through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. The federal funds will pay for much-needed road improvements near Fort Meade in Anne Arundel County and Aberdeen Proving Ground in Harford County.The announcement will take place at the busy intersection of MD-175 and Rockenbach Road, near the Rockenbach Gate entrance to Fort Meade. The intersection is expected to become increasingly congested with the influx of Fort Meade employees under BRAC.Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Senator Ben Cardin Congressman John Sarbanes Congressman Frank Kratovil State Highway Administrator Neil Pedersen Fort Meade Installation Commander Colonel Daniel L. Thomas What: Team Maryland to Announce $5.6 Million to Prepare for Thousands of BRAC JobsWhen: Monday, January 25, 2010 11:30 AMWhere: Intersection of Rockenbach Road and Route 175 Hanover, MD 21076 Directions from points north and south: Take MD-295 to MD-175 East toward Odenton. Make a left onto Rockenbach/RidgeRoadMD-713 and make your first right into the Severn Square shopping center.
01.22.2010	Ruppersberger praises Maryland’s New Plan to Become World Cyber Epicenter(Gaithersburg, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara Mikulski as well as Congressman Chris Van Hollen (all D-MD), today lauded renewed efforts to make Maryland the nation’s epicenter for cybersecurity. The Delegation joined Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley, along with federal and military officials and business leaders at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) for the unveiling of CyberMaryland, a 10-point strategy that reinforces Maryland’s key role in President Barack Obama’s national cyber initiative. CyberMaryland is the first comprehensive inventory of the cybersecurity sector in Maryland.“Our computer systems are getting attacked every single day, and have been for years, whether the public knows it or not. These attacks could have very serious consequences. We are working hard to make sure we have the resources we need to tackle this head-on while building Maryland’s reputation as the cyber capital of the world,” said Congressman Ruppersberger.As Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee’s Technical and Tactical Subcommittee, which oversees the technical aspects of cybersecurity, Congressman Ruppersberger is working every day to shape our national cybersecurity policies, including the creation of a new administration-level cyber coordinator and streamlined military structure through a new cyber command. Together with the National Security Agency, which is located in Congressman Ruppersberger’s district, he is working to better educate the public and other Members of Congress on the cyber threat. Under his direction, the subcommittee has held numerous briefings with the cyber industry to assess this threat and is gearing up for a formal cyber report. As an Appropriator who serves on the Homeland Security Subcommittee, Congressman Ruppersberger also helped to secure $397 million for the National Cybersecurity Division in the 2010 budget. “Our nation is at risk. Cyber raids and cyber attackers are at work every day and everywhere trying to steal our secrets and bring down our systems,” said Senator Mikulski, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. “The good news is Maryland has the knowledge, know-how, and can-do spirit to lead the way in cyber security. Our world-class facilities – NIST, NASA and soon-to-be DISA – combined with our vibrant and growing private sector and talented universities uniquely position Maryland to lead the way in cyber security.”Senator Mikulski has been a leader in the fight to coordinate private sector and government defenses against the complex and evolving attacks by hackers and cyber spies our nation faces each day. Recently, she was appointed to a special bipartisan task force on cyber security. As Chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski has made sure our law enforcement agencies have the funding they need to combat cyber crime. This year alone, Senator Mikulski secured $140 million for FBI cyber efforts. These funds put 260 new FBI cyber warriors on the beat, expanded the FBI’s technical collection resources and provided cyber education and training. Senator Mikulski also secured $40 million for the National Science Foundation to fund innovative cyber research. “As a nation, we need to pay much more attention to cybersecurity. Maryland is taking all the right steps to maintain our leadership as a generator of best practices on cybersecurity and infrastructure preparedness while maintaining the critical balance between safety, security and individual privacy,” said Senator Cardin, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Terrorism and Homeland Security Subcommittee. “The CyberMaryland initiative will boost our local economy and create local jobs by leveraging Maryland’s abundance of federal resources to attract additional facility expansion and private-sector contractors interested in cybersecurity.”“Cybersecurity is a critical issue in a world with increasing reliance on information systems,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “Maryland, with its unparalleled talent, experienced federal agencies, vibrant private sector, and world-class universities, is poised to be a leader in this vital national security effort. I applaud the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development for establishing a framework to foster collaboration in Maryland and develop new ways to ensure the safety of our nation's information and infrastructure.”Maryland is well positioned to lead the nation’s cyber security efforts. Home to more than 50 key federal facilities and 12 major military installations, including the National Security Agency, the Army’s Communication and Electronics Command (CECOM), which will soon be locating at Aberdeen Proving Ground, and the Defense Information Systems Agency, which is slated to move to Maryland from Virginia in 2011, bringing 4,300 advanced technology jobs. Combined, these facilities and installations employ nearly 200,000 well-educated, highly-skilled government employees and contractors in cutting-edge research and development and scientific, medical and technological innovations, not counting the estimated 60,000 jobs coming to Maryland as a result of the Base Realignment and Closure process. Maryland is also home to many of the nation’s top defense contractors and has a growing cluster of private sector companies specializing in cyber security. In total, Maryland has one of the highest concentrations of technology jobs in the nation, with 10 percent of jobs classified as technology-related and led the nation in 2009 with the largest growth in computer systems design jobs. The State is also a leader in research and development, ranking first in federal R & D obligations per capita, and second in federal R & D investment at $12.2 billion. Maryland is home to several of the nation’s top research universities, including Johns Hopkins and University of Maryland, College Park, the University of Maryland, Baltimore and the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, which combined conduct nearly $1 billion in funded research annually. To support the cyber industry, Maryland also has the nation’s top rated public school system and is developing an education pipeline to produce highly-skilled workers trained in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM); has more than 20 colleges and universities that offer computer science degrees, including six State universities that are certified by the NSA as Centers of Academic Excellence; and is home to the nation’s first business accelerator – the Chesapeake Innovation Center – for government innovation, homeland, national and cyber security initiatives.
01.22.2010	(Havre de Grace, MD) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today announced nearly $4 million to help farmers in the Chesapeake Bay watershed to plan conservation practices to improve water quality, restore wetlands and enhance wildlife habitat. Congressman Ruppersberger was joined by Rep. Roscoe Bartlett (R-MD), Regional Conservationist Leonard Jordan of the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) and Maryland farmers and environmentalists.The NRCS, a division of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, operates a Conservation Technical Assistance Program to help landowners manager their property to protect the Chesapeake Bay. The funding, which was included in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, will allow NRCS to assist Maryland farmers in indentifying strategies such as planting stream buffers for cleaner water, fencing cattle out of streams and properly managing manure. The funding, which was signed into law October 21, will be divided among the six Chesapeake Bay states. Maryland’s portion is $1.2 million.“The Chesapeake Bay is Maryland’s most precious resource and we must do everything we can to protect and preserve it. We also have to ensure that Maryland agriculture, which employs more than 350,000 people in our state, remains vibrant,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Helping farmers with common sense conservation efforts is a solutioneveryone can agree on.”“As a farmer myself, I know that Maryland’s farmers are dedicated to protecting and improving the Chesapeake Bay. This $4 million secured by a Team Maryland effort to help farmers reduce run-off into the Chesapeake Bay watershed is an important tool in the multi-state and federal government effort to save the Bay for future generations,” Rep. Bartlett said.“This conservation technical assistance funding will increase conservation planning and outreach to address water quality and other resource concerns on agricultural land. Developing a conservation plan specific to their land is one of the best things a farmer can do to keep nutrients on the land and out of the bay,” said Leonard Jordan, NRCS’ regional conservationist for the east.The announcement was made from Mount Felix Dairy Farm in Havre de Grace in Harford County, which directly overlooks the Chesapeake Bay. The 220-acre farm is home to 120 dairy cows, which are all bred and hand-raised there and produce homemade cheese and ice cream. The farm’s operator, David Keyes, has received financial assistance from NRCS to construct fences to corral pastures. Rotational grazing allows pastures to re-grow, enabling the cattle to harvest their own feed. This increases forage production, decreasing erosion and improving waterquality in nearby streams. Rotational grazing also keeps cattle away from water sources, improving water quality and wildlife habitat.Agriculture is the largest single land use in Maryland, with roughly 32 percent of total land area used for farming. Nearly 25 percent of the Bay’s watershed is farmland.
01.22.2010	Howard Schmidt to head country’s cybersecurity efforts(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee, which oversees the technical aspects of cybersecurity, today issued the following statement on the selection of Howard A. Schmidt as the nation’s new cyber coordinator:“I am pleased that President Obama has taken this critical step toward addressing one of the biggest threats to our national security and economy. I believe our cyber coordination efforts must include a strong partnership between the government and private sector along with a vigorous public education campaign. Mr. Schmidt’s background in both the public and private sectors, as well as his extensive knowledge of information security and computer forensics, will be very valuable in this position. My hope is that Mr. Schmidt will have a direct line to the President and work closely with Congress. It is Congress’ role to provide oversight and resources to the cybersecurity effort.”
12.22.2009	Federal Commission Denies Requests to Overturn January Approval(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is disappointed in a federal commission’s decision today to deny several requests to rehear the argument against a proposed liquefied natural gas plant at Sparrows Point in Baltimore County, but vowed to take the fight to the next level.The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission voted 3-1 to uphold its January 15, 2009, preliminary approval of the Sparrows Point plant, which included nearly 170 safety, security and environmental conditions that must be met before construction can begin. The entire Maryland Congressional delegation along with the Coast Guard, State of Maryland, Baltimore County and Anne Arundel County have opposed the plan, which would require the construction of an 88-mile gas pipeline into Pennsylvania.“This decision reflects the commission’s continued refusal to acknowledge the potentially catastrophic consequences of this plan,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Hopefully, our grave concerns that have so far fallen on deaf ears will be heard in court. We will take this to the highest level possible.”LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. The proposed site is less than two miles from the densely-populated neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station and Edgemere. Under the proposal from Virginia-based AES Corp., tankers carrying LNG to the facility would have to travel beneath the Chesapeake Bay Bridge to reach the facility in the Baltimore Harbor. Numerous federal agencies have raised alarming concerns. The Department of the Interior has said the dredging of potentially toxic sediment to accommodate the massive tankers could threaten an environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. Last year, the Coast Guard said the Chesapeake Bay is not suitable for an LNG facility because there are insufficient resources to implement the necessary safety and security measures to protect nearby residences. AES has not completed a Transit Management Plan as requested to determine how to adequately mitigate the risks of accidental or possible terrorist attacks at the facility or aboard the tankers.
12.22.2009	House passes $636 billion Defense and Intelligence Spending Measure(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce more than $27 million in federal funding to support the warfighter and local medical programs, including $2.4 million to update and expand surgical operating suites at the University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center. The funds were included in a $636 billion Defense Appropriations bill that passed the House of Representatives today.A member of the House Appropriations Committee and House Intelligence Committee, Ruppersberger successfully fought to include the requests among dozens submitted by local agencies. The bill must now pass the Senate and be signed into law by the President.“I am proud of the world-class medical facilities here in Maryland, which are vital assets to both my constituents and those that travel the globe to be treated here,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We must give them the resources they need to continue saving lives.”“Meanwhile, our men and women in uniform are saving lives on the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan, and they deserve the best equipment and treatment available if they are injured in the line of duty. This bill invests in critical research to improve battlefield triage and our troops’ ability to detect impending threats.”Congressman Ruppersberger would like to thank his colleagues in the Maryland delegation for their support of his requests. Included in the spending bill:$2.4 Million for Shock Trauma Center Operating SuitesThe funding will support newer, larger state-of-the-art operating rooms that will allow for improved patient care and expanded training opportunities in its renowned military-civilian medical training programs. Surgical teams will be able to provide more immediate care and larger suites will allow for tele-medicine opportunities. Shock Trauma will have 25 modern operating rooms upon completion.$1.6 Million for Advanced Restoration Therapies in Spinal Cord InjuriesThe funding will continue an innovative therapy technique at the Kennedy Krieger Institute known as Advanced Restoration Therapies. When a person experiences a spinal cord injury, the connection between the brain and limbs is lost. The body cannot receive the signals from the brain necessary to prompt this activity. With Advanced Restoration Therapies, therapists and physicians use specially designed exercise equipment to simulate normal movements, a practice which can help regenerate cells and help patients’ bodies “remember” how to move.$5 Million for Chemical Biological Protective ShelterThe funding will support a highly mobile, self-contained protection system that provides a contamination-free, environmentally-controlled working area for medical combat services and combat service support personnel. This allows them to work freely without continuously wearing chemical-biological protective clothing.$800,000 for Smart Wound Dressing for MRSA-Infected Battle WoundsThe funding will support research at Johns Hopkins Medicine for research into an approved dressing for infected battlefield injuries. The U.S. military currently uses multiple products to prevent and treat infection, speed healing, and reduce long term affects of acute traumatic wounds including severe burns. The military has identified one system which can potentially handle all of these issues simultaneously, and can be used successfully in less-than sterile-environments. $800,000 for Transparent Armor TechnologyThe funding will support the development of improved armor windows that provide light-weight, advanced ballistic protection against insurgents. This technology is critical for heavily-armored vehicles, where current windshields and windows can be potential vulnerabilities for the warfighter.$8 Million for “Petascale” Super ComputerThis funding will pay for the Integrated High-End Computing Program, enabling further advances in supercomputing software and hardware technologies, increasing interconnectivity. This computer will allow the warfighter to receive the most up-to-date information to assist with anti-terror or other national security missions.$3.2 Million for “Neu-VISION” Intelligence Explosive Detection With increasing terrorism threats, the intelligence community needs the ability to quickly conduct covert or overt inspection of containers, vehicles, packages and facilities. This funding is for the design and testing of a portable explosives, narcotics, and contraband inspection system of objects of all sizes, from a small mail parcel to trucks. $4 Million for Vehicle and Dismount Exploitation Radar (VADAR)The funding will support Vehicle Dismount Exploitation Radar technology through the Joint Improvise Explosive Device Defeat Organization. This technology will providing a unique, high-resolution, wide-area search and surveillance system with real-time dissemination of full-motion video data monitoring improvised explosive devices, maritime surveillance, battlefield reconnaissance, border surveillance, and national event security missions. These enhancements will increase safety by creating more complete situational awareness to the warfighter.$1.6 Million for Next Generation Electronic Warfare Simulator (NGEWS)The funding will support the Next Generation Electronic Warfare Simulator (NGEWS). This technology breakthrough can simulate and synchronize multiple electronic warfare threats more precisely and accurately than existing technology. The NGEWS will be used to test the advanced Electronics Surveillance Measures (ESM) capabilities of FA-18 and EA-18G compete aircraft of the Navy.
12.22.2009	Unique Agreement Supports Thousands of Maryland BRAC-related Jobs(Aberdeen, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today participated in a “double” groundbreaking of two buildings that will house top defense contractors, Raytheon and L-3, within Aberdeen Proving Ground. In a unique agreement known as an enhanced use lease, St. John Properties will lease land directly from the Army for “The GATE” development project and 100 percent of the lease payments will go directly to the post for infrastructure and facility improvements.Ruppersberger was joined by Harford County Executive David Craig, Aberdeen Mayor Michael Bennett, Colonel Orlando Ortiz, Aberdeen Proving Ground Garrison Commander Orlando Ortiz, as well as executives from St. John Properties, Raytheon Company and L-3 Communications.“This is an exciting day for Aberdeen Proving Ground and yet another step in preparing for the thousands of jobs coming to this area in support of the military base realignment known as BRAC,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We fought long and hard to improve APG over the last decade, and the enhanced use lease was one of the vehicles used to spur investment. This is simply about reinvesting in the post and creating jobs in the process.”Developer St. John Properties, Inc., will construct two 75,000 square-foot commercial office buildings leased by Raytheon Company and L-3 Communications at The Government and Technology Enterprise (The GATE) project, a 416-acre commercial real estate development that is the only one private business community located within Aberdeen Proving Ground. L-3 is expected to add about 400 employees the site and Raytheon intends to employ nearly 300 workers there. Both three-story projects are expected to be completed in the fall of 2010.The two buildings are designed to satisfy the requirements for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver-certification and include a high-efficiency heating, ventilating and air conditioning system, high performance windows, lavatory fixtures with sustainable elements, a white thermoplastic polyolefin roofing system, wetland/forest preserves and significant open space and drought-tolerant landscaping, among other features.
12.22.2009	House passes $446.8 billion Omnibus Spending Bill(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is thrilled to announce more than $45 million in federal funding to help make Maryland a safer, greener and stronger state that is better prepared to meet challenges ahead. The funds were included in a $446.8 billion collective spending bill known as the omnibus that passed the House of Representatives today. The targeted spending will benefit the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process, local schools, law enforcement, roads, mass transit, the environment, homeland security and critical community organizations.A member of the House Appropriations Committee and House Intelligence Committee, Ruppersberger successfully fought to include the requests in the “Fiscal Year 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Bill.”“I am pleased to be in a position to provide Maryland the resources it needs to thrive,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I am held accountable by my constituents, who expect me to fight for vital programs that are helping our families and communities through these difficult economic times. This funding reflects my commitment to know and do what’s best for my district.”Congressman Ruppersberger’s district includes BWI-Thurgood Marshall Airport, the National Security Agency, Fort Meade, Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG), the Port of Baltimore and the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay. It also includes neighborhoods in Baltimore County, Anne Arundel County, Harford County, and Baltimore City.The District is also home to two of the state’s largest economic engines, BWI-Thurgood Marshall Airport and the Port of Baltimore. In addition, 60,000 high-paying jobs are heading to the area through BRAC. The conference bill must pass the Senate and be signed into law by the President. The omnibus serves as the funding vehicle for six different bills: Transportation-HUD; Commerce, Justice, Science; Financial Services; Labor-Health-Education; Military Construction, Veterans Affairs; and State, Foreign Operations Appropriations Bills. $8.075 Million for Fighting Crime$1.1 Million for Baltimore City Gun Violence Reduction InitiativeThe funding will help develop methods to reduce violent crime, eradicate the gang stronghold on distressed communities, and disrupt the pipeline that leads illegal firearms into Baltimore City.$200,000 for Baltimore City Juvenile Screening and Diversion ProgramThe federal funding will develop juvenile screenings and diversion programs to help prevent juvenile crime, reduce gang involvement, decrease youth violence, and improve school attendance. $1 Million for Gang Elimination TaskforceThe funding will enhance the Gang Elimination Taskforce based at the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center (MCAC) in Baltimore, Maryland. It will serve as a comprehensive information clearinghouse for gang-related law enforcement intelligence along the East Coast. The taskforce will work with local communities to help identify gang members, curb gang recruitment, and assist prosecutors and law enforcement officials to locate high-value targets. The funds will pay for additional investigators to focus solely on gang prosecutions. The taskforce will also have access to national real-time databases that track critical information about gang members across the country. $500,000 for Violence Prevention InitiativeThe funding will support a Maryland state program to improve public safety by containing potentially violent offenders, keeping juvenile offenders from becoming more violent, and requiring youth to be supervised in the community.$1.35 Million for Girl Scouts Beyond BarsThe funding will allow a Girl Scouts of America program to continue to provide services for girls whose parents are incarcerated. The program helps keep incarcerated moms connected to their daughters and focus on rehabilitation and life outside the facility.$300,000 for Hotline Services for Victims of Sexual Violence and Rape PreventionThe funding will support public education and outreach programs and a special hotline put together by the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network. $1.5 Million for 911 Communications CenterThe funding will help purchase equipment to upgrade the 9-1-1 Communications Center in Baltimore County. $250,000 for Maryland Internet Safety 101 ProgramThe funding will support an Internet safety program that protects children from online predators, increases parental awareness of child pornography, and engages communities in proactive Internet education. $1.175 Million for National Advocacy CenterThe federal funding will help the National Advocacy Center train and equip our nation’s state and local prosecutors to effectively represent their communities and constituents in the courtroom. $200,000 for Sheriff's Office Local Law Enforcement EnhancementThe funding will help purchase and expand technology infrastructure at the Baltimore County Sheriff’s Office.$500,000 for Workforce Development for Ex-OffendersThe funding increases the capacity of an on-going program that helps ex-offenders acquire employment skills, secure a position, and keep the job. This project contributes to Baltimore’s economy, makes communities safer, and reduces recidivism.$6.15 Million for the Environment$300,000 for Chesapeake Bay Interpretive Buoy SystemThe funding will expand a program to install interactive buoys marking the John Smith National Water Trail on the Chesapeake Bay, also known as the Chesapeake Bay Interactive Buoy System (CBIBS). CBIBS combines on-the-water sensor buoys and educational materials to interpret portions of the trail with the use of cell phone and Internet technology. In the long-term, the system contributes significantly to the restoration of the Bay habitat. $3 Million for Chesapeake Bay Oyster Restoration The funding will help ongoing efforts at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to help restore the natural oyster population of the Chesapeake Bay. The development of native oyster aquaculture is critical to a viable commercial oyster industry in the Bay. $150,000 for Earth System Information Delivery and AssessmentThe federal funding will establish a study at the University of Maryland to help with the collection of data to provide policy makers, urban development planners, natural resource managers, and citizens with the latest scientific information on climate change. $100,000 for Metagenomic Analysis of the Chesapeake BayThe funding will pay for a comprehensive scientific study of the Chesapeake Bay’s eco-system with an emphasis on how bacteria affect the Bay. The study will be used to improve the Bay’s health and create more productive fisheries that currently support over 28 million jobs in the fishing, seafood, aquaculture, tourism and recreation sectors $2.4 Million for Susquehanna Flood Forecast and Warning SystemThe funding will pay for the Flood Forecast and Warning System on the Susquehanna River in northern Maryland, which uses sophisticated radar techniques, a network of stream and rain gauges, and automatic data transmission to provide the National Weather Service with information for river forecasts. The system provides accurate and advanced warnings of floods to residents and communities throughout the basin to significantly reduce the loss of life and property damage. $16.456 Million for Military Construction$15.5 Million for Advanced Chemistry Laboratory at Aberdeen Proving GroundThe funding will pay for construction of the Analytical Chemistry Wing, completing the final phase of the new Advanced Chemistry Laboratory at Aberdeen Proving Ground. The existing chemistry lab is very old and requires more than $1 million in annual energy costs. This will allow the old lab to close.$956,000 for Info Processing Node at Aberdeen Proving GroundThe funding will consolidate employees and contractors with the Directorate of Information Management (DOIM) into one campus at Aberdeen Proving Ground. The 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision will bring 8,000 new customers to DOIM requiring additional manpower. DOIM staff was moved out of their former facilities and is currently operating out of several, different offices. This funding will renovate the first of three existing Ordnance schoolhouses that will serve as administrative and specialized space for DOIM. $650,000 for Health$650,000 for Maryland Community Health CentersThis funding will improve the quality, speed, and delivery of healthcare and reduce costs in nine federally qualified community health centers representing 53 clinics throughout Maryland. The Electronic Patient Record System (EPRS) system and Health Trax will empower health centers to monitor and manage high-risk conditions of chronically ill patients on an out patient basis. $1.292 Million for Community Programs$492,200 for Maryland Food BankThe funding will help renovate the Maryland Food Bank facility and improve the delivery of services in response to growing demand during this economic downturn. $800,000 United Way of Central Maryland - 2-1-1 Maryland TaskforceThe funding will pay for infrastructure improvements, staff training, and general operations of 2-1-1 Maryland. The program is a 24-hour information and referral service that allows people a convenient way to access human service programs – everything from child care to insurance to emergency services. 2-1-1 systems have proven invaluable, particularly during the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Gulf Coast hurricanes and California wildfires.$250,000 for Job Training$250,000 for HARBEL Employment Training ProgramThe funding will help an important initiative put together by this non-profit organization to connect job-seekers with businesses. HARBEL will develop training programs for the unemployed, underemployed, recovering substance abusers, first-time workers, displaced workers, ex-offenders, seniors, vets, and the disabled so they can acquire productive, self-sustaining employment. $1.9 Million for Education$1 Million for Baltimore Excellence in Science Teaching PartnershipThe funding will expand collaborative programs to train teachers in the STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) fields through a training program involving Towson University, Coppin State University and the Maryland BioLab.$100,000 Million for Minority Science InitiativeThe funding will expand the efforts of the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund to recruit and encourage more minority students to pursue degrees in STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) fields. The effort hopes to eventually expand the number of minority scientists within NASA, the national science labs, and the aerospace industry. $350,000 for Baltimore City Public School System Allied Health Careers Programs and Career Technology Education The funding will expand the successful Allied Health Careers Program at Baltimore City Public Schools, which helps students identify and explore health occupations and pursue healthy living. The money will enable the program to include an Allied Health Job Fair, a mentoring program, a Career Technology Education orientation program for eighth grade students, and internship opportunities. $100,000 for University of Maryland BioPark in Baltimore City The funding will support continued growth of a workforce training center at the University of Maryland BioPark in Baltimore City. This supports the revitalization of economically distressed neighborhoods in West Baltimore. The money will be used to teach workers specialized skills to prepare them for high paying jobs in the technology field and make infrastructure improvements at the BioPark. The UMB Research Park Corp, a 501(c)3, will provide a full match for the infrastructure portion of the requested funding. $350,000 for Anne Arundel Community College STEM The funding will enhance workforce training programs at Anne Arundel Community College to meet the needs of local businesses as well as prepare potential workers for the thousands of high-tech jobs that will be relocated to Fort Meade through the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision. The programs will focus on high-demand areas like Engineering and Computer Science as part of a STEM, Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics, initiative. $6.03 Million for BRAC$400,000 for Baltimore City Mayor’s Office of Employment DevelopmentThis funding will expand the City of Baltimore’s efforts to build a continuous pool of qualified and skilled workers to help fill the thousands of high tech jobs that will moving to Fort Meade and Aberdeen Proving Ground through the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision. $2.75 Million for BRAC-Related Improvements in Anne Arundel CountyThe funding will assist the Maryland State Highway Administration in making road, highway, and intersection improvements adjacent to Fort Meade in response to Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) expansion. $2.88 Million for BRAC-Related Improvements in Harford CountyThe funding will assist the Maryland State Highway Administration in making road, highway, and intersection improvements adjacent to Aberdeen Proving Grounds in response to Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) expansion. $4.2 Million for Transportation$3 Million for Baltimore Red LineThe funding will help further develop Baltimore’s Red Line. $200,000 for College Park Metropolitan Area Transportation Operations Coordination (MATOC)The funding will create a new multi-state cooperative initiative at the University of Maryland to expand on regional efforts to improve traffic and transportation systems in Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia. $1 Million for Baltimore-Washington Parkway StudyThe funding will pay for a feasibility study to determine whether there is sufficient traffic volume to between the Washington and Baltimore Beltways to merit road widening.
12.22.2009	(Dundalk, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) tonight hosted a Congressional Forum on “Opportunities for Home Ownership” to help Maryland residents obtain – and preserve – the American dream of owning a home. Maryland has the 9th highest foreclosure rate in the country, according to Realty Trac Inc., a California-based research firm. The homes of more than 6,600 families in Maryland went into foreclosure in October 2009 alone. Thousands more Marylanders face mortgage scams. Many others are considering refinancing or purchasing a new home. “Even in these tough economic times, the American dream of buying a home may be in reach. There is also help available for those facing foreclosure or struggling to make their mortgage payments,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “Sometimes, all it takes is access to the right information.”Experts from the local and federal level were available to answer questions on preventing foreclosure, detecting scams in mortgage lending, investigating refinancing, and getting a homebuyers tax credit. Since a tax credit of up to $8,000 for first-time homebuyers took effect earlier this year under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, studies show that it has been responsible for half of all homes purchased. Last month, Congress extended the tax credit to all house contracts entered into before April 30, 2010, and closed by June 30, 2010. It also created a new credit of up to $6,500 for existing property owners who sell their home and buy another during the same period of time.The bill was signed into law by President Obama on November 6, 2009.
12.22.2009	(Middle River, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Brigadier General James A. Adkins, Adjutant General of the Maryland National Guard, Assistant General Brigadier General Allyson Solomon, and members of the Maryland Air National Guard broke ground today on a new fire station at the Warfield Air National Guard Base at Martin State Airport. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, secured $7.9 million in federal funds for the new facility last year. The base houses the 175th Wing of the Maryland Air National Guard, which has more than 1,500 Air Guard members who train, eat and sleep there. The existing station is more than 40-years-old and severely outdated with cracked walls, leaky roofs and tight quarters. In fact, the station – which has no ventilation system – is currently too small to house all of the fire trucks.“Finally, the guardsmen are getting a state-of-the-art facility so they can prepare for future missions,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “These citizen troops have answered the call to serve their country – and their local community. They deserve better than what they have. I was honored to be in a position to be able to help get this project rolling.” The Airmen stationed at Warfield Air National Guard Base respond to man-made and natural disasters here in Maryland as well as across the country. Their planes were the first aircraft flying after 9-11 and in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Crews delivered much-needed food, supplies, and personnel. The airmen also work together with the Baltimore County Fire Department to assist in emergencies in the surrounding area, including hazardous spills, house fires, and serious car accidents, especially on Interstate 95. Airmen from the 175th Wing also serve in Iraq and Afghanistan.
12.22.2009	(Annapolis, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Maryland Secretary of Higher Education James E Lyons, Sr. announced $381,000 for a new National Security STEM initiative in Anne Arundel County. Through a public-private partnership, the federal funds will help boost Maryland’s global competitiveness by focusing on science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education for middle school students, especially near Fort Meade, the home of the National Security Agency. The partnership will also be critical to prepare young people for the tens of thousands of new jobs being moved to Maryland through military base closures known as BRAC. “In our world that is becoming more and more competitive every day, it is critically important that American children stay a step ahead in these important areas of study. Whether these students become scientists, engineers, mathematicians, or technology experts and work at the National Security Agency or at another employer in the government or the private sector, this training will serve them well in whatever career they choose to pursue,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “Governor Martin O’Malley has directed Maryland to be a frontrunner through his P-20 Leadership Council when it comes to STEM programs,” said Secretary James E. Lyons, Sr. “As the world becomes more globally competitive in this growing economy, Maryland needs to keep up in these four major fields. We need to position ourselves as a worldwide leader when it comes to producing the best scientists, technological experts, engineers, and mathematicians at Maryland’s outstanding colleges and universities as well as our elementary, middle, and high schools. Additionally, this initiative will help more of our students eventually compete for substantial BRAC jobs coming to Maryland.” Congressman Ruppersberger serves on the House Intelligence and Appropriations Committees. According to the National Science Foundation, China awarded more than 440,000 degrees in engineering last year compared to only 65,000 here in the United States. Congressman Ruppersberger believes it is critically important to attract the best and the brightest to the national security STEM field. The money was included in the omnibus spending measure that passed Congress and was signed by the President earlier this year.
12.22.2009	Ruppersberger Joins Miss America and Celebrates 10th Anniversary of the USO at BWI(BWI Airport, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) saluted America’s veterans and their families at a special celebration at the USO lounge at Baltimore Washington International - Thurgood Marshall Airport today. Congressman Ruppersberger celebrated the 10th anniversary of the USO providing a “home away from home” at BWI Airport for American service men and women. As part of the celebration, Katie Stam, Miss America 2009, performed the National Anthem. “It is an honor to salute America’s veterans and their families. Our men and women in uniform answer the call to serve and risk their lives every day for their country. The USO and its dedicated volunteers also answer the call to serve and provide our troops with the comforts of home as they travel through BWI-Thurgood Marshall Airport to deploy around the country and the world,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger started “Operation Hero Miles” in 2003. The program allows every day Americans to donate unused frequent flyer miles to family members of troops wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan. Family members receive free airfare so they can be by the bedside of an injured loved one. Sometimes the love and support of family is just the right medicine to help a loved one recover from injuries. “Operation Hero Miles” has collected more than 540 million frequent flyer miles enough for 22,000 free trips. Learn more or donate at www.heromiles.org.Since the USO lounge at BWI Airport opened in 1999, over 600,000 service members and their families have walked through the doors. Every month, an estimated 10,000 military personnel and their families find the comforts of home at the USO lounge with help from more than 200 dedicated volunteers.
12.22.2009	Tabrizi’s Restaurant in Baltimore to Host Special Salute to Troops(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will join acclaimed Baltimore Chef and Owner Michael Tabrizi to salute wounded warriors at a special dinner at Tabrizi’s Restaurant in Baltimore on Thursday, November 12, 2009. About 100 wounded warriors from Walter Reed Army Medical Center and the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda along with members from the Warrior Transition Unit at Ft. Meade will be honored. Many of the troops were injured in Iraq and Afghanistan. Congressman Ruppersberger started “Operation Hero Miles” in 2003. The program allows every day Americans to donate unused frequent flyer miles to family members of troops wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan. Family members receive free airfare so they can be by the bedside of an injured loved one. Sometimes the love and support of family is just the right medicine to help a loved one recover from injuries. Learn more or donate at www.heromiles.org. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Baltimore Chef and Owner Michael Tabrizi Wounded Warriors WHAT: Ruppersberger to Honor America’s Wounded Warriors in Baltimore WHEN: 7 p.m., Thursday, November 12, 2009 WHERE: Tabrizi's Restaurant 500 Harborview Drive Baltimore, MD 21230
12.22.2009	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will hold a Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid to Pay for College on Monday, November 9, 2009. The Congressman will be joined by financial aid experts to help students and parents learn about ways to make the dream of going to college a reality. “I believe every child should have the opportunity to go to college. The cost of tuition is rising but there is help. Please join me for an important forum to help find financial aid to pay for college,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md) Financial Aid ExpertsWHAT: Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid for CollegeWHEN: 7: 00 p.m., Monday, November 9, 2009WHERE: Northeast High School 1121 Duvall Highway Pasadena, Maryland 21122
12.22.2009	16-Year Old Anjelica Scott is a Senior at Fort Meade High School(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) met with Congressional Page, Anjelica Scott, in his Washington, DC office. The 17-year old is a senior at Fort Meade High School in Anne Arundel County. "Anjelica Scott is a smart, dedicated young woman who has a bright future ahead of her. I was pleased to select such a qualified and well-rounded student to participate in a program that trains America’s leaders of tomorrow," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). As a Page in the United States House of Representatives, Ms. Scott experienced first hand the inner workings of the Legislative Branch. Ms. Scott spent the summer assisting Members of Congress with their day to day administrative duties, delivering correspondence and small packages within the congressional complex, answering phones in the Member cloakroom, and preparing the House Floor for sessions. Ms. Scott regularly makes the honor roll. She is on the varsity cheerleading squad at Fort Meade High School and plays on the tennis team.
12.22.2009	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) together with Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD), and Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD) announce $500,000 for the Star-Spangled Banner National Historic Trail. The funding was included in the Interior Appropriations bill that passed Congress and was signed into law by the President today. The National Historic Trail system commemorates major routes of historic travel and events that have shaped American history. The bill creating the Star-Spangled Banner National Historic Trail was signed into law in 2008 and comes in time for the upcoming bicentennial celebration of the War of 1812. The $500,000 appropriation will allow for a Comprehensive Management Plan in order to plan for the upcoming bicentennial celebration, which culminated at the Battle of Baltimore and the celebrated role of the Star-Spangled Banner flying over Fort McHenry. “The Star-Spangled Banner Trail is a living memorial to those who gave their lives to protect our young nation. The trail is a wonderful way to inspire people of all ages to learn more about Maryland’s rich history,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a member of the Appropriations Committee.“The Star-Spangled Banner National Historic Trail is part of Maryland’s rich heritage and culture,” said Senator Cardin. “As the bicentennial of the War of 1812 approaches, the State of Maryland needs to be prepared so that we can ensure all Americans will have the opportunity to learn and study the history of what is often referred to as the ‘Second American Revolution.’”“The history of the Baltimore area is historically linked to the War of 1812, the battles that were fought here, and our noble National Anthem which emerged from the fight,” said Congressman Cummings. “I am glad that our history will be kept alive by improving this wonderful trail, so that our children will have the opportunity to experience the twin wonders of Maryland’s natural beauty and its history.” “As the bicentennial of the War of 1812 approaches, this funding will help make the Star Spangled Banner Trail a reality and educate generations to come about the important role Marylanders played in protecting this nation,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “Many refer to the War of 1812 as the ‘Second War of Independence.’ Events in Maryland, most notably the heroic defense of Fort McHenry, helped prove that democracy could hold together through the trials of war and set the stage for the spread of democracy around the world.”The Trail begins with the June 1814 battle between the British Navy and the American Chesapeake Flotilla in St. Leonard’s Creek in Calvert County, follows the British landing at Benedict on the Patuxent River, the Battle of Bladensburg, and then moves on to the British march into Washington, D.C., which was sacked and burned. From Washington, it follows the British campaign to the Battle of North Point and on to Baltimore, ending at Fort McHenry, site of the defeat of the British and where Francis Scott Key composed The Star-Spangled Banner, our National Anthem.
12.22.2009	National Cybersecurity & Communications Integration Center Opens(Arlington, VA) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and other Members of Congress to launch a new cybersecurity center today in Arlington, Virginia. The National Cybersecurity & Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) will create a 24-hour watch and warning center to address threats and other incidents involving our nation’s critical infrastructure. The center will be staffed by officials with the Department of Homeland Security and other government agencies along with workers from the private sector. Our nation’s cyber networks control much of what we do every day. They power our computers, our cell phones, our Blackberries and our I-pods. They power the electrical grid that allows us to turn the lights on, the classified military and intelligence networks that keep us safe, and the broadband networks that link our homes, our schools, and our hospitals. Congressman Ruppersberger is Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee and a Member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. Congressman Ruppersberger believes we must be vigilant as we work to protect our nation’s infrastructure and the creation of the NCCCIC is a good first step. “We must make cybersecurity a priority. We must also make sure the federal government, private industry and citizens are all working together to beef up our cybersecurity efforts. Some of our nation’s networks are run by the government and others are run by private companies. It makes sense that these efforts include both sectors. That is what the NCCIC is all about,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger supported the 2010 Homeland Security Act, which included $397 million for cybersecurity. The bill passed Congress and was signed into law on October 28, 2009.
12.22.2009	(San Antonio, Texas) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) delivered a keynote address today at the Geospatial Intelligence Foundation (GEOINT) Symposium in San Antonio, Texas. Congressman Ruppersberger, Chairman of the Technical and Tactical (T& T) Intelligence Subcommittee, believes America is in danger of losing its preeminence in space. The Congressman conducted a series of roundtable discussions with government leaders and private satellite companies recently. He released a report highlighting important changes that need to be made to American space policy to recapture American dominance of the skies. The report found: America needs to reform current export regulations that hinder the space industry, specifically the International Traffic in Arms Regulation, or ITAR.Funding for research and development must be increased and happen before manufacturing starts.Commercial imagery must be considered under certain circumstances to utilize the latest in technology while also keeping costs down.America needs a comprehensive plan or road map for our satellite infrastructure known as overhead architecture – including imagery, signals and communications.We need to reinvigorate science and technology education to rebuild our space workforce.“Satellites keep us safe. We use satellites and their imagery for everything from operating GPS navigation systems in our cars to providing real-time data to our troops on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan. Satellites assist in reconnaissance missions and allow us to keep an eye on important developments around the world. We must make these important changes to make sure we don’t fall behind in space in the future,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Since the report was released last year, progress has been made. Language in the Intelligence Authorization Act for 2010 approved by the House Intelligence Committee this June required the Director of National Intelligence to review the ITAR regulations and determine what satellites and components could safely be taken off the list of sensitive technologies subject to export controls. This would allow American space companies to sell their technology to the United States as well as overseas – a practice that is currently prohibited – as long at it doesn’t cause a security risk. With his colleagues on the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee and the T & T Intelligence Subcommittee, Congressman Ruppersberger has also been working to encourage collaboration between different agencies including NASA, the intelligence community, and the Department of Defense. By sharing technologies such as space craft mission software, each agency can learn from the other and save critical dollars by preventing redundancy. The savings can then be spent in other areas of our space program. Congressman Ruppersberger and other Members of the Intelligence Committee are also working with the Obama Administration to restructure our satellite acquisition program and consider purchasing commercial satellites when appropriate. European countries have mastered this practice. It allows them to purchase the latest in privately-developed technology at a reduced cost. The savings are used to fund other important space programs. Congressman Ruppersberger is also working with the Administration to create a comprehensive road map for overall overhead architecture. “Great strides have been made in space, but more needs to be done for the United States to reclaim its preeminence in space. We have some of the best minds and dedicated scientists, mathematicians and engineers working on this goal. I know we can achieve it together. We must create a robust space industry now so younger generations of Americans choose a career in space later,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. Click here to watch a clip of the Congressman’s speech. The GEOINT Symposium brings together members of the defense, intelligence, and homeland security communities.
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Members of the Maryland Delegation denounce the “conditional” approval of the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant at Sparrows Point by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) just five days before the Obama Administration takes office. AES, the company behind the proposal, must satisfy 169 safety, security, and environmental conditions to move forward with the proposal. Members of the Maryland Delegation including Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), and Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) vow to work with the Coast Guard, the State of Maryland, Baltimore County, and Anne Arundel County to investigate any possible way to halt the project. “From the start, I have expressed strong concerns over the safety and security of an LNG facility so close to densely populated, residential neighborhoods. My objections have fallen on deaf ears. In an 11th hour decision today, just five days before the Obama Administration takes office, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission quickly approved the proposal that will have a longstanding impact on this area. We will work with all of the agencies involved in this process to investigate ways to stop this plan from moving forward,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “For nearly three years, I have repeatedly raised my safety, security and environmental concerns about this LNG facility and pipeline. I am not the only. Several other agencies, including the U.S. Coast Guard, Army Corps of Engineers and Department of Interior have serious concerns about this project moving forward. And while all evidence seems to be showing that AES and Mid-Atlantic Express, the companies operating this project, are not adequately prepared to address these issues, FERC has decided to rubber stamp this project anyway. In doing so, they’ve chosen to ignore the safety and security of Marylanders. As Maryland’s senior Senator, I will work to ensure every mitigation measure is met and the community is protected,” said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). “I am extremely disappointed by FERC’s decision and I will continue to work to find ways to prevent it,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD). “The location of this facility in a highly populated, urban area poises a security and environmental risk to our region.” “I am deeply troubled that FERC moved forward to approve the LNG terminal at Sparrow’s Point,” said Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD). “The health and safety of Maryland residents must be the top priority and, unfortunately, FERC carelessly chose to overlook this grave concern with its decision.” LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. The proposed site is less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere in Baltimore County. The tankers carrying LNG to the facility would travel under the Chesapeake Bay Bridge to reach the facility. In addition, an LNG facility could harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and restrictions on recreational boat traffic could hurt the quality of life of area residents. In 2008, the Coast Guard found that the Chesapeake Bay is not currently suitable for an LNG facility because sufficient resources are not available to implement the necessary safety and security measures to protect the facility and nearby residents. AES has not created a Transit Management Plan as requested to determine how to adequately mitigate the risks of an accident or possible terrorist attack at the facility. In addition, the Department of the Interior recently determined construction of the plant could threaten the environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) supports the federal government’s request to delay a decision about the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility at Sparrows Point in eastern Baltimore County. Congressman Ruppersberger backs the Department of the Interior’s finding that construction of the plant will threaten bay species. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) is expected to issue its decision this month. In a letter dated January 6, 2009, the U.S. Department of the Interior recommended FERC hold off on making a decision stating, “There are unanswered questions related to the federally listed, endangered, and threatened species that may be affected by this project.” If constructed, the LNG facility would be located in an environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. Congressman Ruppersberger believes this development, together with the strong security concerns, warrant a delay. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. The proposed site is less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere. In addition, the company behind the proposal wants Maryland taxpayers to foot much of the bill for any new security procedures even though the natural gas would be pumped out of state “I have said from the very beginning this proposed liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this residential area. The plant will threaten endangered species but we must also consider the threat to human life. The residents of the neighboring communities will live in the shadow of the facility and be forced to live in fear. There could be an accident or a terrorist attack at the plant or on the tankers that travel up the Chesapeake Bay,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). An Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) was issued in December ignoring these safety concerns, but allowing the approval process to move forward. Last year, the Coast Guard issued a report critical of AES, the company that wants to build the facility, for not having a comprehensive safety or security plan. The Coast Guard report found that AES does not appear to be taking security seriously and assumes the Coast Guard will handle all security at taxpayer expense. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and the restrictions on recreational boat traffic could hurt the quality of life of area residents. Congressman Ruppersberger is a Member of the Intelligence Committee and Chair of the Port Security Caucus. The proposed site of the LNG facility is located in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Coast Guard. The letter from the United States Department of the Interior is attached. Click here to view the letter from the United States Department of Interior. (####)
11.20.2009	(Randallstown, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will announce $951,000 for cutting edge, electronic patient records systems for Maryland Health Clinics. The technology will reduce medical errors, increase communication between healthcare providers, drive down costs, protect patient privacy, and help save lives. The technology will be used at eight community health centers across Maryland. In the Baltimore region, the centers serve Baltimore County, Anne Arundel County, Howard County, and Baltimore City. "This electronic patient record system is the future of healthcare by improving overall patient care while at the same time reducing costs. My life was saved at the University of Maryland’s Shock Trauma Center after a terrible car accident in the 1970s. I believe our healthcare workers need all the tools available to do their jobs well and help save lives," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger will join doctors, nurses, patients, and other healthcare providers at Chase Brexton Health Services in Randallstown on Tuesday, April 14, 2009, for the announcement. Media will be allowed to watch healthcare providers use the technology. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Doctors Nurses Patients What: Congressman Ruppersberger to Announce $951,000 for Cutting Edge, Electronic Patient Record System for Maryland Health Clinics When: 10:30 am, Tuesday, April 14, 2009 Where: Chase Brexton Health Service 8507 Liberty Road Randallstown, Maryland 21133 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) recently returned from a six-day trip to the Middle East where he visited Israel, Lebanon, Syria, Kuwait, Iraq, and Belgium. The Congressional Delegation was one of the first to visit the area since President Barack Obama took office on January 20, 2009, and pledged a greater global dialogue between America and countries in the Middle East. The Delegation met with leaders from the Middle East, NATO, and the American military. “As a Member of the Intelligence Committee, it was an honor to travel to the region on behalf of the United States of America to begin a new era to start improving relations in the region. It was also an honor to meet with military personnel from Maryland to thank them for their service and sacrifice,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger is available for interviews in his District Office in Timonium, Maryland, on Monday, February 9, 2009. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) What: Media Availability after Congressman Ruppersberger’s Trip to the Middle East When: Monday, February 9, 2009 **If you would like to schedule an interview, please call Heather Moeder Molino at the Congressman’s Washington Office at (202) 225-3061 or on her cell at (703) 615-5371.** (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee, commented on the appointment of Melissa Hathaway to head a 60-day review of the nation’s cyber security efforts. The review is expected to look at how the federal government is using technology to protect critical information including passport applications, tax records, and national security documents from hacking, espionage, and theft. “Melissa Hathaway is an experienced professional who is currently working in the area of cyber security. I worked alongside Ms. Hathaway as we tackled this important issue through my work as Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee. Cyber security is one of the biggest threats to our national security and our economy. I am pleased President Obama is taking cyber security seriously. In the past, this threat to our country and our economic viability has not received enough attention. I look forward to working with Ms. Hathaway to change that,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Melissa Hathaway currently serves as the Cyber Coordination Executive at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- (Washington, DC) – Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will announce $10.3 million in federal funds for MARC improvements are on the fast track. The money will pay for infrastructure upgrades at the MARC Stations at BWI, Penn Station, Laurel, and the Storage Yard at Martin State Airport. The “shovel ready” projects will begin this spring and will create more than 240 jobs. The money was included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that was signed into law recently. At the MARC BWI Station, $3 million will pay for much-needed improvements to the elevators and the station’s electrical system. At the MARC Penn Station, $4 million will fund new windows and a new heating system to make the station more energy efficient. At the Laurel MARC Station, $2.9 million will finance the renovation of the southbound platform. At the MARC Storage Yard at Martin State Airport, $400,000 will pay for additional storage tracks, train inspection areas, and upgrades to the maintenance building. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Maryland Transportation Officials What: Congressman Ruppersberger to Announce $10.3 Million for MARC Improvements When: 10:30 am Friday, February 27, 2009 Where: The BWI MARC Station 7 Amtrak Way Linthicum Heights, MD 21090 #######
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) announced $10.3 million in federal funds for MARC improvements are on the fast track. The money will pay for infrastructure upgrades at the MARC Stations at BWI, Penn Station, Laurel, and the Storage Yard at Martin State Airport. The “shovel ready” projects will begin this spring and will create more than 240 jobs. The money was included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that was signed into law recently. Congressman Ruppersberger was joined by Congressman Elijah Cummings and Paul Wiedefeld of the Maryland Transportation Administration at the announcement at the MARC BWI Station on Friday, February 27, 2009. “As we all know, we are facing some tough economic times. The stock market is falling. Home foreclosures are rising. Jobs are disappearing. The time for action is now. The best way to boost the economy is to create jobs, invest in infrastructure, and offer citizens and businesses tax cuts and rebates. The $10 million in MARC improvements will put Marylanders back to work while also upgrading our transportation systems,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “Because of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, Marylanders can look forward to much-needed improvements in our State’s infrastructure and transit systems,” said Congressman Elijah Cummings, a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. “The $10.3 million that Congressman Ruppersberger and I were able to present today for MARC enhancements will not only create hundreds of new jobs—it will also keep our infrastructure from literally crumbling beneath us.” At the MARC BWI Station, $3 million will pay for much-needed improvements to the elevators and the station’s electrical system. At the MARC Penn Station, $4 million will fund new windows and a new heating system to make the station more energy efficient. At the Laurel MARC Station, $2.9 million will finance the renovation of the southbound platform. At the MARC Storage Yard at Martin State Airport, $400,000 will pay for additional storage tracks, train inspection areas, and upgrades to the maintenance building. ######
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauds the Obama Administration’s plan to boost small business and get credit flowing quickly. Congressman Ruppersberger joined President Barack Obama and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner at the White House to outline the Administration’s Financial Stability Plan. The Treasury Department will begin purchasing securities backed by Small Business Administration (SBA) loans to open credit markets giving community banks and credit unions the confidence to extend new loans to local businesses that are credit-worthy. The plan also increases the federal loan guarantee and temporarily eliminates loan fees. America’s small businesses account for 70 percent of the new jobs created over the past decade. “Today, the President took aggressive steps to improve the lending climate for businesses. Reducing the cost and expanding government guarantees for SBA loans will help Maryland businesses meet their payrolls and finance growth. Jobs are the gasoline that drives our economic engine. If you don’t have a job, you can’t support your family or your community,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “Maryland businesses are not looking for a hand-out in this tough economic climate, they are looking for a way to succeed. We need to unfreeze the credit market for credit-worthy companies. I spoke directly with Secretary Geithner to encourage the Treasury Department to further expand efforts by the government to buy poor performing bank assets at a discount in order to inject more lending capital into the banking system. We must put Marylanders back to work.” Before being elected to Congress, Ruppersberger was the Baltimore County Executive from 1994 to 2002, where he focused on creating jobs and getting Baltimore County a triple-A bond rating. His predecessor created 800 jobs during his term. The Ruppersberger Administration was able to create 47,000 jobs through an aggressive business plan. In 2001, Baltimore County was named one of the nation's four best-managed counties by Governing Magazine and then County Executive Ruppersberger achieved his goal. Baltimore County was one of only 19 counties nationwide to receive a triple-A bond rating from all three of the country's bond rating agencies. #######
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) co-sponsored legislation today that will tax the bonuses given to AIG executives at 100%. AIG awarded $160 million in bonuses just months after receiving $173 billion in taxpayer funds to save the company from the brink of collapse. AIG says it was contractually obligated to grant these bonuses. AIG Chief Executive Edward Liddy is expected to testify today on Capitol Hill. "Using taxpayer funds to pay out multi-million dollar bonuses to AIG executives who drove the company into the ground is absolutely outrageous. It is immoral, fiscally irresponsible, and downright greedy. This legislation will ensure all of the money is returned to the taxpayers. This situation is also a massive distraction from our efforts to get our economy back on track," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. H.R. 1542, the "AIG Taxpayer Protection Act," directs the Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to develop guidelines that tax bonus compensation at 100% for executives whose company is a recipient of Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) funds where the United States government is majority owner. Congressman Ruppersberger co-sponsored this legislation together with Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN), Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY), Congressman Brian Higgins (D-NY), Congresswoman Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Congressman Earl Pomeroy (D-ND), and Congressman Zack Space (D-OH). Congressman Ruppersberger also co-sponsored H.R. 1543, the “Responsible Corporate Executive Compensation Act of 2009,” which would make bonuses to employees of companies receiving TARP funds subject to a 95 percent tax. This legislation does not require that the United States government is a majority owner for taxing purposes in contrast to H.R. 1542. H.R. 1543 is sponsored by Congressman John Dingell (D-MI). #######
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) met today with Baltimore Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis to thank him for his contributions to the City of Baltimore and discuss an exciting new business endeavor the football icon has planned. Congressman Ruppersberger is a Ravens season ticket holder and rarely misses a game. “I am thrilled that Ray decided to stay in Baltimore,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “On and off the field, as a sportsman and businessman, he has contributed so much to the City of Baltimore and State of Maryland. I look forward to watching Ray play in Baltimore for the rest of his career.” In addition to Lewis’ business idea – an upscale bowling alley in Hunt Valley – Congressman Ruppersberger and Lewis discussed the linebacker’s exercise regiment (he works out in a sandbox three times a day!) and his antidote for the common cold: a trip to the beach. Lewis, a two-time NFL Defensive Player of the Year and longtime face of the Ravens franchise, was on Capitol Hill to lunch with Congressman Ruppersberger and Congressman Howard Coble of North Carolina, who is also a Ravens season ticket holder. The three dined in the House Members Dining Room on March 30. Lewis was the second player ever drafted to the Ravens. Despite signs of a possible split between Lewis and the team, he signed a 3-year contract early last month, finalizing his legacy with the team and Baltimore. A 10-time Pro-Bowler, Lewis will be one of few NFL players to play their entire careers with one team. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) announces $951,000 for cutting edge, electronic patient record systems for Maryland health clinics. The technology reduces medical errors, increases communication between healthcare providers, drives down costs, protects patient privacy, and helps save lives. The electronic records will be used at eight community health centers that are part of the Community Health Integrated Partnership (CHIP) serving more than 110,000 people statewide. In the Baltimore region, the centers serve Baltimore County, Anne Arundel County, Howard County, and Baltimore City and offer everything from routine medical and dental care as well as an on-site pharmacy. "This electronic patient record system is the future of healthcare by improving overall patient care while at the same time reducing costs. My life was saved at the University of Maryland’s Shock Trauma Center after a terrible car accident in the 1970s. I believe our healthcare workers need all the tools available to do their jobs well and help save lives," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). With this electronic record system, previous years of records can now be accessed and shared by primary care physicians and specialists in a clear, easy to read format. Doctors and nurses can give more effect “after-hours” or “urgent care.” A physician can securely access a patient’s records from home at night to determine if a patient should go to the emergency room or if the situation can wait until the morning for a traditional appointment. This will save both time and money. The system can be a “first alert” in the case of a hazardous or biological incident, letting doctors and nurses know quickly about a potentially dangerous health situation. A pharmacist no longer has to guess the name or dosage of a prescription because it is electronic and easy to read. In the case of a prescription recall, the computer can pull up the patients that need to be contacted and quickly switched over to a safe medication. Congressman Ruppersberger joined doctors, nurses, patients, and other healthcare providers at Chase Brexton Health Services in Randallstown today for the announcement. The money was included in the Omnibus spending bill that was signed into law recently. ####
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) recently returned from a six-day trip to the Middle East where he visited Israel, Lebanon, Syria, Kuwait, Iraq, and Belgium. The Congressional Delegation was one of the first to visit the area since President Barack Obama took office on January 20, 2009, and pledged a greater global dialogue between America and countries in the Middle East. The Delegation met with leaders from the Middle East, NATO, and the American military. “As a Member of the Intelligence Committee, it was an honor to travel to the region on behalf of the United States of America to begin a new era to start improving relations in the region. It was also an honor to meet with military personnel from Maryland to thank them for their service and sacrifice,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger traveled to the region with Congressman Frank Kratovil of Virginia, Congressman Adam Smith of Washington State, and Congressman Glenn Nye of Virginia. ####
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) celebrates the Inauguration of the 44th President of the United States. Congressman Ruppersberger was on hand for the Whistle Stop Tour in Baltimore on Saturday, January 17, 2009, as then President-Elect Obama addressed a standing room only crowd at War Memorial Plaza. “It is such an honor that then President-Elect Barack Obama decided to stop in Baltimore on his historic journey to take the oath of office in Washington, DC. Marylanders packed War Memorial Plaza to hear the President Elect’s words of inspiration and change that shows what we can expect from the Obama Administration,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger watched from the Capitol steps as the 44th President Barack Obama was sworn into office. The National Park Service estimates close to 1.8 million people packed the National Mall to witness the historic event amid freezing cold temperatures. “It was an exciting moment in history to watch President Barack Obama take the oath of office. I look forward to working with the Obama Administration to create jobs and improve our economy. President Obama is putting together a top notch team to help turn our country around. Whether you are a democrat or republican, once the voters have spoken I believe we must work together to get things done and we have a lot to do to improve people’s lives,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Members of the Maryland Delegation are calling on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to delay a decision on the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility at Sparrows Point until the Obama Administration takes office next week. In a letter sent to FERC today, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) and Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD) expressed their concerns about the safety and security of the proposed facility as well as the threat to endangered Chesapeake Bay species. FERC is expected to make a decision on the proposal on January 15, 2009. The Obama Administration takes office on January 20, 2009. In 2008, the Coast Guard found that the Chesapeake Bay is not currently suitable for an LNG facility because sufficient resources are not available to implement the necessary safety and security measures to protect the facility and nearby residents. AES, the company proposing the project, has not created a Transit Management Plan as requested to determine how to adequately mitigate the risks of an accident or possible terrorist attack at the facility. In addition, the Department of the Interior recently determined construction of the plant could threaten the environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. “From the very beginning, I have said this liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this densely populated, urban area because of strong concerns over safety and security. AES has done nothing to ease those concerns. This, coupled with the threat to endangered Chesapeake Bay species, means FERC should delay its decision. The Obama Administration must be allowed to study and review the risks of building an LNG facility so close to a residential neighborhood in a critical area of the Chesapeake Bay,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Chairman of the Port Security Caucus and a Member of the Intelligence Committee. “For more than two years, I have repeatedly raised my safety and security concerns about this LNG facility and pipeline. While I am still waiting for these concerns to be adequately addressed, FERC has proceeded at breakneck speed to rubber stamp this project. It’s time for them to hit the breaks. FERC should hold off their decision until all the critical security and safety concerns have been addressed,” said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). “I am strongly opposed to locating a LNG facility at Sparrows Point,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. “I am deeply concerned about security and environmental risks to the Port of Baltimore and Chesapeake Bay, and I urge FERC to delay its decision so that the new Obama Administration will have an opportunity to study and review the risks of locating a LNG facility in a densely populated, urban area.” “There are serious environmental and safety concerns involved in the operation of an LNG facility, and all evidence seems to be showing that AES is not adequately prepared to address these issues at Sparrow’s Point,” said Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. “By rubber stamping this ill-advised project, FERC is jeopardizing the safety and security of Maryland residents.” “The debate about whether or not to place a LNG facility at Sparrows Point has always hinged foremost on the issue of safety,” said Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD). “But the Interior Department’s recent letter about the project’s impact on endangered species in the Chesapeake Bay raises new ecological and environmental concerns that need to be addressed as well. FERC should give these issues the appropriate attention." LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. The proposed site is less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere in Baltimore County. The tankers carrying LNG to the facility would travel under the Chesapeake Bay Bridge to reach the facility. In addition, an LNG facility could harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and restrictions on recreational boat traffic could hurt the quality of life of area residents. The letter from Members of the Maryland Delegation to FERC is attached. Click here to view the letter from the Members of the Maryland Delegation to FERC. (####)
11.20.2009	(Annapolis, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will announce $6.6 million for oyster restoration in the Chesapeake Bay. Oysters are such an important part of Maryland’s rich history, but oysters have been hit hard recently. The Bay’s native oyster population is estimated to be about one percent of what it was at the end of the 19th century. The declining oyster population not only means tough times for watermen, it also means fewer oysters are helping clean up declining Bay waters. Oysters filter water in their search for food. An adult oyster can filter as much as 60 gallons of water a day. To put it in perspective, the native oyster population could filter all of the water in the Bay in three or four days in the late 19th century. Now, it takes the oysters close to a year to do the same thing. Restoring the Chesapeake Bay’s native oyster population is an important part of improving the health of the Bay. Congressman Ruppersberger will be joined by oyster experts and members of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation for the announcement on Friday, May 8, 2009. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Kim Coble. Executive Director, Chesapeake Bay Foundation Stephanie Reynolds, Fisheries Scientist, Chesapeake Bay Foundation Members of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation What: Congressman Ruppersberger to Announce $6.6 Million for Oyster Restoration When: 12:30 p.m., Friday, May 8, 2009 Where: The Chesapeake Bay Foundation Headquarters 6 Herndon Avenue Annapolis, MD 21403 (####)
11.20.2009	(Annapolis, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) announced $6.6 million for oyster restoration in the Chesapeake Bay at a special ceremony at the Chesapeake Bay Foundation today in Annapolis. Oysters are such an important part of Maryland’s rich history, but oysters have been hit hard recently. The Bay’s native oyster population is estimated to be about one percent of what it was at the end of the 19th century. The declining oyster population not only means tough times for watermen, it also means fewer oysters are helping clean up declining Bay waters. Oysters filter water in their search for food. An adult oyster can filter as much as 60 gallons of water a day. To put it in perspective, the native oyster population could filter all of the water in the Bay in three or four days in the late 19th century. Now, it takes the oysters close to a year to do the same thing. Restoring the Chesapeake Bay’s native oyster population is an important part of improving the health of the Bay. “I am committed to preserving the environment and protecting the Chesapeake Bay, one of Maryland’s most precious resources. The Bay provides jobs to watermen, helps tourism, and contributes to our wonderful quality of life here in Maryland. When you think of the Chesapeake Bay, you think of Maryland blue crabs and oysters. I have two children and now two grandchildren. I want them and other Marylanders to be able to enjoy the Bay and all it has to offer like I did growing up. This $6.6 million will help the Bay thrive for future generations to enjoy,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The $6.6 million will pay for construction and rehabilitation of oyster habitats and allow over 500 million disease-free, baby oysters known as spat to be produced in a hatchery and planted all over the Chesapeake Bay. The money was included in the FY 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act that passed Congress and was recently signed into law. (####)
11.20.2009	(Timonium, M.D.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) proudly announces the nominees for the United States Service Academies from Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District for 2009. • Clarence Bell of Pikesville attends the Hargrave Military Academy; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy, United States Military Academy at West Point, United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy; Received an appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy and the United States Naval Academy. • Stephen Bittner of Aberdeen is home schooled; Nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy; Received an appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy and United States Air Force Academy Prep School. • Rachel Trageser of Perry Hall attends Eastern Technical High School; Nominated to the United States Air Force Academy and the United States Naval Academy. • Timothy Cadigan of Lutherville attends Calvert Hall; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy. • Joseph Chapman of White Marsh attends Perry Hall High School; Nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Merchant Marine Academy, and the United States Air Force Academy; Received an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. • Brett Donahoo of Cockeysville attends Saint Paul’s School for Boys; Nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point. • Nicholas Hancock of Havre de Grace attends Havre de Grace High School; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy, the United States Military Academy at West Point, and the United States Air Force Academy; Received an appointment to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Military Academy at West Point. • Scott Koenig of Lutherville attends Dulaney High School; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy; Received an appointment to the United States Naval Academy. • Erin McShane of Lutherville attends Dulaney High School; Nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point; Received an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. • Nicholas Poremski of Parkville attends Valley Forge Military School; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy; Received an appointment to the United States Naval Academy. • Wesley Sadler of Reisterstown attends Calvert Hall; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy; Received an appointment to the United States Naval Academy. • Ryan Szimanski of Dundalk attends the University of Maryland Baltimore County; Nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy; Received an appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. • Tyler Thein of Timonium attends Loyola Blakefield; Nominated to the United States Air Force Academy and the United States Naval Academy; Received an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy and the United States Naval Academy. • Grace Bojanowski of Baltimore attends Towson High School; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy; Received an appointment to the United States Naval Academy. • Ryan Wheeler of Rosedale attends Eastern Technical High School; Nominated to the United States Air Force Academy; Received an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. “This impressive group of young people will be our nation’s future leaders. They represent the best and brightest of Maryland. They competed with a very strong slate of candidates. I am confident these students will be great additions to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Merchant Marine Academy, and the United States Naval Academy. I wish them good luck in their future endeavors,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. The Congressman established an independent Academy Nomination Panel comprised of Academy graduates, educators, business leaders, and other professionals to assist him in choosing the most qualified candidates from Maryland’s 2nd District. The students nominated by Congressman Ruppersberger are not guaranteed an appointment. The individual academies make final appointments. The students make their own decision if they would like to attend the Service Academy. The Congressman hosted the students and their families at a special ceremony at his District Office on April 7, 2009. Feel free to use the attached picture in your publication. Individual pictures of each nominee and the Congressman are also available. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) received the “Vision” award from the National Association of School Resources (NASRO) for his efforts implementing a school safety program when he was the Baltimore County Executive and supporting school resource officers while in Congress. Congressman Ruppersberger received the award and addressed more than 800 school resource officers at the 19th annual NASRO convention taking place this week in downtown Baltimore. “This award truly belongs to the first resource officers in our schools, who showed that the program is successful and necessary to combat growing problems such as gangs and cyber bullying. School resource officers not only collect intelligence to help prevent and solve crimes, but they are also role models and advocates for our students,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In 1998, then Baltimore County Executive Ruppersberger met with then Baltimore County Police Chief Terrence Sheridan, who also received an award Monday, to address a sharp spike in crime, nearly one third of it committed by juveniles. Amid opposition from some school administrators, concerned parents and school board members, the first armed police officers were placed in Milford Mill Academy and Pikesville High School on a trial basis. Today, more than 58 high schools and middle schools in Baltimore County have resource officers who are assigned to the local Baltimore County Police precinct. School-based policing is the fastest growing area of law enforcement in the country. “School resource officers in Baltimore County have helped to solve crimes ranging from homicides to destruction of property. The crimes they have helped prevent are too many to count,” Ruppersberger said. NASRO is a non-profit organization for school-based law enforcement officers, school administrators, and school security and safety professionals working as partners to protect students, school faculty and staff and the schools they attend. Feel free to use the attached photograph in your publication. #######
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released the following statement on the situation in Israel. “As a sovereign nation, Israel has the right to defend herself against the daily rocket attacks and mortar fire from Hamas-controlled Gaza. When Israel is attacked, the United States will stand by her friend and democratic ally. If our families and communities were attacked here in the United States, we would not hesitate to defend our families, our neighborhoods, our state, and our country. The United States is committed to working with regional allies to promote peace in the region but constant attacks from Hamas militants who use Gaza as their sanctuary will not help achieve this goal. The growing humanitarian situation must also be addressed.” Congressman Ruppersberger has visited Israel several times over the last few years. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) introduced important child care legislation. In this sputtering economy, the Right Start Child Care and Education Act of 2009 will help ease the financial burden on Maryland families while helping ensure high-quality, affordable child care is available. The legislation would: Increase the maximum federal child care tax credit for families from $3,000 to $6,000 per child. Increase the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account from $5,000 to $7,500. Expand the tax credit from $150,000 to $225,000 for employers to construct workplace child care facilities. Provide a tax credit of up to a $2,000 a year for three years for college graduates who decide to enter the child care field. “In this tough economic environment, a job is not a job at all if a parent can’t go to work because they can’t afford child care. The Right Start Child Care and Education Act of 2009 updates and expands the child care tax credit so parents can actually take these jobs that are being created while also providing their children with high quality care while they are at work,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “In this difficult economic environment, it is more important than ever that we make sure that parents don’t have to choose between working and taking care of their children. This legislation is designed to help families pay for a very important service and I want to ensure that the care that is received is top quality,” said Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA). Studies show that children in high quality care programs perform better in math, language, and reading and show fewer behavioral problems. More than 200,000 children and their families in Maryland rely on licensed child care services in order for parents to go to work, school, or attend other activities, according to the Maryland Committee for Children. The average family in the Baltimore–Washington region pays $20,752 a year, which is equivalent to $1,729 a month in childcare. Most families say it is the second-highest household expense behind mortgage or rent payments in their budgets. (####)
11.20.2009	(Severna Park, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will hold a workshop at Anne Arundel Community College on Monday, July 27, 2009, to help non-profit organizations apply for grants made available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), known as the stimulus bill. The stimulus bill was signed into law on February 17, 2009. Maryland received $3.9 billion to create and save jobs in the state, make important infrastructure improvements, and offer other assistance to individuals and businesses in the form of tax cuts and direct payments. Some of this money is available to non-profit organizations as federal and state grants. Congressman Ruppersberger will be joined by grant experts and state representatives who will show participants how to find and apply for federal and state grants. Representatives from Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley’s office will also demonstrate their “StateStat” website that tracks the progress of the Maryland Recovery and Reinvestment Plan. WHO: Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Ms. Beth Blauer, Director of the Maryland Governor’s StateStat Office Mr. Eric Brenner, Director of the Maryland Governor’s Grants Office Mr. Neil Bergsman, Director of the Maryland Budget and Tax Policy Institute WHAT: Ruppersberger to Hold Workshop to Help Non-Profits Get Stimulus Money WHEN: 1:30 pm, Monday, July 27, 2009 WHERE: Anne Arundel Community College Center for Applied Learning and Technology Room 100 101 College Parkway Arnold, MD 21012 (####)
11.20.2009	(Severna Park, Md) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) held a workshop at Anne Arundel Community College today to help non-profit organizations apply for grants made available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), known as the stimulus bill. The stimulus bill was signed into law on February 17, 2009. Maryland received $3.9 billion to create and save jobs in the state, make important infrastructure improvements, and offer other assistance to individuals and businesses in the form of tax cuts and direct payments. Some of this money is available to non-profit organizations as federal and state grants. “The economic crisis has taken its toll on the non-profit sector. People are not donating as much to these organizations while the need for their services is escalating. In these tough economic times, it is more important than ever that these organizations have access to these critically important federal and state grants made possible through the stimulus bill. I am pleased to be able to pull together a group of experts who can show these important groups how to access this money,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger was joined by grant experts and state representatives who showed participants how to find and apply for federal and state grants. Representatives from Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley’s office also demonstrated their “StateStat” website that tracks the progress of the Maryland Recovery and Reinvestment Plan. #######
11.20.2009	(Fort Howard, MD)- After lengthy delays, the Department of Veterans Affairs just announced it has terminated the current plan to develop a veteran’s facility at Fort Howard in Baltimore County. Team Maryland, including Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), and Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith (D-MD), support the VA’s search for a new developer committed to creating a high-quality, affordable community for Maryland veterans and their families. Fort Howard Senior Housing Associates LLC, the developer, broke ground more than three years ago. The first phase of the $180 million public-private partnership for the continuing care retirement community geared toward Maryland veterans was slated to be complete this year. Construction has stalled after disagreements over cost, size, and local transportation needs. “Maryland veterans risked their lives for their country. They deserve a first-rate, reasonably priced facility that will be an integral part of the community and a good neighbor to the area. I look forward to working together with our local, state, and federal partners to redevelop this area in a positive way that doesn’t negatively impact existing communities,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), a member of the House Appropriations Committee. “From the War of 1812 where Marylanders fought off the British to Fort Howard’s role as a VA Hospital until it closed in 2002, Fort Howard has been an important piece of Maryland history. Maryland veterans deserve to enjoy this facility with its gorgeous views of the Patapsco River and its proud past.” “We have a sacred trust with the veterans who serve our country so we may live in freedom. Part of that sacred trust is making sure we provide them with the services and support they need and deserve,” said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). “Preserving this land for veterans shows Maryland’s vets that America is with them. That’s why I will continue the fight to ensure that Fort Howard is developed in a way that is valuable to veterans and favorable to the surrounding community.” "I am committed to working with the VA and prospective developers to provide our aging veterans with a care facility that will meet their needs,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), a member of the Senate Budget Committee. “Our veterans were there when we needed them and now it's time for us to be there to help them meet the challenges of aging.” "I am hopeful that the Veteran's Administration will be able to reach an agreement with a new developer for the Fort Howard project in the near future," stated Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith (D-MD). "I am confident that there are developers who will be able to work with the community and Baltimore County to create a quality living environment for our veterans who have done so much for their country." ########
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will appear on Fox 45 Morning News in Baltimore at 7:15 a.m. on Monday, August 24, 2009, to talk about health care. Several bills reforming America’s health care system are being discussed in the United States House and Senate. The legislation is a work in progress and negotiations are underway. The provisions of the bills are constantly changing. In the United States, there are an estimated 47 million Americans without health insurance; 800,000 live in Maryland. On average, health insurance premiums have increased by 114% over the last ten years while workers earnings have only increased by 27%. Under the status quo, middle class families pay a “hidden tax” of nearly $1,100 per year to provide care for the uninsured and underinsured. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) What: Interview on Fox 45 Morning News in Baltimore When: 7:15 a.m., Monday, August 24, 2009 #######
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) appeared on Fox 45 Morning News in Baltimore today to talk about health care. Several bills reforming America’s health care system are being discussed in the United States House and Senate. The legislation is a work in progress and negotiations are underway. The provisions of the bills are constantly changing. In the United States, there are an estimated 47 million Americans without health insurance; 800,000 live in Maryland. On average, health insurance premiums have increased by 114% over the last ten years while workers earnings have only increased by 27%. Under the status quo, middle class families pay a “hidden tax” of nearly $1,100 per year to provide care for the uninsured and underinsured. Click this link to see a clip of the segment on Fox 45 Morning News: https://dutch.house.gov/av/20090824-fox45-healthcare.wmv ########
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today successfully ushered his bill honoring Maryland’s rich history to passage in the U.S. House of Representatives. H.R. 2097, the “Star-Spangled Banner Commemorative Coin Act,” passed the House by a vote of 419 to 1. H.R. 2097 will create a commemorative coin to honor America’s national anthem. After a 25-hour British bombardment of Fort McHenry during the War of 1812, Francis Scott Key saw an enormous American flag proudly flying over the fort, which was defending the City of Baltimore. Key was inspired to write “The Star-Spangled Banner” that eventually became America’s national anthem. Recent statistics show two out of three Americans do not know the lyrics to our nation’s anthem, according to the National Anthem Project. “Baltimore is proud to be the home of the Star-Spangled Banner, America’s national anthem, right here in our backyard. This coin will highlight the critical role Maryland played in the creation of our nation and hopefully inspire people to learn about our state and our country’s rich history,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The bill authorizes $1 and $5 silver coins that will be minted in 2012 for the 200th anniversary of the War of 1812. Proceeds will help fund the War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission, which will host celebrations along the East Coast, including Fort McHenry in Baltimore, kicking off in June of 2012. The legislation must pass the Senate and be signed by the President before it can become law. Congressman Ruppersberger urged his colleagues to support this important measure during a speech on the House floor earlier today. Click this link, https://dutch.house.gov/av/ruppersberger9909.wmv, to watch Congressman Ruppersberger’s speech. #######
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will join the Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD) to make an important announcement about money for port security, transit security, and fire house construction included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley WHAT: Important Announcement about Recovery Funds WHEN: 9:45 a.m., Wednesday, September 23, 2009 Media is asked to be in place by 9:15 a.m. and present valid credentials WHERE: Inner Harbor Pier 1, Constellation Dock 301 East Pratt Street Baltimore, Maryland In case of rain, this event will relocate indoors to the World Trade Center’s Constellation Room at 401 East Pratt Street, Baltimore, Maryland. ########
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Today Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) proudly supported H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act. The measure is the single largest investment in college aid in American history to help students and families pay for college at no cost to taxpayers. It passed the United States House of Representatives by 253 to 171 this afternoon. H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act: • Reforms the federal student loan system to save taxpayers $87 billion• Invests $77 billion of those savings back into education to make college more affordable • Directs $10 billion of those savings back to the Treasury to reduce entitlement spending • Increases Pell Grants from $5,350 in 2009 to $5,550 in 2010 to $6,900 in 2019 • Keeps interest rates low on subsidized federal student loans • Makes it easier for families applying for financial aid by simplifying the FASFA form and allowing students and families to apply for aid using the information on their tax returns In Maryland, the measure will invest $480.1 million over the next ten years. “Times are tough here in Maryland and across our nation, but a rough economy should not ruin a student’s dream of going to college. I believe every child who wants to go to college should have the opportunity to attend through grants, loans, or other financial aid. This bill helps make the dream of going to college a reality for Maryland families. It is critically important as we work to keep our country strong and ensure our work force remains the most highly skilled and cutting-edge in the world,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The measure must pass the Senate and be signed by the President before it can become law. ######
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined the Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley today to announce $510 million for port security, transit security, and fire house construction. The funds were included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). $6 million of that money will be heading to Maryland for port security at the Port of Baltimore and construction of a new fire house in Marley Station in Anne Arundel County. The Port of Baltimore is one of Maryland’s biggest economic engines. It supports approximately 120,000 jobs and generates $5.9 billion in wages, business revenue, and taxes. “We must be vigilant as we work to protect the Port of Baltimore as well as the dozens of other ports across the country. Our nation’s points are vital centers of trade and commerce. Our nation is on the road to economic recovery, we can not let a situation at a port disrupt this comeback. We must stay globally competitive while keeping our ports safe,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger serves on the Appropriations Committee and the Homeland Security Subcommittee. He is also Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee and Chairman of the Congressional Port Security Caucus. The Port of Baltimore is in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. The announcement was made in Baltimore’s Inner Harbor today. The recovery act will eventually create and save three to four million jobs, 60,000 of which will be right here in Maryland. ARRA was signed into law February 17, 2009. #######
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is calling on Congress to pass the 2010 Intelligence Authorization Act, especially in the wake of recent attacks on American Web sites. The bill increases spending on a variety of current cybersecurity efforts and provides initial investment in new initiatives, including hiring new personnel to develop additional, cutting-edge capabilities to stay ahead of our enemies and protect our nation’s critical infrastructure. Over the 4th of July holiday weekend, hackers attacked Web sites at the Treasury Department, Secret Service, Federal Trade Commission and Transportation Department, disabling them for various periods of time. “The time to act is now. The investments made in the 2010 Intelligence Authorization Act are critical as we beef up our cybersecurity efforts. This most recent attack proves even more vividly that this threat is real. Congress must act now to keep our country safe and protect our nation’s networks,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Chairman of Technical and Tactical Subcommittee, which oversees the technical aspects of cybersecurity. Our nation’s cyber networks control much of what we do every day. They power our computers, our cell phones, our Blackberries, and our I-pods. They power the electrical grid that allows us to turn the lights on, the classified military and intelligence networks that keep us safe, and the broadband networks that link our homes, our schools, our hospitals, and our businesses through the World Wide Web. The 2010 Intelligence Authorization Act is expected to be brought to the House floor on Thursday. The Obama Administration recently completed a thorough, 60-day review of our nation’s cybersecurity efforts and created a road map for the future. President Obama says he will hire a new “Cyber Czar”, one person responsible for protecting America’s vital networks. “I believe it is critically important that we have ‘one boss’ managing our cyber security efforts across the public and private sectors. For the ‘cyber czar’ to be effective, the person must have direct access to the President, budget authority, and hiring authority to recruit the staff needed to execute the recommendations highlighted in the 60-day review. I look forward to working together with the ‘cyber czar’ to protect our country from future threats,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. ######
11.20.2009	(Towson, MD.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) today joined Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith to announce new federal funding for critical upgrades to Baltimore County’s 911 Communications Center. The center, currently located in the basement of the county circuit courthouse, handles more than 900,000 calls for help each year. The existing center is 20 years old and is in need of additional space and upgraded technology to respond to the County’s growing population needs. The $1.5 million in federal funding Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Mikulski announced today will help Baltimore County modernize its 911 Communications Center so it can become faster and more efficient responding to emergencies. The funding will buy new, digital equipment – upgraded phones, computers, and radios – that will expand the communications capabilities in emergency situations across the county and in the region. The total cost of the project is $14 million. “Our 911 operators and dispatchers are the first lines of defense against everything from traffic jams to terrorist attacks. It is critical we give them the fastest and most accurate tools available to do their jobs of saving lives every day. This money will enable Baltimore County to purchase new phones, radios, and computer systems to ensure our 911 Center is well equipped to handle emergencies of all magnitudes,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “Every day, our 911 operators and dispatchers are there protecting people whey they need protection most. I am committed to making sure they have the best tools available to do their jobs. They need modern communications equipment – lightweight phones and lightning-fast computers – to respond to emergency situations where a moment’s delay could mean the difference between life and death,” said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). “This funding will help ensure the dedicated staff of Baltimore County’s 911 Call Center has the technology and resources they need to support their work of saving lives every day.” “In Baltimore County, we are very proud of the consistently high level of emergency service we provide our citizens in all aspects of public safety – beginning with the initial 911 call. Our 911 Call Center is no longer simply a switchboard, but a state of the art communications hub. I sincerely thank Senator Mikulski, Congressman Ruppersberger, and their partners in Washington for recognizing the importance of ensuring that our dedicated 911 Center staff have the technology and resources they need to do their jobs at peak efficiency,” said Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the House Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, and Senator Mikulski, Chairwoman of the respective Subcommittee in the Senate, worked together to secure $1.5 million in funding for the project in the 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act, signed into law in March, 2009. Congressman Ruppersberger successfully secured $500,000 for the project in the Fiscal Year 2010 CJS Appropriations Bill that passed the House last week. Senator Mikulski secured $1.5 million in funding for the companion legislation in the Senate. The differences will be worked out in a conference committee. Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Mikulski will fight to ensure funding for this project remains in the final bill that goes to the President to be signed into law. {insert text here} ########
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin as well as Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings and Frank Kratovil (all D-MD) praised the announcement today of $10.8 million in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funding through the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to continue maintenance dredging of the Port of Baltimore and its shipping channels. This funding will help clear the maintenance backlog at the Port of Baltimore, save and create jobs in Maryland, and improve Port safety and accessibility. While waiting for the funds to be awarded, Congressman Ruppersberger, Senators Mikulski and Cardin, and Congressmen Cummings and Kratovil fought tirelessly to keep dredge maintenance from being interrupted at the Port. “In these trying economic times, it is more important than ever that we keep the Port of Baltimore thriving as one of Maryland’s greatest economic engines. This money will keep commerce moving in Maryland and keep people working so they can provide for their families,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee and Co-Chair of the House Port Security Caucus. The Port of Baltimore supports more than 50,000 jobs in Maryland, including more than 16,000 direct jobs. It ranks 12th in the nation in total value of foreign cargo handled. It is the largest automobile exporter in the country, the second largest automobile importer, and the 13th largest in total containers moved. The Port’s activities support approximately $2 billion in business revenue, $3.6 billion in personal wages and salaries, and $388 million in state, county and municipal taxes annually. “The Port of Baltimore is a major economic engine for Maryland and America. I am committed to keeping it safe, secure and growing,” said Senator Mikulski, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “This funding will have an immediate positive impact, helping to save and create Port jobs and keep commerce moving in Maryland.” “The Port of Baltimore is the economic engine that drives our region and it is imperative that we keep the channels and waterways leading to the Port open and free of debris,” said Senator Cardin, a member of the Environment and Public Works Committee. “I strongly support this new funding for the Army Corp of Engineers so that we can ensure the development of a long-term strategy to deal with the tons of dredged material in the most environmentally and economically responsible method.” “We have been fighting relentlessly for the release of these funds, and I was excited to learn of today’s announcement,” said Congressman Cummings, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. “This new assistance, combined with our efforts to ensure uninterrupted dredging in the Baltimore Corps District this spring, will maximize our use of the remaining placement capacity of Hart-Miller Island and greatly benefit our entire maritime community.” “The Port of Baltimore’s importance to the Maryland economy cannot be overstated. On my recent visit to the Port I was notified of the urgent financial situation facing the Army Corps projects and I immediately began working with my colleagues in the Maryland delegation and Governor O’Malley to resolve the situation. I am pleased that we have reached a successful resolution that will allow for the continuation of vital maintenance dredging projects,” said Congressman Kratovil, a member of the House Natural Resources Committee. “And I applaud the Corps for their innovative approach to linking the dredging program with ecological restoration projects in the Bay.” (####)
11.20.2009	(Aberdeen, MD.)- C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD), and Lt. Governor Anthony Brown (D-MD) will announce $65 million to help prepare for nearly 30,000 jobs heading to Maryland through the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision in Maryland. The federal funds will pay for road, mass transit, and other important infrastructure improvements near Aberdeen Proving Ground in Harford County and Fort Meade in Anne Arundel County. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD) Lt. Governor Anthony Brown (D-MD) Harford County Elected Officials Harford County Residents What: To Announce $65 million for BRAC in Maryland When: 10:30 a.m., Friday, May 1, 2009 Where: Intersection of US 40 and Route 7 (Old Philadelphia Road) Harford County, Maryland Directions from Baltimore and Points South:Take I-95 North, Take MD-543 S via Exit 80 toward Riverside, take US 40 East toward Aberdeen; at the corner of Old Philadelphia Road take a left (a liquor store will be on your right and Cook Automotive Madza will be on your left); take the first right behind the car dealer and park in the parking lot. The press conference will be up the small hill on the landing overlooking the intersection. Directions from Aberdeen and Points North: Take US 40 West; at the corner of Old Philadelphia Road take a right (Cook Automotive Madza will be on your right); take the first right behind the car dealer and park in the parking lot. The press conference will be up the small hill on the landing overlooking the intersection. (####)
11.20.2009	(Joppatowne, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Harford County Executive David Craig (R-MD) will announce $143,000 for Joppatowne High School’s Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness Program. The money will keep the program on the cutting edge and allow it to expand. The program currently has 120 students and will add 65 new students next year. The curriculum prepares students for careers in the homeland security sciences, law enforcement and criminal justice, and information technology. The Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness Program at Joppatowne High School is now a pilot program. The curriculum is expected to be implemented at Dundalk High School and Fort Meade High School next year. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Harford County Executive David Craig (R-MD) Patracia Skeback, Interim Superintendent, Harford County Public Schools Teachers Students What: Announcement of $143,000 for Homeland Security education program When: 10:30 a.m., Monday, May 4, 2009 Where: Joppatowne High School 555 Joppa Farm Rd Joppa, MD 21085 (####)
11.20.2009	(Aberdeen, Md.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD), and Lt. Governor Anthony Brown (D-MD) announced $65 million to help prepare for nearly 30,000 direct jobs heading to Maryland through the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision in Maryland. The federal funds will pay for road, mass transit, and other important infrastructure improvements near Aberdeen Proving Ground in Harford County and Fort Meade in Anne Arundel County. “The tens of thousands of new jobs and families moving to Maryland are both a great opportunity and a great challenge for our state. Especially in these trying economic times, additional high-paying jobs are always great news, but we need to make sure that we preserve the great quality of life that existing residents experience all across the state. Team Maryland is committed to bringing Maryland the resources it needs to make the move a great success,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), a Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “I want to thank Team Maryland, especially Senators Mikulski and Cardin and Congressman Ruppersberger, for fighting on behalf of the people of Maryland for these vital infrastructure investments,” said Governor O’Malley. “These funds not only create jobs for Marylanders, but they also help create the long-term investment in our roads, bridges, and mass transit systems that will be needed to support the thousands of new households headed to Maryland through the BRAC process.” Lieutenant Governor Anthony Brown chairs Maryland’s BRAC Subcabinet, an effort of the O’Malley-Brown Administration to coordinate Maryland’s preparations for BRAC by working horizontally across state government and vertically through partnerships with local, county, state and federal government. “BRAC is all about jobs, jobs, jobs,” Lt. Governor Brown said. “In the coming years, Maryland will create as many as 60,000 new, high-paying jobs because of BRAC. To ensure that we successfully fill those jobs, the State of Maryland is working with our colleges, universities and community colleges to educate the workforce. And to ensure we have the infrastructure in place before 2011, we’re partnering with our federal leaders like Senators Mikulski and Cardin, Congressman Ruppersberger and others to fight for Maryland’s fair share of federal construction dollars.” The federal funds were included in the Omnibus Spending Measure and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act known as the stimulus that recently passed Congress: • $13.5 million to improve MARC Commuter Rail Stations and the Aberdeen Rail Storage Yard and purchase new rail cars. Current ridership exceeds 30,000 daily trips and is expected to grow to 36,000 within five years because of BRAC and other growth. • $3.1 million to improve access to Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) in Harford County by upgrading intersections along the highways leading to the base. • $3.1 million to improve access to Fort Meade in Anne Arundel County to help relieve traffic congestion. • $2.4 million to upgrade locally operated bus systems in communities across Maryland including the Central Maryland Facility at Fort Meade and to purchase new buses. • $500,000 to design and construct a new pipeline for wastewater reuse from the Joppatowne Wastewater Treatment Plant to the proposed County Recovery Facility at APG. • $35 million for 45 infrastructure improvement projects at Aberdeen Proving Ground including boiler upgrades, roof repairs, building renovations, elevator improvements, and heating and cooling enhancements. • $7 million for 6 infrastructure improvement projects at Fort Meade including stairwell upgrades, health clinic modernizations, elevator replacements, electrical repairs, and energy improvements. Over the past two years, Maryland’s Congressional Delegation has worked with the O’Malley-Brown Administration to ensure that Maryland is prepared for the infusion of new residents and jobs over the coming years as a result of BRAC. Progress includes the creation of workforce development programs through a U.S. Department of Labor grant; the establishment of One-Stop Career Centers and informational kiosks at Fort Monmouth and at military installations in Northern Virginia; and the creation of BRACSTAT to evaluate and improve programs presented in the BRAC Action Plan. Maryland has invested $183 million to expand wastewater treatment plant capacity, mitigate the environmental impact of additional wastewater discharge on the Chesapeake Bay and upgrade water and sewer systems in counties impacted by BRAC. Maryland has invested more than $1 billion in school construction, a majority directed toward counties that are slated to receive the most significant BRAC growth. (####)
11.20.2009	(Joppatowne, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Harford County Executive David Craig (R-MD) announced $143,000 for Joppatowne High School’s Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness Program. The money will keep the program on the cutting edge and allow it to expand. The program currently has 120 students and will add 65 new students next year. The curriculum prepares students for careers in the homeland security sciences, law enforcement and criminal justice, and information technology. The Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness Program at Joppatowne High School is now a pilot program. The curriculum is expected to be implemented at Dundalk High School in Baltimore County and Fort Meade High School in Anne Arundel County next year. “Joppatowne High School’s Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness Program is an incredibly innovative program. The goal is to teach students skills they can use in the real world to get a job after high school or prepare them for college. With the job market as challenging as it is and the nearly 30,000 jobs being moved to Maryland through the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure decision known as BRAC, the curriculum will help prepare students for future opportunities whatever they may be,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger was joined by Harford County Executive David Craig, Harford County School Interim Superintendent Patricia Skeback, teachers, and students at a special ceremony on Monday, May 4, 2009 at Joppatowne High School. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee, which oversees the technical aspects of cybersecurity, issued the following statement after the release of President Barack Obama’s 60-day “Cyberspace Policy Review.” “Our nation’s cyber networks control so much of what we do every day. They don’t just power our computers, our cell phones, our Blackberries, and our I-pods. They power the electrical grid that allow us to turn the lights on, the classified military and intelligence networks that keep us safe, and the broadband networks that link our homes, our schools, our hospitals, and our businesses through the World Wide Web. “From my work as Chairman of the Technical and Tactical (T & T) Intelligence Subcommittee, I know the threats we face in cyberspace are real. Hackers have penetrated the networks at the Department of Defense and NASA, costing our country millions of dollars. Look at what happened in Estonia. Hackers reportedly linked to the Russian government attacked websites from the Estonian government, communications firms, political organizations, news organizations, and two of their largest banks. “I commend President Barack Obama for completing a thorough review of our nation’s cybersecurity. It’s an initiative that is long overdue. Melissa Hathaway, who I worked with on T & T, led the review. She offered critical input and considerable experience as the Administration creates a road map on how to move forward. This is great first step. The public and private sector must work together to ensure our interests are protected. We must educate the general public about cyber security. The President’s move to create a new ‘Cyber Czar,’ one person responsible for protecting America’s critical networks, is incredibly important in coordinating efforts. I look forward to working with this individual as we protect our country while also protecting individual privacy.” (####)
11.20.2009	(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md) honored five volunteers from Parkville, Edgemere, Bel Air, and Randallstown for their dedicated service to Maryland Veterans. Congressman Ruppersberger awarded Charles Betz, Mary Barcikowski, Susan Kern, Barbara Swann, and Vanessa Scott the “2009 Veterans’ Service Award” for the Maryland 2nd Congressional District. Charles Betz, a Parkville resident, visits the Baltimore Rehabilitation and Continuing Care Facility in Loch Raven and provides entertainment for Veterans. Mr. Betz and his wife arrange Bingo games and sing-a-longs on the piano for residents at the facility. Mr. Betz also buys homemade pillows to provide comfort for cancer patients. “I commend Charles Betz for bringing joy and happiness to the lives of the men and women who served our country. Mr. Betz and his wife go above and beyond the call of duty to entertain and comfort Maryland veterans and make a difference in their lives,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In addition to working as the Business Manager of Public and Community Relations for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs in Maryland and making sure Vets have the support they need, Ms. Barcikowski, an Edgemere resident, serves as the Volunteer Coordinator at the Baltimore Rehabilitation and Continuing Care Facility at Perry Point. Ms. Barcikowski and her entire family get involved to make the patients feel more like people and less like numbers. “Mary Barcikowski is a dedicated volunteer for Maryland Veterans in both her professional and personal life. She serves Veterans not only in her professional role, but also uses her spare time to volunteer. Ms. Barcikowski adds a personal touch that Veterans really appreciate,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). After putting in a full day as the Program Manager for Veterans’ facilities around Maryland, Susan Kern, a Bel Air resident, puts in extra hours to volunteer for Veterans and considers them part of her family. Ms. Kern extended the hours that volunteers can receive their identification cards and take their certification tests so they, too, can serve those who served their country. “Susan Kern works tirelessly to help Maryland Veterans. Ms. Kern is dedicated to improving the lives of military personnel through her professional and personal work to ensure Veterans receive the services they deserve,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). For over 15 years and for countless hours, Vanessa Scott, an Edgemere resident, has been volunteering for Veterans at both Fort Howard and the Baltimore Rehabilitation and Continuing Care Facility at Loch Raven. She helps Veterans who would otherwise stay in their rooms play Bingo and enjoy other social activities. “Vanessa Scott dedicates her time and talents to improving the quality of life for Maryland Veterans. She brings happiness and joy into the lives of our military personnel. Ms. Scott truly makes a difference in the lives of those she helps,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Barbara Swann, a Randallstown resident, is the Coordinator of Volunteer Services at the Baltimore Rehabilitation and Continuing Care Facility. She works to recruit other volunteers that she is confident will provide Veterans with proper medical care. Ms. Swann makes sure volunteers receive the appropriate training and medical exams. “Barbara Swann fulfills the important role of ensuring volunteers have the proper training they need to help our Veterans. Ms. Swann is dedicated to serving our nation’s heroes and I am grateful to her for her hard work,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). All five recipients were honored at a special ceremony at Congressman Ruppersberger’s District Office in Timonium, Maryland. They were selected by the Veterans Advisory Group, an organization founded by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003. The volunteers were selected for their outstanding dedication to serving the needs of Veterans within their communities. Please feel free to use the attached photograph in your publication. Individual photographs of each volunteer with the Congressman are also available upon request. ########
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) received the “Vision” award from the National Association of School Resources (NASRO) for his efforts implementing a school safety program when he was the Baltimore County Executive and supporting school resource officers while in Congress. Congressman Ruppersberger received the award and addressed more than 800 school resource officers at the 19th annual NASRO convention taking place this week in downtown Baltimore. “This award truly belongs to the first resource officers in our schools, who showed that the program is successful and necessary to combat growing problems such as gangs and cyber bullying. School resource officers not only collect intelligence to help prevent and solve crimes, but they are also role models and advocates for our students,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In 1998, then Baltimore County Executive Ruppersberger met with then Baltimore County Police Chief Terrence Sheridan, who also received an award Monday, to address a sharp spike in crime, nearly one third of it committed by juveniles. Amid opposition from some school administrators, concerned parents and school board members, the first armed police officers were placed in Milford Mill Academy and Pikesville High School on a trial basis. Today, more than 58 high schools and middle schools in Baltimore County have resource officers who are assigned to the local Baltimore County Police precinct. School-based policing is the fastest growing area of law enforcement in the country. “School resource officers in Baltimore County have helped to solve crimes ranging from homicides to destruction of property. The crimes they have helped prevent are too many to count,” Ruppersberger said. NASRO is a non-profit organization for school-based law enforcement officers, school administrators, and school security and safety professionals working as partners to protect students, school faculty and staff and the schools they attend. Feel free to use the attached photograph in your publication. ######
11.20.2009	(Towson, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) will join Baltimore County Executive James T. Smith, Jr. to announce federal funding for a major upgrade to Baltimore County’s 911 Central Communication Center. The center, currently located in the basement of the county circuit courthouse, handles more than 900,000 calls for help each year. The existing center is 20 years old and was not designed for modern security guidelines. The center is being renovated with new, digital equipment that will expand communications capabilities in emergency situations across the county and in the region. The total cost of the project is $14 million. Congressman Ruppersberger and Senator Mikulski will be joined by Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith for the announcement on Wednesday, July 1, 2009. Media is invited to attend a tour of Baltimore County’s existing 911 dispatch center after the announcement. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith (D) Robert Stradling, Director, Office of Information Technology, Baltimore County What: Congressman Ruppersberger to Announce Funding for 911 Center Upgrade When: Wednesday, July 1, 2009, at 10:00 a.m. Where: Baltimore County 911 Central Communications Center 400 Washington Ave Towson, MD 21204 Special instructions for press: Please enter the lobby of the Old Courthouse (400 Washington Avenue). Someone will be there to escort you to the press conference location at the 911 Training Center. A tour of the existing 911 Call Center, which is a brief walk from the press conference location, will follow. Press will be able to shoot B-roll. insert text here} ########
11.20.2009	(San Antonio, Texas) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will deliver a keynote address at the Geospatial Intelligence Foundation (GEOINT) Symposium in San Antonio, Texas on Monday, October 19, 2009. Congressman Ruppersberger, Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee, believes America is in danger of losing its preeminence in space. The Congressman’s speech will highlight important changes that need to be made to American space policy to recapture American dominance of the skies. The GEOINT Symposium brings together members of the defense, intelligence, and homeland security communities. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) WHAT: Ruppersberger to Deliver the Keynote Address at the GEOINT Symposium WHEN: 9:15 a.m., Monday, October 19, 2009 WHERE: Henry B. Gonzalez Convention Center Ballroom A 200 East Market Street San Antonio, Texas 78205 #######
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce $42.7 billion was included in the Homeland Security Appropriations Act that passed the House of Representatives today to keep our country safe. The funding will secure our nation’s ports, airports, trains, and roadways, help train local first responders, and beef up our cyber security efforts. Important initiatives include: $4.2 billion for Homeland Security Grants • The funding will pay for planning, equipment, and training for local first responders to manage potential terrorist attacks or other emergencies. It will also pay for port security grants to help ports prevent, detect, and respond to terrorist attacks and help fire departments address communication, equipment, and staffing problems. $7.7 billion for the Transportation Security Administration• The funding will pay for explosive detection systems and additional air cargo inspectors at our nation’s airports including BWI-Thurgood Marshall Airport. It will also pay for additional transportation security inspectors to protect America from potential attacks on our subways, trains, and buses. $8.8 billion for the Coast Guard • The funding will pay for additional patrol aircraft, boats, and interagency operation centers across the United States including the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay. $397 million for Cyber Security • The funding will pay for efforts to combat cyber security threats by reducing the points of access to the federal computer network, coordinating public and private sector networks, and increasing training and management of telecommunications, networks, and computer systems to prevent hacking. $2.5 million will fund important emergency response initiatives in Maryland: $1.5 Million for Emergency Communications Center in Maryland • At the Emergency Medical Resource Center/System Communication Center in Baltimore and satellite centers in Talbot and Allegany Counties, the federal funding will upgrade the current analog system to digital. The centers connect all EMS providers, medevac helicopters, and hospital systems across the State of Maryland. $1 Million for Emergency Operations Center in Maryland • At the Emergency Operations Center in Reisterstown, the federal funding will upgrade the obsolete information technology infrastructure to promote interoperability and allow for comprehensive pre-disaster and post-disaster response. The measure must pass the Senate and be signed by the President before it can become law. #########
11.20.2009	(Aberdeen, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined Harford County Executive David Craig and Aberdeen Mayor Michael E. Bennett today in Aberdeen to announce a new water agreement between Aberdeen and Harford County. The 6th Amendment to the Harford County – City of Aberdeen Water Agreement will provide a short and long-term, regional solution to the water challenges by allowing the City of Aberdeen to purchase water from Harford County in the coming years. The agreement is critically important to the business community as the region prepares for the thousands of new jobs heading to the area through the Base Realignment and Closure process known as BRAC. The agreement allows: • Aberdeen to purchase a total of 600,000 gallons of water capacity per day from Harford County. (The current agreement allows Aberdeen to purchase 500,000 gallons of water from Harford County.) • Aberdeen to purchase an additional 300,000 gallons of water per day from Harford County in 2011 when the Abingdon Water Treatment Plant comes on line. “It is great to see Team Maryland coming together to create a comprehensive solution to ensure businesses in the region have access to water now and in the future. With the thousands of jobs coming to the Harford County region through the closing of military bases in other states, it is even more important that we work together to ensure we have the infrastructure in place for current residents and businesses while we prepare for new ones,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Rupppersberger (D-MD). “Today is a great day for the City of Aberdeen and the people of Harford County,” remarked County Executive David Craig. “With the signing of the 6th Amendment to the existing water agreement, we have helped secure a brighter future for the City of Aberdeen and the business community.” Congressman Ruppersberger is committed to bringing as many federal dollars as possible to Maryland to help prepare for the new residents and businesses moving to the area due to BRAC. The Congressman has already brought $85.7 million to the state for everything from transportation improvements to workforce training to healthcare modernization. ########
11.20.2009	(Aberdeen, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will join Harford County Executive David Craig and Aberdeen Mayor Michael Bennett on Monday, October 5, 2009, in Aberdeen to announce a new water agreement for Harford County. The 6th Amendment to the Harford County – City of Aberdeen Water Agreement will provide a short, mid, and long-term, regional solution to the water challenges by allowing the City of Aberdeen to purchase water from Harford County and Baltimore City in the coming years. The agreement is critically important to the business community as the region prepares for the thousands of new jobs heading to the area through the Base Realignment and Closure process known as BRAC. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Harford County Executive David Craig Aberdeen Mayor Michael E. Bennett Harford County Councilman Dion Guthrie WHAT: Announcement of a New Water Agreement for Harford County WHEN: 10 a.m., Monday October 5, 2009 WHERE: City Council Chambers Aberdeen Municipal Building 60 N. Parke Street Aberdeen, MD 21001 #######
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce today $56.3 million in federal funding for Maryland to protect the environment and keep commerce moving. The Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act passed the House today by a vote of 308-114 and included money for the following projects: $2 Million for Chesapeake Bay Oyster Restoration • The federal funding will help replenish the Chesapeake Bay oyster population, a vital element in restoring the overall health of the Bay. Activities include construction of oyster bars and reefs, rehabilitation of existing habitats and construction of oyster hatcheries. $8.2 Million for Poplar Island • The federal funding will help relocate dredged material for the restoration of Poplar Island in the Chesapeake Bay. The project creates a wildlife refuge for ospreys, egrets, terns, herons, eagles, terrapins and other wildlife. Poplar Island is a national model for habitat restoration and using dredged material in an environmentally beneficial way. $314,000 for Mid-Chesapeake Bay Island Restoration • The federal funding will help with the pre-construction engineering and design of the James and Barren Island Restoration Project, including more than 2,000 acres of wetlands, surrounding habitats and shoreline using dredged material. $26.9 Million for the Intracoastal Waterway from the Delaware River to the Chesapeake Bay • The federal funding will help the routine maintenance and dredging of the Intracoastal Waterway and the Chesapeake & Delaware Canal to support the Port of Baltimore. The C&D Canal is an important northern passage from the Chesapeake Bay to the Atlantic Ocean via the Delaware River. $17.5 Million to Dredge the Baltimore Harbor and Channels • The federal funding will support the annual maintenance dredging of the Baltimore Harbor and surrounding channels to keep the Port of Baltimore competitive in the global marketplace. The Senate must pass and the President must sign the Energy and Water Appropriations Act before it becomes law. #######
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) vows to continue the fight to prevent a liquefied natural gas facility from coming to Sparrows Point in eastern Baltimore County. Congressman Ruppersberger renews his call to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to deny the application. The United States Supreme Court announced yesterday it would not consider an appeal from Baltimore County to stop the project. “This is not the end. The Federal Energy Regulator Commission (FERC) must make the final decision. I have said from the very beginning this proposed liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this residential area in Eastern Baltimore County. I am concerned about the safety and security of the plant, the potential harm to the quality of life for nearby residents, and the possible negative effects on the environment and the Chesapeake Bay. I once again will call on FERC to deny the proposal,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In February, the Coast Guard issued a report critical of AES, the company that wants to build the facility, for not having a comprehensive safety or security plan. The Coast Guard Waterway Suitability Report found that AES does not have a security plan, does not appear to be taking security seriously, and assumes the Coast Guard will handle all security at taxpayer expense. In addition, an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) found that AES has the potential to meet the minimum acceptable environmental standard if it meets ten major conditions set out by FERC, but it is unclear if those conditions have been met at this time. If constructed, the LNG facility would be less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere and would be located in an environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the Intelligence Committee and the Port Security Caucus, believes area residents could be harmed if there is an accident or a terrorist attack at the facility or on the tankers that travel up the Bay. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and the restrictions on recreational boat traffic could negatively impact the quality of life of area residents. The proposed site of the LNG facility is located in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Coast Guard. (####)
11.20.2009	(Randallstown, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will hold a Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid to Pay for College on Thursday, October 16, 2006 at Randallstown High School. The Congressman will be joined by financial aid experts to help students learn about ways to make the dream of going to college a reality. “I believe every child should have the opportunity to go to college. The cost of tuition is rising but there is help. Please join me for an important forum to help find financial aid to pay for college,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Financial Aid Experts from the U.S. Department of Education, the College Board, and the Maryland Department of Higher Education WHAT: Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid for College WHEN: 7: 00 p.m., Thursday, October 16, 2008 WHERE: Randallstown High School 4000 Offutt Rd Randallstown, MD 21133 (####)
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger announced $2.8 million in federal funding for a new Gang Elimination Task Force. The Task Force will be the first of its kind linking local, state, and federal law enforcement authorities throughout the East Coast. The funding will pay for new technology that will connect dozens of different crime databases used by investigators to track down gang members. This will allow critical information to be shared between authorities in Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, the District of Columbia, and Pennsylvania. The Task Force will work with local communities to help identify gang members, curb gang recruitment, and assist prosecutors and law enforcement officials in locating high-value targets. The Task Force will be based at the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center (MCAC) in Baltimore, Maryland. The money will also pay for educational programs to help prevent young people from joining gangs. As a former investigative prosecutor, Congressman Ruppersberger is disturbed with the increase in gang violence in Maryland. Creating this Gang Elimination Task Force is one of the Congressman’s top law enforcement priorities. “This new Gang Elimination Task Force is a team concept. The comprehensive database will allow local, state, and federal law enforcement authorities to share information in real time using one comprehensive database as they work together as a strike force to combat gang violence. But, we can not arrest and prosecute our way out of this gang problem. We must also invest in gang prevention and get to our kids early by supporting Girls and Boys Clubs, Pal Centers, and Rec Councils,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “I want to thank Congressman Ruppersberger and our federal delegation for their continuing efforts to help our State improve public safety in every region of Maryland,” said Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley. “Last year, we passed a tough anti-gang law to help State and local law enforcement combat gangs and gang violence. The federal funds being announced today and the creation of the new Gang Elimination Task Force are critical in helping Maryland protect and improve public safety in our State.” The funding was included in the omnibus spending measure that was recently signed into law. The Congressman was joined by Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley, Harford County Executive David Craig, Harford County Sheriff Jess Bane, Harford County Councilman Dion Guthrie, Maryland State Police Superintendent Terry Sheridan, Captain Charles Rapp of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center, and members of local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies at a special ceremony at the Edgewood Community and Recreation Center on January 25, 2008. (####)
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger will announce $2.8 million in federal funding for a new Gang Elimination Task Force. As a former prosecutor, Congressman Ruppersberger is disturbed with the increase in gang violence in Maryland. $2.8 million will create the new Task Force based at the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center (MCAC) in Baltimore, Maryland. It will serve as a comprehensive information clearinghouse for gang-related law enforcement intelligence along the East Coast. Information will be shared between authorities in Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, the District of Columbia, and Pennsylvania. The Task Force will work with local communities to help identify gang members, curb gang recruitment, and assist prosecutors and law enforcement officials in locating high-value targets. The funds will pay for additional investigators to be hired to focus solely on gang prosecutions. The Task Force will also have access to national, real-time databases that track critical information about gang members across the country. Creating this Gang Elimination Task Force is one of the Congressman’s top law enforcement priorities. The funding was included in the omnibus spending measure that was recently signed into law. The Congressman will be joined by Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley, Harford County Executive David Craig, Harford County Sheriff Jess Bane, Harford County Councilman Dion Guthrie, and members of local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies. What: $2.8 Million for Gang Elimination Task Force When: 11:00 am, Friday, January 25, 2008 Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley Harford County Executive David Craig Harford County Sheriff Jesse Bane Captain Charles Rapp, Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center Members of local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies Where: Edgewood Community and Recreation Center 1980 Brookside Drive Edgewood, MD 21040 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released the following statement on the situation in Israel. “As a sovereign nation, Israel has the right to defend herself against the daily rocket attacks and mortar fire from Hamas-controlled Gaza. When Israel is attacked, the United States will stand by her friend and democratic ally. If our families and communities were attacked here in the United States, we would not hesitate to defend our families, our neighborhoods, our state, and our country. The United States is committed to working with regional allies to promote peace in the region but constant attacks from Hamas militants who use Gaza as their sanctuary will not help achieve this goal. The growing humanitarian situation must also be addressed.” Congressman Ruppersberger has visited Israel several times over the last few years. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) discussed a new satellite report outlining key steps to restore preeminence in space. Congressman Ruppersberger released the report as part of his work as Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee. “The United States is losing its preeminence in space. A once robust partnership between the U.S. Government and the American space industry has been weakened by years of demanding space programs, the exponential complexity of technology, and an inattention to acquisition discipline. … American dominance in space is diminishing. The purpose of this report is to find out why,” reads the Report on Challenges and Recommendations for United States Overhead Architecture. The report found: There is no comprehensive strategic plan for satellites, or what is known as “overhead architecture”. America runs the risk of not being able to satisfy its national security needs without a plan in place. This could harm efforts to protect our country here at home as well as in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other hot spots around the world. Recommendation: The Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense need to develop a comprehensive plan for overhead architecture – including imagery, signals, and communications. Space programs are jointly funded through the National Intelligence Program (NIP) and the Military Intelligence Program (MIP). The lack of a comprehensive plan and one person making decisions causes program starts and stops. Recommendation: With a comprehensive plan and clear decision-making authority in place, the Director of National Intelligence and the Department of Defense can much more easily agree on funding decisions. The Executive Branch must review and recommend changes to the law to clarify who is in charge of jointly funded programs. Research and development receives inconsistent and inadequate funding and lacks clearly defined goals, causing unpredictable results. Recommendation: Programs must clearly define what needs to be accomplished in research and development, pre-acquisition, and the development phases in order to have a successful satellite program. The government’s expectations of the commercial data providers are inconsistent and ambiguous. Many times the government does not communicate what it wants. Recommendation: The Intelligence Community and the Department of Defense must define more clearly the government’s expectations regarding the use of commercial services and develop the systems needed to more easily access and deliver data to government customers. Current statutes and regulations seriously hinder the space industry, specifically ITAR – the International Traffic in Arms Regulation Recommendation: The government must review the impact of ITAR and other statutes and regulations that affect the space industry and ensure they do not unnecessarily hinder the industry’s successes. Report on Challenges and Recommendations for United States Overhead Architecture was put together after months of meetings, in-depth analysis, and “tabletop” exercises held by Congressman Ruppersberger with staff from the National Reconnaissance Office, the National Security Agency, and commercial satellite companies. Congressman Ruppersberger presented the findings from his report as part of the Space Foundation’s breakfast series today at the City Club of Washington. “We are the strongest country in the world because we control the skies. We must stay ahead of the curve to keep our families here at home and our military personnel in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other locations around the world safe. I hope this satellite report helps us regain our preeminence in space,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) believes health care must be a top priority in Maryland and our country. Congressman Ruppersberger signed on to the Health Care for America Now Pledge and discussed important health care legislation at a special event today in Baltimore. “Millions of Marylanders do not have health insurance. Millions more are facing double digit increases in health care costs as the coverage they do have pays for less and less. We must expand access to high quality-affordable health insurance. In a country like the United States, everyone should have access to quality health care and the insurance to pay for it. I am fighting in Congress to achieve this goal,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In Congress, Representative Ruppersberger supports tax credits for businesses that offer health insurance to employees. He voted to expand SCHIP, the State Children’s Health Insurance Plan. It would have provided more than 100,000 low-income Maryland children and their families with health insurance so they could stay healthy and learn how to lead healthy lifestyles, but President Bush vetoed the plan. The Congressman supported Demante’s law that expanded dental insurance coverage for low income families in honor of a young Baltimore boy that died from a tooth infection because his family could not afford treatment. He also supported Michelle’s law that allows college age children to stay on their parent’s health insurance even if they are not going to school full time. Congressman Ruppersberger was joined by Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD), and Maryland families. The Heath Care for America Now Pledge was created by Progressive Maryland, a grass roots coalition of community groups. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) believes health care must be a top priority in Maryland and our country. Congressman Ruppersberger will sign on to the Health Care for America Now Pledge and discuss important health care legislation. "High-quality, affordable health care is out of reach for millions of Marylanders. We must expand access to affordable health care, invest in medical technologies that save lives and dollars, teach children and families how to live healthy lifestyles, and encourage health professionals to stay in Maryland to address the shortage of primary care providers,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger will join Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD), and Maryland families on Friday, October 31, 2008 in Baltimore, Maryland. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD) Maryland Families WHAT: Congressman Ruppersberger to Sign On to Health Care for America Now Pledge and Discuss Important Health Care Legislation WHEN: 10:00 a.m., Friday, October 31, 2008 WHERE: AFSCME Headquarters 190 West Ostend Street Baltimore, Maryland 21230 (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) honored 150 Boy Scouts from Central Maryland at Fort McHenry on Saturday, October 25, 2008, for their commitment to their communities. The Boy Scouts received the Dutch Ruppersberger Super Recruiter Award for encouraging other children in their neighborhoods to join the Boy Scouts and learn important skills. "I was a Boy Scout when I was young. It was such a great experience and taught me the importance of community service, teamwork, and moral values. It created a great foundation that I still rely on today. It is an honor to encourage our future leaders to join the Boy Scouts," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. Since the start of the 2008 school year, the recruitment drive has successfully recruited over 2,500 children to join Scouting programs. For nearly a century, the Boy Scouts of America has provided quality programs which instill character, values, citizenship, and leadership in youth. Forty thousand youth participate in the Boy Scouts throughout Central Maryland. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will honor 150 Boy Scouts from Central Maryland at Fort McHenry on Saturday, October 25, 2008, for their commitment to their communities. The Boy Scouts will receive the Dutch Ruppersberger Super Recruiter Award for encouraging other children in their neighborhoods to join the Boy Scouts and learn important skills. "I was a Boy Scout when I was young. It was such a great experience and taught me the importance of community service, teamwork, and moral values. It created a great foundation that I still rely on today. It is an honor to encourage our future leaders to join the Boy Scouts," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. Since the start of the 2008 school year, the recruitment drive has successfully recruited over 2,500 children to join Scouting programs. For nearly a century, the Boy Scouts of America has provided quality programs which instill character, values, citizenship, and leadership in youth. Forty thousand youth participate in the Boy Scouts throughout Central Maryland. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) 150 Boy Scouts from Central Maryland Family and Friends WHAT: Congressman Ruppersberger to Honor Boy Scouts WHEN: 9:30 a.m., Saturday, October 25, 2008 WHERE: Fort McHenry National Monument and Shrine 2400 East Fort Avenue Baltimore, MD 21230-5393 (####)
11.20.2009	(Randallstown, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) held a Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid to Pay for College today at Randallstown High School. The Congressman was joined by financial aid experts from the U.S. Department of Education, the College Board, and the Maryland Department of Higher Education to help students learn about ways to make the dream of going to college a reality. “I believe every child who wants to go to college should have the opportunity to go to college. The cost of tuition is rising but there is help. Please join me for an important forum to help find financial aid to pay for college,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger distributed important forms and information about the college financial aid application process. Individuals seeking additional information are encouraged to call the Congressman’s District Office at (410) 628-2701. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) introduced legislation to help struggling families during these tough economic times. The stock market is falling. The foreclosure rate is rising and jobs are disappearing. We are in a recession. It is affecting families here in Maryland. “I am introducing legislation to help Maryland families struggling to make ends meet. The Retirement Fairness and Emergency Relief Act of 2008 will help families who are having a hard time paying their bills in this tough economy while also helping seniors protect their life savings. This measure will help Marylanders make it through the economy turns around,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Retirement Fairness and Emergency Relief Act of 2008, H.R. 7278, would: • Allow families experiencing financial hardship to withdraw money from their retirement account to pay for important expenses like rent, mortgage payments, utilities, or groceries without paying the standard ten percent penalty.• Allow seniors to delay mandatory withdrawals from their retirement accounts. Currently, seniors are required to start taking money out of their 401(k)s at age 70 ½. Many seniors’ nest eggs have taken a massive hit, and making mandatory withdrawals now would mean a significant financial loss. This will allow them to build on and replenish their nest eggs as the economy rebounds. Congressman Ruppersberger discussed the legislation at a press conference on Monday, December 8, 2008, at Edenwald Retirement Community in Towson. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) supports the federal government’s request to delay a decision about the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility at Sparrows Point in eastern Baltimore County. Congressman Ruppersberger backs the Department of the Interior’s finding that construction of the plant will threaten bay species. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) is expected to issue its decision this month. In a letter dated January 6, 2009, the U.S. Department of the Interior recommended FERC hold off on making a decision stating, “There are unanswered questions related to the federally listed, endangered, and threatened species that may be affected by this project.” If constructed, the LNG facility would be located in an environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. Congressman Ruppersberger believes this development, together with the strong security concerns, warrant a delay. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. The proposed site is less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere. In addition, the company behind the proposal wants Maryland taxpayers to foot much of the bill for any new security procedures even though the natural gas would be pumped out of state “I have said from the very beginning this proposed liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this residential area. The plant will threaten endangered species but we must also consider the threat to human life. The residents of the neighboring communities will live in the shadow of the facility and be forced to live in fear. There could be an accident or a terrorist attack at the plant or on the tankers that travel up the Chesapeake Bay,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). An Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) was issued in December ignoring these safety concerns, but allowing the approval process to move forward. Last year, the Coast Guard issued a report critical of AES, the company that wants to build the facility, for not having a comprehensive safety or security plan. The Coast Guard report found that AES does not appear to be taking security seriously and assumes the Coast Guard will handle all security at taxpayer expense. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and the restrictions on recreational boat traffic could hurt the quality of life of area residents. Congressman Ruppersberger is a Member of the Intelligence Committee and Chair of the Port Security Caucus. The proposed site of the LNG facility is located in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Coast Guard. The letter from the United States Department of the Interior is attached. Click here to view the letter from the United States Department of Interior. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) supports the federal government’s request to delay a decision about the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility at Sparrows Point in eastern Baltimore County. Congressman Ruppersberger backs the Department of the Interior’s finding that construction of the plant will threaten bay species. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) is expected to issue its decision this month. In a letter dated January 6, 2009, the U.S. Department of the Interior recommended FERC hold off on making a decision stating, “There are unanswered questions related to the federally listed, endangered, and threatened species that may be affected by this project.” If constructed, the LNG facility would be located in an environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. Congressman Ruppersberger believes this development, together with the strong security concerns, warrant a delay. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. The proposed site is less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere. In addition, the company behind the proposal wants Maryland taxpayers to foot much of the bill for any new security procedures even though the natural gas would be pumped out of state “I have said from the very beginning this proposed liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this residential area. The plant will threaten endangered species but we must also consider the threat to human life. The residents of the neighboring communities will live in the shadow of the facility and be forced to live in fear. There could be an accident or a terrorist attack at the plant or on the tankers that travel up the Chesapeake Bay,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). An Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) was issued in December ignoring these safety concerns, but allowing the approval process to move forward. Last year, the Coast Guard issued a report critical of AES, the company that wants to build the facility, for not having a comprehensive safety or security plan. The Coast Guard report found that AES does not appear to be taking security seriously and assumes the Coast Guard will handle all security at taxpayer expense. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and the restrictions on recreational boat traffic could hurt the quality of life of area residents. Congressman Ruppersberger is a Member of the Intelligence Committee and Chair of the Port Security Caucus. The proposed site of the LNG facility is located in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Coast Guard. The letter from the United States Department of the Interior is attached. Ruppersberger Calls for LNG Delay (####)
11.20.2009	(Annapolis, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger announced $10 million in federal funding for projects that restore and promote the Chesapeake Bay, protect the environment, restore wetlands and wildlife habits, help better predict natural disasters, prevent erosion, and track weather. The money was included in the omnibus spending measure that passed Congress and was recently signed into law by the President. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, also met with members of his Environmental Council and the Chesapeake Bay Foundation to discuss the funding strategy for 2009. The meeting was held at the Chesapeake Bay Foundation’s Headquarters in Annapolis on Monday, January 14, 2008. $10 Million for the Environment $1.7 Million for the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network• $1.7 million will be used to enhance the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network. The money will pay for museums and facilities around the Chesapeake Bay to create exhibits about the ecosystem and history of the Bay, including the John Smith Trail.$446,500 for the John Smith Water Trail Interactive Buoys• The money will fund the installation of interactive bouys marking the John Smith National Water Trail on the Chesapeake Bay, also known as the Chesapeake Bay Interactive Buoy System (CBIBS). CBIBS is a system that combines on-the-water sensor buoys and educational materials to interpret portions of the trail with the use of cell phone and Internet technology. In the long term, the system contributes significantly to the restoration of the Bay habitat. $535,000 for the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland• At the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland in Queenstown, $535,000 will continue to fund the Statewide Plan for Agricultural Policy and Resource Management. The money will support research on bio-fuels, forest land conservation, and water supply protection including protecting the Chesapeake Bay Watershed. The goal of the program is to help farmers diversify and make their operations more efficient so that farming and forestry in Maryland are environmentally sound and economically viable.$178,600 for Susquehanna Flood Forecast & Warning System• On the Susquehanna River in northern Maryland, $178,600 will fund the Flood Forecast and Warning System that uses sophisticated radar techniques, a network of stream and rain gauges, and automatic data transmission to provide the National Weather Service with information for river forecasts. The system provides accurate and advanced warnings of floods to residents and communities throughout the basin to significantly reduce the loss of life and property damage.$1.8 Million for the University of Maryland Baltimore County Advanced Study Institute for Environmental Prediction• Funds will be used by the Institute to merge different programs within NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, NOAA National Center for Environmental Prediction (NCEP), and the University of Maryland. The goal is to create better atmospheric circulation models, ocean circulation models, land surface models, interactive vegetation models, marine ecosystem models, atmospheric chemistry models, global carbon cycle models, remotely-sensed observations, and sensor development of the Earth.$412,000 for the Mid-Bay Project • On Barren Island and the remnants of James Island in the Chesapeake Bay, $412,000 will begin restoration of 2,070 acres of wetlands, surrounding habitats, and shoreline using dredged material. $190,000 for Atlantic Coast • The Atlantic Coast of Maryland Shoreline Protection Project, Ocean City, Maryland, is designed to provide coastal flood and erosion protection to Ocean City. As part of the project design, periodic renourishment and maintenance of the beach are required to maintain an adequate level of protection. Every four years, approximately 800,000 cubic yards of sand are required to renourish and maintain the beaches.$5.4 Million for Urbanet III • The money will fund the continuation of the NOAA Air Resource Laboratory’s Urbanet Partnership to expand the number of metropolitan areas covered by the Urbanet system which will improve weather forecasting. UrbaNet is a highly dense network of weather tracking stations reporting real-time data for all hazards in high-threat cities across the United States. The purpose of the program is to provide emergency response officials with improved weather information to respond effectively to severe weather events. (####)
11.20.2009	(Annapolis, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger will announce $10 million in federal funding for projects that restore and promote the Chesapeake Bay, protect the environment, help better predict natural disasters, prevent erosion, and track weather. The money was included in the omnibus spending measure that passed Congress and was recently signed into law by the President. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, will meet with members of his Environmental Council and the Chesapeake Bay Foundation to discuss the funding strategy for 2009. The meeting will be held at the Chesapeake Bay Foundation’s Headquarters in Annapolis on Monday, January 14, 2008. What: $10 Million for the Environment Discuss Environmental Strategy for 2009 Appropriations When: 12:30 pm, Monday, January 14, 2008 Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Members of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation Members of Congressman Ruppersberger’s Environmental Council Where: The Chesapeake Bay Foundation Headquarters Philip Merrill Environmental Center 6 Herndon Avenue Annapolis, MD 21403 $10 Million for the Environment $1.7 Million for the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network• $1.7 million will be used to enhance the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network. The money will pay for museums and facilities around the Chesapeake Bay to create exhibits about the ecosystem and history of the Bay, including the John Smith Trail.$446,500 for the John Smith Water Trail Interactive Buoys• The money will fund the installation of interactive bouys marking the John Smith National Water Trail on the Chesapeake Bay, also known as the Chesapeake Bay Interactive Buoy System (CBIBS). CBIBS is a system that combines on-the-water sensor buoys and educational materials to interpret portions of the trail with the use of cell phone and Internet technology. In the long term, the system contributes significantly to the restoration of the Bay habitat. $535,000 for the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland• At the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland in Queenstown, $535,000 will continue to fund the Statewide Plan for Agricultural Policy and Resource Management. The money will support research on bio-fuels, forest land conservation, and water supply protection including protecting the Chesapeake Bay Watershed. The goal of the program is to help farmers diversify and make their operations more efficient so that farming and forestry in Maryland are environmentally sound and economically viable.$178,600 for Susquehanna Flood Forecast & Warning System• On the Susquehanna River in northern Maryland, $178,600 will fund the Flood Forecast and Warning System that uses sophisticated radar techniques, a network of stream and rain gauges, and automatic data transmission to provide the National Weather Service with information for river forecasts. The system provides accurate and advanced warnings of floods to residents and communities throughout the basin to significantly reduce the loss of life and property damage.$1.8 Million for the University of Maryland Baltimore County Advanced Study Institute for Environmental Prediction• Funds will be used by the Institute to merge different programs within NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, NOAA National Center for Environmental Prediction (NCEP), and the University of Maryland. The goal is to create better atmospheric circulation models, ocean circulation models, land surface models, interactive vegetation models, marine ecosystem models, atmospheric chemistry models, global carbon cycle models, remotely-sensed observations, and sensor development of the Earth. $412,000 for the Mid-Bay Project • On Barren Island and the remnants of James Island in the Chesapeake Bay, $412,000 will begin restoration of 2,070 acres of wetlands, surrounding habitats, and shoreline using dredged material. $190,000 for Atlantic Coast • The Atlantic Coast of Maryland Shoreline Protection Project, Ocean City, Maryland, is designed to provide coastal flood and erosion protection to Ocean City. As part of the project design, periodic renourishment and maintenance of the beach are required to maintain an adequate level of protection. Every four years, approximately 800,000 cubic yards of sand are required to renourish and maintain the beaches.$5.4 Million for Urbanet III • The money will fund the continuation of the NOAA Air Resource Laboratory’s Urbanet Partnership to expand the number of metropolitan areas covered by the Urbanet system which will improve weather forecasting. UrbaNet is a highly dense network of weather tracking stations reporting real-time data for all hazards in high-threat cities across the United States. The purpose of the program is to provide emergency response officials with improved weather information to respond effectively to severe weather events. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee, commented on the appointment of Melissa Hathaway to head a 60-day review of the nation’s cyber security efforts. The review is expected to look at how the federal government is using technology to protect critical information including passport applications, tax records, and national security documents from hacking, espionage, and theft. “Melissa Hathaway is an experienced professional who is currently working in the area of cyber security. I worked alongside Ms. Hathaway as we tackled this important issue through my work as Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee. Cyber security is one of the biggest threats to our national security and our economy. I am pleased President Obama is taking cyber security seriously. In the past, this threat to our country and our economic viability has not received enough attention. I look forward to working with Ms. Hathaway to change that,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Melissa Hathaway currently serves as the Cyber Coordination Executive at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) recently returned from a six-day trip to the Middle East where he visited Israel, Lebanon, Syria, Kuwait, Iraq, and Belgium. The Congressional Delegation was one of the first to visit the area since President Barack Obama took office on January 20, 2009, and pledged a greater global dialogue between America and countries in the Middle East. The Delegation met with leaders from the Middle East, NATO, and the American military. “As a Member of the Intelligence Committee, it was an honor to travel to the region on behalf of the United States of America to begin a new era to start improving relations in the region. It was also an honor to meet with military personnel from Maryland to thank them for their service and sacrifice,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger is available for interviews in his District Office in Timonium, Maryland, on Monday, February 9, 2009. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) What: Media Availability after Congressman Ruppersberger’s Trip to the Middle East When: Monday, February 9, 2009 **If you would like to schedule an interview, please call Heather Moeder Molino at the Congressman’s Washington Office at (202) 225-3061 or on her cell at (703) 615-5371.** (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) celebrates the Inauguration of the 44th President of the United States. Congressman Ruppersberger was on hand for the Whistle Stop Tour in Baltimore on Saturday, January 17, 2009, as then President-Elect Obama addressed a standing room only crowd at War Memorial Plaza. “It is such an honor that then President-Elect Barack Obama decided to stop in Baltimore on his historic journey to take the oath of office in Washington, DC. Marylanders packed War Memorial Plaza to hear the President Elect’s words of inspiration and change that shows what we can expect from the Obama Administration,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger watched from the Capitol steps as the 44th President Barack Obama was sworn into office. The National Park Service estimates close to 1.8 million people packed the National Mall to witness the historic event amid freezing cold temperatures. “It was an exciting moment in history to watch President Barack Obama take the oath of office. I look forward to working with the Obama Administration to create jobs and improve our economy. President Obama is putting together a top notch team to help turn our country around. Whether you are a democrat or republican, once the voters have spoken I believe we must work together to get things done and we have a lot to do to improve people’s lives,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Members of the Maryland Delegation denounce the “conditional” approval of the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant at Sparrows Point by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) just five days before the Obama Administration takes office. AES, the company behind the proposal, must satisfy 169 safety, security, and environmental conditions to move forward with the proposal. Members of the Maryland Delegation including Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), and Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) vow to work with the Coast Guard, the State of Maryland, Baltimore County, and Anne Arundel County to investigate any possible way to halt the project. “From the start, I have expressed strong concerns over the safety and security of an LNG facility so close to densely populated, residential neighborhoods. My objections have fallen on deaf ears. In an 11th hour decision today, just five days before the Obama Administration takes office, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission quickly approved the proposal that will have a longstanding impact on this area. We will work with all of the agencies involved in this process to investigate ways to stop this plan from moving forward,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “For nearly three years, I have repeatedly raised my safety, security and environmental concerns about this LNG facility and pipeline. I am not the only. Several other agencies, including the U.S. Coast Guard, Army Corps of Engineers and Department of Interior have serious concerns about this project moving forward. And while all evidence seems to be showing that AES and Mid-Atlantic Express, the companies operating this project, are not adequately prepared to address these issues, FERC has decided to rubber stamp this project anyway. In doing so, they’ve chosen to ignore the safety and security of Marylanders. As Maryland’s senior Senator, I will work to ensure every mitigation measure is met and the community is protected,” said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). “I am extremely disappointed by FERC’s decision and I will continue to work to find ways to prevent it,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD). “The location of this facility in a highly populated, urban area poises a security and environmental risk to our region.” “I am deeply troubled that FERC moved forward to approve the LNG terminal at Sparrow’s Point,” said Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD). “The health and safety of Maryland residents must be the top priority and, unfortunately, FERC carelessly chose to overlook this grave concern with its decision.” LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. The proposed site is less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere in Baltimore County. The tankers carrying LNG to the facility would travel under the Chesapeake Bay Bridge to reach the facility. In addition, an LNG facility could harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and restrictions on recreational boat traffic could hurt the quality of life of area residents. In 2008, the Coast Guard found that the Chesapeake Bay is not currently suitable for an LNG facility because sufficient resources are not available to implement the necessary safety and security measures to protect the facility and nearby residents. AES has not created a Transit Management Plan as requested to determine how to adequately mitigate the risks of an accident or possible terrorist attack at the facility. In addition, the Department of the Interior recently determined construction of the plant could threaten the environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Members of the Maryland Delegation are calling on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to delay a decision on the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility at Sparrows Point until the Obama Administration takes office next week. In a letter sent to FERC today, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) and Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD) expressed their concerns about the safety and security of the proposed facility as well as the threat to endangered Chesapeake Bay species. FERC is expected to make a decision on the proposal on January 15, 2009. The Obama Administration takes office on January 20, 2009. In 2008, the Coast Guard found that the Chesapeake Bay is not currently suitable for an LNG facility because sufficient resources are not available to implement the necessary safety and security measures to protect the facility and nearby residents. AES, the company proposing the project, has not created a Transit Management Plan as requested to determine how to adequately mitigate the risks of an accident or possible terrorist attack at the facility. In addition, the Department of the Interior recently determined construction of the plant could threaten the environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. “From the very beginning, I have said this liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this densely populated, urban area because of strong concerns over safety and security. AES has done nothing to ease those concerns. This, coupled with the threat to endangered Chesapeake Bay species, means FERC should delay its decision. The Obama Administration must be allowed to study and review the risks of building an LNG facility so close to a residential neighborhood in a critical area of the Chesapeake Bay,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Chairman of the Port Security Caucus and a Member of the Intelligence Committee. “For more than two years, I have repeatedly raised my safety and security concerns about this LNG facility and pipeline. While I am still waiting for these concerns to be adequately addressed, FERC has proceeded at breakneck speed to rubber stamp this project. It’s time for them to hit the breaks. FERC should hold off their decision until all the critical security and safety concerns have been addressed,” said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). “I am strongly opposed to locating a LNG facility at Sparrows Point,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. “I am deeply concerned about security and environmental risks to the Port of Baltimore and Chesapeake Bay, and I urge FERC to delay its decision so that the new Obama Administration will have an opportunity to study and review the risks of locating a LNG facility in a densely populated, urban area.” “There are serious environmental and safety concerns involved in the operation of an LNG facility, and all evidence seems to be showing that AES is not adequately prepared to address these issues at Sparrow’s Point,” said Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. “By rubber stamping this ill-advised project, FERC is jeopardizing the safety and security of Maryland residents.” “The debate about whether or not to place a LNG facility at Sparrows Point has always hinged foremost on the issue of safety,” said Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD). “But the Interior Department’s recent letter about the project’s impact on endangered species in the Chesapeake Bay raises new ecological and environmental concerns that need to be addressed as well. FERC should give these issues the appropriate attention." LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. The proposed site is less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere in Baltimore County. The tankers carrying LNG to the facility would travel under the Chesapeake Bay Bridge to reach the facility. In addition, an LNG facility could harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and restrictions on recreational boat traffic could hurt the quality of life of area residents. The letter from Members of the Maryland Delegation to FERC is attached. Click here to view the letter from the Members of the Maryland Delegation to FERC. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) introduced important child care legislation. In this sputtering economy, the Right Start Child Care and Education Act of 2009 will help ease the financial burden on Maryland families while helping ensure high-quality, affordable child care is available. The legislation would: Increase the maximum federal child care tax credit for families from $3,000 to $6,000 per child. Increase the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account from $5,000 to $7,500. Expand the tax credit from $150,000 to $225,000 for employers to construct workplace child care facilities. Provide a tax credit of up to a $2,000 a year for three years for college graduates who decide to enter the child care field. “In this tough economic environment, a job is not a job at all if a parent can’t go to work because they can’t afford child care. The Right Start Child Care and Education Act of 2009 updates and expands the child care tax credit so parents can actually take these jobs that are being created while also providing their children with high quality care while they are at work,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “In this difficult economic environment, it is more important than ever that we make sure that parents don’t have to choose between working and taking care of their children. This legislation is designed to help families pay for a very important service and I want to ensure that the care that is received is top quality,” said Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA). Studies show that children in high quality care programs perform better in math, language, and reading and show fewer behavioral problems. More than 200,000 children and their families in Maryland rely on licensed child care services in order for parents to go to work, school, or attend other activities, according to the Maryland Committee for Children. The average family in the Baltimore–Washington region pays $20,752 a year, which is equivalent to $1,729 a month in childcare. Most families say it is the second-highest household expense behind mortgage or rent payments in their budgets. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) denounces the U.S. Department of Commerce’s decision not to support the State of Maryland’s denial of an application to build a liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility at Sparrows Point, Maryland. Congressman Ruppersberger believes safety, security, and quality of life for residents will be negatively impacted by the proposed facility. AES Corporation filed its official application to construct the LNG terminal in January 2007. In February, the Coast Guard issued a report critical of AES for not having a comprehensive safety or security plan. The Coast Guard Waterway Suitability Report found that AES does not have a security plan, does not appear to be taking security seriously, and assumes the Coast Guard will handle all security at taxpayer expense. “I am outraged that the Department of Commerce will not support the State of Maryland’s decision that construction of an LNG facility at this location is inconsistent with Maryland’s Coastal Zone Management Program. From the very start, I have said the proposed liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this residential area in Eastern Baltimore County. My biggest concerns focus around the lack of a comprehensive safety and security plan, the potential harm to the quality of life for nearby residents, and the possible negative effects on the environment and the Chesapeake Bay. I vow to continue to fight to stop this facility,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). If constructed, the LNG facility would be less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere and would be located in an environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the Intelligence Committee and the Port Security Caucus, believes area residents could be harmed if there is an accident or a terrorist attack at the facility or on the tankers that travel up the Bay. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and the restrictions on recreational boat traffic could negatively impact the quality of life of area residents. The proposed site of the LNG facility is located in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Coast Guard. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Congressmen John Sarbanes (D-MD), Baltimore County Executive James T. Smith and officials from the National Park Service today to celebrate the creation of The Star-Spangled Banner National Historic Trail at Ft. McHenry National Monument & Historic Shrine. The bill creating the Trail passed Congress and was signed into law on May 8, 2008, by President Bush. The National Historic Trail system commemorates major routes of historic travel and events that have shaped American history. The creation of the Star-Spangled Banner National Historic Trail comes in time for the bicentennial celebration of the War of 1812 in 2012. The Trail will begin with the June 1814 battle between the British Navy and the American Chesapeake Flotilla in St. Leonard’s Creek in Calvert County, follows the British landing at Benedict on the Patuxent River, the Battle of Bladensburg, and then moves on to the British march into Washington, D.C., which was sacked and burned. From Washington, it follows the British campaign to the Battle of North Point and on to Baltimore, ending at Fort McHenry, site of the defeat of the British and where Francis Scott Key composed The Star-Spangled Banner, our National Anthem. “Maryland played a critical role in the growth of our nation. The Star-Spangled Banner National Historic Trail is a wonderful way to inspire people of all ages to learn more about Maryland’s rich history,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. “As we prepare for the bicentennial celebration of the War of 1812, the Star-Spangled Banner Trail will ensure that Americans have a much better appreciation of America’s past and of Maryland’s important contributions to it,” said Senator Cardin, who first introduced legislation in Congress to create the Trail in 2003. “I am extremely pleased that the nation will now have the opportunity to learn about the unique role Maryland and our region have played in our nation’s history.” (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) recently returned from a trip to Iraq and Jordan where he met with combat commanders and intelligence officials to assess military, intelligence, and security issues in the region. Progress has been made in Iraq, but Congressman Ruppersberger believes more must be done to turn security over to the Iraqis, encourage them to create their own government, and promote economic development so we can bring our troops home. “Coalition forces have been in Iraq for five long years. I believe we need a new strategy in Iraq. It is time for the United States to cut the apron strings. The Iraqis must take control of their own security. Iraqi leaders must focus on creating their own government, maintaining security, creating jobs, and improving the lives of the Iraqi people. This will allow us to draw down our forces and bring them home,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger calls his strategy for Iraq “The Perimeter Plan.” The Congressman believes the Iraqis should patrol the streets of Iraq. American troops should guard the perimeter areas and back-up the Iraqis in an emergency. Redeploying troops to perimeter areas and lowering the profile of American forces will break the dependency the Iraqi military has on U.S. forces. The Iraqis will gain more confidence in their own abilities to secure their own country allowing American troops to withdraw and return home. The Congressman presented his “Perimeter Plan” to the President and members of his Cabinet at the White House on two occasions. “As a Congressman who serves on the Intelligence Committee, I am concerned that the war is costing us too much and straining our military compromising other intelligence missions. The War in Iraq is forcing us to take our eye off the ball and the Global War on Terror. We have lost focus in Afghanistan which is getting more dangerous. In addition, our military is exhausted – both career and National Guard. American troops are serving more tours deployed overseas than ever before in modern history,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Congressman also met with military personnel from Maryland. Intelligence Committee Chairman Silvestre Reyes (D-Texas) and Ranking Member Peter Hoekstra (R-Michigan) also traveled to the region as part of the Congressional delegation. When the delegation was in Iraq, a sandstorm grounded helicopter travel, requiring the delegation to move in a heavily armored ground convoy. This is a rare move for a delegation because of the unsettling security situation. An improvised explosive device (IED) was discovered in the area near the delegation’s travels through Baghdad. No one was injured. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) recently returned from a trip to Iraq and Jordan where he met with combat commanders and intelligence officials to assess military, intelligence, and security issues in the region. Progress has been made in Iraq, but Congressman Ruppersberger believes more must be done to turn security over to the Iraqis, encourage them to create their own government, and promote economic development so we can bring our troops home. “Coalition forces have been in Iraq for more than five years. It is time for the United States to cut the apron strings. The Iraqis must take control of their own security. Iraqi leaders must focus on creating their own government, maintaining security, creating jobs, and improving the lives of the Iraqi people. This will allow us to draw down our forces and bring them home,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Congressman also met with military personnel from Maryland. Intelligence Committee Chairman Silvestre Reyes (D-TX) and Ranking Member Peter Hoekstra (R-MI) also traveled to the region as part of the Congressional Delegation. The Congressman is available for interviews on Friday, June 6, 2008. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) WHAT: Media Availability after Congressman Ruppersberger’s Trip to Iraq and Jordan WHEN: Friday, June 6, 2008 *****If you would like to schedule an interview, please call Heather Moeder Molino at the Congressman’s Washington Office at (202) 225-3061 or on her cell at (703) 615-5371.***** (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) honored Maryland’s rich history and critical role in the growth of our nation with a Star-Spangled Banner commemorative coin. H.R. 2894, the Star-Spangled Banner and War of 1812 Bicentennial Commemorative Coin Act, recently passed the United States House of Representatives just in time for the Memorial Day Holiday. After a 25-hour British bombardment of Fort McHenry during the War of 1812, Francis Scott Key saw an enormous American flag proudly flying over the fort, which was defending the City of Baltimore. Key was inspired to write “The Star-Spangled Banner” that eventually became America’s national anthem. “From VFW and American Legion halls across the country to Little League baseball games to Presidential inaugurations, we play the national anthem to bring Americans together and honor our nation. Today in honor of past, present, and future veterans, we salute their service and sacrifice with a Star-Spangled Banner Commemorative Coin. This coin is for all of our veterans. It is a wonderful way to honor the courage and dedication of military personnel of today and yesterday,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger was joined by Alan Walden of the Friends of Fort McHenry and school children on Monday, May 19, 2008, at the Maryland Historical Society. The Society houses the original draft of Key’s poem as well as other important artifacts from the War of 1812. Members of the City College Choir sang the national anthem during the ceremony. The coin will be minted in 2012 in coordination with the 200th Anniversary of the War of 1812. A portion of the proceeds will go to the Maryland War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission. The legislation must pass the Senate and be signed by the President before it can become law. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), and nursing students and faculty from Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing in Baltimore called on Congress today to restore funding the Bush Administration cut from critically important nursing programs. The President’s proposed budget cuts $46 million from nursing education programs authorized under Title VIII of the Public Health Service Act. The budget also completely eliminates the Advanced Education Nursing Grants that prepare graduate-level nurses to be primary care providers and nursing faculty. More than 71,000 nursing students and nurses received loans, scholarships, and training through the program last year, according to the American Association of Colleges of Nursing. “Nurses are on the front lines of medicine and health care everyday, keeping families and communities healthy. Nurses dedicate their lives to helping Marylanders. The Maryland Delegation here on Capitol Hill is committed to helping them get the funding they need and deserve,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). For more than a decade, our nation has faced a massive shortage of nurses. In Maryland, the shortage is projected to get even worse, topping 18,000 by 2020. Nursing schools turned away more than 40,000 qualified students across the country because they don’t have enough faculty, equipment, or space. At the same time, baby boomers are getting older. Starting in 2012, 10,000 people will turn 65 years old each day in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In addition, Maryland is preparing for the arrival of thousands of new families through military base closures in other states. Congressman Ruppersberger and Congressman Cummings feel these cuts are unacceptable. They are working hard on Capitol Hill to restore the funding for nurses. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) honored an Odenton woman for her service to military families. Ramona Vazquez, founder of the Greater Baltimore Coast Guard Spouses Association, created a special center that provides diapers, formula, clothing, and toys for families at no charge. “Nate’s Open Door Baby Pantry” at the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay is named after Coastguardsman Nate Bruckenthal, who was killed by a suicide bomber in Iraq in 2004. He left behind his pregnant wife who soon gave birth to a daughter named Harper. “It is people like Ramona Vazquez that truly make our country great. Her selfless dedication to military families in her community is inspiring. She went above and beyond the call of duty to help young families get the things they need to care for their infants. The motto of the Spouses’ Association is ‘Unconditional Love and Support.’ Ms. Vazquez exemplifies that in everything she does,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Since its creation in May 2005, more than four hundred local families have received free items from Nate’s Pantry. Ms. Vazquez’s husband is deployed overseas with the United States Coast Guard. Her son Edward serves in the United States Air Force. Ms. Vazquez was recognized at a special ceremony today at the White House commemorating Military Spouse’s Day. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) introduced a resolution in Congress supporting and promoting Free Comic Book Day. As part of a nationwide effort to get kids reading, retailers in Maryland and across the country will give away more than two million comic books to children of all ages as part of Free Comic Book Day on Saturday, May 3, 2008. “Educators and parents are always looking for ways to get children interested in reading. Whether your children like Superman, Wonder Woman, or the Incredibles, getting them interested in comic books means they’re reading. Free Comic Book Day is a creative way to promote literacy and celebrate the unique American art form,” said C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd). A growing number of school systems in Maryland are using comic books to teach narration, dialogue, and visual design. The fastest growing section of public libraries is the comic book “graphic novel” section. For information about participating stores, go to www.freecomicbookday.com. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) honored a talented young artist from Patapsco High School during a special ceremony at the Congressman’s District Office in Timonium. Brett Shinsky, a Junior at Patapsco High School, won the 2008 Congressional Art Contest for the Maryland 2nd District for his digital hand drawn piece entitled “Confusion”. “Brett Shinsky is a creative and talented young artist. His artwork is bold and dramatic. It is an honor to present Brett with this prestigious award which recognizes the vital role the arts play in our children’s education,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. Brett Shinsky participated in the annual Congressional Art Contest. One piece of art created by a high school student is selected from every Congressional District across the country and displayed in Congress. Mr. Shinsky’s “Confusion” is hung on the wall in the nation’s Capitol in the Cannon Tunnel. The artwork on display provides inspiration to Capitol visitors and Members of Congress as they make their way to the House floor. An estimated 12,000 people will see the exhibit each day for the next year. Congressman Ruppersberger established a panel of qualified judges from Maryland’s art community to choose a piece worthy of such an honor. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will introduce cutting-edge energy legislation to combat rising gas prices and increasing pain at the pump. In Maryland, the average gallon of gasoline is close to $4. That is up from $2.90 a year ago according to AAA’s Daily Fuel Gauge Report. Maryland families now pay an average of $5,000 a year on gas. That’s up from $3,275 when President Bush took office seven years ago. The Energy Fraud and Fairness Reform Act: Directs the Federal Trade Commission to investigate how speculators are driving up the cost of gas in the financial markets and offer recommendations to prevent the practice; Increases the tax credit for consumers who convert their gas or diesel fueled car to an alternative fuel, clean fuel, or fuel cell vehicle; Instructs the Government Accountability Office to study refinery capacity in the United States to determine how capacity affects gas prices and determine if there is collusion among oil companies to keep capacity low and keep prices high; Instructs the Government Accountability Office to determine if federal grants and other federal funding given to oil companies were used to increase energy production or to simply improve the companies’ bottom lines. Congressman Ruppersberger will be joined by Maryland families at a press conference on Monday, July 28, 2008, in Timonium, Maryland. The Congressman will also roll out his recently purchased hybrid vehicle. What: Ruppersberger to Introduce The Energy Fraud and Fairness Reform Act When: 10:30 am, Monday, July 28, 2008 Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Maryland Families Hit Hard by Rising Gas Prices Where: Hughes’ Oceanic Gas Station 1501 York Road Timonium, Maryland 21093 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) denounces a newly released statement about the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility at Sparrows Point in eastern Baltimore County. The Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) ignores the safety concerns of nearby residents who would live in the shadow of the facility. If constructed, the LNG facility would be less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere. The statement was released today by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). “This is a tough setback, but I will not give up the fight to stop the proposed LNG facility from coming to Eastern Baltimore County. I have said from the very beginning this proposed liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this residential area. The Environmental Impact Statement ignores the safety of nearby residents who would live in the shadow of the facility. They will be forced to live in fear of an attack or accident. In addition, the company behind the proposal wants Maryland taxpayers to foot much of the bill for any security changes that may need to be implemented. This is unfair because the natural gas will be pumped out of state. In addition, the energy company made $12.6 billion so far this year in revenue,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Earlier this year, the Coast Guard issued a report critical of AES, the company that wants to build the facility, for not having a comprehensive safety or security plan. The Coast Guard report found that AES does not appear to be taking security seriously and assumes the Coast Guard will handle all security at taxpayer expense. If constructed, the LNG facility would be located in an environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the Intelligence Committee and Chair of the Port Security Caucus, believes area residents could be harmed if there is an accident or a terrorist attack at the facility or on the tankers that travel up the Bay. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and the restrictions on recreational boat traffic could hurt the quality of life of area residents. The proposed site of the LNG facility is located in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Coast Guard. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) denounces a newly released statement about the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility at Sparrows Point in eastern Baltimore County. The Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) ignores the safety concerns of nearby residents who would live in the shadow of the facility. If constructed, the LNG facility would be less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere. The statement was released today by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). “This is a tough setback, but I will not give up the fight to stop the proposed LNG facility from coming to Eastern Baltimore County. I have said from the very beginning this proposed liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this residential area. The Environmental Impact Statement ignores the safety of nearby residents who would live in the shadow of the facility. They will be forced to live in fear of an attack or accident. In addition, the company behind the proposal wants Maryland taxpayers to foot much of the bill for any security changes that may need to be implemented. This is unfair because the natural gas will be pumped out of state. In addition, the energy company made $12.6 billion so far this year in revenue,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Earlier this year, the Coast Guard issued a report critical of AES, the company that wants to build the facility, for not having a comprehensive safety or security plan. The Coast Guard report found that AES does not appear to be taking security seriously and assumes the Coast Guard will handle all security at taxpayer expense. If constructed, the LNG facility would be located in an environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the Intelligence Committee and Chair of the Port Security Caucus, believes area residents could be harmed if there is an accident or a terrorist attack at the facility or on the tankers that travel up the Bay. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and the restrictions on recreational boat traffic could hurt the quality of life of area residents. The proposed site of the LNG facility is located in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Coast Guard. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will introduce legislation to help struggling families in these tough economic times. The Retirement Fairness and Emergency Relief Act of 2008, H.R. 7278, would: • Allow families experiencing financial hardship to withdraw money from their retirement account to pay for important expenses like rent, mortgage payments, utilities, or groceries without paying the standard ten percent penalty.• Allow seniors to delay mandatory withdrawals from their retirement accounts. Currently, seniors are required to start taking money out of their 401(k)s at age 70 ½. Many seniors’ nest eggs have taken a massive hit, and making mandatory withdrawals now would mean a significant financial loss. This will allow them to build on and replenish their nest eggs as the economy rebounds. The Congressman will discuss this legislation at a press conference on Monday, December 8, 2008, in Towson. WHAT: Congressman Ruppersberger to Introduce Legislation to Help Struggling Families In These Tough Economic Times WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Seniors Families WHEN: 10:30 a.m., Monday, December 8, 2008 WHERE: Edenwald The Auditorium 800 Southerly Road Towson, Maryland 21286 (####)
11.20.2009	(Middle River, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and General James Adkins, Adjutant General of the Maryland National Guard, announced $7.9 million in federal funds for a new fire station at the Warfield Air National Guard Base at Martin State Airport. The base houses the 175th Wing of the Maryland Air National Guard, which has over 1,500 air guard members. The current fire station is over 40 years old and severely outdated. There are cracks in the walls. The roof leaks. There is not adequate training or office space. The building is too small to house the fire trucks. The new state of the art facility will house top notch training, office, and storage facilities so guardsmen can prepare for future missions. The citizen soldiers stationed at Warfield Air National Guard Base respond to man made and natural disasters here in Maryland as well as across the country. Their C-130s were the first aircraft flying after 9-11 and in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, crews delivered much needed food, supplies, and personnel. The airmen also work together with the Baltimore County Fire Department to assist in emergencies in the surrounding area, including hazardous spills, house fires, and serious car accidents, especially on Interstate 95. About seventy airmen from the 175th Wing are deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan are about to deploy. “The Airmen and women from the 175th Wing of the Air National Guard have answered the call to serve their country. These men and women serving in our Armed Forces are our neighbors, our friends, and our colleagues. They deserve better than this. We must hold up our end of the bargain and ensure they have the resources and our support to get the job done. It is an honor to be able to announce $7.9 million for a new fire house at the Warfield Air National Guard Base,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The money was included in the spending measure, known as the Continuing Resolution, that passed the House and Senate last week. (####)
11.20.2009	(Middle River, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and General James Adkins, Adjutant General of the Maryland National Guard, will announce $7.9 million in federal funds for a new fire station at the Warfield Air National Guard Base at Martin State Airport. The base houses the 175th Wing of the Maryland Air National Guard, which has over 1,500 air guard members. The current fire station is over 40 years old and severely outdated. There are cracks in the walls. The roof leaks. There is not adequate training or office space. The building is too small to house the fire trucks. The new state of the art facility will house top notch training, office, and storage facilities so guardsmen can prepare for future missions. Firefighters stationed at Warfield Air National Guard Base respond to emergencies at the base as well as Martin State Airport. They also work together with the Baltimore County Fire Department to assist in emergencies in the surrounding area, including hazardous spills, house fires, and serious car accidents, especially on Interstate 95. The money was included in the spending measure that passed the House this week. The Senate is expected to approve the measure over the weekend. What: Ruppersberger to Announce $7.9 Million for the New Fire Station at Martin State Airport When: 10:00 am, Tuesday, September 30, 2008 Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger General James Adkins, Adjutant General of the Maryland National Guard Members of the Maryland Air National Guard Where: Warfield Air National Guard Base Martin State Airport 2701 Eastern BlvdMiddle River, MD 21220 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce $75 million in federal aid for distressed Waterman. The money was included in the spending measure known as the Continuing Resolution that passed the House today by a vote of 370 to 58. The blue crab population in the Chesapeake Bay has declined 70% since the early 1990s, according to Maryland statistics. Maryland and Virginia have decided to curb the harvest of female crabs by a third this year to boost the Bay’s crab population. Yesterday, the Department of Commerce declared the Chesapeake Bay’s blue crab fishery a federal disaster, paving the way for the federal funds. “The Maryland blue crab is such an important part of the culture and the economy of our state. In recent years, watermen have been hit by the declining crab population in the Chesapeake Bay. These funds will give Maryland watermen and their communities some relief while we work to restore the blue crab population in the Bay,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), a Member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee. The $75 million will be distributed among fisheries hit hard across the country. The spending measure must pass the Senate and be signed by the President to become law. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) received the “Best of Congress” award from Working Mother magazine at a special ceremony today in Washington, DC. The Congressman promotes family-friendly policies in Congress as well as in his Washington, DC, and Timonium, Maryland, offices. Congressman Ruppersberger has authored several pieces of legislation that help employees manage a good work life balance. H.R. 2021, the Right Start Child Care and Education Act, would help ease the financial burden on Maryland families while helping ensure quality affordable child care is available. The measure would: Increase the federal child care tax credit from $3,000 to $5,000 per child.Expand the federal tax credit for businesses that create workplace childcare facilities from $150,000 to $225,000. Provide a federal tax credit of up to $2,000 a year for three years for new college graduates who decide to enter the child care field. The Congressman has also hosted numerous town halls and forums on issues like college financial aid and Internet safety, as well as a rally for children’s health care in Annapolis. “Eighty percent of my staff are women. As a father and proud grandfather, I understand the struggles that working moms and dads face. I am fighting in Washington to promote legislation that put families first. I implement the same type of family friendly policies in my Washington, DC, and District offices to help staffers maintain that delicate balance between the demands at work and the priorities of home,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Employees in Congressman Ruppersberger’s Congressional offices receive three months of paid maternity leave and three weeks of paid paternity leave. The Congressman also provides new mothers with the option of working a compressed work week, a part-time schedule, or telecommuting from home. All employees are given a Blackberry that makes telecommuting or working outside the office a breeze. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) introduced cutting-edge energy legislation to combat rising gas prices and increasing pain at the pump. In Maryland, the average gallon of gasoline is close to $4. That is up from $2.90 a year ago according to AAA’s Daily Fuel Gauge Report. Maryland families now pay an average of $5,000 a year on gas. That’s up from $3,275 when President Bush took office seven years ago. “This means going to work, taking your kids to camp, traveling to the grocery store, or going on vacation is getting more and more expensive. From taxicab drivers to the local take out delivery person to the plumber making house calls to the truck drivers delivering good throughout the country, gas bills are going up and salaries are going down. Maryland families are feeling the pinch and they need some relief. The Energy Fraud and Fairness Act combats rising gas prices, eases the pain at the pump, and helps America achieve long term energy independence,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Energy Fraud and Fairness Reform Act: Directs the Federal Trade Commission to investigate how speculators are driving up the cost of gas in the financial markets and offer recommendations to prevent the practice; Increases the tax credit for consumers who convert their gas fueled car to an alternative fueled vehicle powered by ethanol, natural gas, hydrogen or other clean fuel; Instructs the Government Accountability Office to study if oil companies are deliberately not building refineries in the United States to keep the supply of domestic oil low and prices high; Instructs the Government Accountability Office to investigate if oil companies did not use the billions of dollars in federal tax credits on oil exploration and research and instead used the money to bolster stock prices and line their pockets. Congressman Ruppersberger has long been a supporter of environmentally friendly hybrid vehicles. He sponsored legislation in 2004 that extended the $4,000 tax credit for people who purchase a hybrid. The language was included in the energy bill that passed Congress in 2005. In fact, Congressman Ruppersberger just recently bought a GMC hybrid. His wife bought a Ford Escape hybrid last year. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and his “Webmaster” were honored today on Capitol Hill for having one of the best Congressional websites. The Congressman’s website, www.dutch.house.gov earned a “Bronze Mouse Award” from the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF). CMF is a non-profit, non-partisan management consulting and research organization in Washington, DC. Maya Hermann, Congressman Ruppersberger’s “Webmaster”, consistently updates the website with new material. “Whether it is information about a recent vote, my latest press release, or tips on what to do in Washington, my website is a comprehensive clearing house of material and a great way to communicate with my constituents. It allows people to access important information twenty four hours a day, seven days a week,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Congressional Management Foundation analyzed 619 Congressional websites, including those of all Senate and House Members, Committee offices, and official Leadership sites. CMF awarded 36 Gold, 34 Silver, and 34 Bronze Mouse Awards. The 2007 Gold Mouse Report and Awards are part of the “Connecting to Congress” research project, funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation. For this project CMF partnered with researchers from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, University of California-Riverside and Ohio State University to study how Members of Congress can use the Internet to improve communications with their constituents and to promote greater participation in the legislative process. Web sites were graded on how well they incorporate five basic building blocks which extensive research identified as critical for effectiveness: audience, content, usability, interactivity, and innovation. A full copy of the report, the 2007 Gold Mouse Report: Lessons from the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill, is available on the Congressional Management Foundation’s website. (####)
11.20.2009	(Dundalk, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) announced $829,000 in federal funds for a much needed renovation of the Dundalk Armory and took a tour of the facility on March 7, 2008. The Dundalk Armory is home to two Army units totaling about 300 citizen soldiers. The Armory was built in 1960 and is in dire need of repair. The roof leaks. The kitchen is outdated and has one stove and sink for 300 people. Women share one bathroom in the front of the facility. Lockers can house only half of the equipment issued to soldiers and the locker room doesn’t have any heat. There is inadequate classroom space. The old rifle range was converted to a classroom but that also does not have any heat. There are a few window air conditioning units so the Armory is very hot in the summer. The electrical system is outdated. Troops at the Armory respond to local natural disasters including Hurricane Isabel as well as other snowstorms and floods. Currently, three quarters of the troops are deployed in Iraq. “Whether you are for or against the war, we must support our troops. Part of supporting our troops is making sure they have adequate facilities where they can train. These three hundred citizen soldiers have answered the call to serve their country. These men and women serving in our Armed Forces are our neighbors, our friends, and our colleagues. They deserve better. The Dundalk Armory needs a complete overhaul. This $829,000 will help design and plan for an extensive renovation,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). When complete, the Dundalk Armory will be twice the size it is now for a total of close to 70,000 square feet. It will have a full size commercial kitchen, lots of classroom and training space, a full size locker room with toilets, showers, heat and air conditioning, a new ventilation system, a new electrical system, and a drill area that doesn’t leak. The remainder of the project will cost approximately $14 million. (####)
11.20.2009	(Dundalk, MD)- On Friday, March 7, 2008, Congressman Ruppersberger will announce $829,000 in federal funds for a much needed renovation of the Dundalk Armory and take a tour of the facility. The facility has a leaking roof, inadequate electrical systems, insufficient ventilation, deteriorating classrooms, and a sub-standard kitchen. The firing range is currently shut down for lead testing and the locker rooms are located in a separate building from the showers and latrines. The money will pay for plans for an extensive renovation that will include new classrooms, a firing range, showers, and a kitchen to improve the morale, retention, and readiness of the personnel stationed at this facility. What: Ruppersberger to Announce $829,000 for the Dundalk Armory and Take a Tour Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Members of the Maryland National Guard When: 10:30 am, Friday, March 7, 2008 Where: The Dundalk Armory 2101 North Point Boulevard Dundalk, Maryland 21222 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger is concerned by a newly released Coast Guard report that is critical of AES Corporation, the company that wants to build a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) terminal in Sparrows Point. The Coast Guard Waterway Suitability Report finds that AES Corporation does not have a security plan, does not appear to be taking security seriously, and assumes the Coast Guard will handle all security at taxpayer expense, including LNG ship escorts, shore side surveillance patrols, video and aerial surveillance, and periodic use of divers. AES Corporation recently reported record annual revenues of $12 billion according to its annual report. The report also finds that the Chesapeake Bay and surrounding waterways are unsuitable for LNG tanker traffic. “I have said all along that an LNG terminal is absolutely inappropriate for the Eastside of Baltimore County. It is too close to residential neighborhoods and poses serious threats to the safety and security of nearby residents. This Coast Guard report shows that my concerns are valid. In addition, it shows that the lack of a security plan could put the Port of Baltimore and the Chesapeake Bay at risk. AES wants Maryland taxpayers to foot the security bill to protect AES and its ships while it pumps LNG to other areas of the country through its pipeline. AES wants Maryland to take on all of the risk for none of the reward,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). AES Corporation filed its official application to construct the LNG terminal in January 2007. The proposed site of the LNG facility is located in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Coast Guard. In light of this report, Congressman Ruppersberger will renew his request to FERC to deny the application. If constructed, the facility would be less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere and would be located in an environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the Intelligence Committee and the Port Security Caucus, believes area residents could be harmed if there is an accident or a terrorist attack at the facility or on the tankers that travel up the Bay. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and the restrictions on recreational boat traffic could negatively impact the quality of life of area residents. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger is pleased to announce $282,000 for an integrated library system for the blind. It will give blind and visually impaired individuals access to materials and information independently in a library or online without help from a librarian. The system will be developed at the National Federation of the Blind Headquarters in Baltimore and will help 1.3 million blind and visually impaired citizens access information when complete. “An Integrated library system will help blind and visually impaired individuals conduct research and collect information on their own without help from a librarian. This is critically important so blind and visually impaired citizens can work independently with whatever they decide to do. The system will be developed right here in Baltimore at the Headquarters of the National Federation of the Blind,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The funding was included in the omnibus spending measure that was signed into law at the end of 2007. The National Federation of the Blind hopes to improve the lives of blind and visually impaired individuals through advocacy, education, research, technology, and programs that encourage independence and self-confidence. The National Federation of the Blind has more than 50,000 members worldwide. (####)
11.20.2009	(Arnold, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger will announce $5.7 million in federal funding to help prepare for the more than 20,000 jobs heading to Maryland through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. The positions will be focused around Fort Meade in Anne Arundel County and Aberdeen Proving Ground in Harford County. The funding will pay for everything from roads and mass transit to workforce training to health care needs. $121,000 will pay for cutting edge training equipment at the Center for Health, Science, and Homeland Security at Anne Arundel Community College. The College trains students to be nurses, physician assistants, radiologic technicians, and physical therapist assistants. The professions are in high demand, especially with the new families expected to move to the area due to BRAC. Last semester, the programs were completely full. The College was forced to turn away more than 270 qualified candidates because of a lack of equipment, space, and instructors. Maryland’s community colleges train 30% of the state’s nurses. What: $5.7 Million for BRAC Including $121,000 for the Center for Health, Science, and Homeland Security at Anne Arundel Community College When: 10:30 am, Monday, March 31, 2008 Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Anne Arundel County Executive John Leopold President Martha Smith, Anne Arundel Community College Students and Teachers Where: Anne Arundel Community College The Florestano Building, Room 418 101 College Parkway Arnold, Maryland 21012 Directions From Baltimore: From Interstate-695 take exit 2, state Route 10 toward Severna Park. Stay on state Route 10 until it ends at State Route 2 (Governor Ritchie Highway) and turn left. Follow State Route 2 south about five miles. Turn left on West Campus Drive. At the three-way intersection, the building straight ahead is the Center for Applied Learning and Technology. Turn right, continuing on West Campus Drive. The first building on the left is the Cade Center for Fine Arts. The next building is the Florestano Building. (####)
11.20.2009	(Arnold, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger announced $5.7 million in federal funding to help prepare for the more than 20,000 jobs heading to Maryland through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. The positions will be focused around Fort Meade in Anne Arundel County and Aberdeen Proving Ground in Harford County. The funding will pay for everything from roads and mass transit to workforce training to health care needs. “The thousands of new jobs and residents heading to Maryland through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process are both a great opportunity and a great challenge for our state. I am committed to preserving the excellent quality of life we enjoy here in Anne Arundel County. I am working hard in Washington to ensure we have the resources we need to serve existing residents while preparing for new ones,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), a Member of the House Appropriations Committee. The Appropriations Committee puts together the federal budget. $121,000 for Anne Arundel Community College’s Center for Health, Science, and Homeland Security $121,000 will pay for cutting edge training equipment at the Center for Health, Science, and Homeland Security at Anne Arundel Community College. The College trains students to be nurses, physician assistants, radiologic technicians, and physical therapist assistants. The professions are in high demand, especially with the new families expected to move to the area due to BRAC. Last semester, the programs were completely full. The College was forced to turn away more than 270 qualified candidates because of a lack of equipment, space, and instructors. Maryland’s community colleges train 30% of the state’s nurses. $219,000 for Coppin State University’s School of Nursing At Coppin State University’s School of Nursing, $219,000 will help increase faculty and student recruitment and retention, create competitive faculty salaries, and purchase equipment for the classroom. $268,000 for Towson University At Towson University, $268,000 will pay for workforce development for BRAC and homeland security-related jobs. $4.9 Million for Road Improvements and Mass Transit in Maryland• $500,000 for traffic light synchronization on MD-175 near Fort Meade to improve access to the base on MD-175 between MD-170 and MD-713.• $2.25 million for road improvements in Harford County for planning and to improve safety, operations, and access at Aberdeen Proving Grounds in anticipation of BRAC-related growth. • $750,000 for widening I-695 to eight lanes in northeast Baltimore County and improving interchanges and bridges.• $1.4 million for Maryland Transit Operations to construct and improve bus facilities across the state. Anne Arundel County Executive John Leopold and Anne Arundel Community College President Martha Smith joined the Congressman at a special announcement at the College on March 31, 2008. The money was included in the Omnibus Spending Measure that was signed into law at the end of last year. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will announce $310,479 for the Cherry Hill Learning Zone Initiative. The unique partnership between Towson University and the Baltimore City Public Schools improves the economic and educational opportunities for the Cherry Hill community by preparing preschoolers for kindergarten, elementary school students for middle and high school, and high school seniors for higher education or direct entry into the workforce. What: $310,479 for the Cherry Hill Learning Zone Initiative When: 10:30 am, Monday, April 14, 2008 Who: Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Dr. Robert Caret, President, Towson University Bishop Willard E. Saunders, Jr., Pastor, Teachers Students Where: Dr. Carter G. Woodson Elementary and Middle School Media Center 2501 Seabury Road Baltimore, Maryland 21225 (####)
11.20.2009	(Timonium, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) proudly announces the nominees for the United States Service Academies from Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District for 2008. • Cameron Bell of Towson attends St. Paul’s School in Brooklandville; Nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Naval Academy. • Madison Bell of Rosedale attends Eastern Technical High School in Baltimore; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy; Received an appointment from the Naval Academy. • Christiana Brunner of Timonium attends Dulaney High School in Timonium; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy and to the United States Military Academy at West Point; Received an appointment to West Point. • Kathy Mun of Baltimore attends Bryn Mawr of Baltimore; Nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Naval Academy, and the United States Air Force Academy. • Nicholas Poremski of Parkville attends Parkville High School; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy; Received an appointment to the United States Naval Academy Prep School. • Jamaica Renner of Randallstown attends Randallstown High; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy, the United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Military Academy at West Point. • Amanda Thompson of Baltimore attends Western High School in Baltimore; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy, the United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. • Stephen Geiss of Towson attends Calvert Hall College High School in Baltimore; Nominated to the United States Naval Academy. “This impressive group of young people will be our nation’s future leaders. They represent the best and brightest of Maryland. They competed with a very strong slate of candidates. I am confident these eight students will be great additions to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Merchant Marine Academy, and the United States Naval Academy. I wish them good luck in their future endeavors,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. The Congressman established an independent Academy Nomination Panel comprised of Academy graduates, educators, business leaders, and other professionals to assist him in choosing the most qualified candidates from the 2nd District. Although students have been nominated by Congressman Ruppersberger, they are not guaranteed an appointment. The individual academies make final appointments. The students decide if they would like to attend the school where they received a nomination. The Congressman hosted the students and their families at a special ceremony at his District Office on April 7, 2008. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) announced $310,479 in federal funds for the Cherry Hill Learning Zone Initiative. The unique partnership between Towson University and the Baltimore City Public Schools improves the economic and educational opportunities for the Cherry Hill community by creating a community-wide network that prepares pre-schoolers for kindergarten, elementary school students for middle and high school, and high school seniors for higher education or direct entry into the workforce. “I believe every child in America deserves a quality education. The Cherry Hill Learning Zone Initiative is a partnership that works. It ensures that students in Cherry Hill have the resources they need to be successful in school and in life,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), a Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “The Cherry Hill Learning Zone is an example of how educational partnerships can work,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD). “I am extremely pleased that the federal government has joined with Towson University, the Baltimore City Public School system and the Baltimore City government to help ensure that the children of Cherry Hill have the resources and educational opportunities to succeed in school.” The Cherry Hill Learning Zone Initiative is an innovative approach to education that combines public and private resources in support of local and national education goals and systemic education reform. Through the partnership, Cherry Hill students receive one-on-one or small-group tutoring from student teachers from Towson University. In 2007, 1,768 students were involved in the Cherry Hill Learning Zone Initiative at five local schools - Dr. Carter G. Woodson Elementary and Middle School, Cherry Hill Elementary and Middle School, Arundel Elementary and Middle School, Patapsco Elementary and Middle School, and Southside Academy. The Senator and Congressman made the announcement at Dr. Carter G. Woodson Elementary and Middle School on April 14, 2008. Dr. Robert Caret, President of Towson University, Bishop Willard E. Saunders, Jr. of Created For So Much More Worship Center, and representatives from the City of Baltimore were also on hand for the announcement. The funds were included in the Omnibus spending measure that was signed into law late last year. (####)
11.20.2009	(Timonium, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) proudly announces the recipients of the 5th Annual 2nd District Congressional Veteran Volunteer Awards: • Leo Caron of Parkville is a disabled veteran and volunteers at the Baltimore Rehabilitation Extended Care Center (BRECC). Although he relies on a walker to get around, Mr. Caron makes sure the veterans have everything they need during their stay at the BRECC. He donates his time, money, and friendship to the patients. • Wendy Cramer of Fort Howard also volunteers at the BRECC. In addition to making sure supplies are always well-stocked, Ms. Cramer spends a lot of extra time and energy making holidays and special events positive and festive for veterans. • Hilda Davis of Nottingham volunteers at the BRECC at the Loch Raven Campus. Ms. Davis puts together special events for the veterans. She provides veterans with snacks and goodies they might not normally receive during their stay. Her husband, H. Lee Davis, received the Veteran Volunteer Award last year. • Chuck LaHatte of Pasadena is also a veteran and drives a Disabled American Veterans (DAV) van for patients at the Veteran Affairs Outpatient Clinic in Fort Howard. Mr. LaHatte volunteers about twenty hours a week to make sure veterans have transportation to and from their medical visits. • Lydie Masse of Baltimore works as a hospice night nurse at the BRECC. In the morning when her shift is over, Ms. Masse stays to escort patients to breakfast, play the piano, and sing for the veterans during their meals. She provides a positive and uplifting influence for the veterans during their stay. “We must honor the service and sacrifice of our men and women who wore the uniform and served our country in the military. These dedicated volunteers help us do this by providing invaluable service to our nation’s veterans staying at VA facilities in Maryland. The volunteers go the extra mile to bring smiles and joy to the faces of patients. It is an honor to award these tireless advocates the 2nd District Congressional Veteran Volunteer Award. This award pays tribute to their extraordinary contributions to the lives of our veterans,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. The Congressman presented the awards to the volunteers at a special ceremony at his District Office on April 11, 2008. The Congressman established the 2nd Congressional District Veterans Advisory Council in 2003. Nominations for the 2nd District Congressional Veteran Volunteer Awards are accepted from patients, patients’ family members, VA facility visitors, staff, or volunteers of VA facilities in the 2nd District. Members of the Veterans Advisory Council review the nominations and determine award recipients. (####)
11.20.2009	(Laurel, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) together with Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD) and Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD) called on Congress to pass H.R. 3036, the “No Child Left Inside” Act, at a special ceremony at the Patuxent Wildlife Refuge in Laurel. Students from Hebron-Harman Elementary School in Hanover were on hand to plant bay grasses and learn about protecting the Chesapeake Bay in honor of Earth Day. “The ‘No Child Left Inside Act’ is about children planting trees and creating butterfly gardens. It is about kids building bird houses and learning to grow plants from seeds in little paper cups. It is about kids going outside and getting dirty, taking canoe trips on the Chesapeake Bay, and hiking in the great outdoors. It is about showing kids and their parents the importance of greening their schools and greening their lives so we can preserve and protect our environment for future generations,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The “No Child Left Inside” Act authorizes $500 million over five years in federal funding for states to train teachers in environmental education. The money will fund the development of an environmental education curriculum and will support outdoor programs for children. To receive funding, states must develop environmental literacy plans to make sure students have a solid understanding of our planet and its precious natural resources. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) continues to call on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to deny the application to build a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) in Sparrow’s Point. Congressman Ruppersberger believes safety, security, and quality of life for residents must be considered in addition to the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). AES Corporation filed its official application to construct the LNG terminal in January 2007. The EIS finds that AES has the potential to meet the minimum acceptable environmental standard if it meets ten major conditions set out by FERC. In February, the Coast Guard issued a report critical of AES for not having a comprehensive safety or security plan. The Coast Guard Waterway Suitability Report found that AES does not have a security plan, does not appear to be taking security seriously, and assumes the Coast Guard will handle all security at taxpayer expense. “From the very start, I have said the proposed liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this residential area in Eastern Baltimore County. My biggest concerns focus around the lack of a comprehensive safety and security plant, the potential harm to the quality of life for nearby residents, and the possible negative effects on the environment and the Chesapeake Bay. This Environmental Impact Statement doesn’t alleviate any of my concerns,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). If constructed, the LNG facility would be less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere and would be located in an environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the Intelligence Committee and the Port Security Caucus, believes area residents could be harmed if there is an accident or a terrorist attack at the facility or on the tankers that travel up the Bay. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and the restrictions on recreational boat traffic could negatively impact the quality of life of area residents. The proposed site of the LNG facility is located in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Coast Guard. In light of this report, Congressman Ruppersberger will renew his request to FERC to deny the application. (####)
11.20.2009	Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger with William and Margurite Addison, 2005 Adoption Angels Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) honored a dedicated Pikesville couple who adopted five children from Maryland's foster care system. The Congressman nominated William and Margurite Addison for their heroic work in providing a permanent home for these children at the Congressional Angels in Adoption Gala at the Grand Hyatt in Washington, DC on September 13th, 2005. Mr. Addison works as an educator and administrator at the Regional Institute for Children and Adolescents in Rockville, Maryland, a state run facility for emotionally disabled youngsters. Ms. Addison is a former truant officer for the Baltimore City Public School System. After raising their own biological children, the Addison's assumed their days of raising children were over. However, in 1992, the Addison's opened their home to one of Mr. Addison's nephews, Ralph, who was officially adopted in 1998. Ralph became the first of five children adopted by the Addison's. Between 1999 and 2004, the Addison's adopted four additional children that came through the foster care system as drug-exposed infants. Malik, now age 9, Kevin, age 8, Warren, age 6, Bryleigh, age 3 have all found a permanent home in the Addison's care. "Margurite and William Addison are true heroes in our community. By opening their homes and their hearts to these children in need, they have made our community stronger and made an incredible difference in these five children. By investing in our children, we invest in our future. I commend the Addison's for their selfless commitment to making a difference," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The 2005 Congressional Angels in Adoption Awards Celebration recognizes "unsung heroes" who dedicate their lives to helping our most vulnerable children. The event was hosted by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of foster children in this country and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes. Feel free to use the attached photos in your publication. -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger with his Environmental Advisory Council Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) met with members of his newly created Environmental Advisory Council at the Marshy Point Nature Center in Eastern Baltimore County on Monday, September 19th, 2005. Congressman Ruppersberger created the council to provide a forum for environmental groups to discuss important environmental issues facing the Maryland 2nd District and the rest of the region. "The Environmental Advisory Council is a vital way for me to gain first-hand expertise from Maryland's top environmental authorities on our pressing environmental challenges. By creating a partnership with local experts, we can work toward finding federal solutions to local environmental needs," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Environmental Advisory Council meeting covered a variety of topics including pesticide security, natural gas issues, the 2007 Farm Bill, protecting the Chesapeake Bay, and the Endangered Species Act. The Environmental Advisory Council meeting included representatives from The Sierra Club - Maryland Chapter, The Chesapeake Bay Foundation, The Trust for Public Land, MaryPIRG, The Maryland Conservation Council, The Nature Conservancy, Maryland Pesticide Network, 1000 Friends of Maryland, The Maryland League of Conservation Voters, The Chesapeake Waterkeeper Alliance, and The Natural Resources Defense Council. Congressman Ruppersberger is a strong supporter of protecting the environment. He advocates energy policies that promote long term solutions through technical advances and energy conservation while preventing environmental degradation. Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger with his Environmental Advisory Council Congressman Ruppersberger sponsored legislation that will help cut fuel consumption and encourage Marylanders to drive environmentally friendly hybrid vehicles by offering valuable tax credits for people who purchase a hybrid. The legislation reinstates the Clean Fuel Vehicle tax credit that expired at the end of 2004 and extends it to $4,000. The language was included in the energy bill that recently passed Congress. As the Baltimore County Executive, the Ruppersberger Administration invested over $230 million dollars into water treatment and sewage system modernization to keep our water safe and clean. The Administration initiated the Baltimore County and City Watershed Agreement which combined city, county, business, and citizen groups to protect our region's watershed areas. Through a coordinated regional effort, we mitigated the effects of development on the Chesapeake Bay through stream restoration, storm water management and control of shore erosion. Together we vigorously worked to preserve valuable farmland, forests, and wetlands, earning Baltimore County a 7th place national ranking on the list of Top Local Farmland Preservation Programs. In addition, we quadrupled Baltimore County's park, recreation, and open space to more than 800 acres. Feel free to use the attached photos in your publication. -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce the Lutherville Volunteer Fire Company in Baltimore County will receive a $92,250 federal grant. The Fire Company says it will use the funds to purchase 45 sets of turn-out gear, the protective clothing that firefighters use to fight fires and perform rescues. In addition, the money will be used to replace outdated high pressure air bags used in building collapses, industrial machinery rescues, and automobile accidents. The remaining funds will be invested in new equipment used to rescue people from building collapses. "Our first responders are vital to the safety of our families and our communities. This $92,250 federal grant will help the firefighters with the Lutherville Volunteer Fire Company in Baltimore County respond even more efficiently and effectively to emergencies. If our first responders can't protect themselves, how can they be expected to protect us in a crisis," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). "This program is the most effective grant program that the federal government offers because it doesn't go through the state or local government, it goes right to the entity in need," said Baltimore County Fire Chief John J. Hohman. The grants were awarded by the Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program. The Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program was initiated to help improve the safety of the public and firefighters when confronting fire hazards. This year, Congress appropriated $650,000,000 to the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness to execute the program. -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Hurricane Katrina is the worst natural catastrophe to hit our shores. Thousands are presumed dead in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida. Tens of thousands are homeless. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) calls for an independent, bi-partisan commission with subpoena powers to investigate the response to Hurricane Katrina. "I join all Americans in expressing our great sorrow for those who have lost loved ones and our outrage for those still suffering in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The response to this natural disaster was a federal, state, and local failure. The system absolutely failed the people of the Gulf Coast. I believe Congress must establish an independent, bi-partisan commission with subpoena powers to investigate what went wrong and why. The victims of Hurricane Katrina deserve to know what happened. In addition, we must learn from the mistakes that were made and hold leaders accountable for their actions. We must do this quickly to keep our country and her citizens safe. We can not control when the next natural disaster will hit but we can control how we prepare for it. We must be ready," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In the aftermath of the September 11th terrorist attacks, Congress passed and the President signed legislation that established the 9-11 Commission. The Commission investigated the circumstances surrounding 9-11 and issued recommendations to help protect our country against future terrorist attacks. The 9-11 Commission worked and our country is safer because of it. Congressman Ruppersberger believes we need to do the same thing for the victims of Hurricane Katrina. Congressman Ruppersberger is co-sponsoring legislation, H.R. 3656, that will remove the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and restore it to a fully independent agency headed by an emergency management professional reporting directly to the President. The Department of Homeland Security was established to keep our country safe from terror and to respond to emergencies. Congressman Ruppersberger believes this is an important goal but it has led to the reprioritizing of personnel and equipment away from addressing natural disasters to fighting terrorism. "Securing our homeland is a priority, but Hurricane Katrina has shown us all that we can not lose our focus on natural disasters. FEMA needs the expertise and independence to address disasters without having to navigate through layers of bureaucracy. It needs its own authority to act quickly and not have to wait for Cabinet level approval," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger sent a letter to President George W. Bush asking him to support this measure. -end- Read the Letter to President Bush Related Bill: H.R. 3656 Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) cut his vacation short and traveled back to Washington, DC, to support the $10.5 Billion Disaster Relief Bill for victims of Hurricane Katrina. The legislation was passed by unanimous consent. The Bush Administration prepared a supplemental appropriation request of $10.5 billion which will be an initial down payment for disaster relief. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is spending an estimated $500 million per day. The Administration anticipates sending an additional appropriation request in the coming weeks once additional cost estimates of the disaster are available. Congressman Ruppersberger delivered this speech on the floor of the House today. "Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join all Americans in expressing our great sorrow for those who have lost loved ones in the wake of Hurricane Katrina and our outrage for those still suffering in the South. This is a real crisis and Americans are in need. These people, many of whom are our most vulnerable, have lost everything. Now they are losing hope. President Bush has called the response 'Not Acceptable'. This must change now. It is not about Democrats or Republicans. It is about helping our fellow Americans in their darkest hour. This is not the time for excuses or blame. Our country has the means to rescue and care for these people and we must do it quickly before more lives are lost. First, we need to address their very basic needs. We need to get food, water, and medical supplies to the thousands of people desperately waiting for it at shelters like the Superdome and the Convention Center in New Orleans. Rescue workers also need to get a handle on who is trying to survive out on their own in flooded out areas across Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida. We need to send out the National Guard and local police in skips, boats, and helicopters to locate these people -- street by street and house by house - rescue them, bring them to a safe location where supplies are waiting for them, and reconnect them with their loved ones. One national database needs to be set up for family members searching for survivors once they've been brought to safety. But before we do that, we must set up a central command center to coordinate the response from top to bottom. One of the many complaints that we have heard is that no-one is in charge. We need someone leading the recovery efforts - calling the shots and directing the resources where they are needed most. We are now a nation at war with time and we need a real war room to ensure these people survive. Another complaint we hear often is a lack of communication. There is no power so TVs and radios don't work and cell phone communication is sketchy at best. Today almost five days after Hurricane Katrina rocked the Gulf Coast people still have no idea what to do. First responders need good information to tell people where to go for help. Rescue workers need the federal government to pitch in and give them the communication technology necessary to coordinate their efforts. And finally -- law and order must be restored. People in these flood ravaged areas are homeless, scared, and desperate. Some have crossed the line and turned to violence. The National Guard needs to move in immediately in massive numbers to restore peace and stability. This is all on the short term. In the long term, these Hurricane victims need somewhere to go until their towns and cities can be rebuilt. The federal government needs to consider opening up military bases across the country so families can live there until they put their lives back together. Every state in the country should consider taking a certain number of families and housing them in their state so everyone can pitch in. And finally, once we have done all of this we must evaluate was done wrong and what was done right. We must learn from this experience so we can better respond next time. In closing, I know there are many inspiring stories that aren't being told. The massive efforts of the Coast Guard to rescue everyone they could. The neighbors helping neighbors make it through the worst natural disaster many have ever seen. Those aren't the stories that make the evening news. But I know the true value of the American spirit. In these dark times, I know these communities will be rebuilt. These families, these cities and towns, and this nation will persevere. Thank You, Mr. Speaker." -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Dear Friends: Across the United States this month, hundreds of thousands of Americans will gather to participate in marathons, bake sales, and educational programs. Companies around the world will donate proceeds from sales of their products throughout the month. All of these efforts share a common purpose: to raise awareness and funding for the fight against breast cancer. October 2005 marks the 21st year of the observance of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Over 211,240 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed in the United States this year. Breast cancer does not discriminate. The disease affects the young and old, the rich and poor, and all ethnicities. One woman in eight has or will develop breast cancer in her lifetime. And beyond the statistics, many of us know someone who has been touched by breast cancer: a relative, a co-worker, a friend. While we celebrate the advancements that have been made against the disease, we also recognize the challenges we continue to face in fighting breast cancer. There are many endeavors which can significantly improve a woman's chance of survival. Early detection, regular physical examinations, breast cancer research, education, advocacy and patient services all continue to remain vital priorities in the campaign to combat and find a cure for this disease. In conjunction with Breast Cancer Awareness Month, October 21st is National Mammography Day, a day when all women are encouraged to make a mammography appointment. Low cost or free mammography screening is available to women who are over 40 and underinsured or uninsured. For additional information, contact the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) at 1-888-842-6355. To locate a breast imaging facility near you, please contact the National Cancer Institute at 1-800-4-CANCER. I urge everyone to participate in Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Attend an event raising funds for breast cancer research. Call a friend and remind her to get a mammogram. Go online to learn more about the disease. Working together, we will continue to fight and search for a cure for breast cancer. Sincerely, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Member of Congress Additional Breast Cancer Resources Susan G. Komen FoundationAmerican Cancer SocietyNational Breast Cancer Foundation Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	College Park, MD - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauds the creation of the Center for Advanced Study of Language (CASL) at the University of Maryland. The center is the first of its kind in the nation dedicated to the language needs of government. Congressman Ruppersberger, a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) and an alumnus of the University of Maryland at College Park, believes CASL is critical as our nation continues to fight the War on Terror. "I believe good intelligence is our best defense against terrorism. The Center for Advanced Study of Language (CASL) at the University of Maryland at College Park will help train the intelligence workers of tomorrow to learn these important languages to help our nation fight the War on Terror. CASL will teach its students more than just vocabulary and grammar. It will teach them cultural information and help them detect deception in foreign languages - an important issue for workers trying to determine the reliability of information," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger participated in a ribbon cutting ceremony for the Center for Advanced Study of Language on Thursday, October 6th, 2005, together with Central Intelligence Agency Director Porter Goss, Congressman Rush Holt (D-NJ), Congressman Sam Farr (D-CA), Maryland Lt. Governor Michael Steele, Maryland State Senate President Mike Miller, Prince George's County Executive Jack Johnson, and the University of Maryland President Dan Mote. CASL is a federally funded University Affiliated Research Center and embodies a unique partnership between academia and the federal government. It conducts both classified and unclassified research and employs 75 researchers and staffers. It is the largest language research center in the United States. Feel free to use the attached photos in your publication. Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Timonium, MD - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) honored a volunteer from Baltimore and her dog for their dedicated service to Maryland Veterans. Congressman Ruppersberger awarded Nancy Doran and her dog Duffy the "2005 Congressional Volunteer Recognition Award". After a full day of work in the Baltimore City School System, Ms. Doran and Duffy perform voluntary pet therapy at the Baltimore VA Rehabilitation and Extended Care Center (BRECC). As a result of Nancy's and Duffy's presence, typically non-verbal Veterans speak to Duffy, pet him, and feed him treats. Duffy allows many veterans to spend an evening reminiscing about their own dogs and reliving old memories. Ms. Doran and her dog have made approximately 188 visits to the care center over the past three and a half years. Both Nancy and Duffy have provided veterans with countless hours of enjoyment during their stay at the BRECC. "I commend Nancy Doran and her dog Duffy for their dedicated service that has lifted the spirits of hundreds of Maryland Veterans. Ms. Doran and Duffy have brought joy into the lives of the men and women who honorably answered the call to serve our country," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Ms. Doran and Duffy were awarded one of three "2005 Congressional Volunteer Recognition Awards" for the Maryland 2nd District. All recipients were honored at a special ceremony at Congressman Ruppersberger's District Office in Timonium on Monday, December 5, 2005. They were selected by the Veterans Advisory Group, an organization founded by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003. The Volunteers and their four legged friends were selected for their outstanding dedication to serving the needs of Veterans within their community. Feel free to use the attached photograph in your publication. Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Timonium, MD - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) honored a volunteer and Veteran from Essex for his administrative work helping fellow Maryland Veterans get the healthcare they deserve. Congressman Ruppersberger awarded John Flutka the "2005 Congressional Volunteer Recognition Award." Mr. Flutka volunteers in the Occupational Therapy Department of the Baltimore VA Rehabilitation and Extended Care Center (BRECC). Mr. Flutka has been instrumental in updating forms that are used to evaluate and treat patients that result in improved quality of care. He also assists the staff by insuring that materials and supplies are easily accessible for patient care. His work has been invaluable in improving the service and healthcare that Veterans receive at BRECC. "John Flutka is a dedicated volunteer who is also a Veteran. I commend him for his service to his country and his hard work ensuring that Veterans get the quality healthcare they deserve. Volunteers like Mr. Flutka make such a difference in the lives of America's Veterans," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Mr. Flutka was one of three award recipients from the Maryland 2nd District honored at a special ceremony at Congressman Ruppersberger's District Office in Timonium on Monday, December 5, 2005. The recipients were selected by the Veterans Advisory Group, an organization founded by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003. The Volunteers were selected for their outstanding dedication to serving the needs of Veterans within their community. Feel free to use the attached photograph in your publication. Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Timonium, MD - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) honored a volunteer from Pasadena for going above and beyond the call of duty to help Maryland Veterans. Congressman Ruppersberger awarded Clifford L. Stoffel the "2005 Congressional Volunteer Recognition Award". Mr. Stoffel, a Pasadena resident, is a Volunteer Driver and Coordinator for the Transportation Section of the Glen Burnie Clinic for Veterans. In the past six years alone, Mr. Stoffel has driven 42,000 miles transporting over 2,258 patients to scheduled and emergency medical appointments. Mr. Stoffel is always willing to substitute for absent drivers and is dedicated to ensuring that all Veterans have rides to their appointments. "I commend Mr. Clifford Stoffel for his tireless commitment to thousands of Maryland's Veterans. He is making a difference in their lives. I believe we must honor the service and sacrifice of the men and women who served in the military. Mr. Stoffel is helping our Veterans get the services they deserve," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Mr. Stoffel was one of three award recipients from the Maryland 2nd District honored at a special ceremony at Congressman Ruppersberger's District Office in Timonium on Monday, December 5, 2005. The recipients were selected by the Veterans Advisory Group, an organization founded by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003. The Volunteers were selected for their outstanding dedication to serving the needs of Veterans within their community. Feel free to use the attached photograph in your publication. Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce the Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire Company, Inc. in Owings Mills will receive a $91,010 federal grant. The Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire Company says it will use the funds to install a diesel fume exhaust system that will expel fire engines' toxic emissions from the building. The fire station is currently using an outdated fan ventilation system. The upgraded diesel fume exhaust system will guarantee a safe environment at the Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire Company for both volunteer firefighters and visitors to the station. "Maryland's firefighters are essential to keeping our communities out of harms way. In an industry where timing and safety are essential to success, this grant will help firefighters do their job even more effectively," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). "This is the best grant program the federal government has because it goes to the nonprofit organization itself, it doesn't go through state or local governments," said Baltimore County Fire Chief John J. Hohman. The grant was awarded by the Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program which allocates one-year grants directly to fire departments to support America's firefighters and the services they deliver. This year, Congress appropriated $650,000,000 to the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness to execute the program. Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	College Park, MD - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauds the creation of the Center for Advanced Study of Language (CASL) at the University of Maryland. The center is the first of its kind in the nation dedicated to the language needs of government. Congressman Ruppersberger, a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) and an alumnus of the University of Maryland at College Park, believes CASL is critical as our nation continues to fight the War on Terror. "I believe good intelligence is our best defense against terrorism. The Center for Advanced Study of Language (CASL) at the University of Maryland at College Park will help train the intelligence workers of tomorrow to learn these important languages to help our nation fight the War on Terror. CASL will teach its students more than just vocabulary and grammar. It will teach them cultural information and help them detect deception in foreign languages - an important issue for workers trying to determine the reliability of information," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger participated in a ribbon cutting ceremony for the Center for Advanced Study of Language on Thursday, October 6th, 2005, together with Central Intelligence Agency Director Porter Goss, Congressman Rush Holt (D-NJ), Congressman Sam Farr (D-CA), Maryland Lt. Governor Michael Steele, Maryland State Senate President Mike Miller, Prince George's County Executive Jack Johnson, and the University of Maryland President Dan Mote. CASL is a federally funded University Affiliated Research Center and embodies a unique partnership between academia and the federal government. It conducts both classified and unclassified research and employs 75 researchers and staffers. It is the largest language research center in the United States. Feel free to use the attached photos in your publication. Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Glen Burnie, MD - In honor of Earth Day on Friday, April 22nd, 2005, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) discussed his Hybrid Bill that he recently introduced in Congress and test drove a hybrid car at the Glen Burnie Park and Ride. With gas prices continuing to soar, Congressman Ruppersberger discussed H.R. 1744 that will help cut fuel consumption and encourage Marylanders to drive environmentally friendly hybrid vehicles by offering valuable tax credits for people who purchase a hybrid. The legislation reinstates the Clean Fuel Vehicle tax credit that expired at the end of last year and extends it to $4,000. Congressman Ruppersberger test drives a hybrid-electric carHybrid electric vehicles are the most fuel-efficient vehicles on the road today. Hybrids combine an electric motor with a conventional, but cleaner, gasoline powered engine to deliver above-average gas mileage. Driving a hybrid vehicle not only helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also limits fuel consumption by at least 50% and reduces our dependence on foreign oil. Driving a hybrid will also save drivers money on their gas bill. "Hybrid vehicles help to protect our environment for our children and our children's children. This tax break coupled with rising gas prices makes purchasing a hybrid vehicle an economical and environmentally friendly decision," said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). -end- Related Bill: H.R. 1744 See Also: Hybrid Vehicles Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Maryland - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will hold three Congressional Forum on Social Security across Maryland's 2nd Congressional District during the week of April 4th to 8th, 2005. Congressional Forum on Social Security in Pasadena 10:00am, Monday, April 4th, 2005 Pasadena Senior Center 4103 Mountain Road Pasadena, MD 21122Congressional Forum on Social Security in Cherry Hill 11:00am, Tuesday, April 5th, 2005 Cherry Hill Senior Center 606 Cherry Hill Road, Suite 201 Baltimore, MD 21225Congressional Forum on Social Security in Belair Edison 9:00am, Friday, April 8th, 2005 Belair Edison Family Health Center 3120 Erdman Avenue Baltimore, MD 21213Congressman Ruppersberger believes we need to modernize Social Security but he does not believe the Bush Privatization Plan is the answer. The Privatization Plan will cost two to three million dollars to set up the private accounts and will reduce the dependable, guaranteed monthly payment for Seniors. Congressman Ruppersberger believes the government should not divert your hard-earned tax money away from the system and reduce your benefit. "I am fighting in Congress to modernize Social Security to guarantee that it will be there for the Retirees of today and tomorrow. I believe Congress should stop borrowing from the Social Security Trust Fund and should consider expanding tax credits for IRA's and 401K's. Congress should also look into layering personal investment accounts on top of the existing Social Security System," said Congressman Ruppersberger. -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) are pleased to announce that a $4.7 million grant is touching down at the Baltimore Washington International (BWI) Airport. The money will pay for improvements to the pavement around the new Concourse A including an extension of the parallel taxiway and ramp. This is the fifth year of funding for the project for a total of $38.7 million. In 2004, 20 million passengers traveled through BWI Airport - up 3.3% from 2003. "With BWI growing by leaps and bounds, these funds are an important tool to assist in the on-going expansion activities," said Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD). "This federal funding combined with the $10 million recently awarded to BWI for security improvements will strengthen the airport and ensure that it remains an economic engine for the region," said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), a member of the Transportation, Treasury, and House Appropriations Subcommittee. "BWI Airport is one of Maryland's biggest economic engines. It is important that we keep up with demand and ensure that business and vacation travelers can easily and safely travel through the Airport. This $4.7 million grant helps keep passengers moving," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In an effort to meet the needs of the airlines and provide more frequent service and additional destinations for passengers at BWI, a new and improved Concourse A is scheduled to open in May of 2005 - adding 11 new gates. When Concourse A is complete and it is connected with Concourse B - the area will include 26 gates. This Concourse will offer a large baggage claim area, passenger hold rooms, ticket counter space and significantly increased food and shopping areas. The grant is being awarded by the Department of Transportation. -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - The House physician diagnosed Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger with pneumonia on Friday, March 18th, 2005. The Congressman has been recuperating at his home with his wife all weekend and was unable to make the trip to Washington, DC, to vote on the Schiavo legislation late last night. The Congressman released the following statement: "If I had been well enough to make the trip to Washington, DC, to vote on the legislation involving the Terri Schiavo case, I would have voted against the legislation. My heartfelt sympathy goes out to the Schiavo and Schindler families who are dealing with a very difficult situation over the future of Terri Schiavo. I do not feel this is an issue for the federal court system. I feel this is an issue that should be left up to the state courts that already handle most family issues. As a former County Executive, County Councilman, and former prosecutor, I have a profound respect for states' rights," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. The Congressman's physician has advised him to stay home for the remainder of the week to continue recuperating. -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) has been named as a Co-Chair of the Congressional Port Security Caucus for the 109th Congress. He will work with Caucus Members to ensure that port and maritime security remain top priorities on the Congressional Agenda. With 361 sea and river ports that receive and distribute 95% of the nation's cargo, the United States economic strength is dependent upon vigilant port security efforts. The mission of the Caucus is to identify port security concerns and make legislative recommendations while ensuring that government partners with private industry to keep business flowing. Congressman Ruppersberger represents Maryland's 2nd Congressional District that includes the Port of Baltimore. The Port directly employs 16,000 workers, indirectly employs an additional 17,000 people, and generates $1.5 billion in revenue annually. "The Port of Baltimore is one of Maryland's biggest economic engines. To ensure that the Port of Baltimore and other Ports across the country are successful in the future, I believe we must bring together government and the private sector to balance the needs of security with the needs of business. The Port Security Caucus gives Congress a forum to work through these important issues," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Senator Susan Collins (R-Maine), Senator Daniel K. Inouye (D-Hawaii), and Congressman Henry Brown (R-South Carolina's 1st District) are also co-chairs of the Port Security Caucus. The Caucus was founded in 2003 to provide a bi-cameral, bi-partisan Congressional effort to address security concerns at our nation's ports after the September 11th terrorist attacks. See also: Port Security Caucus -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) drives home $9.6 Million for Baltimore area road improvement projects. Congressman Ruppersberger supported H.R. 3, the Transportation Equity Act, which passed Congress by a vote of 417 to 9 on March 10th, 2005. In this legislation, $4.7 million is earmarked for the widening of Interstate 695, the Baltimore Beltway, from Rt. 147 to Interstate 83. $4.7 million is earmarked for improved access to BWI from Rt. 295. $200,000 is earmarked for a traffic feasibility study in Towson to evaluate the possibility of creating a turn lane on York Road. "These improvements to the Baltimore Beltway and Rt. 295 near BWI Airport and the Towson area traffic study are important for the safety of Marylanders. These upgrades will ease traffic congestion and help trim vital time off of people's commutes. They will allow them to spend less time commuting and more time at home with their families. I come from local government and I believe the federal government has a responsibility to help improve our nation's highways to keep people and commerce moving," said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The measure must also pass the Senate and be signed by the President before it can become law. Related Bill: H.R. 3 -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce that the state of Maryland will get $42 million in grant money for emergency preparedness from the Department of Homeland Security. The State of Maryland will get $31 million to help state and local first responders prevent a terrorist attack or respond to a terrorist incident involving the use of chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons. The funding can be used to purchase specialized equipment, run training programs, and design specialized exercises. State and local first responders can also use the money to help prevent cyber attacks on their computer systems. The City of Baltimore will get $11 million to help protect high threat areas of the city from a terrorist attack or help respond to an attack if there is one. The money can be used to help with planning, purchasing equipment, and running training programs and exercises. The money must be used to employ a regional approach to emergency preparedness that includes nearby counties and jurisdictions in the city's plan. "If our first responders don't have the resources necessary to protect themselves in the event of a terrorist attack, how can they be expected to protect us? In this era of shrinking local and state budgets, I am pleased that the federal government is stepping up to help out our first responders who work hard to keep our families and communities safe," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is urging the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to set a national drinking water standard for perchlorate so clean up can begin at Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG). Perchlorate is an ingredient found in rocket fuel and explosives. It has been detected at trace levels in four public drinking wells near Aberdeen over the past five years. The City of Aberdeen, Maryland temporarily closed the wells and installed filters. It is believed that the perchlorate seeped into the ground and into the water supply as a result of years of artillery testing at APG. Experts believe perchlorate can cause thyroid problems in children and adults. The Army says it can not pay for the cleanup of the perchlorate at APG until the EPA issues guidelines about the health risks of perchlorate and sets a national standard for how much is safe to drink. The highest level found in the groundwater at APG has been about 23 parts per billion. Congressman Ruppersberger sent a letter to the EPA asking it to move forward and set a national drinking water standard for perchlorate so the clean up at APG can begin. "We have to make sure that we put the safe drinking water needs of our citizens first... I strongly recommend that the EPA expeditiously establish a national drinking water standard for perchlorate. Our country needs a national standard in order to expedite cleanup efforts at sites across the country and to ensure safe drinking water for the residents of Harford County and for all Americans," wrote Congressman Ruppersberger. The EPA recently established a safe exposure level of 24.5 parts per billion in drinking water. Congressman Ruppersberger believes this is a step in the right direction but the EPA needs to establish a national drinking water standard quickly. Read the Congressman's Letter to the EPA See also: Perchlorate Information from the EPA, Perchlorate and Drinking Water -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Congressman Ruppersberger released the following statement on the nomination of Ambassador Negroponte as the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). "Ambassador John Negroponte is a skilled and experienced diplomat who has been nominated for a historic new role in the Intelligence Community. For the Director of National Intelligence to be effective he must have the full confidence of the President. Ambassador Negroponte has served with distinction at the United Nations and in Iraq and appears to have the skills to fulfill this position," said Congressman Ruppersberger. In nominating the Ambassador, President Bush said it will be Mr. Negroponte's responsibility to determine annual budgets for all national intelligence agencies. In addition, the President said the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) will report to the DNI. "The money is where the power is. It is critically important that the Director of National Intelligence oversee the budgets of the country's fifteen intelligence agencies to keep our families and our communities safe. I believe good intelligence is our best defense against terrorism and it is critically important that our Intelligence Community have one boss -- the DNI," said Congressman Ruppersberger. General Hayden who is currently the Director of the National Security Agency (NSA) at Fort Meade has been chosen to be Mr. Negroponte's Deputy. Congressman Ruppersberger works closely with General Hayden through the Intelligence Committee. Congressman Ruppersberger also represents NSA which is in the Maryland 2nd Congressional District. "General Hayden is a great leader with extensive vision and tremendous experience in the Intelligence Community including six years as Director of the National Security Agency. He is a top notch administrator who has learned the lessons of 9/11 and the importance of information sharing among agencies. General Hayden has broad technical skills and will be a great asset to the Director of National Intelligence. General Hayden and Ambassador Negroponte make a terrific team. I look forward to working with both men to implement the Intelligence Reforms to keep our country safe," said Congressman Ruppersberger. -end-
11.20.2009	Timonium, MD - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce his nominees for the United States Service Academies in 2005. The Congressman consulted a diverse panel of academy graduates, educators, business leaders, and other professionals to help him choose the thirteen most qualified students from Maryland's 2nd Congressional District interested in attending a service academy. "These students represent the best and the brightest of Maryland. In our uncertain world, we need a focused and well trained military. I am confident these students will make great additions to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Naval Academy, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. These young people will be the leaders of tomorrow," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger nominated: Brian Antkowiak of Loch Raven High School to the United States Naval Academy. Christopher Beasman of Loyola Blakefield High School to the United States Air Force Academy. Mark Brandau of the McDonogh School to the United States Naval Academy. Patrice Cottman of Meade Senior High School to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Naval Academy, and the United States Air Force Academy. Gregory Franklin of the McDonogh School to the United States Naval Academy. Andrew Holcomb of Kenwood High School to the United States Military Academy at West Point and the United States Naval Academy. Justin Kelch of Franklin High School to the United States Naval Academy. James Kielek of Archbishop Curley High School to the United States Air Force Academy. Eugene Lee of Loch Raven High School to the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Military Academy at West Point, and the United States Naval Academy. Michael Lee of Dulaney High School to the United States Air Force Academy. Kyle Martin of Calvert Hall College High School to the United States Merchant Marine Academy and to the United States Naval Academy. Marianne Sparklin of Northeast Senior High School to the United States Naval Academy and to the United States Air Force Academy. Andrew Weiner of Calvert Hall College High School to the United States Naval Academy. A nomination from Congressman Ruppersberger does not guarantee an appointment to a United States Service Academy. It is up to the individual academies to issue appointments. -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Jane Harman (D-CA), the Ranking Member on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, named Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) to the newly created Subcommittee on Oversight. The Subcommittee will oversee the creation of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and ensure that there is coordination and communication between the intelligence agencies to prevent future intelligence failures. The Oversight Subcommittee will also conduct investigations, audits, and legal reviews of the operations, acquisition programs, functions, and capabilities of the Intelligence Community. "Congressman Ruppersberger's experience as the Baltimore County Executive, a manager, and a prosecutor are incredibly important as we oversee the creation of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence to keep our country safe. In this historic era where landmark policy is being implemented, I know Congressman Ruppersberger's service on the Oversight Subcommittee will be immensely helpful to protect the future of our country," said Congresswoman Jane Harman (D-CA). "I am honored to be appointed to the newly created Oversight Subcommittee that will ensure better coordination and communication within the Intelligence Community to help keep our families and our communities safe. As a member of the Subcommittee, I will oversee reviews of the Intelligence Community that will help identify any potential problems and fix those problems to prevent future intelligence failures," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In 2003, Congressman Ruppersberger was the first Democratic Freshman to ever be appointed to the Intelligence Committee. Congressman Ruppersberger is serving his second term in Congress representing Maryland's 2nd District that includes neighborhoods in Baltimore County, Anne Arundel County, Harford County, and Baltimore City and includes the Port of Baltimore, BWI Airport, Fort Meade, Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG), and the National Security Agency (NSA). -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) voted for the $82 billion Supplemental Aid package for FY 2005. 93% of these funds or $76 billion will aid military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. H.R. 1268 earmarks $308 million for heavily armored Humvees and $60 million for radio jammers to disrupt attempts by Iraqi insurgents to explode remote controlled bombs and mines. The Supplemental also increases the death benefit for the soldiers' families from $12,000 to $100,000. "Whether you are for or against the war in Iraq, the fact is we are there now and we must support our troops. Our men and women in uniform are risking their lives in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other places around the world. We must give them the resources they need to get the job done and come home," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In addition, H.R. 1268 includes an amendment that will lift the cap on visas for temporary, seasonal workers. Many Maryland businesses were unable to obtain seasonal help using the H2B Visa Program because the cap was reached before these businesses were allowed to apply for the visas. Several landscaping, seafood, and hotel companies have contacted Congressman Ruppersberger's Office asking for assistance. "We need a better process of issuing these visas that levels the playing field for all companies employing temporary, seasonal workers. We need to ensure that the H2B Visas are distributed equally to companies who need these legal, documented workers all year, not just at the beginning," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Supplemental also includes $635 million for additional border security funding. The money will be used to hire 500 additional Border Patrol Agents. "These additional Border Patrol Agents are critically important to keep our families and our communities safe by preventing terrorists from slipping into our country unnoticed," said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). -end- Related Bill: H.R. 1268 Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauds Baltimore County for being named as a finalist for the 2005 Excellence in Economic Development Awards for its Eastern Baltimore County Renaissance Initiative. The nomination is in the category of "Excellence in Urban or Suburban Economic Development." Baltimore County is one of three finalists nationwide. This initiative began ten years ago when County government together with the local Chamber of Commerce studied the impact of dramatic declines in well-paying manufacturing jobs, increases in crime, and loss of population. Working with other elected officials, the private sector, and the community, Baltimore County developed a comprehensive plan to turn around these negative trends and capitalize on the area's many assets. "I am so pleased that the federal government has recognized what we in Baltimore County already know. Revitalization is thriving in the Eastern part of the County. The County, State and local community has invested hundred of millions of dollars in a broad based strategy to turn around neglected neighborhoods. It is working. 5,000 new housing units are on the way. Hundreds of jobs have been created. It is particularly rewarding for me to see this initiative take shape because it was started during my tenure as Baltimore County Executive and has taken off under the leadership of my successor, County Executive Jim Smith," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). "The Economic Development Administration Excellence in Economic Development Awards honor innovation and vision. We are pleased that Baltimore County's comprehensive renaissance efforts to bring new jobs, new housing and a renewed vitality to Eastern Baltimore County have been recognized nationally," said Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith. The County's efforts to acquire and revitalize deteriorated World War II-era rental housing is moving ahead and 5,000 new housing units are under construction or planned for the area. In early 2006, the $60 million State and County funded extension of MD Route 43 will open for traffic providing direct access from I-95 to 1,000 acres of undeveloped land zoned for office, research, and industrial use. When completed, the extension of MD 43 is expected to make possible over $500 million of private investment and is expected to generate 10,000 quality jobs in two new business parks: Baltimore Crossroads at I-95 and Windlass Run Business Park. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger supported Baltimore County's nomination for the 2005 EDA Award for Excellence in Economic Development through the Department of Commerce for the Eastern Baltimore County Revitalization Initiative. Excellence Award winners will be announced at the Economic Development Administration (EDA)'s "Symposium for 21st Century Economic Development" to be held on September 22, 2005 in Arlington, Virginia. More on the Excellence in Economic Development Awards -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Crystal City, VA - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) hails the recent votes by the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission to relocate more than 5,000 new jobs to Fort Meade, Maryland. The Commissioners agreed with the Pentagon's recommendations to consolidate a variety of military news organizations, multiple security clearance adjudication offices, and several offices that provide computer and technology support for combat troops from locations all across the country to Fort Meade. The votes occurred late yesterday and today. Fort Meade is also the home of the National Security Agency (NSA). "Moving these more than five thousand jobs to Fort Meade, Maryland, just makes sense as we continue to fight the 'War on Terror'. These employees will help workers get security clearances. They will disseminate important military news information and will work to protect our computer systems for combat troops. Many of these offices used to be spread across the country. Now they will be located together at Fort Meade -- on the same campus as the National Security Agency," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger has spent the past several months laying out to the BRAC Commission all that Maryland has to offer the soldiers, civilians, and contractors that are slated to come to the state. Ruppersberger personally contacted all of the Commissioners and reached out to a myriad of federal officials involved in the process -- including Secretary of the Army Francis Harvey. The Congressman's efforts have been part of a coordinated push where "Team Maryland," including Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Congressman Ben Cardin (D-MD), Governor Robert Ehrlich (R-MD), and Secretary Aris Melissaratos of the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development together with the Maryland Congressional Delegation and local and state leaders, have laid out the facts to the BRAC Commissioners. The BRAC Commission must send all of its recommendations to President George W. Bush by September 8th, 2005. The President has until September 23rd, 2005, to accept or reject all of the recommendations. Congress has forty five days after that to accept or reject the recommendations in their entirety. -end- More on Base Realignment and Closure Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Crystal City, VA - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauds the Base Realignment and Closure Committee's move to send 4,000 new jobs to Aberdeen Proving Ground to help fight the War on Terror. The BRAC Commission voted today at a meeting in Crystal City, Virginia, to accept the Pentagon's recommendations to close Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, and move the positions to Maryland. "This move to bring more than 4,000 highly technical, high paying jobs to Aberdeen Proving Ground is not about New Jersey or about Maryland. It is about doing what is right, what is most efficient, and what will best protect the warfighter as we continue to fight our 'War on Terror'. I am pleased that the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commissioners listened to the facts and made the best choice to protect our country," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger has spent the past several months laying out to the BRAC Commission all that Maryland has to offer the soldiers, civilians, and contractors that are slated to come to the state. Ruppersberger personally contacted all of the Commissioners and reached out to a myriad of federal officials involved in the process -- including Secretary of the Army Francis Harvey. The Congressman's efforts have been part of a coordinated push where "Team Maryland," including Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Governor Robert Ehrlich (R-MD), Secretary Aris Melissaratos of the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development, Tom Sadowski of the Harford County Office of Economic Development together with the Maryland Congressional Delegation and local and state leaders, have laid out the facts to the BRAC Commissioners. The Commission is expected to vote on the Pentagon's recommendation to move 5,361 new jobs to Fort Meade later this afternoon or tomorrow. The BRAC Commission must send all of its recommendations to President George W. Bush by September 8th, 2005. The President has until September 23rd, 2005, to accept or reject all of the recommendations. Congress has forty five days after that to accept or reject the recommendations in their entirety. -end- More on Base Realignment and Closure Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Matt Bambarger, Catherine Darr, Lora Dean, and Congressman C.A. Dutch RuppersbergerWashington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) hosted three local high school students on Capitol Hill on Tuesday, July 26th 2005. Lora Dean of Pasadena, Catherine Darr of Towson, and Matt Bambarger of Elkridge spent time with Congressman Ruppersberger in the U.S. Capitol. The students were attending summer leadership programs in Washington, DC. "It is exciting to know that today's youth hold so much promise for becoming tomorrow's leaders. What better place to hone these essential leadership skills than in the halls of the nation's Capitol. I was honored to meet with these exceptionally motivated young people," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Lora Dean, a 15-year-old sophomore at Northeast High School this fall and 16-year-old Catherine Darr, a junior at Towson High School this fall, were selected to participate in the Junior Statesmen Summer Program at Georgetown University this summer. For three weeks, they lived in the dorms at Georgetown and studied politics, government, the law, and education with students from across the United States. For both, it was their first time away from home. During the program, Ms. Dean and Ms. Darr met with Lee Hamilton of the 9-11 Commission, heard speeches from members of Greenpeace, the FBI, and the French Embassy, and attended a reception at the Pentagon. Both students are considering a career in the public service. Matt Bambarger, a 16-year-old junior at Mount Saint Joseph High School in West Baltimore this fall, participated in the National Student Leadership Conference at American University. He joined over 100 students from across the country for a 10-day conference on leadership and team building. During the Conference, Mr. Bambarger took part in a campaign simulation, acting as the powerful chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. In real life, Congressman Ruppersberger is a member of that committee. Feel free to use the attached photo in your publication. Pictured from left to right are Matt Bambarger, Catherine Darr, Lora Dean, and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. Larger Photo -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Scouts from Troop 339 with Congressman Dutch RuppersbergerWashington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) hosted Boy Scout Troop 339 from Severna Park on Capitol Hill on Thursday, July 14th, 2005. The nine 11 and 12 year olds interviewed Congressman Ruppersberger, a former Boy Scout, for their First Class Ranking - an important Boy Scout patch. "The Boy Scout Oath says 'On my honor, I will do my best to do my duty to God and my country.' These youngsters are learning about the founders of our country through their trip the nation's capital so they can do their best as they become the leaders of tomorrow. As a former Boy Scout myself, I was honored to be interviewed by the Boy Scouts from Troop #339 from Severna Park as they learned how Congress works and how a bill becomes a law," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Scouts also toured the Capitol and watched Congress in action from the House Gallery. The group also met two other Maryland Congressmen during their tour - Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-05) and Congressman Albert Wynn (MD-04). Congressman Ruppersberger also expresses his condolences after the recent deaths of four Boy Scout Leaders at the Jamboree in Virginia and the deaths of a Scout and two Leaders at Scout Camps in California and Utah. "As a former Boy Scout, I am saddened by the misfortune and tragedy that the Scouts have endured at the Jamboree in Virginia and at Scout Camps in California and Utah. I know this is a very difficult time for family and friends of the victims. I extend my sincere condolences," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Boy Scouts have nearly 4.1 million members ranging from 7 and 20 years old throughout the United States and its territories. -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger speaks at the Aberdeen Proving GroundsAberdeen, MD - Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Aris Melissaratos, Secretary of the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development, and other local business and community leaders to spread the word that "Maryland Stands at the Ready" for the 2,176 new positions slated to be moved to Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) through the Department of Defense's Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) proposal. The group of local, state, and federal officials highlighted all Maryland has to offer at a forum at Aberdeen Science and Math Academy at Aberdeen High School on Monday, June 27th, 2005. Maryland has a highly educated workforce, a wonderful quality of life, top notch schools, and affordable housing opportunities. APG has transformed itself from an old school, traditional military base to a state of the art, high tech installation that is integral in fighting "The War on Terror". Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger speakds with local business and community leaders."Today's meeting shows the depth of support that exists in Maryland for the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) proposal. The Maryland Congressional delegation is united in ensuring that these jobs come to Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG). The BRAC proposal is focused on strengthening our nation's security and I strongly support their view expanding APG is an important to our national security," said Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD). "We brought Team Maryland together today to show that 'Maryland is at the Ready' to support these new workers. Maryland has a great quality of life, top notch schools, an educated workforce and affordable housing opportunities. We looking forward to welcoming these workers to our communities," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). -end- More on Base Realignment and Closure Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	McLean, VA - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauds the Soldiers, Civilians, and Contractors of the U.S. Army Research Laboratory at Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) for creating armor for HUMVEEs that save soldiers lives and reduce injuries in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other locations around the world. Congressman Ruppersberger was on hand as members of the group were awarded the "Top Ten Greatest Inventions of 2004" by the U.S. Army on June 8th, 2005, at a special ceremony in McLean, Virginia. Photo courtesy of the US Army "I praise the soldiers, civilians, and contractors at Aberdeen Proving Ground for their dedication and ingenuity creating this important equipment to help save lives and prevent injuries for our men and women in uniform serving their country in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world. We are fighting a new kind of war in Iraq and we need to utilize the latest in technology to help protect our military personnel abroad. I applaud the hard working Americans for working together to make this happen," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The "Armor Survivability Kit" uses steel and ballistic glass to protect military personnel traveling in HUMVEEs from small arms projectiles and fragments from Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). Over 8,000 Armor Survivability Kits are being used around the world. The Army says it recognizes the need for new technological ideas and systems to help fight "The War Against Terror." The U.S. Army created its "Top Ten Greatest Inventions" competition to acknowledge and enhance greater cooperation between the “Warfighter” and the Research and Development Communities within the military to save lives, prevent injuries, or increase readiness. The attached photograph of the Awards Ceremony may be used in your publication as long as courtesy is given to the United States Army. Related: US Army Article -end- Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) and Congressman Henry Brown (R-South Carolina) will be joined by Port Security Experts for the first Port Security Caucus Briefing of the 109th Congress on Tuesday, May 17th, 2005. The group will analyze the current state of Port Security in America and determine what policies, funding, and standards are necessary to help improve the security of our nation's ports while still keeping commerce flowing. Congressman Ruppersberger represents Maryland's 2nd Congressional District that includes the Port of Baltimore. The Port of Baltimore directly employs 16,000 workers, indirectly employs an additional 17,000 people, and generates $1.5 billion in revenue annually. Congressman Henry Brown represents South Carolina's 1st Congressional District that includes the Port of Georgetown and the Port of Charleston, the fourth-larges container port in the country and site of DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff's first field visit on March 14th, 2005. What: First Port Security Caucus Briefing of the 109th Congress Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) Congressman Henry Brown (R-South Carolina) Caucus Members and Staff Mr. John Frittelli, The Congressional Research Service Mr. Jack Riley, RAND Corporation Dr. James Carafano, The Heritage Foundation Why: Group Will Discuss the Current State of Port Security and Determine What Policies, Funding, and Standards are Necessary to Improve Security While Keeping Commerce Flowing When: 2:30 pm, Tuesday, May 17th, 2005 Where: 1334 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Port Security Caucus was founded in 2003 to provide a bi-cameral, bi-partisan Congressional effort to address security concerns at our nation's ports after the September 11th terrorist attacks. This will be the first in a series of briefings the Caucus will provide for Members and Staff. The Caucus attempts to bring diverse speakers to address Port Security issues facing Congress providing a forum for varying perspectives and solutions. Contacts: Elissa Davidson (Collins) 202-224-4751 Andy Davis (Inouye) 202-224-4546 Heather Moeder Molino (Ruppersberger) 202-225-3061 Sharon Axson (Brown) 843-747-4175 and 202-225-3176 -end- Related Site: Congressional Port Security Caucus Related Document: Maritime Security Testimony. Testimony before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation. Maritime Security -- Enhancements Made but Implementation and Sustainability Remain Key Challenges. May 17, 2005 Related Document: Port and Maritime Security, Background and Issues for Congress. Prepared by the Congressional Research Service, May 10, 2005
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) voted for the Faster and Smarter Funding for First Responders Act of 2005. H.R. 1544 changes the distribution of first responder grants to take into account threat levels of a particular state. Revising the funding formula was one of the key recommendations of the bi-partisan 9-11 Commission. Maryland is home to several high profiles targets including the Port of Baltimore, BWI Airport, Fort Meade, the National Security Agency, Aberdeen Proving Ground, the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay, and dozens of chemical and biotech companies. States like Maryland are expected to get more first responder funds under this plan. "I believe states like Maryland with critical infrastructure like the Port of Baltimore, BWI Airport, Fort Meade, the National Security Agency, Aberdeen Proving Ground, the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay, and dozens of chemical and biotech companies should receive more first responder funding than other states with less critical infrastructure. This funding is critical to keep our families and communities safe in Maryland. If our first responders can't protect themselves in an emergency how can they be expected to protect us?" said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The legislation establishes a First Responder Grant Board to evaluate and prioritize all covered grant applications. Under H.R. 1544, each state will receive at least 0.25% of the total amount distributed and states that have an international border or are on a body of water with an international border, including Maryland, are guaranteed a minimum of 0.45%. In order to receive this funding, the state government must develop a three year homeland security plan for enhancing their preparedness and response capabilities. In addition, the state must forward at least 80% of the funds to local entities within 45 days of receiving them. H.R. 1544 must pass the Senate and be signed by the President to become law. -end- Related Bill: H.R. 1544 Sign up for Congressman Ruppersberger's Newsletter and Press Releases
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released the following statement in response to the State of the Union Address delivered by President George W. Bush on Wednesday, February 2nd, 2004. "I believe we need to modernize social security but I do not believe the Bush Privatization Plan is the answer. I am incredibly concerned about the estimated one to two trillion dollars that it will take to set up the private accounts. This will drive our nation even deeper into debt and continue to make the deficit spin out of control. I am a former County Executive and I was forced to balance the Baltimore County budget for eight years. I believe we need to take the same tactic in Washington, DC. Private accounts do not address the problem of social security's insolvency. Social security is in trouble because the government has been taking money out of the social security trust fund. In essence, the government has been raiding the cookie jars of Seniors all across the country for years without ever paying it back. I believe this practice needs to stop. Social security is a benefit that is earned. It is not a handout. People pay into it while they are working and they deserve to get their money back when they retire. I believe we need to build up social security not tear it down and roll the dice on Wall Street. I believe we should consider increasing tax incentives for IRA's and 401K's. I think we should also consider layering small personal investment accounts on top of the existing Social Security system rather than diverting taxes and reducing the guaranteed benefit. One plan that I've heard of allows workers to contribute an additional one percent of their earnings into an investment account that they control. The contribution would also be matched by the federal government using tax revenue. Finally, I join the President and millions of Americans who applaud the tremendous courage of the Iraqi people who cast their vote Sunday in the first democratic election in more than fifty years in that country. I also salute our men and women in uniform risking their lives to make this historic day possible. Whether you are for or against the war, the fact is we are in Iraq now and we must support our troops. I believe we must work aggressively to train the Iraqi people to protect their own country so we can bring our military servicemen and women home. I was hoping the President would lay out a clear exit strategy and would lay out a plan to bring together an international coalition of countries to help shoulder the burden in Iraq. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to modernize social security and complete our mission of securing democracy in Iraq." -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) took the floor of the United States House of Representatives today to speak in honor of four Tuskegee Airmen from Maryland, express his support for House Concurrent Resolution 26, and pay tribute to Black History Month. The Congressman is an original co-sponsor of the resolution. His remarks follow as prepared. "Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of House Concurrent Resolution 26 honoring the Tuskegee Airmen and their amazing contributions during World War II and their impact creating an integrated United States Air Force. I am honored for this opportunity to speak during Black History Month on this important resolution. As the first African-American combat unit in the Army Air Corps, the Tuskegee Airmen helped shatter stereotypes by fighting for freedom both abroad and here at home. Through their heroism in the skies above North Africa and Europe, the Airmen demonstrated that African-Americans could be effective members of the military. Completing over 500 missions during the war, the Tuskegee Airmen destroyed over 250 enemy aircraft without losing a single American bomber. Their individual and collective acts of courage helped pave the way for the desegregation of the Army in 1948. I would also like to take this opportunity to recognize four members of the Tuskegee Airmen with ties to my hometown of Baltimore, Maryland. Alfred L. Woolridge, Gordon T. Boyd, Leroy A. Battle, and Alfred McKenzie were four individuals with separate lives and histories. Each brought unique skills to their service and each helped to form this historic group of Tuskegee Airmen. I would like to take this opportunity to speak briefly about each of these incredible men and share a bit about them with you. Mr. Alfred L. Woolridge, a Baltimore resident, joined the Tuskegee Airmen after enlisting in the Army in 1942 and being assigned to the Tuskegee Army Air Field in Alabama. A scientist with a master's degree in chemistry and mathematics, Mr. Woolridge worked as an aircraft engineering officer ensuring that the planes were safe to fly every morning. After leaving the Army in 1946, Mr. Woolridge worked as an analytical chemist in Maryland until 1974. He remained an active member of his Baltimore community until his death in March of 1998. After being inducted into the Army Air Corps during World War II, Mr. Gordon T. Boyd Jr. became a bombardier and a navigator. He joined the Tuskegee Airman after being assigned to the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama. Mr. Boyd ascended to the rank of First Lieutenant and is credited with helping newer cadets adjust to military life. After being honorably discharged in 1946, Mr. Boyd worked as a management specialist for the U.S. Census Bureau until his retirement in 1979. Before his death on May 5, 1995, Mr. Boyd became a charter member of the East Coast Chapter D.C. Tuskegee Airmen Inc. Mr. Leroy A. Battle was a jazz musician who played with Billie Holliday before he was drafted into the Army in 1943. He volunteered to join the Tuskegee Airmen and soon became a bombardier and a navigator. On April 5, 1945, Mr. Battle along with 100 other airmen, defied orders by attempting to desegregate the officer's club at Freeman Field in Seymour, Indiana. The Freeman Field Incident played an important role in African-American attempts to combat racism in the Armed Forces and eventually paved the way for President Truman's order to desegregate the Army in 1948. After being honorably discharged from the Army, Mr. Battle spent 29 years teaching before retiring in 1978. He continues to be an active member of his community by speaking out about his experiences as a Tuskegee Airman. Mr. Alfred McKenzie joined the Tuskegee Airmen after being drafted into the Army in 1942. After completing advanced training, Mr. McKenzie became a B-25 pilot. He was sent to Freeman Field in Indiana where he later joined Mr. Battle and 100 other airmen in attempting to desegregate the officer's club. After World War II ended, Mr. McKenzie continued to fight for the cause of civil rights. After being passed over for a promotion numerous times at the Government Printing Office, McKenzie filed a class action law suit. The suit resulted in an order to end discrimination in promotions and a $2.4 million award in back pay to over 300 people. He continued to work for various civil rights causes until his death on March 30, 1998. These gentlemen exemplified the bravery of the legendary Tuskegee Airmen. They served their country both on the battlefield and off and were valued members of their Maryland communities. Mr. Speaker, at a time of war, with a new generation of servicemen and women serving bravely to bring liberty to the oppressed, I think it is only fitting that we remember these members of the Greatest Generation - the Tuskegee Airmen. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield back my time." Related Bill: H Con Res 26 -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) calls on Congress to fund the number of border patrol agents called for by the Intelligence Reform Act that passed Congress and was signed by the President last December. The Act calls for the Department of Homeland Security to hire 2,000 new border patrol agents every year for the next five years, but the President's Budget only allocates funding for 210 new agents. The American people are losing out on 1,790 agents that were promised to them to help stop illegal aliens from entering our country. "I believe the American people deserve 100% of the border protection we promised them in the Intelligence Reform Act, not 10% like the President is proposing. These additional border patrol agents are critically important to keep our families and our communities safe by preventing terrorists from slipping into our country unnoticed," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger attempted to introduce an amendment to H.R. 418, the Real ID Act, that would have instructed Congress to allocate funds to pay for the additional agents but the amendment was not allowed. The Congressman believes this amendment would have provided for real border security that is not included in H.R. 418. The Intelligence Reform Bill also strengthened visa application requirements and set standards for driver's licenses. The Congressman voted against H.R. 418 because he believes it will not make our country safer and will dismantle many of the important security reforms laid out in the Intelligence Reform bill. H.R. 418 was NOT endorsed by the 9-11 Commission. In addition, the Congressman is concerned that H.R. 418 will pre-empt current Maryland law when it comes to undocumented immigrants and will create an unfunded mandate that will cost Maryland taxpayers thousands of dollars. "I do not believe that H.R. 418 will make our country any safer. I believe we need more Border Patrol Agents on the ground, manning our borders to really make a difference. We need true Immigration reform but I do not believe this piece of legislation is taking this country in the right direction," said Congressman Ruppersberger. H.R. 418 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 261 to 161. Related Bill: H.R. 418 -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauds the Army's decision NOT to build an asbestos disposal plant at Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) in Harford County. Congressman Ruppersberger vigorously opposed the proposal after dozens of local residents contacted him about health and safety concerns. Asbestos is a mineral fiber that was used in a variety of insulation and building products. If inhaled, it can cause cancer and other lung diseases. The Congressman sent several letters to the Secretary of the Army asking him to scrap the plan. Congressman Ruppersberger also worked with local government and community leaders to express strong opposition to the proposal. "I am pleased that the Army listened to our concerns. An asbestos disposal plant has no place in the middle of Harford County where thousands of families live. I believe this process should be completed in a less populated area," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The Army planned to collect tons of asbestos from military installations from surrounding states, from New York to Virginia, and transport it to APG for disposal. Many residents expressed concerns about the transportation of the toxic material on local roadways and the possibility of asbestos seeping into the air. "My neighbors and I attended dozens of meetings expressing our opposition to putting an asbestos disposal plant in our backyards. We are thrilled that our hard work paid off and the plan has been scrapped. The Army listened to us, to 'We the People', instead of siding with big business. We couldn't be happier," said Carolyn Hicks, a Harford County resident. -end-
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will hold a Congressional Forum on Medicare's New Prescription Drug Benefit Program on Friday, December 2, 2005. The new prescription drug benefit available through Medicare begins January 1, 2006, but Seniors can enroll now. Thousands of Seniors across Maryland are navigating through the list of available plan options. Congressman Ruppersberger, Harford County Executive David Craig, and a team of Medicare experts will help Seniors determine which plan is right for them. "Seniors have worked hard, raised their families, and paid their taxes. They deserve a prescription drug benefit that allows them to buy medicines they need at a reasonable price so they can stay healthy and enjoy their golden years," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). What:Congressional Forum on Medicare's New Prescription Drug Benefit Program Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)Harford County Executive David CraigMedicare ExpertsMaryland Seniors When:10am, Friday December 2, 2005 Where:Edgewood Senior Center1000 Gateway RoadEdgewood, MD 21040 (####)
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will tour a state of the art testing facility in Harford County and view cutting edge technology to detect and prevent chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear attacks. Congressman Ruppersberger and state and local emergency response experts will join leaders of Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC), a homeland security, defense, and engineering organization, on a tour of SAIC's Integration and Assurance Center (IAC) in Edgewood on Monday, December 5, 2005. The facility houses the latest in domestic preparedness - everything from sensors that can detect biological agents in the air to decontamination facilities for first responders in the event of a chemical attack to a massive control room that can constantly monitor large facilities such as sports stadiums. The technology is currently being used in subway systems, at military bases, and at sports stadiums across the country. Through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process, over 60,000 new military, civilian, and contractor positions are slated to come to Maryland. "This type of technology is critical for the safety of our country. It can be used to protect the people who attend sporting events, those who use mass transit, or the military, civilians, and contractors who are working on military bases in Maryland or across the country. It is incredibly important the government partner with private industry to use the latest in technology to protect the people who already live and work in Maryland as well as the thousands who will live and work here in the future," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. The group will also announce SAIC's new homeland security business unit and acquisition of Geo-Centers, Inc., a Massachusetts based company with offices in Maryland. The move makes SAIC the largest technology employer in Harford County. What:Tour of a State of the Art Testing Facility and View Cutting Edge Technology to Detect and Prevent Chemical, Biological, Radiological, or Nuclear attacks Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)Major Thomas Coppinger, Maryland State PoliceLarry Peck, Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC)Local First Responders When:12:30pm, Monday, December 5, 2005 Where:SAIC'S Integration and Assurance Center1504 Quarry DriveEdgewood, MD 21040} (####)
11.20.2009	(Timonium, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) honored a volunteer from Pasadena for going above and beyond the call of duty to help Maryland Veterans. Congressman Ruppersberger awarded Clifford L. Stoffel the "2005 Congressional Volunteer Recognition Award". Mr. Stoffel, a Pasadena resident, is a Volunteer Driver and Coordinator for the Transportation Section of the Glen Burnie Clinic for Veterans. In the past six years alone, Mr. Stoffel has driven 42,000 miles transporting over 2,258 patients to scheduled and emergency medical appointments. Mr. Stoffel is always willing to substitute for absent drivers and is dedicated to ensuring that all Veterans have rides to their appointments. "I commend Mr. Clifford Stoffel for his tireless commitment to thousands of Maryland's Veterans. He is making a difference in their lives. I believe we must honor the service and sacrifice of the men and women who served in the military. Mr. Stoffel is helping our Veterans get the services they deserve," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Mr. Stoffel was one of three award recipients from the Maryland 2nd District honored at a special ceremony at Congressman Ruppersberger's District Office in Timonium on Monday, December 5, 2005. The recipients were selected by the Veterans Advisory Group, an organization founded by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003. The Volunteers were selected for their outstanding dedication to serving the needs of Veterans within their community. (####)
11.20.2009	(Timonium, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) honored a volunteer from Baltimore and her dog for their dedicated service to Maryland Veterans. Congressman Ruppersberger awarded Nancy Doran and her dog Duffy the "2005 Congressional Volunteer Recognition Award". After a full day of work in the Baltimore City School System, Ms. Doran and Duffy perform voluntary pet therapy at the Baltimore VA Rehabilitation and Extended Care Center (BRECC). As a result of Nancy's and Duffy's presence, typically non-verbal Veterans speak to Duffy, pet him, and feed him treats. Duffy allows many veterans to spend an evening reminiscing about their own dogs and reliving old memories. Ms. Doran and her dog have made approximately 188 visits to the care center over the past three and a half years. Both Nancy and Duffy have provided veterans with countless hours of enjoyment during their stay at the BRECC. "I commend Nancy Doran and her dog Duffy for their dedicated service that has lifted the spirits of hundreds of Maryland Veterans. Ms. Doran and Duffy have brought joy into the lives of the men and women who honorably answered the call to serve our country," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Ms. Doran and Duffy were awarded one of three "2005 Congressional Volunteer Recognition Awards" for the Maryland 2nd District. All recipients were honored at a special ceremony at Congressman Ruppersberger's District Office in Timonium on Monday, December 5, 2005. They were selected by the Veterans Advisory Group, an organization founded by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003. The Volunteers and their four legged friends were selected for their outstanding dedication to serving the needs of Veterans within their community. (####)
11.20.2009	(Timonium, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) honored a volunteer and Veteran from Essex for his administrative work helping fellow Maryland Veterans get the healthcare they deserve. Congressman Ruppersberger awarded John Flutka the "2005 Congressional Volunteer Recognition Award." Mr. Flutka volunteers in the Occupational Therapy Department of the Baltimore VA Rehabilitation and Extended Care Center (BRECC). Mr. Flutka has been instrumental in updating forms that are used to evaluate and treat patients that result in improved quality of care. He also assists the staff by insuring that materials and supplies are easily accessible for patient care. His work has been invaluable in improving the service and healthcare that Veterans receive at BRECC. "John Flutka is a dedicated volunteer who is also a Veteran. I commend him for his service to his country and his hard work ensuring that Veterans get the quality healthcare they deserve. Volunteers like Mr. Flutka make such a difference in the lives of America's Veterans," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Mr. Flutka was one of three award recipients from the Maryland 2nd District honored at a special ceremony at Congressman Ruppersberger's District Office in Timonium on Monday, December 5, 2005. The recipients were selected by the Veterans Advisory Group, an organization founded by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003. The Volunteers were selected for their outstanding dedication to serving the needs of Veterans within their community. (####)
11.20.2009	(Cherry Hill, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will teach a class at the New Era Academy in Cherry Hill in honor of "Teach for America Week" on Tuesday, October 25th, 2005. Congressman Ruppersberger will teach 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th graders about "How a Bill Becomes a Law." "Teach For America" is the national corps of outstanding recent college graduates who commit two years to teach in urban and rural public schools and become lifelong leaders in expanding educational opportunity. Currently, 3,500 corps members are teaching in over 1,000 schools in 22 regions across the country. "My wife, sister, mother, and sister-in laws are all educators and I realize the critical need to be innovative in creating programs that prepare students for the career challenges that lie ahead. 'Teach for America' teachers make such a difference in the lives of their students across the country and especially in Maryland. I am honored to be able to teach a class at the New Era Academy in Cherry Hill as part of a program to highlight the good work they do," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). What:Ruppersberger to Teach High School Class in Honor of "Teach for America Week" Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th Graders at New Era Academy"Teach for America" Teachers When:11:15am, Tuesday, October 25th, 2005 Where:New Era Academy2700 Seaman AvenueBaltimore, MD 21225 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Hurricane Katrina is the worst natural catastrophe to hit our shores. Thousands are presumed dead in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida. Tens of thousands are homeless. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) calls for an independent, bi-partisan commission with subpoena powers to investigate the response to Hurricane Katrina. "I join all Americans in expressing our great sorrow for those who have lost loved ones and our outrage for those still suffering in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The response to this natural disaster was a federal, state, and local failure. The system absolutely failed the people of the Gulf Coast. I believe Congress must establish an independent, bi-partisan commission with subpoena powers to investigate what went wrong and why. The victims of Hurricane Katrina deserve to know what happened. In addition, we must learn from the mistakes that were made and hold leaders accountable for their actions. We must do this quickly to keep our country and her citizens safe. We can not control when the next natural disaster will hit but we can control how we prepare for it. We must be ready," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In the aftermath of the September 11th terrorist attacks, Congress passed and the President signed legislation that established the 9-11 Commission. The Commission investigated the circumstances surrounding 9-11 and issued recommendations to help protect our country against future terrorist attacks. The 9-11 Commission worked and our country is safer because of it. Congressman Ruppersberger believes we need to do the same thing for the victims of Hurricane Katrina. Congressman Ruppersberger is co-sponsoring legislation, H.R. 3656, that will remove the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and restore it to a fully independent agency headed by an emergency management professional reporting directly to the President. The Department of Homeland Security was established to keep our country safe from terror and to respond to emergencies. Congressman Ruppersberger believes this is an important goal but it has led to the reprioritizing of personnel and equipment away from addressing natural disasters to fighting terrorism. "Securing our homeland is a priority, but Hurricane Katrina has shown us all that we can not lose our focus on natural disasters. FEMA needs the expertise and independence to address disasters without having to navigate through layers of bureaucracy. It needs its own authority to act quickly and not have to wait for Cabinet level approval," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger sent a letter to President George W. Bush asking him to support this measure. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) cut his vacation short and traveled back to Washington, DC, to support the $10.5 Billion Disaster Relief Bill for victims of Hurricane Katrina. The legislation was passed by unanimous consent. The Bush Administration prepared a supplemental appropriation request of $10.5 billion which will be an initial down payment for disaster relief. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is spending an estimated $500 million per day. The Administration anticipates sending an additional appropriation request in the coming weeks once additional cost estimates of the disaster are available. Congressman Ruppersberger delivered this speech on the floor of the House today. "Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join all Americans in expressing our great sorrow for those who have lost loved ones in the wake of Hurricane Katrina and our outrage for those still suffering in the South. This is a real crisis and Americans are in need. These people, many of whom are our most vulnerable, have lost everything. Now they are losing hope. President Bush has called the response 'Not Acceptable'. This must change now. It is not about Democrats or Republicans. It is about helping our fellow Americans in their darkest hour. This is not the time for excuses or blame. Our country has the means to rescue and care for these people and we must do it quickly before more lives are lost. First, we need to address their very basic needs. We need to get food, water, and medical supplies to the thousands of people desperately waiting for it at shelters like the Superdome and the Convention Center in New Orleans. Rescue workers also need to get a handle on who is trying to survive out on their own in flooded out areas across Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida. We need to send out the National Guard and local police in skips, boats, and helicopters to locate these people -- street by street and house by house - rescue them, bring them to a safe location where supplies are waiting for them, and reconnect them with their loved ones. One national database needs to be set up for family members searching for survivors once they've been brought to safety. But before we do that, we must set up a central command center to coordinate the response from top to bottom. One of the many complaints that we have heard is that no-one is in charge. We need someone leading the recovery efforts - calling the shots and directing the resources where they are needed most. We are now a nation at war with time and we need a real war room to ensure these people survive. Another complaint we hear often is a lack of communication. There is no power so TVs and radios don't work and cell phone communication is sketchy at best. Today almost five days after Hurricane Katrina rocked the Gulf Coast people still have no idea what to do. First responders need good information to tell people where to go for help. Rescue workers need the federal government to pitch in and give them the communication technology necessary to coordinate their efforts. And finally -- law and order must be restored. People in these flood ravaged areas are homeless, scared, and desperate. Some have crossed the line and turned to violence. The National Guard needs to move in immediately in massive numbers to restore peace and stability. This is all on the short term. In the long term, these Hurricane victims need somewhere to go until their towns and cities can be rebuilt. The federal government needs to consider opening up military bases across the country so families can live there until they put their lives back together. Every state in the country should consider taking a certain number of families and housing them in their state so everyone can pitch in. And finally, once we have done all of this we must evaluate was done wrong and what was done right. We must learn from this experience so we can better respond next time. In closing, I know there are many inspiring stories that aren't being told. The massive efforts of the Coast Guard to rescue everyone they could. The neighbors helping neighbors make it through the worst natural disaster many have ever seen. Those aren't the stories that make the evening news. But I know the true value of the American spirit. In these dark times, I know these communities will be rebuilt. These families, these cities and towns, and this nation will persevere. Thank You, Mr. Speaker." (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauds Baltimore County for being named as a finalist for the 2005 Excellence in Economic Development Awards for its Eastern Baltimore County Renaissance Initiative. The nomination is in the category of "Excellence in Urban or Suburban Economic Development." Baltimore County is one of three finalists nationwide. This initiative began ten years ago when County government together with the local Chamber of Commerce studied the impact of dramatic declines in well-paying manufacturing jobs, increases in crime, and loss of population. Working with other elected officials, the private sector, and the community, Baltimore County developed a comprehensive plan to turn around these negative trends and capitalize on the area's many assets. "I am so pleased that the federal government has recognized what we in Baltimore County already know. Revitalization is thriving in the Eastern part of the County. The County, State and local community has invested hundred of millions of dollars in a broad based strategy to turn around neglected neighborhoods. It is working. 5,000 new housing units are on the way. Hundreds of jobs have been created. It is particularly rewarding for me to see this initiative take shape because it was started during my tenure as Baltimore County Executive and has taken off under the leadership of my successor, County Executive Jim Smith," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). "The Economic Development Administration Excellence in Economic Development Awards honor innovation and vision. We are pleased that Baltimore County's comprehensive renaissance efforts to bring new jobs, new housing and a renewed vitality to Eastern Baltimore County have been recognized nationally," said Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith. The County's efforts to acquire and revitalize deteriorated World War II-era rental housing is moving ahead and 5,000 new housing units are under construction or planned for the area. In early 2006, the $60 million State and County funded extension of MD Route 43 will open for traffic providing direct access from I-95 to 1,000 acres of undeveloped land zoned for office, research, and industrial use. When completed, the extension of MD 43 is expected to make possible over $500 million of private investment and is expected to generate 10,000 quality jobs in two new business parks: Baltimore Crossroads at I-95 and Windlass Run Business Park. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger supported Baltimore County's nomination for the 2005 EDA Award for Excellence in Economic Development through the Department of Commerce for the Eastern Baltimore County Revitalization Initiative. Excellence Award winners will be announced at the Economic Development Administration (EDA)'s "Symposium for 21st Century Economic Development" to be held on September 22, 2005 in Arlington, Virginia. More on the Excellence in Economic Development Awards (####)
11.20.2009	(Crystal City, VA)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) hails the recent votes by the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission to relocate more than 5,000 new jobs to Fort Meade, Maryland. The Commissioners agreed with the Pentagon's recommendations to consolidate a variety of military news organizations, multiple security clearance adjudication offices, and several offices that provide computer and technology support for combat troops from locations all across the country to Fort Meade. The votes occurred late yesterday and today. Fort Meade is also the home of the National Security Agency (NSA). "Moving these more than five thousand jobs to Fort Meade, Maryland, just makes sense as we continue to fight the 'War on Terror'. These employees will help workers get security clearances. They will disseminate important military news information and will work to protect our computer systems for combat troops. Many of these offices used to be spread across the country. Now they will be located together at Fort Meade -- on the same campus as the National Security Agency," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger has spent the past several months laying out to the BRAC Commission all that Maryland has to offer the soldiers, civilians, and contractors that are slated to come to the state. Ruppersberger personally contacted all of the Commissioners and reached out to a myriad of federal officials involved in the process -- including Secretary of the Army Francis Harvey. The Congressman's efforts have been part of a coordinated push where "Team Maryland," including Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Congressman Ben Cardin (D-MD), Governor Robert Ehrlich (R-MD), and Secretary Aris Melissaratos of the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development together with the Maryland Congressional Delegation and local and state leaders, have laid out the facts to the BRAC Commissioners. The BRAC Commission must send all of its recommendations to President George W. Bush by September 8th, 2005. The President has until September 23rd, 2005, to accept or reject all of the recommendations. Congress has forty five days after that to accept or reject the recommendations in their entirety. (####)
11.20.2009	(Crystal City, VA)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauds the Base Realignment and Closure Committee's move to send 4,000 new jobs to Aberdeen Proving Ground to help fight the War on Terror. The BRAC Commission voted today at a meeting in Crystal City, Virginia, to accept the Pentagon's recommendations to close Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, and move the positions to Maryland. "This move to bring more than 4,000 highly technical, high paying jobs to Aberdeen Proving Ground is not about New Jersey or about Maryland. It is about doing what is right, what is most efficient, and what will best protect the warfighter as we continue to fight our 'War on Terror'. I am pleased that the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commissioners listened to the facts and made the best choice to protect our country," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger has spent the past several months laying out to the BRAC Commission all that Maryland has to offer the soldiers, civilians, and contractors that are slated to come to the state. Ruppersberger personally contacted all of the Commissioners and reached out to a myriad of federal officials involved in the process -- including Secretary of the Army Francis Harvey. The Congressman's efforts have been part of a coordinated push where "Team Maryland," including Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Governor Robert Ehrlich (R-MD), Secretary Aris Melissaratos of the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development, Tom Sadowski of the Harford County Office of Economic Development together with the Maryland Congressional Delegation and local and state leaders, have laid out the facts to the BRAC Commissioners. The Commission is expected to vote on the Pentagon's recommendation to move 5,361 new jobs to Fort Meade later this afternoon or tomorrow. The BRAC Commission must send all of its recommendations to President George W. Bush by September 8th, 2005. The President has until September 23rd, 2005, to accept or reject all of the recommendations. Congress has forty five days after that to accept or reject the recommendations in their entirety. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) hosted three local high school students on Capitol Hill on Tuesday, July 26th 2005. Lora Dean of Pasadena, Catherine Darr of Towson, and Matt Bambarger of Elkridge spent time with Congressman Ruppersberger in the U.S. Capitol. The students were attending summer leadership programs in Washington, DC. "It is exciting to know that today's youth hold so much promise for becoming tomorrow's leaders. What better place to hone these essential leadership skills than in the halls of the nation's Capitol. I was honored to meet with these exceptionally motivated young people," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Lora Dean, a 15-year-old sophomore at Northeast High School this fall and 16-year-old Catherine Darr, a junior at Towson High School this fall, were selected to participate in the Junior Statesmen Summer Program at Georgetown University this summer. For three weeks, they lived in the dorms at Georgetown and studied politics, government, the law, and education with students from across the United States. For both, it was their first time away from home. During the program, Ms. Dean and Ms. Darr met with Lee Hamilton of the 9-11 Commission, heard speeches from members of Greenpeace, the FBI, and the French Embassy, and attended a reception at the Pentagon. Both students are considering a career in the public service. Matt Bambarger, a 16-year-old junior at Mount Saint Joseph High School in West Baltimore this fall, participated in the National Student Leadership Conference at American University. He joined over 100 students from across the country for a 10-day conference on leadership and team building. During the Conference, Mr. Bambarger took part in a campaign simulation, acting as the powerful chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. In real life, Congressman Ruppersberger is a member of that committee. (####)
11.20.2009	(Fort Meade, MD)- Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-Maryland 3rd) and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will discuss on Tuesday, August 16th, 2005, the $12.5 million contained in the transportation bill for expansion and improvements to Route 175, which runs through Fort Meade. The improvements to Route 175 are a priority of the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development and the Anne Arundel Economic Development Corporation to help prepare Anne Arundel County for the expected future growth and expansion at Fort Meade and the National Security Agency. What:Press conference to discuss the $12.5 million in improvements to Route 175 Who:Congressman Ben Cardin (D-Maryland 3rd)Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd)Colonel Kenneth O. McCreedy, Commander, Ft. Meade InstallationJanet Owens, Anne Arundel County ExecutiveKay Hill, National Security Agency, Government RelationsColonel Clemon Wesley, Ft. Meade AllianceJoseph Rutter, Anne Arundel County Planning & ZoningChristina Wiegand, Anne Arundel County Economic Development When:Tuesday, August 16th, 2005, at 10 a.m. Where:Fort Meade Visitor Control CenterRoute 175 and Reece Road, Ft. Meade, MD(Do not proceed to the security gate; follow signs to Media Parking.) (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) hosted Boy Scout Troop 339 from Severna Park on Capitol Hill on Thursday, July 14th, 2005. The nine 11 and 12 year olds interviewed Congressman Ruppersberger, a former Boy Scout, for their First Class Ranking - an important Boy Scout patch. "The Boy Scout Oath says 'On my honor, I will do my best to do my duty to God and my country.' These youngsters are learning about the founders of our country through their trip the nation's capital so they can do their best as they become the leaders of tomorrow. As a former Boy Scout myself, I was honored to be interviewed by the Boy Scouts from Troop #339 from Severna Park as they learned how Congress works and how a bill becomes a law," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Scouts also toured the Capitol and watched Congress in action from the House Gallery. The group also met two other Maryland Congressmen during their tour - Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-05) and Congressman Albert Wynn (MD-04). Congressman Ruppersberger also expresses his condolences after the recent deaths of four Boy Scout Leaders at the Jamboree in Virginia and the deaths of a Scout and two Leaders at Scout Camps in California and Utah. "As a former Boy Scout, I am saddened by the misfortune and tragedy that the Scouts have endured at the Jamboree in Virginia and at Scout Camps in California and Utah. I know this is a very difficult time for family and friends of the victims. I extend my sincere condolences," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Boy Scouts have nearly 4.1 million members ranging from 7 and 20 years old throughout the United States and its territories. (####)
11.20.2009	(Aberdeen, MD)- Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Aris Melissaratos, Secretary of the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development, and other local business and community leaders to spread the word that "Maryland Stands at the Ready" for the 2,176 new positions slated to be moved to Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) through the Department of Defense's Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) proposal. The group of local, state, and federal officials highlighted all Maryland has to offer at a forum at Aberdeen Science and Math Academy at Aberdeen High School on Monday, June 27th, 2005. Maryland has a highly educated workforce, a wonderful quality of life, top notch schools, and affordable housing opportunities. APG has transformed itself from an old school, traditional military base to a state of the art, high tech installation that is integral in fighting "The War on Terror". "Today's meeting shows the depth of support that exists in Maryland for the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) proposal. The Maryland Congressional delegation is united in ensuring that these jobs come to Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG). The BRAC proposal is focused on strengthening our nation's security and I strongly support their view expanding APG is an important to our national security," said Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD). "We brought Team Maryland together today to show that 'Maryland is at the Ready' to support these new workers. Maryland has a great quality of life, top notch schools, an educated workforce and affordable housing opportunities. We looking forward to welcoming these workers to our communities," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Aberdeen, MD)- Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Aris Melissaratos, Secretary of the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development, and other local business and community leaders will host a discussion about the Department of Defense's Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) proposal. The group will highlight all that Maryland has to offer to soldiers, civilians, and contractors that may be coming to Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) through BRAC. 2,176 new positions are slated to be added to APG. Who:Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD)Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD)Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD)Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)Aris Melissaratos, MD Dept of Business and Economic Development Local Business and Community Leaders What:Discussions about BRAC When:10:30am, Monday, June 27th, 2005 Where:Aberdeen Science and Math Academy at Aberdeen High School251 Paradise RoadAberdeen, MD 21001 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will attend a federal hearing about the response to Hurricane Katrina on Thursday, September 15th, 2005. The hearing is called "Back to the Drawing Board: A First Look at Lessons Learned from Hurricane Katrina." It will be held as part of the Government Reform Committee, the investigative arm of Congress. "I join all Americans in expressing our great sorrow for those who have lost so much in Hurricane Katrina. The response to this natural disaster was a federal, state, and local failure. The victims deserve to know what went wrong and why. We must learn from this experience so we can better respond next time. We must do this quickly to keep our country and her citizens safe. We can not control when the next natural disaster will hit but we can control how we prepare for it. We must be ready. Our nation depends on us," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). What:Ruppersberger to Attend Federal Hearing about Response to Hurricane Katrina"Back to the Drawing Board: A First Look at Lessons Learned from Hurricane Katrina" Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)Congressman Tom Davis (R-VA)Mr. Marc Morial, Former Mayor of New Orleans & CEO, National Urban LeagueMr. Tony Carper, Broward County Emergency Management AgencyChief Carlos Castillo, Miami-Dade Office of Emergency ManagementDr. John Harrald, Director, Institute for Crisis, Disaster, and Risk ManagementMr. Davis Robertson, Exec. Dir., Metro. Washington Council of GovernmentsMr. Ellis Stanley, Emergency Preparedness Department, City of Los Angeles When:10am, Thursday, September 15th, 2005 Where:2154 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce the Lutherville Volunteer Fire Company in Baltimore County will receive a $92,250 federal grant. The Fire Company says it will use the funds to purchase 45 sets of turn-out gear, the protective clothing that firefighters use to fight fires and perform rescues. In addition, the money will be used to replace outdated high pressure air bags used in building collapses, industrial machinery rescues, and automobile accidents. The remaining funds will be invested in new equipment used to rescue people from building collapses. "Our first responders are vital to the safety of our families and our communities. This $92,250 federal grant will help the firefighters with the Lutherville Volunteer Fire Company in Baltimore County respond even more efficiently and effectively to emergencies. If our first responders can't protect themselves, how can they be expected to protect us in a crisis," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). "This program is the most effective grant program that the federal government offers because it doesn't go through the state or local government, it goes right to the entity in need," said Baltimore County Fire Chief John J. Hohman. The grants were awarded by the Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program. The Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program was initiated to help improve the safety of the public and firefighters when confronting fire hazards. This year, Congress appropriated $650,000,000 to the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness to execute the program. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) met with members of his newly created Environmental Advisory Council at the Marshy Point Nature Center in Eastern Baltimore County on Monday, September 19th, 2005. Congressman Ruppersberger created the council to provide a forum for environmental groups to discuss important environmental issues facing the Maryland 2nd District and the rest of the region. "The Environmental Advisory Council is a vital way for me to gain first-hand expertise from Maryland's top environmental authorities on our pressing environmental challenges. By creating a partnership with local experts, we can work toward finding federal solutions to local environmental needs," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Environmental Advisory Council meeting covered a variety of topics including pesticide security, natural gas issues, the 2007 Farm Bill, protecting the Chesapeake Bay, and the Endangered Species Act. The Environmental Advisory Council meeting included representatives from The Sierra Club - Maryland Chapter, The Chesapeake Bay Foundation, The Trust for Public Land, MaryPIRG, The Maryland Conservation Council, The Nature Conservancy, Maryland Pesticide Network, 1000 Friends of Maryland, The Maryland League of Conservation Voters, The Chesapeake Waterkeeper Alliance, and The Natural Resources Defense Council. Congressman Ruppersberger is a strong supporter of protecting the environment. He advocates energy policies that promote long term solutions through technical advances and energy conservation while preventing environmental degradation. Congressman Ruppersberger sponsored legislation that will help cut fuel consumption and encourage Marylanders to drive environmentally friendly hybrid vehicles by offering valuable tax credits for people who purchase a hybrid. The legislation reinstates the Clean Fuel Vehicle tax credit that expired at the end of 2004 and extends it to $4,000. The language was included in the energy bill that recently passed Congress. As the Baltimore County Executive, the Ruppersberger Administration invested over $230 million dollars into water treatment and sewage system modernization to keep our water safe and clean. The Administration initiated the Baltimore County and City Watershed Agreement which combined city, county, business, and citizen groups to protect our region's watershed areas. Through a coordinated regional effort, we mitigated the effects of development on the Chesapeake Bay through stream restoration, storm water management and control of shore erosion. Together we vigorously worked to preserve valuable farmland, forests, and wetlands, earning Baltimore County a 7th place national ranking on the list of Top Local Farmland Preservation Programs. In addition, we quadrupled Baltimore County's park, recreation, and open space to more than 800 acres. (####)
11.20.2009	(Randallstown, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will hold a Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid to Pay for College on Thursday, December 1, 2005. The Congressman will be joined by financial aid experts to help students learn about ways to make the dream of going to college a reality. "I believe every child should have the opportunity to go to college. The cost of tuition is rising but there is help. Please join me for an important forum to help find financial aid to pay for college," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). What:Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid for College Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)Financial Aid Experts When:7pm, Thursday December 1, 2005 Where:Randallstown High School4000 Offutt RoadRandallstown, MD 21133 (####)
11.20.2009	(Harford County, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will announce a $99,721 federal grant for drug abuse prevention programs in Harford County on Monday, November 21, 2005. The grant is for the next five years for a total award of $498,605. The money will help fund important Drug Free Community programs including FACE-IT, Faith Activated Community Empowering Intervention Training. The goal of the programs is to prevent and reduce drug, alcohol, and tobacco abuse among children and teenagers. What:Ruppersberger to Announce $99,721 Grant for Drug Abuse Prevention in Harford County Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch RuppersbergerCongressman Wayne GilchrestHarford County Executive David CraigHarford County Drug Policy Manager Joseph Ryan When:2:30pm, Monday November 21, 2005 Where:Office of Harford County Executive David Craig3rd FloorHarford County Government Building220 South Main StreetBel Air, Maryland 21014 (####)
11.20.2009	(Owings Mills, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will announce a $91,010 federal grant for the Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire Company in Owings Mills. The money will be used to install a modern fume exhaust system in the new firehouse. Congressman Ruppersberger will also join Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith, Rick Jaffee, the President of the Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire Company, Buddy Staigerwald, President of the Baltimore County Volunteer Firefighters Association, and John Hohman, Chief of the Baltimore County Fire Department for the dedication of the new firehouse. What:Ruppersberger to Announce $91,010 Federal Grant for the Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire Company in Owings Mills;Ruppersberger Will Also Help Dedicate New Firehouse Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch RuppersbergerBaltimore County Executive Jim SmithRick Jaffee, President of the Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire CompanyBuddy Staigerwald, President of the Baltimore County Volunteer Firefighters Assoc.Chief John Hohman, the Baltimore County Fire Department When:7:45pm, Monday November 21, 2005 Where:Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire Company12020 Greenspring AvenueOwings Mills, Maryland 21117 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- {On Thursday, November 10, 2005, the House of Representatives is expected to consider the Fiscal Year 2006 Republican budget plan that will increase the deficit by $20 billion and cut spending for student loans, Medicaid, child support enforcement, and food stamps. The Democratic Members of the Maryland Delegation will hold a conference call with reporters across the state to discuss the effect these cuts will have on Maryland families. What:Conference Call with Reporters Across Maryland to Discuss Budget Cuts Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd)Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-Maryland 5th)Congressman Ben Cardin (D-Maryland 3rd)Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-Maryland 7th)Congressman Albert Wynn (D-Maryland 4th)Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-Maryland 8th) When:12 Noon, Thursday, November 10, 2005 Where:Call 1-800-619-2461Passcode: Hoyer (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce the Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire Company, Inc. in Owings Mills will receive a $91,010 federal grant. The Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire Company says it will use the funds to install a diesel fume exhaust system that will expel fire engines' toxic emissions from the building. The fire station is currently using an outdated fan ventilation system. The upgraded diesel fume exhaust system will guarantee a safe environment at the Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire Company for both volunteer firefighters and visitors to the station. "Maryland's firefighters are essential to keeping our communities out of harms way. In an industry where timing and safety are essential to success, this grant will help firefighters do their job even more effectively," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). "This is the best grant program the federal government has because it goes to the nonprofit organization itself, it doesn't go through state or local governments," said Baltimore County Fire Chief John J. Hohman. The grant was awarded by the Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program which allocates one-year grants directly to fire departments to support America's firefighters and the services they deliver. This year, Congress appropriated $650,000,000 to the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness to execute the program. (####)
11.20.2009	(Aberdeen, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will help dedicate the Catholic Charities Senior Housing in Aberdeen, Maryland, on Tuesday, October 25th, 2005. Congressman Ruppersberger will help cut the ribbon for the new affordable housing community located on Barnette Lane at the intersection of Beards Hill Road, directly behind the Beards Hill Shopping Center. The site provides convenient access for shopping, banking, medical care, recreation, and places of worship in the immediate area. Financial support for this project was provided by Catholic Charities, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Harford County and the City of Aberdeen. What:Ruppersberger to Help Dedicate Catholic Charities Senior Housing at Aberdeen and Attend Ribbon Cutting Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)Harford County Executive David CraigAberdeen Mayor Doug WilsonMr. Harold A. Smith, Executive Director of Catholic CharitiesSeniors When:1:30pm, Tuesday, October 25th, 2005 Where:Catholic Charities Senior Housing901 Barnett LaneAberdeen, MD 21001 (####)
11.20.2009	(Timonium, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will honor a 9-year old Dundalk Cub Scout who saved his cousin's life. Nicholas Kulikowski will receive the "Heroism Award" at a special Boy Scout breakfast on Saturday, October 22nd, 2005, at the Timonium Fairgrounds. During a birthday party at Nicholas' home in August of 2004, the young man noticed his 4-year old cousin, Dylan, had jumped into the family pool. Dylan came up once but then sunk to the bottom. Nicholas dove into the water and pulled him out. Nicholas' actions prevented serious injury and saved Dylan's life. Congressman Ruppersberger will also help kick off the opening ceremonies for "Be Prepared Central Maryland" sponsored by the Boy Scouts of America and the Central Maryland Chapter of the American Red Cross. The Congressman will talk about the need for families and communities to have a plan in place in case of an emergency. What:Ruppersberger to Honor 9-Year Old Dundalk Cub ScoutRuppersberger to Help Kick Off Opening Ceremonies for "Be Prepared Central Maryland" Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)9-Year Old Nicholas KulikowskiBaltimore County Executive Jim SmithPhil White, The American Red Cross of Central MarylandJim Berens, The Boy Scouts of America When:Saturday, October 22nd, 20057:30am - Breakfast in the Dining Hall on the 2nd Floor of the Grandstands8:30am - Opening Ceremony in Front of the Grandstands (By the Track) Where:The Maryland State Fairgrounds in TimoniumYork Road At I-83 (####)
11.20.2009	Dear Friends:Across the United States this month, hundreds of thousands of Americans will gather to participate in marathons, bake sales, and educational programs. Companies around the world will donate proceeds from sales of their products throughout the month. All of these efforts share a common purpose: to raise awareness and funding for the fight against breast cancer. October 2005 marks the 21st year of the observance of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Over 211,240 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed in the United States this year. Breast cancer does not discriminate. The disease affects the young and old, the rich and poor, and all ethnicities. One woman in eight has or will develop breast cancer in her lifetime. And beyond the statistics, many of us know someone who has been touched by breast cancer: a relative, a co-worker, a friend. While we celebrate the advancements that have been made against the disease, we also recognize the challenges we continue to face in fighting breast cancer. There are many endeavors which can significantly improve a woman's chance of survival. Early detection, regular physical examinations, breast cancer research, education, advocacy and patient services all continue to remain vital priorities in the campaign to combat and find a cure for this disease. In conjunction with Breast Cancer Awareness Month, October 21st is National Mammography Day, a day when all women are encouraged to make a mammography appointment. Low cost or free mammography screening is available to women who are over 40 and underinsured or uninsured. For additional information, contact the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) at 1-888-842-6355. To locate a breast imaging facility near you, please contact the National Cancer Institute at 1-800-4-CANCER. I urge everyone to participate in Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Attend an event raising funds for breast cancer research. Call a friend and remind her to get a mammogram. Go online to learn more about the disease. Working together, we will continue to fight and search for a cure for breast cancer. Sincerely,C.A. Dutch RuppersbergerMember of Congress Additional Breast Cancer Resources Susan G. Komen FoundationAmerican Cancer SocietyNational Breast Cancer Foundation (####)
11.20.2009	(College Park, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauds the creation of the Center for Advanced Study of Language at the University of Maryland. The center is the first of its kind in the nation dedicated to the language needs of government. Congressman Ruppersberger, a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI), believes the center is critical as our nation continues to fight the War on Terror. He will participate in a ribbon cutting ceremony for the new center on Thursday, October 6th, 2005, at 2pm. "I believe good intelligence is our best defense against terrorism. The Center for Advanced Study of Language at the University of Maryland will help train the intelligence workers of tomorrow learn these important languages to help our nation fight the War on Terror," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). What: Ribbon Cutting for the Center for Advanced Study of Language at the University of Maryland Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)Central Intelligence Agency Director Porter GossMaryland Lt. Governor Michael SteeleMaryland State Senate President Mike MillerUniversity of Maryland President Dan Mote When:2pm, Thursday, October 6th, 2005 Where:The Center for Advanced Study of LanguageUniversity of Maryland7005 52nd AvenueCollege Park, Maryland (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) honored a dedicated Pikesville couple who adopted five children from Maryland's foster care system. The Congressman nominated William and Margurite Addison for their heroic work in providing a permanent home for these children at the Congressional Angels in Adoption Gala at the Grand Hyatt in Washington, DC on September 13th, 2005. Mr. Addison works as an educator and administrator at the Regional Institute for Children and Adolescents in Rockville, Maryland, a state run facility for emotionally disabled youngsters. Ms. Addison is a former truant officer for the Baltimore City Public School System. After raising their own biological children, the Addison's assumed their days of raising children were over. However, in 1992, the Addison's opened their home to one of Mr. Addison's nephews, Ralph, who was officially adopted in 1998. Ralph became the first of five children adopted by the Addison's. Between 1999 and 2004, the Addison's adopted four additional children that came through the foster care system as drug-exposed infants. Malik, now age 9, Kevin, age 8, Warren, age 6, Bryleigh, age 3 have all found a permanent home in the Addison's care. "Margurite and William Addison are true heroes in our community. By opening their homes and their hearts to these children in need, they have made our community stronger and made an incredible difference in these five children. By investing in our children, we invest in our future. I commend the Addison's for their selfless commitment to making a difference," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The 2005 Congressional Angels in Adoption Awards Celebration recognizes "unsung heroes" who dedicate their lives to helping our most vulnerable children. The event was hosted by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of foster children in this country and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) drives home $9.6 Million for Baltimore area road improvement projects. Congressman Ruppersberger supported H.R. 3, the Transportation Equity Act, which passed Congress by a vote of 417 to 9 on March 10th, 2005. In this legislation, $4.7 million is earmarked for the widening of Interstate 695, the Baltimore Beltway, from Rt. 147 to Interstate 83. $4.7 million is earmarked for improved access to BWI from Rt. 295. $200,000 is earmarked for a traffic feasibility study in Towson to evaluate the possibility of creating a turn lane on York Road. "These improvements to the Baltimore Beltway and Rt. 295 near BWI Airport and the Towson area traffic study are important for the safety of Marylanders. These upgrades will ease traffic congestion and help trim vital time off of people's commutes. They will allow them to spend less time commuting and more time at home with their families. I come from local government and I believe the federal government has a responsibility to help improve our nation's highways to keep people and commerce moving," said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The measure must also pass the Senate and be signed by the President before it can become law. Related Bill: H.R. 3 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) has been named as a Co-Chair of the Congressional Port Security Caucus for the 109th Congress. He will work with Caucus Members to ensure that port and maritime security remain top priorities on the Congressional Agenda. With 361 sea and river ports that receive and distribute 95% of the nation's cargo, the United States economic strength is dependent upon vigilant port security efforts. The mission of the Caucus is to identify port security concerns and make legislative recommendations while ensuring that government partners with private industry to keep business flowing. Congressman Ruppersberger represents Maryland's 2nd Congressional District that includes the Port of Baltimore. The Port directly employs 16,000 workers, indirectly employs an additional 17,000 people, and generates $1.5 billion in revenue annually. "The Port of Baltimore is one of Maryland's biggest economic engines. To ensure that the Port of Baltimore and other Ports across the country are successful in the future, I believe we must bring together government and the private sector to balance the needs of security with the needs of business. The Port Security Caucus gives Congress a forum to work through these important issues," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Senator Susan Collins (R-Maine), Senator Daniel K. Inouye (D-Hawaii), and Congressman Henry Brown (R-South Carolina's 1st District) are also co-chairs of the Port Security Caucus. The Caucus was founded in 2003 to provide a bi-cameral, bi-partisan Congressional effort to address security concerns at our nation's ports after the September 11th terrorist attacks. See also: Port Security Caucus (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- The House physician diagnosed Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger with pneumonia on Friday, March 18th, 2005. The Congressman has been recuperating at his home with his wife all weekend and was unable to make the trip to Washington, DC, to vote on the Schiavo legislation late last night. The Congressman released the following statement: "If I had been well enough to make the trip to Washington, DC, to vote on the legislation involving the Terri Schiavo case, I would have voted against the legislation. My heartfelt sympathy goes out to the Schiavo and Schindler families who are dealing with a very difficult situation over the future of Terri Schiavo. I do not feel this is an issue for the federal court system. I feel this is an issue that should be left up to the state courts that already handle most family issues. As a former County Executive, County Councilman, and former prosecutor, I have a profound respect for states' rights," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. The Congressman's physician has advised him to stay home for the remainder of the week to continue recuperating. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Maryland - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will hold three Congressional Forum on Social Security across Maryland's 2nd Congressional District during the week of April 4th to 8th, 2005. Congressional Forum on Social Security in Pasadena10:00am, Monday, April 4th, 2005Pasadena Senior Center4103 Mountain RoadPasadena, MD 21122 Congressional Forum on Social Security in Cherry Hill11:00am, Tuesday, April 5th, 2005Cherry Hill Senior Center606 Cherry Hill Road, Suite 201Baltimore, MD 21225 Congressional Forum on Social Security in Belair Edison9:00am, Friday, April 8th, 2005Belair Edison Family Health Center3120 Erdman AvenueBaltimore, MD 21213 Congressman Ruppersberger believes we need to modernize Social Security but he does not believe the Bush Privatization Plan is the answer. The Privatization Plan will cost two to three million dollars to set up the private accounts and will reduce the dependable, guaranteed monthly payment for Seniors. Congressman Ruppersberger believes the government should not divert your hard-earned tax money away from the system and reduce your benefit. "I am fighting in Congress to modernize Social Security to guarantee that it will be there for the Retirees of today and tomorrow. I believe Congress should stop borrowing from the Social Security Trust Fund and should consider expanding tax credits for IRA's and 401K's. Congress should also look into layering personal investment accounts on top of the existing Social Security System," said Congressman Ruppersberger. (####)
11.20.2009	(Timonium, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will hold a Congressional Forum on Social Security in Randallstown on Monday, March 14th, 2005. Congressman Ruppersberger believes we need to modernize Social Security but he does not believe the Bush Privatization Plan is the answer. The Privatization Plan will cost two to three million dollars to set up the private accounts and will reduce the dependable, guaranteed monthly payment for Seniors. Congressman Ruppersberger believes the government should not divert your hard-earned tax money away from the system and reduce your benefit. "I am fighting in Congress to modernize Social Security to guarantee that it will be there for the retirees of today and tomorrow. I believe Congress should stop borrowing from the Social Security Trust Fund and should consider expanding tax credits for IRA's and 401K's. Congress should also look into layering personal investment accounts on top of the existing Social Security System," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch RuppersbergerPriscilla Chatman, National Association to Preserve Social Security & MedicareMaryland Seniors What:Congressional Forum on Social Security When:10:30am, Monday, March 14th, 2005 Where:Liberty Road Senior Center3525 Resource DriveRandallstown, MD 21133 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce that the state of Maryland will get $42 million in grant money for emergency preparedness from the Department of Homeland Security. The State of Maryland will get $31 million to help state and local first responders prevent a terrorist attack or respond to a terrorist incident involving the use of chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons. The funding can be used to purchase specialized equipment, run training programs, and design specialized exercises. State and local first responders can also use the money to help prevent cyber attacks on their computer systems. The City of Baltimore will get $11 million to help protect high threat areas of the city from a terrorist attack or help respond to an attack if there is one. The money can be used to help with planning, purchasing equipment, and running training programs and exercises. The money must be used to employ a regional approach to emergency preparedness that includes nearby counties and jurisdictions in the city's plan. "If our first responders don't have the resources necessary to protect themselves in the event of a terrorist attack, how can they be expected to protect us? In this era of shrinking local and state budgets, I am pleased that the federal government is stepping up to help out our first responders who work hard to keep our families and communities safe," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is urging the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to set a national drinking water standard for perchlorate so clean up can begin at Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG). Perchlorate is an ingredient found in rocket fuel and explosives. It has been detected at trace levels in four public drinking wells near Aberdeen over the past five years. The City of Aberdeen, Maryland temporarily closed the wells and installed filters. It is believed that the perchlorate seeped into the ground and into the water supply as a result of years of artillery testing at APG. Experts believe perchlorate can cause thyroid problems in children and adults. The Army says it can not pay for the cleanup of the perchlorate at APG until the EPA issues guidelines about the health risks of perchlorate and sets a national standard for how much is safe to drink. The highest level found in the groundwater at APG has been about 23 parts per billion. Congressman Ruppersberger sent a letter to the EPA asking it to move forward and set a national drinking water standard for perchlorate so the clean up at APG can begin. "We have to make sure that we put the safe drinking water needs of our citizens first... I strongly recommend that the EPA expeditiously establish a national drinking water standard for perchlorate. Our country needs a national standard in order to expedite cleanup efforts at sites across the country and to ensure safe drinking water for the residents of Harford County and for all Americans," wrote Congressman Ruppersberger. The EPA recently established a safe exposure level of 24.5 parts per billion in drinking water. Congressman Ruppersberger believes this is a step in the right direction but the EPA needs to establish a national drinking water standard quickly. Read the Congressman's Letter to the EPA See also: Perchlorate Information from the EPA, Perchlorate and Drinking Water (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Congressman Ruppersberger released the following statement on the nomination of Ambassador Negroponte as the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). "Ambassador John Negroponte is a skilled and experienced diplomat who has been nominated for a historic new role in the Intelligence Community. For the Director of National Intelligence to be effective he must have the full confidence of the President. Ambassador Negroponte has served with distinction at the United Nations and in Iraq and appears to have the skills to fulfill this position," said Congressman Ruppersberger. In nominating the Ambassador, President Bush said it will be Mr. Negroponte's responsibility to determine annual budgets for all national intelligence agencies. In addition, the President said the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) will report to the DNI. "The money is where the power is. It is critically important that the Director of National Intelligence oversee the budgets of the country's fifteen intelligence agencies to keep our families and our communities safe. I believe good intelligence is our best defense against terrorism and it is critically important that our Intelligence Community have one boss -- the DNI," said Congressman Ruppersberger. General Hayden who is currently the Director of the National Security Agency (NSA) at Fort Meade has been chosen to be Mr. Negroponte's Deputy. Congressman Ruppersberger works closely with General Hayden through the Intelligence Committee. Congressman Ruppersberger also represents NSA which is in the Maryland 2nd Congressional District. "General Hayden is a great leader with extensive vision and tremendous experience in the Intelligence Community including six years as Director of the National Security Agency. He is a top notch administrator who has learned the lessons of 9/11 and the importance of information sharing among agencies. General Hayden has broad technical skills and will be a great asset to the Director of National Intelligence. General Hayden and Ambassador Negroponte make a terrific team. I look forward to working with both men to implement the Intelligence Reforms to keep our country safe," said Congressman Ruppersberger. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauds the Army's decision NOT to build an asbestos disposal plant at Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) in Harford County. Congressman Ruppersberger vigorously opposed the proposal after dozens of local residents contacted him about health and safety concerns. Asbestos is a mineral fiber that was used in a variety of insulation and building products. If inhaled, it can cause cancer and other lung diseases. The Congressman sent several letters to the Secretary of the Army asking him to scrap the plan. Congressman Ruppersberger also worked with local government and community leaders to express strong opposition to the proposal. "I am pleased that the Army listened to our concerns. An asbestos disposal plant has no place in the middle of Harford County where thousands of families live. I believe this process should be completed in a less populated area," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The Army planned to collect tons of asbestos from military installations from surrounding states, from New York to Virginia, and transport it to APG for disposal. Many residents expressed concerns about the transportation of the toxic material on local roadways and the possibility of asbestos seeping into the air. "My neighbors and I attended dozens of meetings expressing our opposition to putting an asbestos disposal plant in our backyards. We are thrilled that our hard work paid off and the plan has been scrapped. The Army listened to us, to 'We the People', instead of siding with big business. We couldn't be happier," said Carolyn Hicks, a Harford County resident. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) calls on Congress to fund the number of border patrol agents called for by the Intelligence Reform Act that passed Congress and was signed by the President last December. The Act calls for the Department of Homeland Security to hire 2,000 new border patrol agents every year for the next five years, but the President's Budget only allocates funding for 210 new agents. The American people are losing out on 1,790 agents that were promised to them to help stop illegal aliens from entering our country. "I believe the American people deserve 100% of the border protection we promised them in the Intelligence Reform Act, not 10% like the President is proposing. These additional border patrol agents are critically important to keep our families and our communities safe by preventing terrorists from slipping into our country unnoticed," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger attempted to introduce an amendment to H.R. 418, the Real ID Act, that would have instructed Congress to allocate funds to pay for the additional agents but the amendment was not allowed. The Congressman believes this amendment would have provided for real border security that is not included in H.R. 418. The Intelligence Reform Bill also strengthened visa application requirements and set standards for driver's licenses. The Congressman voted against H.R. 418 because he believes it will not make our country safer and will dismantle many of the important security reforms laid out in the Intelligence Reform bill. H.R. 418 was NOT endorsed by the 9-11 Commission. In addition, the Congressman is concerned that H.R. 418 will pre-empt current Maryland law when it comes to undocumented immigrants and will create an unfunded mandate that will cost Maryland taxpayers thousands of dollars. "I do not believe that H.R. 418 will make our country any safer. I believe we need more Border Patrol Agents on the ground, manning our borders to really make a difference. We need true Immigration reform but I do not believe this piece of legislation is taking this country in the right direction," said Congressman Ruppersberger. H.R. 418 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 261 to 161. Related Bill: H.R. 418 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) are pleased to announce that a $4.7 million grant is touching down at the Baltimore Washington International (BWI) Airport. The money will pay for improvements to the pavement around the new Concourse A including an extension of the parallel taxiway and ramp. This is the fifth year of funding for the project for a total of $38.7 million. In 2004, 20 million passengers traveled through BWI Airport - up 3.3% from 2003. "With BWI growing by leaps and bounds, these funds are an important tool to assist in the on-going expansion activities," said Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD). "This federal funding combined with the $10 million recently awarded to BWI for security improvements will strengthen the airport and ensure that it remains an economic engine for the region," said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), a member of the Transportation, Treasury, and House Appropriations Subcommittee. "BWI Airport is one of Maryland's biggest economic engines. It is important that we keep up with demand and ensure that business and vacation travelers can easily and safely travel through the Airport. This $4.7 million grant helps keep passengers moving," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In an effort to meet the needs of the airlines and provide more frequent service and additional destinations for passengers at BWI, a new and improved Concourse A is scheduled to open in May of 2005 - adding 11 new gates. When Concourse A is complete and it is connected with Concourse B - the area will include 26 gates. This Concourse will offer a large baggage claim area, passenger hold rooms, ticket counter space and significantly increased food and shopping areas. The grant is being awarded by the Department of Transportation. (####)
11.20.2009	(Largo, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will kick off the Book Bridge Project at Prince George's Community College on Tuesday, April 5th, 2005 at 10am. The project pairs Seniors from the college's Seasoned Adults Growing through Education program with younger students. The Veterans will share their war-time experiences and the younger students will transcribe their stories. The accounts will eventually be housed at the Library of Congress as part of the "Veterans History Project". "Throughout our nation's history thousands of American men and women have answered the call and served their country in a time of war. I am privileged to be a part of this oral history project that gives these Veterans a chance to share their stories of courage and bravery with younger generations. The Veteran's stories will be chronicled and housed in the Library of Congress so they can live on through history," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch RuppersbergerMaryland VeteransPrince George's Community College Students What:Congressman Ruppersberger Will Kick Off Book Bridge Project When:10:00am, Tuesday, April 5th, 2005 Where:Community Rooms A, B and CStudent CenterPrince George's Community College301 Largo Road, Largo, MD 20774 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- In honor of Earth Day on Friday, April 22nd, 2005, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will introduce his Hybrid Bill and test drive a hybrid car at the Glen Burnie Park and Ride. With gas prices continuing to soar, Congressman Ruppersberger will discuss this legislation that will help cut fuel consumption and encourage Marylanders to drive environmentally friendly hybrid vehicles by offering valuable tax credits for people who purchase a hybrid. The legislation reinstates the Clean Fuel Vehicle tax credit and extends it to $4,000. Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch RuppersbergerMaryland Commuters What:Ruppersberger to Introduce Hybrid Bill On Earth Day When:12:30pm, Friday, April 22nd, 2005 Where:Glen Burnie Park and Ride Lot102 Dorsey RoadGlen Burnie, MD 21060 (####)
11.20.2009	(McLean, VA)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauds the Soldiers, Civilians, and Contractors of the U.S. Army Research Laboratory at Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) for creating armor for HUMVEEs that save soldiers lives and reduce injuries in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other locations around the world. Congressman Ruppersberger was on hand as members of the group were awarded the "Top Ten Greatest Inventions of 2004" by the U.S. Army on June 8th, 2005, at a special ceremony in McLean, Virginia. "I praise the soldiers, civilians, and contractors at Aberdeen Proving Ground for their dedication and ingenuity creating this important equipment to help save lives and prevent injuries for our men and women in uniform serving their country in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world. We are fighting a new kind of war in Iraq and we need to utilize the latest in technology to help protect our military personnel abroad. I applaud the hard working Americans for working together to make this happen," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The "Armor Survivability Kit" uses steel and ballistic glass to protect military personnel traveling in HUMVEEs from small arms projectiles and fragments from Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). Over 8,000 Armor Survivability Kits are being used around the world. The Army says it recognizes the need for new technological ideas and systems to help fight "The War Against Terror." The U.S. Army created its "Top Ten Greatest Inventions" competition to acknowledge and enhance greater cooperation between the "Warfighter" and the Research and Development Communities within the military to save lives, prevent injuries, or increase readiness. (####)
11.20.2009	(Towson, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will host a commonsense panel discussion on Monday, June 20th, 2005, about protecting and securing chemical companies in Maryland and across the country. The discussion will focus on balancing the need for security with the needs of business. The chemical industry is a vital part of the Maryland economy. Maryland is home to 407 chemical facilities and employs an estimated 15,600 people. The American Chemistry Council estimates that chemical companies have spent $2 billion on security since 2001. A press conference will follow the panel discussion at 1:30 pm outside Unitas Stadium in Towson. Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)Dennis Schrader, Director, MD Office of Homeland SecurityCaptain Curt Springer, Commander, US Coast Guard Sector BaltimoreHarvey Eisenberg, Asst US States Attorney for the District of MarylandKathee Baker, National Association of Chemical DistributorsMarty Durbin, American Chemistry CouncilDr. Daraius Irani, Applied Economics Group with RESI at Towson U.Chief William J. Goodwin Jr., Baltimore City Fire Department What:Commonsense Panel Discussion about Chemical Security When:Monday, June 20, Press Conference at 1:30 pm Where:Outside Unitas StadiumTowson UniversityAuburn Dr at Osler DrTowson, MD 21204 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger will lead a balanced, commonsense panel discussion about protecting and securing the chemical industry including production, storage and distribution facilities from potential terrorist attacks. Panelists include Dennis Schrader, Director for Maryland Governor's Office of Homeland Security; Captain Curt Springer, Commander USCG Sector Baltimore; Harvey Eisenberg, Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Maryland; Kathy Baker, National Association of Chemical Distributors; Diane Schute, Director of Legislative Affairs for the Chemical Producers and Distributors Association; and Dr. Daraius Irani, Director of the Applied Economics Group with RESI at Towson University. This forum will be held at the Minnegan Room in the Unitas Stadium at Towson University. Parking is complimentary and signs will be posted around campus to direct you the building. This discussion is open to the public. A press conference will be held immediately following the event at 1:30 pm. Seating capacity is limited. Please send your RSVP immediately to Sheilah Mirmiran at Sheilah.mirmiran@mail.house.gov or 202-225-3061. You will receive further details and directions with your registration confirmation. Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)Dennis Schrader, Director, MD Office of Homeland SecurityCaptain Curt Springer, Commander, US Coast Guard Sector BaltimoreHarvey Eisenberg, Asst US States Attorney for the District of MarylandKathee Baker, National Association of Chemical DistributorsMarty Durbin, American Chemistry CouncilDr. Daraius Irani, Applied Economics Group with RESI at Towson U.Chief William J. Goodwin Jr., Baltimore City Fire Department What:Commonsense Panel Discussion about Chemical Security When:Monday, June 20, 8:45 AM to 1:30 PMPress Conference at 1:30 pm Where:Minnegan Room in Unitas StadiumPress Conference Outisde Unitas StadiumTowson UniversityAuburn Dr at Osler DrTowson, MD 21204 **Press is welcome to attend the entire panel discussion that begins at 8:45am in the Minnegan Room in Unitas Stadium but space is limited. Please call Heather Molino at (703) 615-5371 if you would like to attend.** (####)
11.20.2009	Dear Friends:Across the United States this month, hundreds of thousands of Americans will gather to participate in marathons, bake sales, and educational programs. Companies around the world will donate proceeds from sales of their products throughout the month. All of these efforts share a common purpose: to raise awareness and funding for the fight against breast cancer. October 2005 marks the 21st year of the observance of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Over 211,240 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed in the United States this year. Breast cancer does not discriminate. The disease affects the young and old, the rich and poor, and all ethnicities. One woman in eight has or will develop breast cancer in her lifetime. And beyond the statistics, many of us know someone who has been touched by breast cancer: a relative, a co-worker, a friend. While we celebrate the advancements that have been made against the disease, we also recognize the challenges we continue to face in fighting breast cancer. There are many endeavors which can significantly improve a woman's chance of survival. Early detection, regular physical examinations, breast cancer research, education, advocacy and patient services all continue to remain vital priorities in the campaign to combat and find a cure for this disease. In conjunction with Breast Cancer Awareness Month, October 21st is National Mammography Day, a day when all women are encouraged to make a mammography appointment. Low cost or free mammography screening is available to women who are over 40 and underinsured or uninsured. For additional information, contact the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) at 1-888-842-6355. To locate a breast imaging facility near you, please contact the National Cancer Institute at 1-800-4-CANCER. I urge everyone to participate in Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Attend an event raising funds for breast cancer research. Call a friend and remind her to get a mammogram. Go online to learn more about the disease. Working together, we will continue to fight and search for a cure for breast cancer. Sincerely, C.A. Dutch RuppersbergerMember of Congress Additional Breast Cancer Resources Susan G. Komen FoundationAmerican Cancer SocietyNational Breast Cancer Foundation (####)
11.20.2009	(Odenton, MD)- Congressman Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will meet with Anne Arundel County business leaders on Monday to discuss the expected economic growth and development that is likely to result from the Department of Defense's Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision. The plan proposes relocating more than 5,000 civilian jobs to the Fort Meade Campus in Anne Arundel County. On May 13, the BRAC released its list of recommendations, which included relocating more than 5,000 jobs to Fort Meade from seven military agencies now located in Virginia, New Jersey and Florida. Maryland is expected to gain nearly 9,200 jobs if the BRAC recommendations are carried out. What:Congressman Cardin & Congressman Ruppersberger to Meet With Anne Arundel County Business Leaders Concerning Future Economic Growth Due to BRAC When:Monday, May 23 at 2:30 p.m. Where:West Anne Arundel LibraryConference Room B1325 Annapolis RoadOdenton, MD 21113 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) voted for the Faster and Smarter Funding for First Responders Act of 2005. H.R. 1544 changes the distribution of first responder grants to take into account threat levels of a particular state. Revising the funding formula was one of the key recommendations of the bi-partisan 9-11 Commission. Maryland is home to several high profiles targets including the Port of Baltimore, BWI Airport, Fort Meade, the National Security Agency, Aberdeen Proving Ground, the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay, and dozens of chemical and biotech companies. States like Maryland are expected to get more first responder funds under this plan. "I believe states like Maryland with critical infrastructure like the Port of Baltimore, BWI Airport, Fort Meade, the National Security Agency, Aberdeen Proving Ground, the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay, and dozens of chemical and biotech companies should receive more first responder funding than other states with less critical infrastructure. This funding is critical to keep our families and communities safe in Maryland. If our first responders can't protect themselves in an emergency how can they be expected to protect us?" said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The legislation establishes a First Responder Grant Board to evaluate and prioritize all covered grant applications. Under H.R. 1544, each state will receive at least 0.25% of the total amount distributed and states that have an international border or are on a body of water with an international border, including Maryland, are guaranteed a minimum of 0.45%. In order to receive this funding, the state government must develop a three year homeland security plan for enhancing their preparedness and response capabilities. In addition, the state must forward at least 80% of the funds to local entities within 45 days of receiving them. H.R. 1544 must pass the Senate and be signed by the President to become law. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) voted for the $82 billion Supplemental Aid package for FY 2005. 93% of these funds or $76 billion will aid military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. H.R. 1268 earmarks $308 million for heavily armored Humvees and $60 million for radio jammers to disrupt attempts by Iraqi insurgents to explode remote controlled bombs and mines. The Supplemental also increases the death benefit for the soldiers' families from $12,000 to $100,000. "Whether you are for or against the war in Iraq, the fact is we are there now and we must support our troops. Our men and women in uniform are risking their lives in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other places around the world. We must give them the resources they need to get the job done and come home," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In addition, H.R. 1268 includes an amendment that will lift the cap on visas for temporary, seasonal workers. Many Maryland businesses were unable to obtain seasonal help using the H2B Visa Program because the cap was reached before these businesses were allowed to apply for the visas. Several landscaping, seafood, and hotel companies have contacted Congressman Ruppersberger's Office asking for assistance. "We need a better process of issuing these visas that levels the playing field for all companies employing temporary, seasonal workers. We need to ensure that the H2B Visas are distributed equally to companies who need these legal, documented workers all year, not just at the beginning," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Supplemental also includes $635 million for additional border security funding. The money will be used to hire 500 additional Border Patrol Agents. "These additional Border Patrol Agents are critically important to keep our families and our communities safe by preventing terrorists from slipping into our country unnoticed," said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). Related Bill: H.R. 1268 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congresswoman Jane Harman (D-CA), the Ranking Member on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, named Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) to the newly created Subcommittee on Oversight. The Subcommittee will oversee the creation of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and ensure that there is coordination and communication between the intelligence agencies to prevent future intelligence failures. The Oversight Subcommittee will also conduct investigations, audits, and legal reviews of the operations, acquisition programs, functions, and capabilities of the Intelligence Community. "Congressman Ruppersberger's experience as the Baltimore County Executive, a manager, and a prosecutor are incredibly important as we oversee the creation of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence to keep our country safe. In this historic era where landmark policy is being implemented, I know Congressman Ruppersberger's service on the Oversight Subcommittee will be immensely helpful to protect the future of our country," said Congresswoman Jane Harman (D-CA). "I am honored to be appointed to the newly created Oversight Subcommittee that will ensure better coordination and communication within the Intelligence Community to help keep our families and our communities safe. As a member of the Subcommittee, I will oversee reviews of the Intelligence Community that will help identify any potential problems and fix those problems to prevent future intelligence failures," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In 2003, Congressman Ruppersberger was the first Democratic Freshman to ever be appointed to the Intelligence Committee. Congressman Ruppersberger is serving his second term in Congress representing Maryland's 2nd District that includes neighborhoods in Baltimore County, Anne Arundel County, Harford County, and Baltimore City and includes the Port of Baltimore, BWI Airport, Fort Meade, Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG), and the National Security Agency (NSA). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce his nominees for the United States Service Academies in 2005. The Congressman consulted a diverse panel of academy graduates, educators, business leaders, and other professionals to help him choose the thirteen most qualified students from Maryland's 2nd Congressional District interested in attending a service academy. "These students represent the best and the brightest of Maryland. In our uncertain world, we need a focused and well trained military. I am confident these students will make great additions to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Naval Academy, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. These young people will be the leaders of tomorrow," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger nominated: * Brian Antkowiak of Loch Raven High School to the United States Naval Academy. * Christopher Beasman of Loyola Blakefield High School to the United States Air Force Academy. * Mark Brandau of the McDonogh School to the United States Naval Academy. * Patrice Cottman of Meade Senior High School to the United States Military Academy at Westpoint, the United States Naval Academy, and the United States Air Force Academy. * Gregory Franklin of the McDonogh School to the United States Naval Academy. * Andrew Holcomb of Kenwood High School to the United States Military Academy at West Point and the United States Naval Academy. * Justin Kelch of Franklin High School to the United States Naval Academy. * James Kielek of Archbishop Curley High School to the United States Air Force Academy. * Eugene Lee of Loch Raven High School to the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Military Academy at West Point, and the United States Naval Academy. * Michael Lee of Dulaney High School to the United States Air Force Academy. * Kyle Martin of Calvert Hall College High School to the United States Merchant Marine Academy and to the United States Naval Academy. * Marianne Sparklin of Northeast Senior High School to the United States Naval Academy and to the United States Air Force Academy. * Andrew Weiner of Calvert Hall College High School to the United States Naval Academy. A nomination from Congressman Ruppersberger does not guarantee an appointment to a United States Service Academy. It is up to the individual academies to issue appointments.} (####)
11.20.2009	(Glen Burnie, MD)- In honor of Earth Day on Friday, April 22nd, 2005, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) discussed his Hybrid Bill that he recently introduced in Congress and test drove a hybrid car at the Glen Burnie Park and Ride. With gas prices continuing to soar, Congressman Ruppersberger discussed H.R. 1744 that will help cut fuel consumption and encourage Marylanders to drive environmentally friendly hybrid vehicles by offering valuable tax credits for people who purchase a hybrid. The legislation reinstates the Clean Fuel Vehicle tax credit that expired at the end of last year and extends it to $4,000. Hybrid electric vehicles are the most fuel-efficient vehicles on the road today. Hybrids combine an electric motor with a conventional, but cleaner, gasoline powered engine to deliver above-average gas mileage. Driving a hybrid vehicle not only helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also limits fuel consumption by at least 50% and reduces our dependence on foreign oil. Driving a hybrid will also save drivers money on their gas bill. "Hybrid vehicles help to protect our environment for our children and our children's children. This tax break coupled with rising gas prices makes purchasing a hybrid vehicle an economical and environmentally friendly decision," said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Annapolis, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will join Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD), Lt. Governor Anthony Brown (D-MD), Maryland Speaker Michael E. Busch (D-MD), and members of Maryland Citizen’s Health Initiative to urge President George W. Bush to sign the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) reauthorization and expansion. The leaders will be joined by the Frost family of Baltimore who have been advocating for the legislation nationally and understand the importance of having insurance after a severe car accident. Graeme Frost, age 12, will deliver the Democratic response to the President’s radio address on Saturday. SCHIP legislation passed the U.S. House and Senate this week. SCHIP provides health care to children whose parents make too much to qualify for Medicaid but too little to afford private health insurance. Maryland health officials say more than 100,000 Maryland children are covered under the Maryland Children’s Health Program. Expansion of the program would cover an additional 42,000 uninsured children in Maryland. What: Rally to Encourage President George W. Bush NOT to Veto SCHIP Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Senator Benjamin L. Cardin House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer Governor Martin O’Malley Lt. Governor Anthony Brown Maryland Speaker Michael E. Busch Members of Maryland Citizen’s Health Initiative The Frost Family When: 12:30 pm, Monday, October 1, 2007 Where: Steps of the Maryland State House Annapolis, MD (####)
11.20.2009	(Middle River, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) welcomed home Maryland National Guard troops from Iraq on Sunday, January 14, 2007 at Martin State Airport in Middle River. The Essex based 135th Airlift Group returned home after a two year deployment to the Middle East. The citizen soldiers flew 2,730 combat missions transporting more than 5,300 tons of cargo and 33,500 passengers in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Africa. The Airmen transported Army and Marine personnel and cargo on aircraft so they didn’t have to travel on the dangerous roads in the region. “It is an exciting time for the friends and family of the members of the 135th Airlift Group here in Eastern Baltimore County. Their loved ones are home safe and sound. These men and women risked their lives to save the lives of others in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Africa. I believe we must honor these citizen soldiers and their families for the sacrifices they are making for their country. They served their country well,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is honored to be sworn in for a third term in the United States House of Representatives. The Swearing-In Ceremony took place on the floor of the House on Thursday, January 4, 2007. "It is an honor to serve the United States House of Representatives at such an exciting time in history. The Democrats have taken back the House. Baltimore native Nancy Pelosi is the first woman Speaker and long time Maryland resident Steny Hoyer is the new Majority Leader. I look forward to working with my colleagues to improve the lives of Maryland families. We have an aggressive agenda ahead of us. We will work hard to implement the 9-11 Commission recommendations, raise the minimum wage, improve the Medicare prescription drug law, and cut interest rates on student loans. We have a lot to do and I am eager to get started," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger will serve on the House Appropriations Committee, including the Commerce & Justice and Financial Services Subcommittees, in the 110th Congress. He also serves on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) voted for the “U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health and Iraq Accountability Act” in the Appropriations Committee today. The measure, also known as the 2007 Iraq Supplemental spending bill, passed by a 36 to 28 vote. The measure holds the Iraqi government responsible for political and military benchmarks laid out by President Bush in his January 10th speech and requires a phased redeployment of US troops in Iraq by August 2008 at the latest. It requires the President to honor the standards the Department of Defense has set for troop readiness, training, and equipment before sending troops into battle. It also provides urgent support to address the military medical care crisis at Walter Reed and other military hospitals. Congressman Ruppersberger released the following statement: “The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health and Iraq Accountability Act holds the President accountable for the War in Iraq. Since the war began in March 2003, more than 3,200 of our finest sons and daughters have given the ultimate sacrifice for their country. More than 25,000 troops have been wounded. The only people sacrificing in this war are the troops and their families. Now four years into the war, Iraq is in utter chaos and violence is commonplace. The President wants a blank check and an open ended commitment from Congress. I believe we need benchmarks to hold the President and the Iraqi government accountable. We must measure progress with specific military and political milestones that the President established so we can begin to redeploy forces and bring our men and women in uniform home. “Our brave servicemen and women have performed in Iraq with valor and honor. They have done everything that a grateful nation has asked of them since the beginning of this war. Whether you are for or against this war, we must support our troops. This measure does that. In fact, it provides $2.5 million for improving the readiness of our stateside troops. It also requires the Department of Defense to make sure military personnel have the proper training and equipment before they can be deployed and limits the length of the deployment. The President must notify Congress in writing if he waives any of these requirements. “I do not believe we need new troops in Iraq. I believe we need a new strategy in Iraq. The current strategy is clearly not working. I serve on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. I have been to Iraq four times and have met with America’s top Generals, US and Iraqi troops, and Iraqi elected officials including Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki. We must give the Iraqis more responsibility to take control of their own country. We must cut the apron strings and let the Iraqis patrol their own streets. American troops will guard the perimeter areas and back-up the Iraqis in an emergency. I call it the “Perimeter Plan.” Redeploying troops to perimeter areas and lowering the profile of American forces will break the dependency the Iraqi military has on U.S. forces. The Iraqis will gain more confidence in their own abilities to secure their own country. This is not cut and run like some on the other side of the aisle would like you to believe. As Thomas Paine insisted during the American Revolution, we need to let those who want independence test their will and try their soul. More American troops hinder the Iraqi democracy from testing its will and its soul and hurt the world in the Global War on Terror. “Iraq was not a hot bed for terrorists before the war but it is now. The country has become a magnet for those who want to harm Americans and Iraqis and disrupt this new democracy. Terrorists have used Iraq against us to recruit and spread their twisted ideology worldwide but the Global War on Terror is much more than Iraq. While we are spending much of our precious resources in Iraq, we are NOT focused on fighting terrorism worldwide. We are taking our eye off the ball. We must refocus our efforts in other parts of the Middle East, Asia, South America, Africa, and other parts of the world. “We must also not forget about Afghanistan. The Supplemental adds $1 billion to the Defense Department request to address the rising conflict in Afghanistan where Al-Qaeda and the Taliban are gaining strength. Looking back, Afghanistan was where the war against Al-Qaeda began and where it should have stayed. “The Iraq Supplemental also supports our troops when they come home. Many of us read about the deplorable conditions Veterans were forced to live in while they were getting care at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. This measure provides $1.7 billion for military health care for Walter Reed and other hospitals across the country. “There is not a Member of this body who does not pray for our nation’s success in Iraq and in the Global War on Terror. We must also take care of our nation’s heroes when they come home from Iraq or Afghanistan. We must empower the Iraqis to chart their own course as they continue to create their democracy. Our ultimate goal is to have peace in the region and bring our military personnel home. It is not about Republicans or Democrats, it is about all Americans and keeping our world safe for our children and grandchildren.” (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) hails the passage of the Chesapeake National Historic Water Trail Act that honors Captain John Smith. The measure the Congressman co-sponsored creates a National Historic Trail that traces the route used by Captain Smith during his 1607 and 1608 trip to chart the Chesapeake Bay. The route extends approximately 3,000 miles through the Bay and its tributaries in Maryland, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Delaware, and in the District of Columbia. “I am thrilled the House of Representatives passed this important bill, which will provide an opportunity for the people of Maryland to learn about the earliest exploration of the Chesapeake Bay by Europeans and the role that Maryland played in the earliest North American settlements. Marylanders will be able to use this trail to enjoy the natural beauty of the bay while preserving it for future generations. This Historic Trail will also bring economic development to Maryland’s communities along the Chesapeake by promoting sailing and boating opportunities on Maryland’s shores. I am pleased to support this bill and urge the Senate to pass it before adjourning,” said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). The trail travels through many of Maryland’s waterways, including the Patapsco, Bush and Susquehanna Rivers, as well as the Chesapeake Bay itself. Captain John Smith’s many stops in Maryland include locations near Baltimore, Havre de Grace, and Perryville. Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District includes more than 200 miles of shoreline from Havre to Pasadena along the Chesapeake Bay. The National Historic Water Trail will commemorate Captain Smith’s journey through the Chesapeake Bay as part of the Jamestown settlement, the first permanent British colony in North America. As a National Trail, it will provide educational and recreational opportunities to the people of Maryland and the nation. It will also tell the story of the Native American tribes in the area who had extensive interactions with the new settlers, providing them with valuable knowledge and goods that helped the settlers survive the first days and weeks at Jamestown. Congressman Ruppersberger has a long record of protecting the environment, going back to his work as Baltimore County Executive to mitigate the impact of new development on the Chesapeake ecosystem. This bill continues his work to ensure that the Chesapeake is protected for future generations. ####
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) honored Oriole great Cal Ripken on his election to the Hall of Fame at special gala at the Baltimore Convention Center on January 27, 2007. Cal Ripken received 98.53% of the votes – the third highest in Major League Baseball history. The Congressman submitted a statement into the Congressional Record honoring the “Iron Man” and presented it to him at the function. “Cal Ripken is a man who leads by example on and off the baseball diamond. The ‘Iron Man’ has some impressive stats – from his Rookie of the Year Award in 1982 to his Most Valuable Player Awards in 1983 and 1991 to his record breaking streak of playing in 2,632 consecutive games, but that’s not where his career ended. Cal continues to give back to the community by helping underprivileged children develop leadership skills and a healthy lifestyle through baseball themed camps and after school activities,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Ripken family created the Cal Ripken, Senior, Foundation in 2001 in honor of their late father, Cal Ripken, Sr. who worked for 37 years as a player, coach, and manager with the Baltimore Orioles’ organization. His teachings and the “Ripken Way” influenced thousands of young ballplayers including his sons, Cal, Jr. and Bill Ripken. “The Ripkens exemplify hard work, dedication, and strong leadership that has led them to phenomenal success. It is wonderful that they want to share their talents and experiences with at risk kids. These programs improve the lives of these children and make our entire community stronger. It is an honor to call Cal Ripken one of Maryland’s favorite sons,” said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) attended the State of the Union Address delivered by President George W. Bush on Tuesday, January 23, 2007 in the House chambers. Congressman Ruppersberger was pleased that the President recognized the first female Speaker of the House and Baltimore native, Nancy Pelosi, in the opening moments of his speech. The Congressman also appreciated the President’s call for bipartisanship. “Bipartisanship is critical as we move forward to do the people’s work in Washington. We must work together to improve the lives of Maryland families. Our constituents expect this and we must deliver in the 110th Congress,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The speech touched on everything from energy policy to immigration policy to the War in Iraq. Congressman Ruppersberger looks forward to hearing more concrete proposals from the President in the coming months about these important issues. "I do not believe we need to deploy the additional troops in Iraq that the President called for in his speech. I believe we need a new strategy in Iraq that requires the Iraqis to take over more responsibility for securing their own country. We must allow the Iraqis to gain more confidence in their own abilities. Changing the mission of U.S. forces and lowering the profile of the U.S. forces in urban areas will break the dependency the Iraqi military has on U.S. forces. Our ultimate goal is to bring our men and women in uniform home. I believe this change in strategy will help us do that," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) questioned federal officials about the safety and security concerns surrounding the proposed Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) facility on the site of the former Sparrows Point Shipyard in Eastern Baltimore County. The Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation held a field hearing at the University of Maryland, School of Law on Monday, April 23, 2007. “A liquefied natural gas facility is absolutely inappropriate for the area. If constructed, the facility would be less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. Local residents could be harmed if there is an accident or a terrorist attack at the facility or on the tankers that travel up the Chesapeake Bay. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. Precious Coast Guard resources could be stretched too thin. Area resident’s quality of life could be negatively impacted by restrictions on recreational boat traffic. In addition, an LNG facility could harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Maryland Senator Mikulski (D-MD), Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD), Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith, Captain Brian D. Kelley, U.S. Coast Guard, Mr. Richard Hoffmann, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Mr. Kent Morton, AES Corporation and Baltimore County Residents attended the hearing. Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application including the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Coast Guard, and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). AES Corporation filed their official application to construct the project on January 7, 2007. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) praises Governor Martin O’Malley’s appointment of James J. White to lead the Port of Baltimore. Jim White returns to the position of Executive Director of the Maryland Port Administration that he held from 1999 to 2005. “Jim White has more than three decades of maritime experience and is well respected in the maritime community. I praise Governor O’Malley for persuading such a well qualified leader to come back to run the Port of Baltimore. Jim will be able to hit the ground running to make the port even stronger than it already is,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). During his 12 year career at the Port of Baltimore, Mr. White created an impressive strategic business plan including several long-term lease agreements. He also maintained a top notch working relationship with the maritime industry. After September 11, 2001, Mr. White worked together with local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies to develop a port security program that protected the Port of Baltimore while keeping commerce moving. The Port of Baltimore is one of Maryland’s largest economic engines. The Port is responsible for about 128,000 jobs and handles 40.5 million tons of cargo worth $36 billion each year. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Appropriations Committee. The Congressman is also a co-chair of the Congressional Port Security Caucus. In addition, the Port of Baltimore is in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Team Maryland rallied on the steps of the Maryland State House in Annapolis on October 1, 2007, for health care for kids. The group is calling on President George W. Bush NOT to veto the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) reauthorization and expansion and instead to sign it into law. SCHIP legislation passed the U.S. House and Senate last week. SCHIP provides health care to children whose parents make too much to qualify for Medicaid but too little to afford private health insurance. Health officials say more than 100,000 Maryland children are covered under the Maryland program, Maryland Children’s Health Program. Expansion of the program would cover an additional 42,000 uninsured children in Maryland. “No child in the State of Maryland should be forced to go without health care because their parents can’t afford private insurance. The Maryland Children’s Health Program gives more than 100,000 children access to doctors and medicines that will keep them healthy so they can grow and learn and become productive members of society,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger was joined by Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley (D-MD), Lt. Governor Anthony Brown (D-MD), Maryland Speaker Michael E. Busch (D-MD), and members of Maryland Citizen’s Health Initiative. The leaders were also joined by the Frost family of Baltimore who have been advocating for the legislation nationally and understand the importance of having insurance after a severe car accident. Graeme Frost, age 12, delivered the Democratic response to the President’s radio address on Saturday, September 29, 2007. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.D)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) met with 16-year-old Sara Manley, a Towson High School student, on Capitol Hill during the Congressional Youth Leadership Council Conference. The two discussed a variety of issues including the dangers of drinking and driving. Sara Manley was involved in an accident with a teenage drunk driver. Congressman Ruppersberger and Ms. Manley talked about the importance of openly discussing the hazards and risks of drinking and driving. Every twenty three minutes, someone becomes a victim of a drunk driving car accident according to the National Highway Safety Administration. Recent studies show that in the United States, 13% of all fatal car accidents were alcohol related. Nearly 40% of these alcohol related accidents were caused by teen drivers who had been drinking and driving. “Every single injury and death caused by drunk driving is completely preventable. It is critically important that parents talk to their kids and teens talk to each other about the dangers of drinking and driving or getting into a car with someone who has been drinking. Together, we can make a real difference in preventing drunk driving,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Sara Manley lives in Lutherville and is a sophomore at Towson High School. She was on Capitol Hill on October 18, 2007, participating in leadership training with other students from across the country as part of the Congressional Youth Leadership Council. Ms. Manley is active in Towson High School’s extracurricular activities. She is a member of the Latin Club and plays on the field hockey team. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is fighting for better healthcare coverage for seniors. He spoke to seniors at the Mercy Ridge Retirement Community in Timonium on June 25, 2007. The Congressman supports the goals of LifeSpan’s Honor the Promise Campaign to provide seniors flexible living arrangements, expand the workforce that cares for seniors, and make the government agencies that administer programs for seniors more efficient and user-friendly. “America’s seniors deserve affordable, high quality, and accessible healthcare. Seniors have worked their jobs, paid their taxes, and raised their families. They deserve to enjoy their golden years happy and healthy. I am working hard on Capitol Hill to overhaul the prescription drug benefit available through Medicare so it actually lowers the cost of medicines for seniors,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Right now the prescription drug plan known as “Medicare Part D” prohibits the government from negotiating for lower prices for seniors and creates a costly gap in coverage. Congressman Ruppersberger is working to create a plan that actually lowers medicine costs. He supported H.R. 4, the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act of 2007. The measure that repeals this ban passed the House of Representatives on January 12, 2007. The bill is awaiting action in the Senate. LifeSpan represents more than 300 member organizations and 45,000 seniors throughout Maryland the Metropolitan DC area. Lifespan hopes to increase the lifespan of senior citizens by improving America’s healthcare system. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) took the floor of the United States House of Representatives today to speak in honor of four Tuskegee Airmen from Maryland, express his support for House Concurrent Resolution 26, and pay tribute to Black History Month. The Congressman is an original co-sponsor of the resolution. His remarks follow as prepared. "Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of House Concurrent Resolution 26 honoring the Tuskegee Airmen and their amazing contributions during World War II and their impact creating an integrated United States Air Force. I am honored for this opportunity to speak during Black History Month on this important resolution. As the first African-American combat unit in the Army Air Corps, the Tuskegee Airmen helped shatter stereotypes by fighting for freedom both abroad and here at home. Through their heroism in the skies above North Africa and Europe, the Airmen demonstrated that African-Americans could be effective members of the military. Completing over 500 missions during the war, the Tuskegee Airmen destroyed over 250 enemy aircraft without losing a single American bomber. Their individual and collective acts of courage helped pave the way for the desegregation of the Army in 1948. I would also like to take this opportunity to recognize four members of the Tuskegee Airmen with ties to my hometown of Baltimore, Maryland. Alfred L. Woolridge, Gordon T. Boyd, Leroy A. Battle, and Alfred McKenzie were four individuals with separate lives and histories. Each brought unique skills to their service and each helped to form this historic group of Tuskegee Airmen. I would like to take this opportunity to speak briefly about each of these incredible men and share a bit about them with you. Mr. Alfred L. Woolridge, a Baltimore resident, joined the Tuskegee Airmen after enlisting in the Army in 1942 and being assigned to the Tuskegee Army Air Field in Alabama. A scientist with a master's degree in chemistry and mathematics, Mr. Woolridge worked as an aircraft engineering officer ensuring that the planes were safe to fly every morning. After leaving the Army in 1946, Mr. Woolridge worked as an analytical chemist in Maryland until 1974. He remained an active member of his Baltimore community until his death in March of 1998. After being inducted into the Army Air Corps during World War II, Mr. Gordon T. Boyd Jr. became a bombardier and a navigator. He joined the Tuskegee Airman after being assigned to the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama. Mr. Boyd ascended to the rank of First Lieutenant and is credited with helping newer cadets adjust to military life. After being honorably discharged in 1946, Mr. Boyd worked as a management specialist for the U.S. Census Bureau until his retirement in 1979. Before his death on May 5, 1995, Mr. Boyd became a charter member of the East Coast Chapter D.C. Tuskegee Airmen Inc. Mr. Leroy A. Battle was a jazz musician who played with Billie Holliday before he was drafted into the Army in 1943. He volunteered to join the Tuskegee Airmen and soon became a bombardier and a navigator. On April 5, 1945, Mr. Battle along with 100 other airmen, defied orders by attempting to desegregate the officer's club at Freeman Field in Seymour, Indiana. The Freeman Field Incident played an important role in African-American attempts to combat racism in the Armed Forces and eventually paved the way for President Truman's order to desegregate the Army in 1948. After being honorably discharged from the Army, Mr. Battle spent 29 years teaching before retiring in 1978. He continues to be an active member of his community by speaking out about his experiences as a Tuskegee Airman. Mr. Alfred McKenzie joined the Tuskegee Airmen after being drafted into the Army in 1942. After completing advanced training, Mr. McKenzie became a B-25 pilot. He was sent to Freeman Field in Indiana where he later joined Mr. Battle and 100 other airmen in attempting to desegregate the officer's club. After World War II ended, Mr. McKenzie continued to fight for the cause of civil rights. After being passed over for a promotion numerous times at the Government Printing Office, McKenzie filed a class action law suit. The suit resulted in an order to end discrimination in promotions and a $2.4 million award in back pay to over 300 people. He continued to work for various civil rights causes until his death on March 30, 1998. These gentlemen exemplified the bravery of the legendary Tuskegee Airmen. They served their country both on the battlefield and off and were valued members of their Maryland communities. Mr. Speaker, at a time of war, with a new generation of servicemen and women serving bravely to bring liberty to the oppressed, I think it is only fitting that we remember these members of the Greatest Generation - the Tuskegee Airmen. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield back my time." Related Bill: H Con Res 26 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released the following statement in response to the State of the Union Address delivered by President George W. Bush on Wednesday, February 2nd, 2004. "I believe we need to modernize social security but I do not believe the Bush Privatization Plan is the answer. I am incredibly concerned about the estimated one to two trillion dollars that it will take to set up the private accounts. This will drive our nation even deeper into debt and continue to make the deficit spin out of control. I am a former County Executive and I was forced to balance the Baltimore County budget for eight years. I believe we need to take the same tactic in Washington, DC. Private accounts do not address the problem of social security's insolvency. Social security is in trouble because the government has been taking money out of the social security trust fund. In essence, the government has been raiding the cookie jars of Seniors all across the country for years without ever paying it back. I believe this practice needs to stop. Social security is a benefit that is earned. It is not a handout. People pay into it while they are working and they deserve to get their money back when they retire. I believe we need to build up social security not tear it down and roll the dice on Wall Street. I believe we should consider increasing tax incentives for IRA's and 401K's. I think we should also consider layering small personal investment accounts on top of the existing Social Security system rather than diverting taxes and reducing the guaranteed benefit. One plan that I've heard of allows workers to contribute an additional one percent of their earnings into an investment account that they control. The contribution would also be matched by the federal government using tax revenue. Finally, I join the President and millions of Americans who applaud the tremendous courage of the Iraqi people who cast their vote Sunday in the first democratic election in more than fifty years in that country. I also salute our men and women in uniform risking their lives to make this historic day possible. Whether you are for or against the war, the fact is we are in Iraq now and we must support our troops. I believe we must work aggressively to train the Iraqi people to protect their own country so we can bring our military servicemen and women home. I was hoping the President would lay out a clear exit strategy and would lay out a plan to bring together an international coalition of countries to help shoulder the burden in Iraq. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to modernize social security and complete our mission of securing democracy in Iraq." (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is calling for a new strategy in Iraq. The Congressman has created a plan that calls on the Iraqi security forces to take over more responsibility securing their own country so we can bring American troops home. Congressman Ruppersberger outlined his “Perimeter Plan” during a speech to the International Defense Cooperation Group at the National Press Club on September 6, 2006. Congressman Ruppersberger serves on the House Intelligence Committee in Congress. He has traveled to Iraq four times since the war began in 2003. Each time he traveled to the war torn region, he met with members of the military from Maryland and other places across the country, American and Iraqi Generals, and Iraqi political and civic leaders. “Our ultimate goal in Iraq is to create a free, open, and democratic Iraqi government and bring our men and women in uniform home. I believe the best way to do that is to have the Iraqi security forces take on more responsibility in securing their country. American forces should stop patrolling the streets of the major Iraqi cities and should instead guard the perimeter. The Iraqi military should take over responsibility for patrolling the urban areas where U.S. troops have been put most at risk. American troops will still back up the Iraqis if needed and will only be a fifteen minute Blackhawk helicopter ride away in most circumstances,” Congressman Ruppersberger told the group. The Congressman presented his “Perimeter Plan” to President Bush and his Cabinet on two separate occasions at the White House. During Congressman Ruppersberger’s most recent trip to Iraq this past May, the American Generals said they thought the United States could implement this strategy in large parts of the country now and in all parts of the country by the end of the year. “Changing the mission of U.S. forces, redeploying them to perimeter areas, and lowering the profile of the U.S. forces in urban areas will break the dependency the Iraqi military has on U.S. forces. Our ultimate goal is to bring American troops home. I believe this change in strategy will help us do that,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. (####)
11.20.2009	(Annapolis, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) welcomed the new Boys and Girls Club to Anne Arundel County by attending the grand opening celebration in Annapolis on September 9, 2006. Congressman Ruppersberger, a former University of Maryland and Team USA lacrosse player, spoke about the importance of learning about teamwork and leadership through after school sports and other activities. “We must invest in our youth because they are the future leaders of our country. I believe you get to children when they are young and help them learn the skills they need to succeed in school and in life. The Boys and Girls Club teaches children about teamwork and leadership through sports and other activities while at the same time keeping them away from drugs, alcohol, and gangs. I am proud to support their efforts,” said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Boys and Girls Club runs sports leagues for everything from toddler gymnastics to basketball. The facility is located at Wiley H. Bates Heritage Park and has a sports complex with baseball, football, soccer, and lacrosse fields. It also has a 150-seat theatre, the largest gymnasium in the county, a computer center, one-on-one tutoring services, and arts and crafts activities. The Boys and Girls Club is dedicated to providing children with a safe, healthy environment for them to grow and learn. Congressman Ruppersberger joined Senator Paul Sarbanes, Congressman Ben Cardin, Speaker Mike Busch, Delegate Herb McMillen, and First Lady Kendell Ehrlich in welcoming the Boys and Girls Club to Annapolis. (####)
11.20.2009	(White Marsh, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauded General Motors for building its first hybrid transmission for light trucks at its Baltimore Transmission Plant in White Marsh. The Congressman was on hand as the first transmission was hoisted off the assembly line during a special ceremony at the plant on October 29, 2007. “Hybrid vehicles help protect our environment for our children and grandchildren and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. I am pleased that the first hybrid transmission for light trucks is being built in America by workers at the Baltimore Transmission Plant in White Marsh. Jobs are the gasoline that fuels our economy. We have a highly skilled workforce in Baltimore County that is putting the pedal to the metal and creating a competitive and environmentally friendly vehicle that consumers will want to drive,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The 2-mode hybrid transmission will debut in the 2008 Chevrolet Tahoe Hybrid and the 2008 GMC Yukon Hybrid. The transmission uses gasoline and battery power. The nation’s largest auto maker says 500 highly trained U.S. based GM engineers and more than 350 highly skilled United Auto Workers (UAW) are assigned to the 2-mode program. GM invested $118 million to prepare the Baltimore Transmission Plant for production of the new transmission. Congressman Ruppersberger is a champion of federal hybrid legislation that offers Americans valuable tax credits when they purchase hybrid vehicles. The Congressman sponsored legislation in 2004 and 2005 that encourages people to drive environmentally friendly hybrids by creating a Clean Vehicle Tax Credit of up to $4000. The language in the Congressman’s bill was included in the Energy bill that passed Congress in 2005. When the Congressman was the Baltimore County Executive, he played a critical role in encouraging Allison Transmission now the Baltimore Transmission Plant to build its facility in White Marsh. Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Governor Martin O’Malley, and Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith were on hand at the ceremony as well. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) today joined the University of Maryland to celebrate the announcement of the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity (IARPA) will be permanently headquartered in College Park. IARPA is currently based at M Square's Center for Advanced Study of Language, the nation's largest foreign language research facility. IARPA will conduct cutting-edge, out-of-the-box, long-term, science and technology research across multiple agencies in the Intelligence Community. IARPA is modeled after the military's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). The goal is to hire some of the best minds in the industry to stay ahead of Russia and China and generate revolutionary capabilities to arm the Intelligence Community with the latest advancements as they work to protect our country. "This is great news for Maryland and shows that the University of Maryland will continue to be a center for technology and innovation that will keep our country safe. In order to stay a step ahead of the enemy, we must ensure our warfighters and intelligence workers have access to the latest in technology and innovation. IARPA will help us to do that," said Congressman C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee. "Our intelligence community is facing new threats and new challenges everyday - IARPA develops the new innovations and technologies to keep us safe at home and abroad," said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). "I can think of no better place than the University of Maryland, College Park, for IARPA's headquarters. Its innovative academic research, world-class facilities, and close proximity to federal intelligence agencies make it an excellent choice. I will continue to fight to make sure we are making the right investments to develop the new ideas that will protect us." "The University of Maryland is excited to play a role in the creation of IARPA," says University of Maryland President C. Dan Mote, Jr. "IARPA opens a new chapter in the nation's capacity to address its security challenges both those that are known today and those that are sure to come. The University's education and research programs will serve IARPA extremely well." As members of the Senate and House Select Committees on Intelligence, Senator Mikulski and Congressman Ruppersberger have worked for several months against attempts to move IARPA out of Maryland and to permanently establish and expand IARPA's headquarters on the university campus in Prince George's County. Construction of a new facility will be completed in early 2009. IARPA will make Maryland a high-tech center for intelligence research and development. This facility will bring together government, academia and the private sector - creating jobs and developing technology to improve our national and economic security. IARPA consolidates the NSA's Disruptive Technology office, previously called the Advanced Research and Development Activity, the NGA's National Technology Alliance, and the Central Intelligence Agency's (CIA) Intelligence Technology Innovation Center. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) has been named as the new Chairman of the Subcommittee on Technical and Tactical Intelligence. The Subcommittee has primary oversight over the National Security Agency (NSA) at Fort Meade, Maryland, satellite and technical systems vital to intelligence collection, and other military intelligence programs. NSA is the largest employer in Maryland with more than 20,000 workers. “Good intelligence is the best defense against terrorism. America is the most powerful country in the world in part because we control the skies. We have the best scientists, researchers, engineers, and technical experts working with the best satellites and technology available to keep our country safe. We must stay a step ahead of other countries. This will take resources. I believe we must give these professionals the resources and technology they need to get the job done. I plan to help make this happen as the Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Subcommittee,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Published reports say China has been able to successfully destroy a satellite while in orbit. Congressman Ruppersberger believes America must improve its technology by finding ways to better protect US satellites. Under Congressman Ruppersberger’s leadership, the Technical and Tactical Subcommittee will conduct more aggressive oversight of existing intelligence programs. The Subcommittee will oversee the operations of agencies and offices charged with providing imagery intelligence (IMINT), signals intelligence (SIGINT), measurement and signatures intelligence (MASINT), space-based and airborne collection, and intelligence from tactical military assets. One of the Subcommittee’s highest priorities is ensuring that U.S. military personnel on the front lines have access to timely, accurate, and actionable intelligence in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other locations around the world. The Subcommittee will assess if the U.S. Government is fully and effectively using all of its current capabilities while at the same time developing new ones. It will also examine the quality of intelligence assessments, capabilities and vulnerabilities of information technology (IT) systems, and NSA’s efforts to modernize its world-wide infrastructure. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce $3.9 million in federal funding for Maryland: $3.6 Million for Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC), $300,000 for education, and $175,000 for healthcare. $3.6 Million for Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) “I am committed to ensuring that Maryland has the proper infrastructure in place to handle the estimated 40,000 to 60,000 high-paying new jobs that will soon be heading to our state. I am working together with local, state, and federal officials to ensure that this growth does not negatively impact the lives of the people already living here. $3.6 million in federal funding is a great start and a good down payment to help us do this,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Congressman represents the Maryland 2nd District that includes Aberdeen Proving Ground and Fort Meade, two bases expected to receive the majority of new Maryland jobs. At Aberdeen Proving Ground, $1 million will improve safety, operations, and access on roads near the base. On I-695 in northeast Baltimore County, $750,000 will upgrade the interstate including widening it to eight lanes and improving interchanges and bridges. Near Fort Meade, $500,000 will improve access to the base by funding light signal systemization on MD 175 between MD 170 and MD 713. Across Maryland, $1 million will purchase new buses and construct new bus facilities. The bus service will link residential neighborhoods, town and retail centers, MARC stations and other transit services to employment centers across the state such as Fort Meade, the National Security Agency, and Aberdeen Proving Ground. Language in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations bill directs the Federal Highway Administration to work with the National Park Service and the Maryland State Highway Administration to determine if a third lane can be added to Interstate 295, the Baltimore Washington Parkway, from Interstate 695 to New York Avenue in the District of Columbia. Language in the bill also directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) in coordination with the Maryland State Highway Administration to review the impact that BRAC will have on transportation needs in the state and offer innovative solutions to relieve traffic congestion and reduce carbon emissions. At Towson University, $250,000 will fund comprehensive workforce development and student enrichment programs for projected BRAC and homeland security related jobs. At Anne Arundel Community College, $100,000 will provide continuing education for the healthcare and homeland security workforce by providing infrastructure improvements, curriculum materials, and other equipment necessary to meet the growing demand. $300,000 for EducationThe Cherry Hill Learning Zone Initiative will receive $300,000 to continue to fund a partnership between Towson University and the Baltimore City Public Schools. The program hopes to improve the economic and educational opportunities for the Cherry Hill community by preparing preschoolers for kindergarten, elementary school students for middle and high school, and high school seniors for higher education or direct entry into the workforce. $175,000 for HealthcareAt Northwest Hospital, $100,000 will expand and equip the Intermediate Care Unit to better serve the patients of the northwest Baltimore and Randallstown area. At Coppin State University, $75,000 will allow the School of Nursing to increase faculty and student recruitment and retention, create competitive faculty salaries, purchase equipment for the classroom and clinical laboratory, and identify new computer software and training guides for students. Language in the Labor, Health, Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations bill asks the Health Resources Services Administration to make changes to the regulations surrounding its drug discount program to allow most vulnerable Marylanders access to low cost prescription drugs. These projects were included in the 2008 Labor, Health, Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations bill and the 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The bills must be approved by the full House and Senate before they become law. Congressman Ruppersberger is working closely with Senator Barbara Mikulski of the Senate Appropriations Committee and the rest of the Maryland Congressional Delegation to get Maryland her fair share of federal funding for these important programs and projects. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) welcomed a replica of the John Smith shallop to Havre de Grace on Sunday, July 22, 2007. The Congressman joined the crew of the shallop and local elected officials in celebration of the 400th anniversary of Captain John Smith’s exploration of the Chesapeake Bay. The replica of the shallop was built at a shipyard on Maryland’s Eastern Shore using period material and techniques. In May, the shallop set sail on a 121-day expedition to retrace the Captain’s trip to highlight the Captain John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail, the nation’s first historic waterway trail. The trail charts Captain Smith’s route through “smart buoys” that act as interactive guide posts giving travelers access to historical and geographical data through cell phones or on the Internet. To follow the voyage, go to www.johnsmith400.org. “The Chesapeake Bay is one of Maryland’s most cherished treasures. Four hundred years ago, Captain John Smith and his crew set out on a journey of exploration and discovery in the bay. Modern day explorers are reliving that adventure drawing attention to the beauty and history of the Chesapeake Bay and the need to preserve it. In Congress, I am committed to protecting the bay for future generations to enjoy,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger secured $1.65 million in federal funding to enhance the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network in the 2008 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. The money will pay for museums and facilities around the Chesapeake Bay to create exhibits about the ecosystem and history of the Bay including the John Smith Trail. The legislation passed the House of Representatives on June 27, 2007. It must pass the Senate and be signed by the President to become law. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce $99 million in federal funding for Maryland and our nation. Money for the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process, crime fighting, the environment, economic development, education, and homeland security was included in the Omnibus Spending Measure that passed Congress and is heading to the President’s desk. Money for the military and veterans was included in the Defense Appropriations bill that became law November 13, 2007. $5.7 Million for the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Process $268,000 for BRAC Workforce Development at Towson UniversityAt Towson University, $268,000 will fund comprehensive workforce development and student enrichment programs for projected BRAC and homeland security related jobs. $121,000 for the Center for Health, Science, and Homeland Security at Anne Arundel Community CollegeAt Anne Arundel Community College, $121,000 will provide continuing education for the health care and homeland security workforce by providing infrastructure improvements, curriculum materials, and other equipment necessary to meet the growing demand. This is especially because of the thousands of families expected to relocate to the area because of BRAC. This project will support expansion of high-demand programs in radiological technology, first responder training, criminal justice and homeland security management at Anne Arundel Community College. This includes expanding training opportunities with the National Security Agency, Fort Meade, Anne Arundel Medical Center, Northrop Grumman, and Thurgood Marshall Baltimore/Washington International Airport. $121,000 for Northwest Hospital Intermediate Care Unit At Northwest Hospital, $121,000 will expand and equip the Intermediate Care Unit to better serve the patients of the northwest Baltimore and Randallstown area. $219,000 for Coppin State University School of NursingThe American Association of Colleges of Nursing estimates the shortage of U.S. nurses will top 340,000 by the year 2020. In Maryland, this could be exacerbated by the thousands of families moving to Maryland through BRAC. At Coppin State University, $219,000 will allow the School of Nursing to increase faculty and student recruitment and retention, create competitive faculty salaries, purchase equipment for the classroom and clinical laboratory, and identify new computer software and training guides for students. $250,000 for State Highway Construction at Aberdeen Proving Ground This project will fund preliminary planning on several road projects in and around Aberdeen Proving Ground in support of the BRAC initiative. Improvements to these existing roads that provide either links or direct access to the installation are essential to the transportation network’s ability to successfully handle an anticipated on-post daily commuting population of more than 25,000 people. $2 Million for Road Improvements in Harford CountyThis project will help improve safety, operations, and access at Aberdeen Proving Grounds in anticipation of BRAC-related growth. $750,000 for Widening I-695On I-695 in northeast Baltimore County, $750,000 will upgrade the interstate including widening it to eight lanes and improving interchanges and bridges. $500,000 for Traffic Light Synchronization on MD 175 Near Fort Meade, $500,000 will improve access to the base by funding light signal systemization on MD 175 between MD 170 and MD 713. $670,000 for Central Maryland Transit OperationsThe State of Maryland will use this funding to contribute to the construction of the Central Maryland Transit Operations facility that will provide storage and maintenance for a 120-bus operation, employing 200 people. $750,000 for the Maryland Transit Agency This project will help the State of Maryland improve existing Maryland Transit Agency bus facilities and build new bus facilities throughout the State of Maryland. $40 Million for Military and Veterans $3 Million for Shock Trauma At the University of Maryland’s Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore, $3 million will fund cutting-edge research for traumatic brain injuries. The research will help physicians improve diagnosis, treatment, and recovery methods for patients. The research will benefit Marylanders as well as servicemen and women in Iraq and Afghanistan. Doctors estimate that 60% of troops injured in Iraq suffer from traumatic brain injuries. Military medical personnel will learn first-hand about this critical research when they complete their monthly rotations at Shock Trauma to help prepare them for overseas assignments. $1 Million for Kennedy Krieger At Kennedy Krieger Institute in Baltimore, $1 million will go to the International Center for Spinal Cord Injury for rehabilitation for American military personnel injured in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other locations around the world. Since the beginning of the Iraq War, more than 16,000 troops have received severe spinal cord injuries. The money will fund groundbreaking therapies that will help reverse spinal cord injuries, generate new nerve cells, and develop brain activity. $1.6 Million for Aberdeen Proving Ground At Aberdeen Proving Ground, $1.5 million will fund state-of-the-art research to improve protective helicopter armor used by U.S. servicemen and women. $5.5 Million for Navy Radar At a facility near Thurgood Marshall Baltimore/Washington International Airport, $3 million will fund groundbreaking improvements to Navy radar to make it smaller, lighter, more adaptable, and more accurate than current radar capabilities. $2 Million for Better Tank Batteries Using technology developed at a Maryland company, $2 million will fund a strong, longer lasting battery for the Abrams tank used in Iraq and Afghanistan. The new battery will reduce battlefield fuel demand by as much as 50%. This will save an estimated $15 to $30 million a day and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. $4.8 Million for Shock Trauma Extremity Research The money will fund research led by Dr. Andy Pollack of Shock Trauma to address the profound need for focused medical research to help military surgeons find new limb-sparing techniques to save injured extremities, avoid amputations and preserve and restore the function of injured arms and legs. With the dramatic increase of military personnel surviving injury on the battlefield when compared with past conflicts, the Iraq War is producing a new type of patient – a warfighter with multiple and severely injured extremities who is often free of life-threatening injury to the torso. $3 Million for Shock Trauma Facial Tissue Injury The money will fund research led by Dr. Steve Bartlett of the University of Maryland Medical System and the U.S. Office of Naval Research for tissue transplantation. The findings will help create a network of transplant/trauma centers that can treat combat personnel with tissue transplants. The project will bring together expertise in transplantation, trauma, and research with one of the nation’s largest transplant centers at the University of Maryland Medical Center, the R. Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center, and the School of Medicine at the University of Maryland. $6 Million for APKWS The money will fund APKWS, a precision guided missile system being created by the Marines. It is faster, more accurate, and significantly less expensive than the missile system currently in use. $829,000 for Dundalk Readiness Center The money will help fund the plans for an extensive renovation of the existing Dundalk Armory/Readiness Center for the Maryland National Guard. The facility has a leaking roof, inadequate electrical systems, insufficient ventilation, deteriorating classrooms, and a sub-standard kitchen. The firing range is currently shut down for lead testing and the locker rooms are located in a separate building from the showers and latrines. The renovation will include new classrooms, a firing range, showers, and a kitchen to improve the morale, retention, and readiness of the personnel stationed at this facility. $12.2 mil for Automotive Test Evaluation Facility (ATEF) These funds would allow for Phase 2 of this construction project to begin. The ATEF is an engineered test track that includes two lanes of paved and two lanes of gravel road surfaces. It is 4.5 miles long and has an oval shape that allows stringent safety and grading testing. The findings will allow the Department of Defense (DoD) to conduct a full range of tracked and wheeled vehicle automotive tests, including endurance and reliability, fuel consumption, braking, steering, cooling, and maximum speed testing. The ATEF will enable DoD to fully test its entire current and future vehicle inventory, including armored vehicles. $3.6 Million for Crime Fighting $2.8 Million for the Gang Elimination Task ForceAs a former prosecutor, Congressman Ruppersberger is concerned with the increase in gang violence in Maryland. Creating this Gang Elimination Task Force is one of the Congressman’s top law enforcement priorities. $2.8 million will create the new Task Force based at the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center (MCAC) in Baltimore, Maryland. It will serve as a comprehensive information clearinghouse for gang-related law enforcement intelligence along the East Coast. Information will be shared between authorities in Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, the District of Columbia, and Pennsylvania. The Task Force will work with local communities to help identify gang members, curb gang recruitment, and assist prosecutors and law enforcement officials to locate high value targets. The funds will pay for additional investigators to be hired to solely focus on gang prosecutions. The Task Force will also have access to national real-time databases that track critical information about gang members across the country. $399,500 for Baltimore City Public School System Safety ProgramIn Baltimore City, $399,500 will fund the Public School Safety Program and provide money for necessary equipment. The program aims to reduce violence in the school system by helping create a safer, more productive school environment. The funds will enhance the program, which has been hampered by limited resources in the past. $446,500 for Improvement to the Forensics Lab in the City of BaltimoreFunds will be used to upgrade aging equipment and to purchase new state-of-the-art equipment that will give the police department crime laboratory new capabilities. $10 Million for the Environment $178,600 for Susquehanna Flood Forecast & Warning SystemOn the Susquehanna River in northern Maryland, $178,600 will fund the Flood Forecast and Warning System that uses sophisticated radar techniques, a network of stream and rain gauges, and automatic data transmission to provide the National Weather Service with information for river forecasts. The system provides accurate and advanced warnings of floods to residents and communities throughout the basin to significantly reduce the loss of life and property damage. $446,500 for the John Smith Water Trail Interactive BuoysThe money will fund the installation of interactive bouys marking the John Smith National Water Trail on the Chesapeake Bay, also known as the Chesapeake Bay Interactive Buoy System (CBIBS). CBIBS is a system that combines on-the-water sensor buoys and educational materials to interpret portions of the trail with the use of cell phone and Internet technology. In the long term, the system contributes significantly to the restoration of the Bay habitat. $5.4 Million for Urbanet III The money will fund the continuation of the NOAA Air Resource Laboratory’s Urbanet Partnership to expand the number of metropolitan areas covered by the Urbanet system which will improve weather forecasting. UrbaNet is a highly dense network of weather tracking stations reporting real-time data for all hazards in high-threat cities across the United States. The purpose of the program is to provide emergency response officials with improved weather information to respond effectively to severe weather events. $302,000 for the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of MarylandAt the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland in Queenstown, $302,000 will continue to fund the Statewide Plan for Agricultural Policy and Resource Management. The money will support research on bio-fuels, forest land conservation, and water supply protection including protecting the Chesapeake Bay Watershed. The goal of the program is to help farmers diversify and make their operations more efficient so that farming and forestry in Maryland are environmentally sound and economically viable. $190,000 for Atlantic Coast The Atlantic Coast of Maryland Shoreline Protection Project, Ocean City, Maryland, is designed to provide coastal flood and erosion protection to Ocean City. As part of the project design, periodic renourishment and maintenance of the beach are required to maintain an adequate level of protection. Every four years, approximately 800,000 cubic yards of sand are required to renourish and maintain the beaches. $1.7 million for the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network$1.7 million will be used to enhance the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network. The money will pay for museums and facilities around the Chesapeake Bay to create exhibits about the ecosystem and history of the Bay, including the John Smith Trail. $1.8 Million for the University of Maryland Baltimore County Advanced Study Institute for Environmental PredictionFunds will be used by the Institute to merge different programs within NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, NOAA National Center for Environmental Prediction (NCEP), and the University of Maryland. The goal is to create better atmospheric circulation models, ocean circulation models, land surface models, interactive vegetation models, marine ecosystem models, atmospheric chemistry models, global carbon cycle models, remotely-sensed observations, and sensor development of the Earth. $34 Million for Economic Development $329,000 for Mobile Job Training and Placement Vehicle for Ex-Offenders In Baltimore County, $329,000 will outfit a mobile job training and placement vehicle for ex-offenders. The funding will outfit the unit with computer stations and assorted tools to help ex-offenders find employment. $19.5 Million for Baltimore Harbor and Channels In the Baltimore Harbor and Channels, $19.5 million will fund maintenance dredging of the Baltimore Harbor Channels and surrounding areas. In addition to the harbor and channels, the Chesapeake Bay will be dredged from Pooles Island in the north to Virginia’s Cape Henry and York Spit in the south. $13.6 Million for Poplar Island On Poplar Island in the Chesapeake Bay, $13.6 million will fund the restoration of 1,140 acres of the island, creating a wildlife refuge for ospreys, egrets, terns, herons, eagles, terrapins, and other wildlife. Poplar Island is a national model for habitat restoration and using dredged material in an environmentally beneficial way. $282,000 for the University of Maryland BioPark in Baltimore City At the University of Maryland BioPark in Baltimore City, $282,000 will help create a workforce training center to support the revitalization of several West Baltimore neighborhoods. The funding will be used to teach workers specialized skills, construct classroom and other facilities, and upgrade utilities and other infrastructure at the BioPark. $412,000 for Mid Bay Project On Barren Island and the remnants of James Island in the Chesapeake Bay, $412,000 will begin restoration of 2,070 acres of wetlands, surrounding habitats, and shoreline using dredged material. This program is part of the Mid Bay Project. $598,000 for Education $282,000 for an Integrated Library System for the Blind $282,000 will be used to develop a library system that blind and visually impaired individuals can use to access materials and information independently in a library or online without help from a librarian. The system will be developed at the National Federation of the Blind headquarters in Baltimore and will help 1.3 million blind and visually impaired citizens access information when complete. $316,000 for Cherry Hill Learning Zone The Cherry Hill Learning Zone Initiative will receive $316,000 to continue to fund a partnership between Towson University and the Baltimore City Public Schools. The program aims to improve the economic and educational opportunities for the Cherry Hill community by preparing preschoolers for kindergarten, elementary school students for middle and high school, and high school seniors for higher education or direct entry into the workforce. $5.1 Million for Homeland Security $893,000 for Capital Wireless Information Net (CapWIN)The money will fund CapWIN, the nation’s first wireless interoperable data sharing and communications system specifically designed to connect public safety and transportation first responders across multiple jurisdictions and at all levels of government. Through CapWIN, over 2,500 first responders across Maryland, Virginia, the District of Columbia, and the federal government can now access mission-critical data and coordinate their response to regional incidents regardless of their agency affiliation or physical location. $669,750 for the State of Maryland First Responder Radio Interoperability ProjectFunding will provide Maryland with the ability to design and construct a radio interoperability solution that will better protect first responders and citizens. The past “band aid” approach has resulted in many little interoperable bridges, but no long term, resilient strategy. Ultimately, this funding will enable Maryland to be an equal partner with regional jurisdictions, counties, municipalities, and Maryland agencies that have already implemented, or are in the process of implementing, systems to facilitate interoperable communications. $3.6 Million for the Chesapeake Information Based Aeronautics ConsortiumFunding will allow the Chesapeake Information Based Aeronautics Consortium comprised of Morgan State University, Bowie State University, and the University of Maryland Eastern Shore to augment the NASA Aviation Safety Program’s research and development efforts, and expand research and development in configuring the Navy’s Joint Technical Data Integration (JTDI) program. The President must sign the Omnibus Spending Measure before these appropriations requests can become law. (####)
11.20.2009	(Annapolis, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) moderated the O'Malley - Brown Youth Inaugural at St John's College in Annapolis on Monday, January 15, 2007. The town hall style meeting focused on improving education in Maryland. Two high school students from every school in the state were invited to participate to celebrate the importance of civic engagement and leadership. "I believe every child deserves a quality public education. It is important that the federal government and the state of Maryland make education funding a top priority. In Congress, I work hard to make this happen. I am confident that Governor-Elect Martin O'Malley will do the same over his next four years in office," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Governor-Elect Martin O'Malley and Lt. Governor-Elect Anthony Brown fielded questions from students, parents, and educators for about two hours. Topics included standardized tests, funding for after-school programs, recent increases in state college tuition, and reductions in financial aid for college. "We need to increase financial aid opportunities for students who want to go to college, not decrease them. Last year, the federal government cut twelve billion dollars worth of funding for student loans. I fought against that move and hope to turn that around in the new Congress with the Democrats in the Majority. I am a co-sponsor of a measure in Congress that will cut student loan rates in half. I believe every student who wants to attend college should be able to," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) honors children from military families for the daily sacrifices they make for their country. More than one million American children have at least one parent serving on active duty in the military. The Department of Defense has designated April as the “Month of the Military Child.” “These children are heroes just like their mother or father serving their country in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other locations around the world. It is important for these children and their families to know that America appreciates the sacrifices they make every day. I am honored to be able to take time to applaud all these families do for their country,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The “Month of the Military Child” was created by former Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger in 1986. Throughout the month, numerous military communities will plan special events to honor military children and their families. These events will stress the importance of providing children with quality services and support to help them succeed in the mobile military lifestyle. These special activities include arts and crafts shows, picnics, carnivals, fairs, parades, block parties and other special activities focused on military children that highlight the unique contributions they make. More information is available at www.monthofthemilitarychild.com. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Team Maryland fight to restore BRAC Funding. Congressman Ruppersberger together with Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (MD), Congressman Wayne T. Gilchrest (R-MD), Congressman Albert Wynn (D-MD), Congressman Roscoe Bartlett (R-MD)), Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD) authored the letter to Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The Maryland Delegation urged Secretary Gates to fully fund the military construction projects in Maryland that are required under the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. In response to the President’s veto threat, Congress cut $1 billion from the BRAC Military Construction account. The executive branch will now re-evaluate BRAC funding for individual initiatives across the nation with the almost $7.3 billion allotted. The text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing to urge you to fully fund the military construction projects in Maryland that are required under the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. The 2005 BRAC round will bring significant military assets and thousands of new Defense Department employees into the State of Maryland. BRAC military construction funding is critical to ensuring that the necessary infrastructure is in place to prevent a disruption in the military missions of incoming organizations, many of whom are providing direct support to our troops on the battlefield. In response to the President’s threat to veto the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2008, Congress was forced to cut funding for the 2005 BRAC Military Construction account by nearly $1 billion. We understand that you will re-visit the Department’s priorities for the remaining BRAC 2005 funds, and we urge you to fully fund the important military initiatives underway in our state. Under BRAC 2005, Maryland will become home to the National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, the Joint C4ISR Center of Excellence at Aberdeen Proving Ground, the Joint Energetics Center of Excellence at Naval Surface Warfare Center Indian Head, the consolidated Defense Information Services Agency (DISA) at Fort Meade, and the Headquarters and Readiness Center for the Air National Guard at Andrews Air Force Base. Funding for each of these projects was included in the President’s budget request for fiscal year 2008. Unless the funds are made available to these mission-critical projects this year, it will be very difficult to complete implementation of the BRAC recommendations by 2011, as required by law. We in Maryland are very proud of the military installations across our State. We urge you to fully fund these necessary military construction projects in order to provide the incoming military organizations with the facilities they require to meet their mission in defense of our nation. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) urges seniors to find out if they can take advantage of the "Extra Help" program for their Medicare prescription drug coverage. “The Extra Help” program can help seniors pay for part of their monthly premiums, annual deductibles, and prescription co-payments for up to $3,300 a year. “America’s seniors have worked their jobs, paid their taxes, and raised their families. They deserve to enjoy their golden years happy and healthy. I encourage eligible Maryland seniors to sign up for the ‘Extra Help’ program to help them pay for the rising cost of prescription drugs,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger is fighting on Capitol Hill to overhaul the prescription drug benefit available through Medicare. Right now the prescription drug plan known as “Medicare Part D” does not allow the government to negotiate for lower prices for seniors and creates a costly gap in coverage. Congressman Ruppersberger is working to create a prescription plan that actually lowers the cost of medicines for seniors. To apply for benefits through the “Extra Help” program, go to www.socialsecurity.gov or call the Social Security Administration at 1-800-772-1213 (TTY 1-800-325-0778) and ask for the “Application for Help with Medicare Prescription Drug Plan Costs.” (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) voted for the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2007, H.R. 2831, that passed the House of Representatives on July 31, 2007, by a vote of 225 to 199. The Congressman co-sponsored the bill that clarifies original Congressional intent to ensure that victims of workplace discrimination can use past history of pay discrimination as they seek remedies in a court of law. Lilly Ledbetter worked at a Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company facility in Alabama for nearly 20 years. She sued the company after learning she was the lowest paid supervisor out of a group of sixteen and made more than 40% less than her male counterparts with similar experience. A jury found her employer had unlawfully discriminated against her on the basis of sex. In a May ruling, the Supreme Court narrowly interpreted Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and overturned a lower court ruling by only allowing Ms. Ledbetter to rely on paychecks in the final 180 days of her career to prove discrimination instead of the span of her career. The Fair Pay Act of 2007 restores the longstanding interpretation of Title VII that courts must consider a pattern of pay decisions when dealing with discrimination. It may take workers years to uncover pay discrimination because employees do not openly discuss salaries, raises, and bonuses. “This legislation rights a wrong. The Supreme Court wrongly ruled that Ms. Ledbetter could not use a history of pay discrimination in her lawsuit. The Fair Pay of Act of 2007 clarifies what Congress meant when it passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 – individuals who are victims of pay discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex and national origin can use a pattern of discrimination to seek remedies in a court of law,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Before H.R. 2831 was introduced in the House, Congressman Ruppersberger, Congresswoman Carolyn Kilpatrick (D-MI), and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) authored similar legislation, H.R. 2660, the “2007 Civil Rights Pay Fairness Act.” This measure also allows victims to use a history of pay discrimination in lawsuits. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) introduced legislation that offers tax credits for the safe removal of lead paint in America’s homes. The Congressman joined the Thornton Family at their Baltimore City home on Monday, October 22, 2007. The family’s young son received lead paint poisoning and had to live with his grandmother until the lead paint was cleaned up from the family home. “Lead paint poisoning is dangerous for children and their families but is completely preventable. I am introducing the ‘Home Lead Safety Tax Credit Act of 2007’ to encourage homeowners and landlords to get rid of hazardous lead paint in their homes and rental units. This tax credit can really help us make Maryland homes safe for children and their families,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The “Home Lead Safety Tax Credit Act of 2007” provides: • Tax credits for homeowners and landlords that can cover up to 50% of the costs of reducing lead paint hazards in U.S. homes. • Up to a $3,000 tax credit for getting rid of lead paint and replacing painted surfaces, windows, or fixtures contaminated with lead paint. • Up to a $1,000 tax credit for specialized cleaning, temporary containment, monitoring, and resident education about lead paint contamination. In 2006, more than 1,200 children in Maryland tested positive for elevated lead levels in their blood. Even low levels of lead poisoning can be detrimental for children. Children from birth to age six are at greatest risk while their neurological systems are developing. Lead exposure can cause hyperactivity, aggressive behavior, learning disabilities, lowered IQ, speech delay, and hearing impairment. High levels of lead can cause severe mental disabilities, convulsions, coma, or even death. The event also kicked off “National Lead Poisoning Prevention and Healthy Homes Awareness Week” in Maryland. Secretary Shari Wilson of the Maryland Department of the Environment, Dr. Joshua Sharfstein, Baltimore City Health Commissioner, and Ruth Ann Norton, the Executive Director of the Coalition to End Childhood Lead Poisoning also attended the event. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will introduce legislation that offers tax credits for the safe removal of lead paint in America’s homes. The Congressman will join a Baltimore City family at their home on Monday, October 22, 2007. The family’s young son received lead paint poisoning and had to live with his grandmother until the lead paint was cleaned up from their home. In 2006, more than 1,200 children in Maryland tested positive for elevated lead levels in their blood. Even low levels of lead poisoning can be detrimental for children. Children from birth to age six are at greatest risk while their neurological systems are developing. Lead exposure can cause hyperactivity, aggressive behavior, learning disabilities, lowered IQ, speech delay, and hearing impairment. High levels of lead can cause severe mental disabilities, convulsions, coma, or even death. The “Home Lead Safety Tax Credit Act of 2007” provides: • Tax credits for homeowners and landlords that can cover up to 50% of the costs of reducing lead paint hazards in U.S. homes. • Up to a $3,000 tax credit for getting rid of lead paint and replacing painted surfaces, windows, or fixtures contaminated with lead paint. • Up to a $1,000 tax credit for specialized cleaning, temporary containment, monitoring, and resident education about lead paint contamination. “Lead paint poisoning is dangerous for children and their families but is completely preventable. I am introducing the ‘Home Lead Safety Tax Credit Act of 2007’ to encourage homeowners and landlords to get rid of hazardous lead paint in their homes and rental units. This tax credit can really help us make Maryland homes safe for children and their families,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The event also kicks off “National Lead Poisoning Prevention and Healthy Homes Awareness Week” in Maryland. Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Baltimore Family Whose Son Received Lead Poisoning Secretary Shari Wilson, Maryland Department of the EnvironmentDr. Joshua Sharfstein, Health Commissioner, Baltimore CityRuth Ann Norton, Executive Director, Coalition to End Childhood Lead Poisoning What: Introduction of the “Home Lead Safety Tax Credit Act of 2007” and Kick Off “National Lead Poisoning Prevention and Healthy Homes Awareness Week” When: Monday, October 22, 2007, at 11 am Where: 3909 Shannon DriveBaltimore, Maryland 21213 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is putting security officials on notice about the liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility proposed for the former Sparrows Point Shipyard in Dundalk. The Congressman is asking the Coast Guard to answer several critical questions about the safety and security of the proposed facility at a Congressional Hearing in Baltimore on Monday, April 23, 2007. In a letter to Captain Brian D. Kelley of the United States Coast Guard Sector Baltimore, the Congressman asked Captain Kelley to “be prepared to address potential vulnerabilities that an LNG plan in Eastern Baltimore County would pose to nearby neighborhoods and the economic vitality of the Port of Baltimore.” Congressman Ruppersberger is concerned the proposed facility will overburden the Coast Guard and stretch precious security resources too thin. Specifically, the Congressman asked: • How does the Coast Guard intend to protect and secure the area near the facility including the nearby neighborhoods, the Chesapeake Bay Bridge, and the Port of Baltimore? • How will these new security needs affect recreational and commercial boat traffic in the area? • Does the Coast Guard possess the intelligence sharing resources to move quickly on potential terrorist information if a plot on the LNG facility is uncovered? • How will these additional safety concerns surrounding the facility affect the Coast Guard’s main mission of ensuring the safe movement of over 29 million tons of commercial cargo and 300,000 recreational boats? Congressman Ruppersberger also asked the Coast Guard to prepare a comprehensive security assessment within 60 days of the hearing to address safety and security hazards. The letter to the Coast Guard is attached. Congressman Ruppersberger feels this type of facility is absolutely inappropriate for the area. If constructed, the facility would be less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. Congressman Ruppersberger believes area residents could be harmed if there is an accident or a terrorist attack at the facility or on the tankers that travel up the Chesapeake Bay. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. Area resident’s quality of life could be negatively impacted by restrictions on recreational boat traffic. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County. The proposed site of the LNG facility is located in the Maryland 2nd District. Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application including the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Coast Guard, and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The AES Corporation filed their official application to construct the project on January 7, 2007. (####)
11.20.2009	(Pasadena, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will visit Lauer’s Supermarket and Bakery in Pasadena on Saturday, September 22, 2007, to host a special “Congress on Your Corner” event. Community members are encouraged to stop by and talk to the Congressman about important issues. “It is an honor to serve you in the United States Congress. I enjoy hearing about what matters to you. Please stop by Lauer’s Supermarket in Pasadena on September 22 so we can discuss issues important to you and your family,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). What: “Congress on Your Corner” Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger When: 10 am – 12 noon, Saturday, September 22, 2007 Where: Lauer’s Supermarket and Bakery Chesterfield Plaza 8095-A Edwin Raynor Boulevard Pasadena, Maryland 21122 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is outraged at the 60% cut in funds for the Port of Baltimore. Last year, the Port received $4.8 million as part of the Port Security Grant Program within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). This year, the Port received $1.9 million. The Port of Baltimore is one of Maryland’s largest economic engines. The Port is responsible for about 128,000 jobs and handles 40.5 million tons of cargo each year worth $36 billion. The Department of Homeland Security, run by the Bush Administration, considers the Port of Baltimore a “second-tier port” even though it is the closest deep water port to the nation’s capital, the White House, the Pentagon, and the National Security Agency. In addition, the Port is located along Interstate 95, the major north-south route on the East Coast. Six “first-tier ports” compete for $120 million while seventeen “second-tier ports” compete for a third of that, only $40 million. “This is outrageous. The Port of Baltimore is being shortchanged. The potential terrorist threats to the Port of Baltimore, the Maryland economy, and the nation’s capital have not decreased from last year to this year. When is the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) going to get it right? They continue to lack a thorough understanding of potential terrorist threat to the Maryland area. I believe the Port of Baltimore is a ‘first-tier port’ and I’m going to urge DHS to change its status. It does not make any sense to equate the Port of Baltimore with inland maritime areas and ports in places such as Kentucky, Missouri, Indiana or Wisconsin,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In the FY 2008 budget, President Bush proposed cutting state homeland security grant programs by 52%. Congressman Ruppersberger supported the move to restore those cuts in the DHS Authorization bill passed by the House on May 9, 2007. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Appropriations Committee. The Congressman is also a co-chair of the Congressional Port Security Caucus. In addition, the Port of Baltimore is in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined America’s mayors and law enforcement officials at a press conference on Capitol Hill today and called on Congress to repeal the Tiahrt Amendment. The measure restricts law enforcement access to gun trace data. A motion to repeal the restrictive language is expected to be brought up in the House Appropriations Committee later this week. “The Tiahrt Amendment handcuffs our cops, not our criminals. I support our Constitution and our second amendment right to bear arms. This is not about gun control. It is about giving our law enforcement officials the tools they need to keep our families and our communities safe. As a former investigative prosecutor, I know repealing this amendment will help them do that,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger was an investigative prosecutor in Baltimore County, Maryland in the 1970s. He was a Baltimore County Councilman for nine years before serving as the Baltimore County Executive from 1994 to 2002. Mr. Ruppersberger is serving his third term in Congress where he serves on the Intelligence Committee and the Appropriations Committee. At the press conference, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger joined Baltimore Mayor Shelia Dixon, Baltimore Police Commissioner Leonard Hamm, DC Mayor Adrian Fenty, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Boston Mayor Thomas Menino, Trenton Mayor Douglas Palmer, and Congresswoman Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY). (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-D) is fighting to stop the proposed Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) facility from coming to Dundalk in Baltimore County, Maryland. Congressman Ruppersberger wrote a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Environmental Protection Agency, the Coast Guard, and the Army Corp of Engineers asking that the request to build the facility be denied. In January, the Virginia based AES Corporation announced that it wants to build an LNG terminal on the site of the former Sparrows Point shipyard – located less than two miles from Turner Station. Liquefied natural gas is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. Congressman Ruppersberger believes the proposed facility is wrong for the area. If constructed, the facility would be less than two miles from a historic, residential neighborhood. Congressman Ruppersberger believes area residents could be harmed if there is an accident at the facility or a terrorist attack. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point in Calvert County. The Coast Guard’s surveillance capabilities could be stretched thin if another plant is opened nearby. The area around the proposed site is well known for its beautiful waterways. If an LNG facility is constructed, there could be strict restrictions on recreational boating in the area. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm revitalization efforts on the eastside of Baltimore County. As the Baltimore County Executive, the Ruppersberger Administration invested over $130 million dollars to help revitalize this area. “Dundalk should not be the dumping ground for this type of facility. I believe an LNG facility is absolutely inappropriate for the area and is far too close to a residential neighborhood. I am doing everything I can to prevent this facility from being constructed,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger’s office has received several complaints that people are being paid by AES to push the LNG facility on local residents. These residents believe these people are writing to local papers and distributing information on the premise that they are interested in the project without letting anyone know they are being paid by the company to express their support. Congressman Ruppersberger is introducing legislation in Congress that will require these people to disclose that they are being paid for their efforts. The bill requires that FERC create a database on its website that lists people who are being paid to lobby by a company. Congressman Ruppersberger discussed this legislation at a press conference at the Fleming Senior Center in Dundalk on September 19, 2006. “If you are lobbying Congress or lawmakers at the State House in Annapolis, you must register and disclose who you are working for when you are being paid for your efforts. I believe the same ought to happen when people are being paid to lobby for an LNG facility that requires approval from a federal agency. It is only fair that people know who is being paid when it is something that affects their neighborhoods and communities,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in favor of the Iraq Resolution, House Concurrent Resolution 63, supporting our troops who are bravely serving in Iraq and disapproving of President Bush’s troop surge. The following is Congressman Ruppersberger’s statement as prepared. “Madame Speaker, the resolution before the House today is very clear. Congress and the American people support our troops who serve bravely in Iraq and Congress disapproves of President Bush’s decision to send an additional 20,000 troops to Iraq. There is not a Member of this body who does not pray for our nation’s success in Iraq and in the Global War on Terror. Our brave servicemen and women have performed in Iraq with valor and honor. They have done everything that a grateful nation has asked of them since the beginning of this war. Whether you are for or against this war, we must support our troops. This resolution does that. The only people sacrificing in this war are the troops and their families. Many military personnel have served two and three tours of duty. It has been difficult on their families here at home. More than 3,100 of our finest sons and daughters have given the ultimate sacrifice for their country. More than 25,000 troops have been wounded. I do not believe we need new troops in Iraq. I believe we need a new strategy in Iraq. The current strategy is clearly not working. We have increased the number of American troops in the past and it has not done anything to calm the violence. In fact, in certain circumstances, the violence has increased. Even General Abizaid, former Commander of U.S. forces in the Middle East, has stated “more American forces prevent the Iraqis from doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own future.” I completely agree with him. I serve on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. I have been to Iraq four times and have met with America’s top Generals, US and Iraqi troops, and Iraqi elected officials. We must give the Iraqis more responsibility to take control of their own country. We must cut the apron strings and let the Iraqis patrol their own streets. American troops will guard the perimeter areas and back-up the Iraqis in an emergency. I call it the “Perimeter Plan.” Redeploying troops to perimeter areas and lowering the profile of American forces will break the dependency the Iraqi military has on U.S. forces. The Iraqis will gain more confidence in their own abilities to secure their own country and we can begin bringing our men and women in uniform home. It has been said by my friends on the other side of the aisle that the Democrats don’t have a plan. This is not true. Other Members of our party have a plan and I have a plan. In fact, I shared the “Perimeter Plan” with the President and Members of his Cabinet on two occasions at the White House. I also gave a copy of my plan to the Iraq Study Group that reviewed it before issuing its recommendations that have been largely ignored by the President. This is not “cut and run” like some on the other side of the aisle would like you to believe. It is a way to force the Iraqis to take more control of our country while also allowing the U.S. military to do what it does best. We have some of the best Special Operations forces – Marines and Rangers – and technology in the world. These forces can focus on backing up the Iraqi military. As Thomas Payne insisted during the American Revolution, we need to let those who want independence test their will and try their soul. More American troops hinder the Iraqi democracy from testing its soul and hurt the world in the Global War on Terror. More than $400 billion has been spent on this war by the American taxpayer with little or no oversight by Congress. From the invasion of Iraq and the start of the war, a Republican House and Republican Senate have given the President almost whatever he wanted both in money and strategic resources. The days of the blank check are over. The stakes are too high to allow this money to be spent unchecked. In the first six weeks of this new Congress, the Democrats have held 52 House and Senate hearings on Iraq. We are conducting oversight and holding the Administration accountable. Iraq was not a hot bed for terrorists before the war but it is now. The country has become a magnet for those who want to harm Americans and Iraqis and disrupt this new democracy. Terrorists have used Iraq against us to recruit and spread their twisted ideology worldwide. But the Global War on Terror is much more that Iraq. While we are spending much of our precious resources in Iraq, we are NOT focused on fighting terrorism worldwide. We are taking our eye of the ball. We must refocus our efforts in other parts of the Middle East, Asia, South America, Africa, and other parts of the world. Good intelligence is the best defense against terrorism. This takes resources. We must prioritize where we put our money. It is not about Republicans or Democrats, it is about all Americans and keeping this country safe for our children and grandchildren. Madame Speaker, this is a critical moment in the War in Iraq. More troops will not help Iraq. A new strategy will. Democracy is rooted in independence and self-sustainment. By implementing the “Perimeter Plan”, we encourage the Iraqis to take control of their own country. This strategy will allow us to be successful in Iraq and win the War on Terror. This is why we must vote for this resolution. I urge Members to support it.” (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-D) is fighting to stop the proposed Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) facility from coming to Dundalk in Baltimore County, Maryland. Congressman Ruppersberger wrote a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the Coast Guard asking that the request to build the facility be denied. In January, the Virginia based AES Corporation announced that it wants to build an LNG terminal on the site of the former Sparrows Point shipyard – located less than two miles from Turner Station. Liquefied natural gas is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. Congressman Ruppersberger believes the proposed facility is wrong for the area. If constructed, the facility would be less than two miles from a historic, residential neighborhood. Congressman Ruppersberger believes area residents could be harmed if there is an accident at the facility or a terrorist attack. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point in Calvert County. The Coast Guard’s surveillance capabilities could be stretched thin if another plant is opened nearby. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm revitalization efforts on the eastside of Baltimore County. As the Baltimore County Executive, the Ruppersberger Administration invested over $130 million dollars to help revitalize this area. Congressman Ruppersberger’s office has received several complaints that people are being paid by AES to push the LNG facility on local residents. These residents believe these people are writing to local papers and distributing information on the premise that they are interested in the project without letting anyone know they are being paid by the company to express their support. Congressman Ruppersberger is introducing legislation in Congress that will require these people to disclose that they are being paid for their efforts. He’ll discuss the legislation at the press conference. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Baltimore County Residents WHY: Congressman Ruppersberger Fights to Stop LNG Facility From Coming to Dundalk; Congressman Ruppersberger Introduces Legislation to Disclose Paid Lobbyists WHEN: 11:30am, Tuesday, September 19, 2006 WHERE: Fleming Senior Center 641Main Street Dundalk, MD 21222 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) met with members of his Environmental Advisory Council at the Chesapeake Bay Foundation’s Headquarters in Annapolis on December 11, 2006. Congressman Ruppersberger created the council to provide a forum for environmental groups to discuss important environmental issues facing the Maryland 2nd District and the rest of the region. “I look forward to meeting with members of my Environmental Advisory Council. They are the local experts who have first-hand knowledge of Maryland’s pressing environmental challenges. I look forward to working together in the 110th Congress to find federal solutions to local environmental needs,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Environmental Advisory Council meeting covered a variety of topics including protecting the Chesapeake Bay, the Farm Bill, offshore drilling, new energy solutions, and Conowingo dam sediment. The Environmental Advisory Council meeting included representatives from the Sierra Club – Maryland Chapter, the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, the Audubon Naturalist Society of the Central Atlantic States, the Maryland League of Conservation Voters, Clean Water Action, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Maryland Conservation Council, 1000 Friends of Maryland, Partners for Open Space, Environment Maryland, Cleanup Coalition, Environmental Defense Foundation, Waterkeeper Alliance, Maryland Pesticide Network, the National Wildlife Federation, the Nature Conservancy, the Trust for Public Land, and the National Recreation and Park Association. Congressman Ruppersberger is a strong supporter of protecting the environment. He advocates energy policies that promote long term solutions through technical advances and energy conservation while preventing environmental degradation. Congressman Ruppersberger sponsored legislation that will help cut fuel consumption and encourage Marylanders to drive environmentally friendly hybrid vehicles by offering valuable tax credits for people who purchase a hybrid. The legislation reinstates the Clean Fuel Vehicle tax credit that expired at the end of 2004 and extends it to $4,000. The language was included in the energy bill that recently passed Congress. During his time as Baltimore County Executive, the Ruppersberger Administration invested over $230 million dollars into water treatment and sewage system modernization to keep our water safe and clean. The Administration initiated the Baltimore County and City Watershed Agreement which combined city, county, business, and citizen groups to protect our region’s watershed areas. Through a coordinated regional effort, the agreement mitigated the effects of development on the Chesapeake Bay through stream restoration, storm water management and control of shore erosion. Together local, state, and federal leaders vigorously worked to preserve valuable farmland, forests, and wetlands, earning Baltimore County a 7th place national ranking on the list of Top Local Farmland Preservation Programs. In addition, the Ruppersberger Administration quadrupled Baltimore County’s park, recreation, and open space to more than 800 acres. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) introduced important child care legislation for Maryland families at the Childtime Learning Center in Hanover, Maryland on April 4, 2007. Congressman Ruppersberger introduced the “Right Start Child Care and Education Act of 2007”. “The ‘Right Start Child Care and Education Act of 2007’ will help ease the financial burden on Maryland families while helping to ensure quality affordable child care is available. Studies show that children in high quality care programs perform better in math, language, and reading and show fewer behavioral problems. We want to make sure that Maryland children and their families have access to this type of quality care with some help from federal tax credits,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The “Right Start Child Care and Education Act of 2007” will increase the child care tax credit for families from $3,000 to $5,000 per child. It will expand the tax credit from $150,000 to $225,000 for employers to construct workplace child care facilities. The measure will also provide a tax credit of up to a $2,000 a year for three years for new college graduates who decide to enter the child care field. More than 200,000 children and their families in Maryland rely on licensed child care services in order for parents to go to work, school, or attend other activities, according to the Maryland Committee for Children. The average family in the Baltimore – DC region pays $20,752 a year, which is equivalent to $1,729 a month in childcare. Most families say it is the second highest household expense behind mortgage or rent payments in their budget. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-D) has been nominated to serve on the prestigious Appropriations Committee by members of the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee. The Appropriations Committee is responsible for funding federal budgets including agriculture, defense, energy and water, foreign operations, homeland security, the environment, labor, health and human services, military, science, and transportation. Congressman Ruppersberger is assuming the seat vacated by Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD) after his election as the Majority Leader. “It is an honor to be nominated to serve on the Appropriations Committee by a committee of my peers. I take this responsibility very seriously. I will follow in Congressman Steny Hoyer’s footsteps and work diligently to improve the lives of Maryland families and America’s citizens,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Maryland 2nd District includes BWI-Thurgood Marshall Airport, the National Security Agency, Fort Meade, Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG), the Port of Baltimore and the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay. It also includes neighborhoods in Baltimore County, Anne Arundel County, Harford County, and Baltimore City. 60,000 new jobs are expected to move to APG and Fort Meade as part of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. “We have a lot going on in Maryland. Two of the states largest economic engines, BWI-Thurgood Marshall Airport and the Port of Baltimore, are in the Maryland 2nd District. In addition, 60,000 good paying jobs are heading to the area through BRAC. I intend to work hard on the Appropriations Committee to help improve economic opportunities, infrastructure needs, environmental issues, educational opportunities, transportation and military advancements, and intelligence capabilities in Maryland and across our nation,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The full Democratic Caucus will vote on all committee nominations. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) has been named to the United States Naval Academy’s Board of Visitors. In this position, Congressman Ruppersberger will help oversee the inner workings of the prestigious institution as it works to shape America’s future leaders. “It is an honor to be appointed to the United States Naval Academy’s Board of Visitors. The Naval Academy trains the future leaders of our country and teaches them the core values of courage, honor, and commitment to serve their country. In the changing world we live in, it is more important than ever that we develop strong leaders for the challenges of today and tomorrow,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Board of Visitors inquires into the state of morale and discipline, the curriculum, instruction, physical equipment, fiscal affairs, academic methods, and other matters relating to the Naval Academy and its midshipmen and women. The Board submits its findings to the President of the United States in an annual written report. More than 4,000 midshipmen and women from all fifty states are enrolled in the Naval Academy. Graduates of the institution usually serve their country through joining the Navy or Marines. The Naval Academy was founded in 1845 by the Secretary of the Navy, George Bancroft, in the historic City of Annapolis. Congressman Ruppersberger was appointed by Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi. The Board of Visitors consists of fifteen members. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) is the 36th most powerful Member of Congress according to the newly released 2007 Knowlegis “Pre-Season Power Rankings.” Since the Democrats took over the majority in Congress in January, Congressman Ruppersberger has landed several high profile assignments. The Congressman was appointed to serve on the prestigious Appropriations Committee that writes all twelve federal spending bills. Congressman Ruppersberger was also named as the Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Subcommittee within the Intelligence Committee. “It is an honor to serve the constituents of the Maryland 2nd District. I got into public service over twenty five years ago to help people. I am pleased to be able to improve the lives of Maryland families by funding critical infrastructure, economic, environmental, educational, security and transportation needs through my work on the Appropriations Committee. By using the latest in technology, I am also working hard to keep our country safe and combating terrorism worldwide through my work on the Intelligence Committee,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger is the second biggest gainer in the power rankings compared to last year’s rankings. In 2006, Congressman Ruppersberger was ranked 405th. Now he is ranked 36th. The Congressman is serving his third term representing the Maryland 2nd District in Congress. Committee assignments, leadership positions, tenure, congressional caucus involvement, and legislative activity were all taken into account as the rankings were compiled. The complete “Pre-Season Power Rankings” can be found at www.knowlegis.net. The rankings are done in cooperation with Congress.org, a non-partisan website that encourages civic participation and grass roots organizing. (####)
11.20.2009	(White Marsh, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) helped cut the ribbon for the extension of Route 43 in Baltimore County on October 23, 2006. The new 3.8 mile, four lane highway will connect US 40, Pulaski Highway, to MD 150, Eastern Boulevard on the east side of Baltimore County. The $75.6 million Route 43 Extension will effectively open up managed development for 1,000 acres of land accessible from I-95 and already zoned for commercial use. The construction of a business park is also underway. As many as 10,000 jobs are expected to be created in the area. “This is not just another road. This road will be an economic engine for the area. Thousands of good paying jobs will be created in this corridor. Jobs are the gasoline that fuels our economy. If you don’t have a job, you can’t support your family or your community. A team effort of local, state, and federal leaders made this happen. It is an honor to be part of this group,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger laid the groundwork for the road during his tenure as the Baltimore County Executive. He worked with a team of state lawmakers and lobbied then Maryland Governor Parris Glendening to fund the project. Current Baltimore County Executive Smith continued that commitment. Baltimore County contributed $15.3 million dollars to the plan. The state contributed $58 million. Maryland Governor Robert Ehrlich, Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith, Maryland Transportation Secretary Robert Flanagan, and a group of local lawmakers were on hand for the ribbon cutting. (####)
11.20.2009	(Joppatowne, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will visit Redner’s Grocery Store in Joppatowne on Saturday, September 15, 2007, to host a special “Congress on Your Corner” event. Community members are encouraged to stop by and talk to the Congressman about important issues. “It is an honor to serve you in the United States Congress. I enjoy hearing about what matters to you. Please stop by Redner’s Grocery Store in Joppatowne on September 15, 2007, so we can discuss issues important to you and your family,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). What: “Congress on Your Corner” Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger When: 10:00 am – 12 noon, Saturday, September 15, 2007 Where: Redner’s Grocery Store 1002 Joppa Farm Road Joppatowne, Maryland 21085 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce $10.5 million in federal funding to keep our country safe and protect our troops: $3 million for Shock Trauma, $1 million for Kennedy Krieger, $1.5 million for Aberdeen Proving Ground, $3 million for Navy Radar, and $2 million for Better Tank Batteries. $3 Million for Shock Trauma At the University of Maryland’s Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore, $3 million will fund cutting edge research for traumatic brain injuries. The research will help physicians improve diagnosis, treatment, and recovery methods for patients. The research will benefit Marylanders as well as servicemen and women in Iraq and Afghanistan. Doctors estimate that 60% of troops injured in Iraq suffer from traumatic brain injuries. Military medical personnel will learn first hand about this critical research when they complete their monthly rotations at Shock Trauma to help prepare them for overseas assignments. $1 Million for Kennedy Krieger At Kennedy Krieger Institute in Baltimore, $1 million will go to the International Center for Spinal Cord Injury for rehabilitation for American military personnel injured in Iraq, Afghanistan, or other locations around the world. Since the beginning of the Iraq War, more than 16,000 troops have received severe spinal cord injuries. The money will fund groundbreaking therapies that will help reverse spinal cord injuries, generate new nerve cells, and develop brain activity. $1.5 Million for Aberdeen Proving Ground, $3 Million for Navy Radar,$2 Million for Better Tank BatteriesAt Aberdeen Proving Ground, $1.5 million will fund state-of-the-art research to improve protective helicopter armor used by U.S. servicemen and women. At a facility near Baltimore Washington Thurgood Marshall Airport, $3 million will fund groundbreaking improvements to Navy radar to make it smaller, lighter, more adaptable, and more accurate than current radar capabilities. Using technology developed at a Maryland company, $2 million will fund a strong, longer lasting battery for the Abrams tank used in Iraq and Afghanistan. The new battery will reduce battlefield fuel demand by as much as 50%. This will save an estimated $15 to $30 million a day and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. “Members of America’s armed forces are answering the call to serve their country in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other locations around the world. I believe they deserve to have access to the best equipment available and the best care if they are injured in the line of duty. This $10.5 million dollars in funding will help us do that,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). These projects were included in the 2008 Defense Appropriations bill. It must be approved by the full House and Senate and signed by the President before it becomes law. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- In a meeting with staff from Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD), and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger’s (D-MD) offices, U.S. Army representatives today confirmed the Army's commitment to the successful implementation of the 2005 BRAC recommendation to close Fort Monmouth in Monmouth County, New Jersey and create a C4ISR Center of Excellence at Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) in Harford County, Maryland. Army Materiel Command has developed a step-by-step timeline for moving assets into Maryland and a detailed funding plan to support these moves while ensuring no disruption in support for the warfighter. Maryland's federal delegation, working closely with state and local officials as Team Maryland, stands ready to provide whatever support the Army requires to ensure that this transition is completed successfully and on-time. "The Army is committed to executing the closure of Fort Monmouth in accordance with BRAC 2005 law and ensuring we are doing all possible to support the Global War on Terrorism and other critical contingency operations," said Kathryn A. Condon, Executive Deputy to the Commanding General, U.S. Army Materiel Command. "The BRAC recommendations were great news for Maryland and the nation. We won this based on mission and merit. The recommendations are a testament to the strength of Maryland's military bases, our military and the communities that support them," said Senator Mikulski. "As Chair of the Maryland congressional delegation, I will continue to lead our members through the state's BRAC implementation. Working with Governor Martin O'Malley, our state legislature and our County Executives, I want to make sure Maryland gets the resources our communities need to accommodate the thousands of jobs and families coming to our state." "The 2005 BRAC recommendations were based on a comprehensive and complete review process that was begun in 2001," said Senator Cardin. "Its recommendations will strengthen the military's ability to face any possible challenges in the future. BRAC has determined that APG has the facilities and resources to enhance the military's mission in the 21st Century. Maryland is working to ensure the efficient and timely transition." "Maryland was chosen to receive these new jobs from Fort Monmouth fair and square in a process insulated from everyday politics. The fight between Fort Monmouth and Aberdeen Proving Ground is over. It is time we move forward with this BRAC plan. Our mission is to support the warfighter without disruption and continue to protect our national security. We will ensure this happens in Maryland," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The 2005 BRAC recommendations will bring thousands of new employees to the state. This includes 10,000 new jobs that will never leave the country, in addition to 85,000 existing jobs on bases and up to 40,000 non-direct jobs. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce $78.6 million in federal funding for Maryland and our nation. All twelve Appropriations bills have passed the United States House of Representatives. 2008 Agriculture, Rural Development, and Food and Drug Administration Appropriations Bill $311,000 for the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland • At the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland in Queenstown, $311,000 will continue to fund the Statewide Plan for Agricultural Policy and Resource Management. The money will support research on bio-fuels, forest land conservation, and water supply protection including protecting the Chesapeake Bay Watershed. The goal of the program is to help farmers diversify and make their operations more efficient so that farming and forestry in Maryland are environmentally sound and economically viable. 2008 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill $2.75 Million for the Gang Elimination Task Force • As a former prosecutor, Congressman Ruppersberger is concerned with the increase in gang violence in Maryland. Creating this Gang Elimination Task Force is one of the Congressman’s top law enforcement priorities. $2.75 million will create the new Task Force based at the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center (MCAC) in Baltimore, Maryland. It will serve as a comprehensive information clearinghouse for gang-related law enforcement intelligence along the East Coast. Information will be shared between authorities in Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, the District of Columbia, and Pennsylvania. The Task Force will work with local communities to help identify gang members, curb gang recruitment, and assist prosecutors and law enforcement officials locate high value targets. The funding will pay for additional investigators to be hired to solely focus on gang prosecutions. The Task Force also will have access to national real-time databases that track critical information about gang members across the country. $300,000 for Susquehanna Flood Forecast & Warning System • On the Susquehanna River in northern Maryland, $300,000 will fund the Flood Forecast and Warning System that uses sophisticated radar techniques, a network of stream and rain gauges, and automatic data transmission to provide the National Weather Service with information for river forecasts. The system provides accurate and advanced warnings of floods to residents and communities throughout the basin to significantly reduce the loss of life and property damage. $250,000 for Mobile Job Training and Placement Vehicle for Ex-Offenders • In Baltimore County, $250,000 will outfit a mobile job training and placement vehicle for ex-offenders. The funding will outfit the unit with computer stations and assorted tools to help ex-offenders find employment. $200,000 for Baltimore City Public School System Safety Program • In Baltimore City, $200,000 will fund the Public School Safety Program and provide money for the necessary equipment. The program hopes to reduce violence in the school system by helping create a safer, more productive school environment. The funds will enhance the program, which has been hampered by limited resources in the past. 2008 Defense Appropriations Bill $3 Million for Shock Trauma • At the University of Maryland’s Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore, $3 million will fund cutting edge research for traumatic brain injuries. The research will help physicians improve diagnosis, treatment, and recovery methods for patients. The research will benefit Marylanders as well as servicemen and women in Iraq and Afghanistan. Doctors estimate that 60% of troops injured in Iraq suffer from traumatic brain injuries. Military medical personnel will learn first hand about this critical research when they complete their monthly rotations at Shock Trauma to help prepare them for overseas assignments. $1 Million for Kennedy Krieger • At Kennedy Krieger Institute in Baltimore, $1 million will go to the International Center for Spinal Cord Injury for rehabilitation for American military personnel injured in Iraq, Afghanistan, or other locations around the world. Since the beginning of the Iraq War, more than 16,000 troops have received severe spinal cord injuries. The money will fund groundbreaking therapies that will help reverse spinal cord injuries, generate new nerve cells, and develop brain activity. $1.5 Million for Aberdeen Proving Ground • At Aberdeen Proving Ground, $1.5 million will fund state-of-the-art research to improve protective helicopter armor used by U.S. servicemen and women. $3 Million for Navy Radar • At a facility near Baltimore Washington Thurgood Marshall Airport, $3 million will fund groundbreaking improvements to Navy radar to make it smaller, lighter, more adaptable, and more accurate than current radar capabilities. $2 Million for Better Tank Batteries • Using technology developed at a Maryland company, $2 million will fund a strong, longer lasting battery for the Abrams tank used in Iraq and Afghanistan. The new battery will reduce battlefield fuel demand by as much as 50%. This will save an estimated $15 to $30 million a day and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. 2008 Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill $19.5 Million for Baltimore Harbor and Channels • In the Baltimore Harbor and Channels, $19.5 million will fund maintenance dredging of the Baltimore Harbor Channels and surrounding areas. In addition to the harbor and channels, the Chesapeake Bay will be dredged from Pooles Island in the north to Virginia’s Cape Henry and York Spit in the south. $13.6 Million for Poplar Island • On Poplar Island in the Chesapeake Bay, $13.6 million will fund the restoration of 1,140 acres of the island creating a wildlife refuge for ospreys, egrets, terns, herons, eagles, terrapins, and other wildlife. Poplar Island is a national model for habitat restoration and beneficial use of dredged material. $300,000 for Mid Bay Project • On Barren Island and the remnants of James Island in the Chesapeake Bay, $300,000 will begin restoration of 2,070 acres of wetlands, surrounding habitats, and shoreline using dredged material. This program is part of the Mid Bay Project. 2008 Financial Services and General Services Appropriations Bill $231,000 for the University of Maryland BioPark in Baltimore City • At the University of Maryland BioPark in Baltimore City, $231,000 will help create a workforce training center to support the revitalization of several West Baltimore neighborhoods. The funding will be used to teach workers specialized skills, construct classroom and other facilities, and upgrade utilities and other infrastructure at the BioPark. $231,000 for an Integrated Library System for the Blind • $231,000 will be used to develop a library system that blind and visually impaired individuals can use to access materials and information independently in a library or online without help from a librarian. The system will be developed at the National Federation of the Blind Headquarters in Baltimore and will help 1.3 million blind and visually impaired citizens access to information when complete. 2008 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill $1.65 million for the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network • $1.65 million will be used to enhance the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network. The money will pay for museums and facilities around the Chesapeake Bay to create exhibits about the ecosystem and history of the Bay including the John Smith Trail. 2008 Labor, Health, Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill $250,000 for BRAC Workforce Development at Towson University • At Towson University, $250,000 will fund comprehensive workforce development and student enrichment programs for projected BRAC and homeland security related jobs. At Anne Arundel Community College, $100,000 will provide continuing education for the healthcare and homeland security workforce by providing infrastructure improvements, curriculum materials, and other equipment necessary to meet the growing demand. $300,000 for Cherry Hill Learning Zone • The Cherry Hill Learning Zone Initiative will receive $300,000 to continue to fund a partnership between Towson University and the Baltimore City Public Schools. The program hopes to improve the economic and educational opportunities for the Cherry Hill community by preparing preschoolers for kindergarten, elementary school students for middle and high school, and high school seniors for higher education or direct entry into the workforce. $100,000 for the Center for Health, Science, and Homeland Security at Anne Arundel Community College • This project will support expansion of high-demand programs in radiological technology, first responder training, criminal justice and homeland security management at Anne Arundel Community College. This investment will help provide the infrastructure, curriculum materials and equipment necessary to meet the growing demand for AACC’s health care and homeland security workforce programs. This includes expanding training opportunities with the National Security Agency, Fort Meade, Anne Arundel Medical Center, Northrop Grumman, and Thurgood Marshall Baltimore/Washington International Airport. $100,000 for Northwest Hospital Intermediate Care Unit • At Northwest Hospital, $100,000 will expand and equip the Intermediate Care Unit to better serve the patients of the northwest Baltimore and Randallstown area. $75,000 for Coppin State University School of Nursing • At Coppin State University, $75,000 will allow the School of Nursing to increase faculty and student recruitment and retention, create competitive faculty salaries, purchase equipment for the classroom and clinical laboratory, and identify new computer software and training guides for students. 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies $1 million for Road Improvements in and around Aberdeen Proving Ground • At Aberdeen Proving Ground, $1 million will improve safety, operations, and access on roads near the base. $750,000 for Widening I-695 • On I-695 in northeast Baltimore County, $750,000 will upgrade the interstate including widening it to eight lanes and improving interchanges and bridges. $500,000 for Traffic Light Synchronization on MD 175 • Near Fort Meade, $500,000 will improve access to the base by funding light signal systemization on MD 175 between MD 170 and MD 713. $1 million for Buses and Bus Facilities • Across Maryland, $1 million will purchase new buses and construct new bus facilities. The bus service will link residential neighborhoods, town and retail centers, MARC stations and other transit services to employment centers across the state such as Fort Meade, the National Security Agency, and Aberdeen Proving Ground. Improvements to I-295 • Language in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations bill directs the Federal Highway Administration to work with the National Park Service and the Maryland State Highway Administration to determine if a third lane can be added to Interstate 295, the Baltimore Washington Parkway, from Interstate 695 to New York Avenue in the District of Columbia. BRAC Transportation Needs • Language in the bill also directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) in coordination with the Maryland State Highway Administration to review the impact that BRAC will have on transportation needs in the state and offer innovative solutions to relieve traffic congestion and reduce carbon emissions. The Appropriations bills must be passed by the Senate and signed by the President to become law. (####)
11.20.2009	(Joppatowne, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) visited three grocery stores in Harford County and Anne Arundel County in a series of “Congress on Your Corner” events. Constituents of the Maryland 2nd District were encouraged to attend to discuss important issues with the Congressman. He visited Redner’s Grocery Store in Joppatowne on Saturday, September 15, 2007 and Lauer’s Supermarket in Pasadena and Giant Food in Glen Burnie on Saturday, September 22, 2007. “It is an honor to serve the citizens of the Maryland 2nd District in the United States Congress. I appreciate the dozens of constituents who stopped by their local grocery store over the past two weeks so we could discuss issues important to them and their families. I enjoyed hearing about their ideas and concerns,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) introduced a resolution in Congress today congratulating and commending “Free Comic Book Day.” On Saturday, May 5, 2007, dozens of independently owned comic stores across the country will distribute free comic books to encourage reading. “Free Comic Book Day is a unique event that promotes literacy and celebrates the unique American art form that comic books have become. Hopefully, reluctant young readers will pick up a free comic book this Saturday and begin a lifelong interest in reading,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd). A growing number of school systems in Maryland are using comic books to teach narration, dialogue, and visual design. The fastest growing section of public libraries is the comic book “graphic novel” section. For information about participating stores, go to www.freecomicbookday.com. The text of the resolution is attached. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) honored the City College Choral Director on her 20th Anniversary at the Baltimore City high school. Since 1987, Linda Hall has taught students at the Congressman’s alma mater about the beauty and importance of music. Congressman Ruppersberger graduated from City College in 1963. “Dedicated teachers like Linda Hall make such a difference and enrich young people’s lives. Ms. Hall has helped these students gain confidence in their abilities which will prepare them for a career in music or any other profession they may pursue. My wife, sister, mother, and sister-in laws are all educators and I realize the critical need to teach our children skills to prepare them for what lies ahead,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). With Ms. Hall’s direction, the four City College Choirs have delighted audiences throughout the United States and in Europe. The Mixed Chorus, Concert Choir, Singin/Swingin’ Knights, and the Knights and Daze Show Choir have performed at the International Choral Music Days Festival in Verona, Italy, the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Milan, Italy, and at other venues in Rome, Spain and France. The choirs also perform extensively along the eastern seaboard of the United States, competing and performing in numerous festivals. The choirs have consistently won superior ratings, awards and trophies for their performances. Early in 2007, the choirs were used in the promotional package and on the website for the Disney Honors Program. The Congressman honored Ms. Hall at a special ceremony at his District Office in Timonium, Maryland, on October 1, 2005. Ms. Hall is a native of Baltimore and has taught music education in the Baltimore Public School System since 1976. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Team Maryland call on CSX to suspend transportation of hazardous materials during sports games in Baltimore. Congressman Ruppersberger together with Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), and Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD) authored the letter to CSX. In the letter, Team Maryland encouraged CSX to take additional safety measures while transporting hazardous materials near M & T Bank Stadium and Camden Yards during sports activities. M & T Bank Stadium is expected to fill to its capacity of 71,000 people for this weekend’s Army-Navy game. The stadium is only 35 feet from the rail line and is located near the site of the CSX train derailment that occurred last Saturday. Following news that President Bush may be in attendance at the game, CSX agreed to several previously denied requests for safety measures. While commending CSX for taking such efforts, Senators Mikulski and Cardin and Congressmen Cummings, Ruppersberger, and Sarbanes have requested that the company commit to suspending the shipment of hazardous materials during all major events at M&T Stadium as well as at Oriole Park at Camden Yard. Additionally, they have requested CSX to begin sharing real-time information directly with City officials regarding the transportation of hazmats. Below is the text of the letter: November 29, 2007 Mr. Michael J. WardChairman, President, and Chief Executive OfficerCSX Corporation, Inc.500 Water Street, 15th FloorJacksonville, FL 32202 Dear Mr. Ward: We write today to urge CSX Corporation, Inc. (CSX) to take additional actions to improve the safety and security of its train operations through the City of Baltimore. We appreciate your willingness to implement some actions for the upcoming sporting events at the M&T Bank Stadium. However, we feel strongly that more needs to be done in both the short and long term to protect our constituents from the threat of future hazardous train accidents. For this weekend’s events, we urge CSX to suspend hazardous materials shipments through the City of Baltimore from 12:00 p.m., Friday, November 30, 2007, through 6:00 a.m., Saturday, December 1, 2007, during preparatory events that will lead up to the Army-Navy football game to be held at the M&T Bank Stadium. We further urge that all rail traffic be suspended from 6:00 a.m. through 10:00 p.m. on Saturday, December 1, 2007 during the Army-Navy football game. We also urge that hazardous materials shipments again be suspended from 12:00 p.m. through 1:00 a.m. on Monday, December 3, 2007, during the Baltimore Ravens’ home football game. We also believe that CSX should commit to suspending the shipment of hazardous materials – and particularly materials that are known to be toxic when inhaled by humans – during all major events at M&T Bank Stadium and at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. Finally, we also urge CSX to begin sharing information with officials of the City of Baltimore on hazardous materials shipped through the City – and particularly through the Howard Street Tunnel – on a real-time basis. As you know, on November 24, 2007, twelve cars of a CSX train derailed near the M&T Bank Stadium – including several cars carrying hazardous materials. Fortunately, this derailment did not result in the leak of any hazardous materials or any injuries. However, this derailment comes just six years after a tank car carrying tripropylene derailed on July 18, 2001, in the Howard Street Tunnel. This tank car was subsequently punctured, leading to the ignition of this flammable liquid and creating a fire fed by materials from other derailed cars. The fire in turn led to a major water main break. The total cost of responding to and cleaning up after this accident was approximately $12 million. These derailments demonstrate in stark terms the significant risks that the transportation of hazardous materials through Baltimore bring to all of the residents of the City and to those who may be attending events at facilities located near CSX rail operations. While the cause of the most recent derailment is still under investigation, this derailment also renews concern about the safety of CSX rail operations in and around the Howard Street Tunnel. The M&T Bank Stadium seats more than 70,000 people. The Army-Navy game is expected to attract a capacity crowd – as have all of the Ravens’ home football games during the 2007 football season. Given the risks associated with hazardous materials transportation and the obvious terror targets that the Army-Navy football game and the Baltimore Ravens’ Monday night football game present, we believe that the most prudent course of action at this time is for CSX to suspend rail traffic during the Army-Navy game and, at a minimum, to suspend hazardous materials shipments during the preparatory events preceding the Army-Navy game and during the Ravens’ game. Additionally, we believe that CSX should, at a minimum, commit to suspending hazardous materials shipments during all Ravens’ games played at M&T Bank Stadium and during all baseball games held at Oriole Park at Camden Yards – at least until a detailed plan to improve rail safety and security in Baltimore is concluded between CSX and City officials. We note that Oriole Park has capacity seating exceeding 48,000 and during the 2007 season, the Baltimore Orioles’ 80 home games were regularly attended by between 20,000 and 30,000 individuals. CSX should commit to providing real-time information on all hazardous materials shipments through the City of Baltimore and particularly through the Howard Street Tunnel. Such information would enable first responders in the City of Baltimore to put adequate preparations in place to respond effectively to any accident that may occur and specifically to any chemical spills. We are encouraged that CSX has announced that Baltimore is to be included in a pilot program through which such real-time data on hazardous materials shipments will be provided – but believe that initiation of the program should begin immediately and that information should flow directly to the City of Baltimore. We are confident that the common sense measures outlined in this letter will not unduly impede the flow of commerce – including hazardous materials – through the City of Baltimore, but will ensure that hazardous materials are not available during events that present obvious terror targets and that the City of Baltimore is fully prepared to respond to any future derailments involving hazardous materials that may occur in our City. Thank you for your immediate consideration of this matter. Sincerely, Barbara A. Mikulski United States Senator Benjamin L. CardinUnited States Senator Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress C.A. Dutch RuppersbergerMember of Congress John Sarbanes Member of Congress (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce $3.5 million in federal funding for Maryland: $2.75 million for the Gang Elimination Task Force, $300,000 for the Susquehanna Flood Forecast & Warning System, $250,000 for a mobile job training vehicle, and $200,000 for the Baltimore City School Safety Program. $2.75 Million for the Gang Elimination Task ForceAs a former prosecutor, Congressman Ruppersberger is concerned with the increase in gang violence in Maryland. Creating this Gang Elimination Task Force is one of the Congressman’s top law enforcement priorities. $2.75 million will create the new Task Force based at the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center (MCAC) in Baltimore, Maryland. It will serve as a comprehensive information clearinghouse for gang-related law enforcement intelligence along the East Coast. Information will be shared between authorities in Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, the District of Columbia, and Pennsylvania. “Gangs don’t pay attention to local, county, or state borders. They are sophisticated crime networks that travel through different jurisdictions committing violent crimes. This Gang Elimination Task Force will help us work together as a team in a comprehensive way to share information and other critical resources up and down the East Coast. This will build on regional efforts already underway while enhancing our gang prevention efforts by getting to kids early,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Task Force will work with local communities to help identify gang members, curb gang recruitment, and assist prosecutors and law enforcement officials locate high value targets. The funding will pay for additional investigators to be hired to solely focus on gang prosecutions. The Task Force also will have access to national real-time databases that track critical information about gang members across the country. $300,000 for Susquehanna Flood Forecast & Warning SystemOn the Susquehanna River in northern Maryland, $300,000 will fund the Flood Forecast and Warning System that uses sophisticated radar techniques, a network of stream and rain gauges, and automatic data transmission to provide the National Weather Service with information for river forecasts. The system provides accurate and advanced warnings of floods to residents and communities throughout the basin to significantly reduce the loss of life and property damage. $250,000 for Mobile Job Training and Placement Vehicle for Ex-Offenders In Baltimore County, $250,000 will outfit a mobile job training and placement vehicle for ex-offenders. The funding will outfit the unit with computer stations and assorted tools to help ex-offenders find employment. $200,000 for Baltimore City Public School System Safety ProgramIn Baltimore City, $200,000 will fund the Public School Safety Program and provide money for the necessary equipment. The program hopes to reduce violence in the school system by helping create a safer, more productive school environment. The funds will enhance the program, which has been hampered by limited resources in the past. These projects were included in the 2008 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The bill must be approved by the full House and Senate before they become law. (####)
11.20.2009	(Annapolis, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger announced $10 million in federal funding for projects that restore and promote the Chesapeake Bay, protect the environment, restore wetlands and wildlife habits, help better predict natural disasters, prevent erosion, and track weather. The money was included in the omnibus spending measure that passed Congress and was recently signed into law by the President. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, also met with members of his Environmental Council and the Chesapeake Bay Foundation to discuss the funding strategy for 2009. The meeting was held at the Chesapeake Bay Foundation’s Headquarters in Annapolis on Monday, January 14, 2008. $10 Million for the Environment $1.7 Million for the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network• $1.7 million will be used to enhance the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network. The money will pay for museums and facilities around the Chesapeake Bay to create exhibits about the ecosystem and history of the Bay, including the John Smith Trail.$446,500 for the John Smith Water Trail Interactive Buoys• The money will fund the installation of interactive bouys marking the John Smith National Water Trail on the Chesapeake Bay, also known as the Chesapeake Bay Interactive Buoy System (CBIBS). CBIBS is a system that combines on-the-water sensor buoys and educational materials to interpret portions of the trail with the use of cell phone and Internet technology. In the long term, the system contributes significantly to the restoration of the Bay habitat. $535,000 for the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland• At the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland in Queenstown, $535,000 will continue to fund the Statewide Plan for Agricultural Policy and Resource Management. The money will support research on bio-fuels, forest land conservation, and water supply protection including protecting the Chesapeake Bay Watershed. The goal of the program is to help farmers diversify and make their operations more efficient so that farming and forestry in Maryland are environmentally sound and economically viable.$178,600 for Susquehanna Flood Forecast & Warning System• On the Susquehanna River in northern Maryland, $178,600 will fund the Flood Forecast and Warning System that uses sophisticated radar techniques, a network of stream and rain gauges, and automatic data transmission to provide the National Weather Service with information for river forecasts. The system provides accurate and advanced warnings of floods to residents and communities throughout the basin to significantly reduce the loss of life and property damage.$1.8 Million for the University of Maryland Baltimore County Advanced Study Institute for Environmental Prediction• Funds will be used by the Institute to merge different programs within NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, NOAA National Center for Environmental Prediction (NCEP), and the University of Maryland. The goal is to create better atmospheric circulation models, ocean circulation models, land surface models, interactive vegetation models, marine ecosystem models, atmospheric chemistry models, global carbon cycle models, remotely-sensed observations, and sensor development of the Earth.$412,000 for the Mid-Bay Project • On Barren Island and the remnants of James Island in the Chesapeake Bay, $412,000 will begin restoration of 2,070 acres of wetlands, surrounding habitats, and shoreline using dredged material. $190,000 for Atlantic Coast • The Atlantic Coast of Maryland Shoreline Protection Project, Ocean City, Maryland, is designed to provide coastal flood and erosion protection to Ocean City. As part of the project design, periodic renourishment and maintenance of the beach are required to maintain an adequate level of protection. Every four years, approximately 800,000 cubic yards of sand are required to renourish and maintain the beaches.$5.4 Million for Urbanet III • The money will fund the continuation of the NOAA Air Resource Laboratory’s Urbanet Partnership to expand the number of metropolitan areas covered by the Urbanet system which will improve weather forecasting. UrbaNet is a highly dense network of weather tracking stations reporting real-time data for all hazards in high-threat cities across the United States. The purpose of the program is to provide emergency response officials with improved weather information to respond effectively to severe weather events. (####)
11.20.2009	(Joppatowne, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will hold a Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid to Pay for College on Monday, February 13, 2006. The Congressman will be joined by Harford County Executive David Craig and financial aid experts to help students learn about ways to make the dream of going to college a reality. “I believe every child should have the opportunity to go to college. The cost of tuition is rising but there is help. Please join me for an important forum to help find financial aid to pay for college,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Harford County Executive David Craig Ms. Andrea Cipolla, The Sallie Mae Fund WHAT: Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid for College WHEN: 7pm, Monday, February 13, 2006 WHERE: Joppatowne High School Auditorium 555 Joppatowne Farm Road Joppa, MD 21085 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) announces $2.1 million in federal funding for Maryland: $231,000 for continued growth at the University of Maryland BioPark in Baltimore City, $231,000 to create an integrated library system for the blind and visually impaired, and $1.65 million for Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network. At the University of Maryland BioPark in Baltimore City, $231,000 will help create a workforce training center to support the revitalization of several West Baltimore neighborhoods. The funding will be used to teach workers specialized skills, construct classroom and other facilities, and upgrade utilities and other infrastructure at the BioPark. “If you don’t have a job, you can’t support your family or your community. This workforce training center will be a wonderful resource for nearby residents to learn new skills to enter into the growing biomedical field,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). $231,000 will be used to develop a library system that blind and visually impaired individuals can use to access materials and information independently in a library or online without help from a librarian. The system will be developed at the National Federation of the Blind Headquarters in Baltimore and will help 1.3 million blind and visually impaired citizens access to information when complete. “This program will greatly enhance the quality of life for blind and visually impaired individuals by giving them independent access to critical library resources and other online information at work or at home,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). $1.65 million will be used to enhance the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network. The money will pay for museums and facilities around the Chesapeake Bay to create exhibits about the ecosystem and history of the Bay including the John Smith Trail. “The Chesapeake Bay is one of Maryland’s greatest natural treasures. This money will help educate the public about the extraordinary history of the Bay and the need to preserve it for future generations,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). These projects were included in the 2008 Interior and the Environment Appropriations bill and the 2008 Financial Services bill. The bills must be approved by the full House and Senate before they become law. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) to question federal officials about the safety and security questions surrounding the proposed Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) facility on the site of the former Sparrows Point Shipyard in Eastern Baltimore County. The Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation will hold a hearing at the University of Maryland, School of Law on Monday, April 23, 2007. “A liquefied natural gas facility is absolutely inappropriate for the area. If constructed, the facility would be less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. Local residents could be harmed if there is an accident or a terrorist attack at the facility or on the tankers that travel up the Chesapeake Bay. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. Precious Coast Guard resources could be stretched too thin. Area resident’s quality of life could be negatively impacted by restrictions on recreational boat traffic. In addition, an LNG facility could harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application including the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Coast Guard, and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The AES Corporation filed their official application to construct the project on January 7, 2007. WHY: Hearing about Proposed LNG Facility in Eastern Baltimore County WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Congressman Elijah Cummings Coast Guard Officials Baltimore County Residents WHEN: 10am, Monday, April 23, 2007 WHERE: The University of Maryland School of Law Ceremonial Courtroom 500 West Baltimore Street Baltimore, MD 21201 (####)
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger attended a celebration on Friday, February 10, 2006, honoring the complete restoration of the Hosanna School, the first African American School in Harford County. The Congressman honored Ms. Christine Tolbert who spearheaded the effort to restore the building that is now being used as a living history museum and meeting center. “Christine Tolbert breathed her passion for educating youth into the Hosanna School - the first African American school in Harford County. For the past twenty five years, Ms. Tolbert has been working to preserve a piece of living history for future generations to enjoy. Efforts like this are what makes our communities so great,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Tolbert Family has lived in Harford County since the 1700’s. Ms. Tolbert grew up while schools, libraries, theatres, and restaurants were segregated. She attended Maryland State Teachers’ College in Bowie, obtained a Master’s Degree from Loyola College in guidance and counseling, and taught in the Harford County Public School system and at Harford Community College. The Hosanna School is located in Darlington, Maryland, and was originally known as the Berkley School. It was built in 1867 and was used as a school and a church. The school closed its doors in 1946 and was transformed into a community center shortly thereafter. The Hosanna School was placed on the National Register for Historic Places in 1991. Visitors can currently tour the one-room schoolhouse as part of a living history museum and meeting center.} (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) praises the announcement that the state of Maryland will receive $55.5 million in grant money from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Department of Commerce for emergency preparedness. This is an increase of $30 million, more than double the amount allocated last year. $32.6 million will be used for equipment, planning, and training for first responders in the event of a terrorist attack, natural disaster, hazardous material incident, or disease outbreak. It will also fund fusion centers where law enforcement agencies will work together with local, state, federal, community, and private agencies to improve emergency response and recovery. “This is a step in the right direction. I believe the Department of Homeland Security must distribute these important grants based on risk. Maryland has many high risk targets including the Port of Baltimore, BWI Airport, Fort Meade, the National Security Agency, and Aberdeen Proving Ground. I will continue to fight for Maryland so we get what we need from the federal government to keep our state and her citizens safe,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). $22.9 million will be used to improve communication problems so firefighters, police, and other first responders can talk effectively during an emergency. On September 11th in New York City and at the Pentagon, policemen and firemen were not able to talk to each other using their radios. A recent study found that this issue is still prevalent across the country six years after 9-11. “Maryland firefighters who responded to the Pentagon on September 11th found their radios would not communicate with firefighters from Virginia. The first responders have the same radios today, six years later. These funds mean we finally have a chance to create a truly regional emergency response network,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- {Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) is calling for classified Congressional hearings about the eavesdropping controversy involving the National Security Agency (NSA). Congressman Ruppersberger signed onto a letter from nine Members of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) asking Intel Chairman Peter Hoekstra to convene hearings immediately after the January recess ends next week. Congressman Ruppersberger is a member of the Intel Committee. “Our Forefathers created a great system of checks and balances within our government. It is critically important that we use all of the tools available to keep our country safe and fight the War against Terrorism but it is also critically important that we protect people’s individual liberties and follow the laws of our land. It is Congress’ role to oversee these activities but all of the Members of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence have not been briefed on the NSA spying situation. We need to hold classified hearings immediately so that we can put together a plan so everyone knows what their roles are under the law as we continue to track down terrorists. I believe we must give members of the intelligence community the resources they need to keep our families and communities safe,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. President George W. Bush visited NSA at Fort Meade on Wednesday, January 25, 2006, and addressed employees behind closed doors. NSA is in Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District. “I think we need to stop this spin cycle and get back to the business of protecting our country. We need to hold classified Congressional hearings and put together a plan to track down terrorists that follows the laws of our land. We need to put this controversy behind us so we can keep our eye on the ball and continue to protect our families and our communities from another terrorist attack,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. The letter to Chairman Hoekstra is signed by Congresswoman Jane Harman (California 36th), Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (California 14th), Congressman Alcee Hastings (Florida 23rd), Congressman Rush Holt (New Jersey 12th), Congressman Silvestre Reyes (Texas 16th), Congressman Leonard Boswell (Iowa 3rd), Congressman John Tierney (Massachusetts 6th), and Congressman Bud Cramer (Alabama 5th). The letter is attached. Letter to Chairman Hoekstra (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) honored three teachers from Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District for their hard work, creativity, and dedication in their respective Head Start programs. Congressman Ruppersberger paid tribute to Geradine Hinton, an eight year veteran of Herring Run Head Start in Baltimore City, Belinda Johnson, a fifteen year veteran of Lloyd Keaser Head Start in Brooklyn Park, and Jacqueline Williams, a two year veteran of St. Veronica Head Start in Cherry Hill. The teachers worked with artists from the Wolf Trap Foundation for the Performing Arts in Vienna, Virginia, to put together creative, inspiring lesson plans that involve music and movement. “My wife, sister, mother, and sister-in-law are all educators. I understand the critical need to be innovative and creative when teaching our children. This great partnership between Head Start and Wolf Trap teaches these young students reading comprehension and social skills in a fun, exciting, active environment. Head Start is a program that works. It has a long record of success. The children in Head Start learn even more with help from Wolf Trap artists. These dedicated teachers, actors, and musicians are working together to help children learn the skills they need to be successful in school and in life,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Created in 1965, Head Start is a national program promoting early intervention by enhancing the social and cognitive development of children. Head Start also provides youngsters and their families with a comprehensive list of support services, from health screenings to nutritional advice to parent counseling. Head Start helps the entire family so it can grow and succeed together. For over twenty five years, Head Start has partnered with the Wolf Trap Institute for Early Learning Through the Arts to improve the effectiveness of teaching and increase school readiness for low income and other disadvantaged children through arts-based education. A representative from Congressman Ruppersberger’s office presented the three teachers with Congressional Certificates at the Twelfth Annual Teacher Awards dinner on October 24, 2007, at the Center for Education at Wolf Trap. The dinner recognized the achievements of outstanding educators who have participated in the Wolf Trap Institute residency program. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Harford County Executive David Craig will hold a town hall meeting about the new jobs and residents heading to Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision. The town hall meeting will cover the following topics: Land Use Transportation and Infrastructure Education, Technology, and Workforce Development Public Safety This is the quarterly meeting of the BRAC Planning Action Committee. “The thousands of new jobs and residents heading to Aberdeen Proving Ground from Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, are both a great opportunity and a great challenge for our state. I am committed to preserving the excellent quality of life everyone enjoys in Harford County. I am working hard in Washington to ensure we have the resources we need to serve existing residents while preparing for new ones,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). What: BRAC Town Hall Meeting Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Harford County Executive David Craig Leaders from Aberdeen Proving Ground Other local officials When: 6:30 pm, Wednesday, September 12, 2007 Where: Edgewood High School Auditorium 2415 Willoughby Beach Road Edgewood, Maryland 21040 (####)
11.20.2009	(Glen Burnie, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will visit Giant Food in Glen Burnie on Saturday, September 22, 2007, to host a special “Congress on Your Corner” event. Community members are encouraged to stop by and talk to the Congressman about important issues. “It is an honor to serve you in the United States Congress. I enjoy hearing about what matters to you. Please stop by Giant Food in Glen Burnie on September 22 so we can discuss issues important to you and your family,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). What: “Congress on Your Corner” Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger When: 1 pm – 3 pm, Saturday, September 22, 2007 Where: Giant Food 7383 Baltimore Annapolis Boulevard Glen Burnie, Maryland 21061 (####)
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger will announce $2.8 million in federal funding for a new Gang Elimination Task Force. As a former prosecutor, Congressman Ruppersberger is disturbed with the increase in gang violence in Maryland. $2.8 million will create the new Task Force based at the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center (MCAC) in Baltimore, Maryland. It will serve as a comprehensive information clearinghouse for gang-related law enforcement intelligence along the East Coast. Information will be shared between authorities in Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, the District of Columbia, and Pennsylvania. The Task Force will work with local communities to help identify gang members, curb gang recruitment, and assist prosecutors and law enforcement officials in locating high-value targets. The funds will pay for additional investigators to be hired to focus solely on gang prosecutions. The Task Force will also have access to national, real-time databases that track critical information about gang members across the country. Creating this Gang Elimination Task Force is one of the Congressman’s top law enforcement priorities. The funding was included in the omnibus spending measure that was recently signed into law. The Congressman will be joined by Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley, Harford County Executive David Craig, Harford County Sheriff Jess Bane, Harford County Councilman Dion Guthrie, and members of local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies. What: $2.8 Million for Gang Elimination Task Force When: 11:00 am, Friday, January 25, 2008 Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley Harford County Executive David Craig Harford County Sheriff Jesse Bane Captain Charles Rapp, Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center Members of local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies Where: Edgewood Community and Recreation Center 1980 Brookside Drive Edgewood, MD 21040 (####)
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger announced $2.8 million in federal funding for a new Gang Elimination Task Force. The Task Force will be the first of its kind linking local, state, and federal law enforcement authorities throughout the East Coast. The funding will pay for new technology that will connect dozens of different crime databases used by investigators to track down gang members. This will allow critical information to be shared between authorities in Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, the District of Columbia, and Pennsylvania. The Task Force will work with local communities to help identify gang members, curb gang recruitment, and assist prosecutors and law enforcement officials in locating high-value targets. The Task Force will be based at the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center (MCAC) in Baltimore, Maryland. The money will also pay for educational programs to help prevent young people from joining gangs. As a former investigative prosecutor, Congressman Ruppersberger is disturbed with the increase in gang violence in Maryland. Creating this Gang Elimination Task Force is one of the Congressman’s top law enforcement priorities. “This new Gang Elimination Task Force is a team concept. The comprehensive database will allow local, state, and federal law enforcement authorities to share information in real time using one comprehensive database as they work together as a strike force to combat gang violence. But, we can not arrest and prosecute our way out of this gang problem. We must also invest in gang prevention and get to our kids early by supporting Girls and Boys Clubs, Pal Centers, and Rec Councils,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “I want to thank Congressman Ruppersberger and our federal delegation for their continuing efforts to help our State improve public safety in every region of Maryland,” said Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley. “Last year, we passed a tough anti-gang law to help State and local law enforcement combat gangs and gang violence. The federal funds being announced today and the creation of the new Gang Elimination Task Force are critical in helping Maryland protect and improve public safety in our State.” The funding was included in the omnibus spending measure that was recently signed into law. The Congressman was joined by Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley, Harford County Executive David Craig, Harford County Sheriff Jess Bane, Harford County Councilman Dion Guthrie, Maryland State Police Superintendent Terry Sheridan, Captain Charles Rapp of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center, and members of local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies at a special ceremony at the Edgewood Community and Recreation Center on January 25, 2008. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) honored Fort McHenry and the War of 1812 with legislation that creates a commemorative Star Spangled Banner coin just in time for Independence Day. Congressman Ruppersberger discussed this important legislation at Fort McHenry in Baltimore on Friday, June 29, 2007. After a 25-hour British bombardment of Fort McHenry during the War of 1812, Francis Scott Key saw an enormous American flag proudly flying over the fort that was defending the City of Baltimore. Key was inspired to write the “Star Spangled Banner” that eventually became America’s national anthem. “All over Maryland, people will be honoring the birth of our nation over the July 4th holiday. I think a Star Spangled Banner commemorative coin will be a wonderful way to also honor Fort McHenry and the War of 1812, two important Maryland contributions to our independence. The United States Mint only creates two commemorative coins each year. This will be a great honor for Maryland,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D – Maryland 2nd). The coin will be minted in 2012 in coordination with the 200th Anniversary of the War of 1812. A portion of the proceeds will go to the Star Spangled Banner and War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission to plan, coordinate and facilitate programs and other efforts to commemorate the historic events associated with the War of 1812. The legislation creating the Commission was introduced by Congressman John Sarbanes (D-Maryland 3rd). Congressman Sarbanes also introduced legislation that would create the Star Spangled Banner National Historical Trail to officially mark some of the most historic sites from the War of 1812. “Maryland has a tremendous opportunity to lead in planning the celebration of the War of 1812 bi-centennial celebration,” said Congressman John Sarbanes, (D – Maryland 3rd). “I’m thrilled to join Congressman Ruppersberger in commemorating the rich history of our state.” (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) congratulates Congressman Silvestre Reyes (D- Texas) on his appointment as the Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and pledges to work with Chairman Reyes to improve and extend our nation’s intelligence capabilities to keep our country safe. The Intelligence Committee is responsible for overseeing all intelligence agencies and activities, including the Central Intelligence Agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the National Security Agency, and the military intelligence agencies in the Department of Defense. “I have worked with Congressman Reyes on the Intelligence Committee for the past four years. I look forward to his leadership in ensuring our country’s security in the 110th Congress and beyond. His experience on the Armed Services Committee and as the head of the Border Patrol in El Paso, Texas, gives him the knowledge and expertise to improve our intelligence services. Speaker-Elect Nancy Pelosi made an excellent choice in tapping such a well respected, experienced professional to head up such an important committee. I look forward to working with Chairman Reyes and our colleagues on the committee to ensure that we improve coordination and communication across intelligence agencies to combat the ever changing threats facing the United States,” said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Reyes is a decorated Army veteran and spent 20 years as a border patrol agent. He is an expert on immigration policy and serves as the Ranking Democrat of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee. Congresswoman Pelosi knows the importance of a strong Intelligence Committee and served on the committee for ten years, two of those as the Ranking Democrat. Congressman Ruppersberger was the first Democratic Freshman ever to be appointed to Intel. He has served on the committee since 2003. (####)
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) today toured a state of the art testing facility in Harford County and viewed cutting edge technology to detect and prevent chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear attacks. Congressman Ruppersberger was joined by Harford County Executive David Craig, Major Thomas Coppinger of the Maryland State Police, Larry Peck of Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC), and state and local emergency response experts on a tour of SAIC’s Integration and Assurance Center (IAC) in Edgewood. Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) is a homeland security, defense, and engineering organization. The facility houses the latest in domestic preparedness - everything from sensors that can detect biological agents in the air to decontamination facilities for first responders in the event of a chemical attack to a massive control room that can constantly monitor large facilities such as sports stadiums. The technology is currently being used in subway systems, at military bases, and at sports stadiums across the country. Through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process, over 60,000 new military, civilian, and contractor positions are slated to come to Maryland. “This type of technology is critical for the safety of our country. It can be used to protect the people who attend sporting events, those who use mass transit, or the military, civilians, and contractors who are working on military bases in Maryland or across the country. It is incredibly important the government partner with private industry to use the latest in technology to protect the people who already live and work in Maryland as well as the thousands who will live and work here in the future,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. The group also announced SAIC’s new homeland security business unit and acquisition of Geo-Centers, Inc., a Massachusetts based company with offices in Maryland. The move makes SAIC the largest technology employer in Harford County. (####)
11.20.2009	(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) honored a volunteer from Baltimore and her dog, a Veteran from Essex, and a volunteer from Pasadena for their dedicated service to Maryland Veterans. Congressman Ruppersberger awarded Nancy Doran and her dog Duffy, John Flutka, and Clifford L. Stoffel the “2005 Congressional Volunteer Recognition Award”. After a full day of work in the Baltimore City School System, Ms. Doran and Duffy perform voluntary pet therapy at the Baltimore VA Rehabilitation and Extended Care Center (BRECC). As a result of Nancy’s and Duffy’s presence, typically non-verbal Veterans speak to Duffy, pet him, and feed him treats. Duffy allows many veterans to spend an evening reminiscing about their own dogs and reliving old memories. Ms. Doran and her dog have made approximately 188 visits to the care center over the past three and a half years. Both Nancy and Duffy have provided veterans with countless hours of enjoyment during their stay at the BRECC. “I commend Nancy Doran and her dog Duffy for their dedicated service that has lifted the spirits of hundreds of Maryland Veterans. Ms. Doran and Duffy have brought joy into the lives of the men and women who honorably answered the call to serve our country,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Mr. Flutka, a Veteran himself, volunteers in the Occupational Therapy Department of the Baltimore VA Rehabilitation and Extended Care Center (BRECC). Mr. Flutka completes administrative work and has been instrumental in updating forms that are used to evaluate and treat patients. His work has improved the quality of care. He also assists the staff by insuring that materials and supplies are easily accessible for patient care. His work has been invaluable in improving the service and healthcare that Veterans receive at BRECC. “John Flutka is a dedicated volunteer who is also a Veteran. I commend him for his service to his country and his hard work ensuring that Veterans get the quality healthcare they deserve. Volunteers like Mr. Flutka make such a difference in the lives of America’s Veterans,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Mr. Stoffel, a Pasadena resident, is a Volunteer Driver and Coordinator for the Transportation Section of the Glen Burnie Clinic for Veterans. Mr. Stoffel has gone above and beyond the call of duty to help Maryland Veterans. In the past six years alone, Mr. Stoffel has driven 42,000 miles transporting over 2,258 patients to scheduled and emergency medical appointments. Mr. Stoffel is always willing to substitute for absent drivers and is dedicated to ensuring that all Veterans have rides to their appointments. “I commend Mr. Clifford Stoffel for his tireless commitment to thousands of Maryland’s Veterans. He is making a difference in their lives. I believe we must honor the service and sacrifice of the men and women who served in the military. Mr. Stoffel is helping our Veterans get the services they deserve,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). All three recipients were honored at a special ceremony at Congressman Ruppersberger’s District Office in Timonium on Monday, December 5, 2005. They were selected by the Veterans Advisory Group, an organization founded by Congressman Ruppersberger in 2003. The Volunteers and their four legged friends were selected for their outstanding dedication to serving the needs of Veterans within their community. Feel free to use the attached photograph in your publication. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) is calling on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to direct the AES Corporation to withdraw its application for a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) facility in Eastern Baltimore County. AES Corporation wants to construct an LNG facility on the site of the former Sparrows Point Shipyard in Dundalk. On June 22, 2007, a federal judge upheld a Baltimore County law that bans LNG plants from sensitive coastal areas including the Chesapeake Bay. In a July 16, 2007, letter to FERC, the independent federal agency that approves or denies the construction of LNG facilities, Congressman Ruppersberger wrote, “Given these legal developments, there are now insurmountable government barriers to the construction of an LNG facility at Sparrows Points… There is almost unanimous opposition to the application from the local, state, and federal representatives of Baltimore County. It seems the wisest course of action is for the applicant to cancel this proposal and begin the search for a better, safer, and more environmentally appropriate alternative elsewhere.” The Congressman’s letter to FERC is attached. Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility is absolutely inappropriate for the area. If constructed, the facility would be located on an environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. It would also be less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere. LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. Congressman Ruppersberger believes area residents could be harmed if there is an accident or a terrorist attack at the facility or on the tankers that travel up the bay. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point and the Calvert Cliff’s Nuclear Power Plant in Calvert County. Area residents’ quality of life could be negatively impacted by restrictions on recreational boat traffic. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County. The proposed site of the LNG facility is located in Maryland’s 2nd District. Congressman Ruppersberger has contacted every other agency involved in the approval process and urged them to deny the application as well including the Army Corp of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Coast Guard. The AES Corporation filed its official application to construct the project on January 7, 2007. (####)
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will tour a state of the art testing facility in Harford County and view cutting edge technology to detect and prevent chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear attacks. Congressman Ruppersberger and state and local emergency response experts will join leaders of Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC), a homeland security, defense, and engineering organization, on a tour of SAIC's Integration and Assurance Center (IAC) in Edgewood on Monday, December 5, 2005. The facility houses the latest in domestic preparedness - everything from sensors that can detect biological agents in the air to decontamination facilities for first responders in the event of a chemical attack to a massive control room that can constantly monitor large facilities such as sports stadiums. The technology is currently being used in subway systems, at military bases, and at sports stadiums across the country. Through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process, over 60,000 new military, civilian, and contractor positions are slated to come to Maryland. "This type of technology is critical for the safety of our country. It can be used to protect the people who attend sporting events, those who use mass transit, or the military, civilians, and contractors who are working on military bases in Maryland or across the country. It is incredibly important the government partner with private industry to use the latest in technology to protect the people who already live and work in Maryland as well as the thousands who will live and work here in the future," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. The group will also announce SAIC's new homeland security business unit and acquisition of Geo-Centers, Inc., a Massachusetts based company with offices in Maryland. The move makes SAIC the largest technology employer in Harford County. What:Tour of a State of the Art Testing Facility and View Cutting Edge Technology to Detect and Prevent Chemical, Biological, Radiological, or Nuclear attacks Who:Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)Major Thomas Coppinger, Maryland State PoliceLarry Peck, Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC)Local First Responders When:12:30pm, Monday, December 5, 2005 Where:SAIC'S Integration and Assurance Center1504 Quarry DriveEdgewood, MD 21040 (####)
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) held a Congressional Forum on Medicare’s New Prescription Drug Benefit Program on Friday, December 2, 2005 at the Edgewood Senior Center in Harford County. The new prescription drug benefit available through Medicare began January 1, 2006, but Seniors can continue to enroll in the new program until May 15, 2006. Many Maryland Seniors still have lots of questions. Congressman Ruppersberger, Harford County Executive David Craig, and a team of Medicare experts helped Seniors navigate through the program’s guidelines and determine which plan is right for them if they have not already chosen one. “Seniors have worked hard, raised their families, and paid their taxes. They deserve a prescription drug benefit that allows them to buy medicines they need at a reasonable price so they can stay healthy and enjoy their golden years,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). For more information about the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit, go to www.medicare.gov. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) has been overwhelmingly elected to a third term representing the Maryland 2nd District. Congressman Ruppersberger won with 70% of the vote. The Congressman received 126,330 votes. His challenger, Jimmy Mathis, received 53,422 votes. “It is an honor to serve the constituents of the Maryland 2nd District for my third term. I look forward to working hard for the people of Maryland. I will fight for a prescription drug bill that actually lowers the cost of medicines for our seniors. I will support an increase in the federal minimum wage so hard working men and women can support their families and pay for food, shelter, clothing and healthcare. I will push for legislation that decreases our dependence on foreign oil, increases our development of alternate fuels, and diversifies our energy supply to become more energy independent. I will work hard to create jobs and strengthen the Maryland economy. I will also support a plan that requires the Iraqi security forces to take more responsibility for securing their own country so that we can bring American military personnel home,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Maryland 2nd District includes neighborhoods in Baltimore County, Harford County, Anne Arundel County, and Baltimore City. It also includes the Port of Baltimore, BWI-Thurgood Marshall Airport, Aberdeen Proving Ground, the National Security Agency, Fort Meade, and the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay. (####)
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will hold a Congressional Forum to help prevent gang violence on Monday, October 30, 2006. The Congressman will be joined by co-host Harford County Councilman, Dion Guthrie, experts from the FBI, and representatives from the Harford County Sheriff’s Department. “Gangs are sophisticated crime networks not contained by state or international borders. It is critically important that we work together as a team across jurisdictional lines on the federal, state, and local level to combat gang violence and keep our communities safe. We need to build on regional efforts already underway while at the same time getting to kids early by enhancing our gang prevention and intervention efforts,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “I believe we must focus on a comprehensive program that prevents gang activity on all levels. We must try to stop young people from joining gangs, work hard to encourage young people to leave the gang life if they’ve already joined, and strictly prosecute gang members who commit crimes. We must work across jurisdictional lines and partner with law enforcement officials, education leaders, social service agencies, and the community to do this,” said Dion Guthrie, Harford County Councilman. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Harford County Councilman Dion Guthrie Experts from FBI Representatives from Harford County Sheriff Department WHAT: Congressional Forum on Gang Violence WHEN: 6:30 p.m. Monday, October 30, 2006 WHERE: Edgewood Senior Center 1000 Gateway Road Edgewood, Maryland 21040 (####)
11.20.2009	(Randallstown, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) held a Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid to Pay for College on October 23, 2006, at Reginald Lewis School in Baltimore. The Congressman joined co-host Senator Joan Carter Conway and financial aid experts who helped students learn about ways to make the dream of going to college a reality. The Department of Education says it will provide more than $78 billion in financial aid this year to help millions of students and families pay for college. “A good education is critical in the global world we live in today. I believe every child should have the opportunity to go to college. The cost of tuition is rising but there is help. I believe it is critically important that we hold these forums to help students and their parents find financial aid to pay for college,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “Education is my highest priority,” said Senator Joan Carter Conway, 43rd District Baltimore City. Tuition is on the rise at private and state colleges across the country. Tuition at the University of Maryland is up 40%. At the same time, the Bush Administration is slashing financial aid opportunities. The Bush Administration has cut student aid programs by a total of $12billion – making college less affordable for many families. Under the Republican’s leadership, interest rates on new college loans have gone up almost 2%. This move costs the average student an extra $5,800 more for their college loans. The typical student graduates college with $17,500 in debt. In Congress, Congressman Ruppersberger support the Democrats’ College Affordability measure that cuts interest rates on new student loans in half from 6.8% to 3.4%. It cuts the rates of the loans that parents take out for their children from 8.5% to 4.25%. This move will save the average student and his or her family $5,600 over the life of the loan. (####)
11.20.2009	(Cherry Hill, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) taught a class at the New Era Academy in Cherry Hill in honor of “Teach for America Week” on Tuesday, October 25th, 2005. Congressman Ruppersberger taught 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th graders about “How a Bill Becomes a Law.” The group also had a spirited discussion about the War in Iraq. “Teach For America” is the national corps of outstanding recent college graduates who commit two years to teach in urban and rural public schools and become lifelong leaders in expanding educational opportunity. Currently, 3,500 corps members are teaching in over 1,000 schools in 22 regions across the country. “My wife, sister, mother, and sister-in laws are all educators and I realize the critical need to be innovative in creating programs that prepare students for the career challenges that lie ahead. ‘Teach for America’ teachers make such a difference in the lives of their students across the country and especially in Maryland. I was honored to be able to teach a class at the New Era Academy in Cherry Hill as part of a program to highlight the good work they do,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Maryland Governor Robert Ehrlich, Dr. Nancy Grasmick, Superintendent of the Maryland State Department of Education, Dr. Bonnie Copeland, CEO of the Baltimore City Public School System, and Dr. William Brody, President of the Johns Hopkins University are also scheduled to be “guest teachers” in Baltimore City classrooms this week in order to focus on the need to expand educational opportunity and inspire students to pursue education to attain their life goals. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) spoke to AeA members at its Cyber Series Luncheon on September 27, 2007, in Washington, DC, about the importance of strong math and science education for our children. Congressman Ruppersberger supports the “America Competes Act” that increases investment in research and helps get more young people into advanced math, science, and engineering classes from elementary through graduate school. The Congressman is a strong supporter of public private partnerships that work toward this goal. Congressman Ruppersberger is a Member of the Intelligence Committee and the Appropriations Committee. He is Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee that overseas the National Security Agency, our nation’s satellites, and other intelligence collecting activities. “Many of the most difficult questions facing the Intelligence Community require a technological answer. We must invest in our young people and encourage them to pursue math, science, and engineering education so they can obtain good paying jobs in the high tech field. These jobs are good for American families, good for the economy and good for our national security,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). AeA, formerly the American Electronics Association, was founded in 1943 and is a nationwide non-profit trade association that represents all segments of the technology industry. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce $33.7 million in federal funding for Maryland: $311,000 for the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland, $19.5 million for the Baltimore Harbor, $13.6 million for Poplar Island, and $300,000 for the Mid Bay Project. At the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland in Queenstown, $311,000 will continue to fund the Statewide Plan for Agricultural Policy and Resource Management. The money will support research on bio-fuels, forest land conservation, and water supply protection including protecting the Chesapeake Bay Watershed. The goal of the program is to help farmers diversify and make their operations more efficient so that farming and forestry in Maryland are environmentally sound and economically viable. In the Baltimore Harbor and Channels, $19.5 million will fund maintenance dredging of the Baltimore Harbor Channels and surrounding areas. In addition to the harbor and channels, the Chesapeake Bay will be dredged from Pooles Island in the north to Virginia’s Cape Henry and York Spit in the south. On Poplar Island in the Chesapeake Bay, $13.6 million will fund the restoration of 1,140 acres of the island creating a wildlife refuge for ospreys, egrets, terns, herons, eagles, terrapins, and other wildlife. Poplar Island is a national model for habitat restoration and beneficial use of dredged material. On Barren Island and the remnants of James Island in the Chesapeake Bay, $300,000 will begin restoration of 2,070 acres of wetlands, surrounding habitats, and shoreline using dredged material. This program is part of the Mid Bay Project. “From the mountains in Western Maryland to the Atlantic Ocean along the Eastern Shore to the Chesapeake Bay in between, Maryland has so many environmental treasures. We must ensure they are protected for our children and grandchildren to enjoy. $33.7 million in federal funding will help us do that while ensuring commerce can continue in the Baltimore Harbor and surrounding channels,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). These projects were included in the House Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Appropriations bill and the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The Agriculture Appropriations bill passed the House on August 2, 2007. The Energy and Water Appropriations bill passed the House on July 17, 2007. The measures must be passed by the Senate and signed by the President to become law. (####)
11.20.2009	(Annapolis, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger will announce $10 million in federal funding for projects that restore and promote the Chesapeake Bay, protect the environment, help better predict natural disasters, prevent erosion, and track weather. The money was included in the omnibus spending measure that passed Congress and was recently signed into law by the President. Congressman Ruppersberger, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, will meet with members of his Environmental Council and the Chesapeake Bay Foundation to discuss the funding strategy for 2009. The meeting will be held at the Chesapeake Bay Foundation’s Headquarters in Annapolis on Monday, January 14, 2008. What: $10 Million for the Environment Discuss Environmental Strategy for 2009 Appropriations When: 12:30 pm, Monday, January 14, 2008 Who: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Members of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation Members of Congressman Ruppersberger’s Environmental Council Where: The Chesapeake Bay Foundation Headquarters Philip Merrill Environmental Center 6 Herndon Avenue Annapolis, MD 21403 $10 Million for the Environment $1.7 Million for the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network• $1.7 million will be used to enhance the Chesapeake Bay Gateway Network. The money will pay for museums and facilities around the Chesapeake Bay to create exhibits about the ecosystem and history of the Bay, including the John Smith Trail.$446,500 for the John Smith Water Trail Interactive Buoys• The money will fund the installation of interactive bouys marking the John Smith National Water Trail on the Chesapeake Bay, also known as the Chesapeake Bay Interactive Buoy System (CBIBS). CBIBS is a system that combines on-the-water sensor buoys and educational materials to interpret portions of the trail with the use of cell phone and Internet technology. In the long term, the system contributes significantly to the restoration of the Bay habitat. $535,000 for the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland• At the Harry Hughes Center for Agro-Ecology at the University of Maryland in Queenstown, $535,000 will continue to fund the Statewide Plan for Agricultural Policy and Resource Management. The money will support research on bio-fuels, forest land conservation, and water supply protection including protecting the Chesapeake Bay Watershed. The goal of the program is to help farmers diversify and make their operations more efficient so that farming and forestry in Maryland are environmentally sound and economically viable.$178,600 for Susquehanna Flood Forecast & Warning System• On the Susquehanna River in northern Maryland, $178,600 will fund the Flood Forecast and Warning System that uses sophisticated radar techniques, a network of stream and rain gauges, and automatic data transmission to provide the National Weather Service with information for river forecasts. The system provides accurate and advanced warnings of floods to residents and communities throughout the basin to significantly reduce the loss of life and property damage.$1.8 Million for the University of Maryland Baltimore County Advanced Study Institute for Environmental Prediction• Funds will be used by the Institute to merge different programs within NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, NOAA National Center for Environmental Prediction (NCEP), and the University of Maryland. The goal is to create better atmospheric circulation models, ocean circulation models, land surface models, interactive vegetation models, marine ecosystem models, atmospheric chemistry models, global carbon cycle models, remotely-sensed observations, and sensor development of the Earth. $412,000 for the Mid-Bay Project • On Barren Island and the remnants of James Island in the Chesapeake Bay, $412,000 will begin restoration of 2,070 acres of wetlands, surrounding habitats, and shoreline using dredged material. $190,000 for Atlantic Coast • The Atlantic Coast of Maryland Shoreline Protection Project, Ocean City, Maryland, is designed to provide coastal flood and erosion protection to Ocean City. As part of the project design, periodic renourishment and maintenance of the beach are required to maintain an adequate level of protection. Every four years, approximately 800,000 cubic yards of sand are required to renourish and maintain the beaches.$5.4 Million for Urbanet III • The money will fund the continuation of the NOAA Air Resource Laboratory’s Urbanet Partnership to expand the number of metropolitan areas covered by the Urbanet system which will improve weather forecasting. UrbaNet is a highly dense network of weather tracking stations reporting real-time data for all hazards in high-threat cities across the United States. The purpose of the program is to provide emergency response officials with improved weather information to respond effectively to severe weather events. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) reacts to President Bush’s primetime address this evening where he outlined a plan to put more than 20,000 new American troops in Iraq. Congressman Ruppersberger released the following statement: “I do not believe that President Bush has laid out an argument to prove that deploying more than 20,000 additional troops to Iraq is necessary. We have increased the number of American troops in the past and it has not done anything to calm the violence. In fact, in certain circumstances, the violence has gotten worse. “I have been to Iraq four times. I do not believe we need more troops. I believe we need a new strategy in Iraq. We should be handing over more responsibility to securing the country to the Iraqis. American troops should be guarding the perimeter of the urban areas. I call it my “Perimeter Plan”. The Iraqis should be patrolling the streets. American troops can back them up in an emergency. I believe we must cut the apron strings and let the Iraqis take more control of their country. They will gain more confidence in their abilities. I presented my “Perimeter Plan” to the President and members of his Cabinet at the White House on two occasions. “Changing the mission of U.S. forces, redeploying them to perimeter areas, and lowering the profile of the U.S. forces in urban areas will break the dependency the Iraqi military has on U.S. forces. Our ultimate goal is to bring our men and women in uniform home. I believe this change in strategy will help us do that.” (####)
11.20.2009	(Fort Meade, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) who represents the National Security Agency (NSA) in the United States House of Representatives released the following statement after President Bush’s visit to NSA today. The President is asking Congress to expand secret surveillance of American citizens without court approval and make the recently passed Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) legislation permanent. Congressman Ruppersberger, a former investigative prosecutor, voted against the measure. It passed the House and Senate and was signed by the President on August 5, 2007, and is set to expire six months after it was enacted. “I am glad the President visited the hard-working men and women of the National Security Agency (NSA) today. I have been to NSA twice over the past two weeks. In addition, I serve as the Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Subcommittee on the Intelligence Committee, which overseas NSA. The career professionals there are working hard to safeguard our nation. They deserve our unwavering support. “America must be tough on terrorism. I believe we need to give the workers at NSA the tools they need to keep our country safe. Those tools include surveillance. As a former investigative prosecutor, I know the importance of wiretapping. Whether it is collecting information about drug suspects or tracking down terrorists, wiretaps are critical in collecting information to help catch the bad guys — but the law must be clear. NSA employees must know what is allowed and what is not under the law. “Wiretapping foreigners to obtain critical information to protect our country is allowed under our Constitution. The measure the President is supporting provides no clarity when it comes to monitoring Americans. It appears the measure authorizes searches, seizures, and surveillance of Americans on U.S. soil without a warrant. This is wrong. “I believe we must have court oversight in these situations. We must have checks and balances when it comes to protecting the civil liberties of Americans. It is what our citizens deserve and our Forefathers would want. We don't have to decide between civil liberties and national security. As soon as we erode our checks and balances, the terrorists start to win,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Intelligence Committee is holding an open hearing about FISA legislation on Thursday, September 20, 2007, on Capitol Hill. The Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell is scheduled to testify. WHAT: Open Intelligence Hearing about FISA WHEN: 9 am, Thursday, September 19, 2007 WHERE: 1300 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Chairman Silvestre Reyes (D-TX) Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) believes the loss or theft of 426 uniforms and identification cards at Baltimore Washington - Thurgood Marshall Airport is inexcusable. The Transportation Security Administration says the equipment disappeared between November, 2001, and September, 2006. The only airport to report more missing uniforms and badges in the past five years is Los Angeles International Airport in California. “I believe the loss or theft of more than four hundred uniforms and identification cards at BWI-Thurgood Marshall Airport in inexcusable. America has spent billions of dollars on aviation security but it only takes one lost or stolen uniform and ID badge in the hands of a terrorist to wreak havoc on this country. I believe Secretary Michael Chertoff of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) should come up to Capitol Hill and brief Members of Congress about what happened and how he plans to prevent it in the future. Secretary Chertoff oversees the Transportation Security Administration and is ultimately responsible for this lapse in security. I am deeply concerned about this breach and the potential lack of oversight and management within DHS. This situation may affect our national security. I believe the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) should conduct an independent and thorough investigation into how this occurred while at the same time trying to locate the missing uniforms and badges,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger represents the Maryland 2nd District which includes BWI-Thurgood Marshall Airport. Congressman Ruppersberger serves on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Appropriations Committee. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce together with “Team Maryland” that $4 million dollars in federal funding has been secured for the Maryland Department of Labor to help the state’s workforce prepare for the estimated 40,000 to 60,000 new workers heading to Maryland through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. The money is part of the Workforce Investment Act National Emergency Grant. The Susquehanna Workforce Network will use the money to allow workers, businesses, and communities across the state access to employment and training services to plan and implement an effective strategy for BRAC. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD), Representatives Wayne T. Gilchrest (R-MD), Albert Wynn (D-MD), Roscoe Bartlett (R-MD), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and John Sarbanes (D-MD) in securing these funds. "It is critically important that Maryland is ready for the influx of new workers that will be soon be heading here through BRAC. Grants like this help us invest in workers and businesses so we are ready for the future and the exciting opportunities that are ahead of us," said Congressman C.A Dutch Ruppersberger, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee. "My promises made to BRAC-impacted communities are promises kept. BRAC brings opportunities, but it also brings great challenges. We must now work together to help Maryland address the increased demands on our workforce and our communities," said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). "We fought to win BRAC as Team Maryland, and we will fight to make sure Maryland communities have what they need in the federal checkbook to implement the BRAC decisions." "BRAC will have an enormous impact on Maryland, and this grant will enable the State to plan effectively for the new jobs and skills that will be required by this expanded mission," said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD). "It will provide funding for workforce investment that will meet the future needs of employers." "These grant funds will go a long way in helping the region prepare for the economic growth and job expansion expected as a result of BRAC and address some of the challenges that such an economic influx poses," stated Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD). "BRAC is expected to be the most significant economic development phenomenon in Maryland since World War II and is projected to bring 40,000 to 60,000 new jobs to our state over the next decade," said Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD), a Member of House Armed Services Committee. "This grant will help support the workers and businesses that will be affected by the changes that BRAC will bring." "I am pleased that the State of Maryland will receive this funding," said Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). "These funds will be vital to helping workers and communities adjust and create new opportunities as the BRAC process moves forward. Our future prosperity demands that we provide workers with education and skills to compete in a global economy." "BRAC is forcing us to do the sort of planning and forward thinking that we should be doing anyway," said Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD). "These critical federal resources will help ensure that Maryland is prepared to carry out this important work while maintaining environmental integrity and a high quality of life in our communities." (####)
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Harford County Executive David Craig held a town hall meeting about the new jobs and residents heading to Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision on September 12, 2007, at Edgewood High School. “The thousands of new jobs and residents heading to Aberdeen Proving Ground from Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, are both a great opportunity and a great challenge for our state. I am committed to preserving the excellent quality of life everyone enjoys in Harford County. I am working hard in Washington to ensure we have the resources we need to serve existing residents while preparing for new ones,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger is a Member of the Appropriations Committee. He is committed to helping improve economic conditions, meet health care demands, address infrastructure needs, expand educational opportunities, promote environmental protection, enhance transportation and military advancements, and strengthen intelligence capabilities in Maryland and across our nation. The following funds have been included in Appropriations bills to help the area prepare for BRAC: $1 Million for Road Improvements In and Around Aberdeen Proving Ground $500,000 for State Highway Construction at Aberdeen Proving Ground This project will fund preliminary planning on several road projects in and around Aberdeen Proving Ground in support of the BRAC initiative. Improvements to these existing roads that provide either links or direct access to the installation are essential to the transportation network’s ability to successfully handle an anticipated on-post daily commuting population of more than 25,000. $500,000 for Road Improvements in Harford County This project will help improve safety, operations, and access at Aberdeen Proving Grounds in anticipation of BRAC-related growth. $750,000 for Widening I-695 This project will support the widening of I-695 to eight lanes to reduce traffic congestion and improve traffic flow around the Baltimore Beltway. The Maryland State Highway Administration will also use these funds to improve safety on the highway. $500,000 for Traffic Light Synchronization on MD 175 near Ft. Meade The Maryland State Highway Administration has requested funding to improve traffic flow through traffic light systemization between MD 170 and MD 173 to improve access to Ft. Meade in anticipation of BRAC-related growth in traffic volume. $1 Million for Buses and Bus Facilities $250,000 for Central Maryland Transit Operations The State of Maryland will use this funding to contribute to the construction of the Central Maryland Transit Operations facility that will provide storage and maintenance for a 120-bus operation, employing 200 people. $750,000 for the Maryland Transit Agency This project will help the State of Maryland improve existing Maryland Transit Agency bus facilities and build new bus facilities throughout the State of Maryland. $250,000 for BRAC Workforce Development at Towson University This project will help Towson University create a comprehensive demand-driven workforce development and student enrichment program that will prepare Marylanders for current and projected BRAC and Homeland Security high-wage/high-growth occupations. The targeted populations include at-risk or under represented youth, veterans, and those areas directly impacted by BRAC. The meeting was put together by the BRAC Planning Action Committee. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) and other Members of the Maryland Delegation are pleased to announce a $1.4 million dollar grant to address expected needs around Fort Meade because of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. As part of BRAC, more than 20,000 jobs are being relocated to the base. The money will assist nearby communities including Anne Arundel County, Howard County, and the City of Laurel as they plan for additional infrastructure needs. "It is important that we work together on a local, state, and federal level to plan for the additional jobs and residents that will be moving to Maryland through BRAC,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd). “This $1.4 million will help us do that in a coordinated effort so that we do not negatively impact the residents already living here. This is just the beginning. Team Maryland intends to fight for more funding on Capitol Hill to help with the expected transportation, education, healthcare, economic, housing, and other infrastructure needs.” Congressman Ruppersberger is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. The Maryland 2nd District includes parts of Anne Arundel County, Harford County, Baltimore County, and Baltimore City and includes Fort Meade, the National Security Agency, Aberdeen Proving Ground, the Port of Baltimore, BWI-Thurgood Marshall Airport, and the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay. “The 2005 BRAC announcements were great news for Maryland and the nation,” said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Maryland). “They were a testament to the strength of Maryland’s military bases, our military and the communities that support them. But we must now work together to help Maryland address the increased demands on our communities. That’s why I am so proud our counties will have these funds for community adjustment assistance with the realignment at Fort Meade. We fought to win BRAC as Team Maryland, and we will fight to make sure Maryland communities have what they need in the federal checkbook to implement the BRAC decisions.” “Maryland has been chosen through the BRAC process for an expanded military and intelligence presence,” said U.S. Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Maryland). “We are proud of this new mission, and the $1.4 million Community Adjustment grant to Anne Arundel County will assist the County in helping to prepare for the changes that will be needed.” “I am proud to have worked with Congressman Sarbanes and other Members of the Maryland delegation to secure these funds. We must do everything we can to help Maryland-based service members adjust to the changes caused by BRAC,” U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland-7th), the only Maryland Democrat to serve on the House Armed Services Committee said. “Additionally, the number of jobs provided by this opportunity will have a positive impact on Maryland’s economy.” Congressman John P. Sarbanes, (D-Maryland 3rd), who represents many communities surrounding the base, sent a letter to the Department of Defense, “Office of Economic Adjustment funding, to be used in coordination with significant state and local resources, is critical to ensuring that the necessary infrastructure is in place to assimilate these hard working men and women in a way that is least disruptive to Fort Meade’s surrounding communities. In Maryland, we are very proud of the military installations across our State and we stand ready to support these facilities.” The grant was awarded through the Department of Defense Office of Economic Adjustment (OEA). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski, and Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) applauded the announcement by the Army Corps of Engineers that it has awarded the design and build contract for the C4ISR Joint Center of Excellence at Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) in Harford County, Md. This is a critical first step in the closing of Fort Monmouth, New Jersey and the transition to APG, in accordance with the recommendations of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission. The BRAC Commission designated APG as the C4ISR Center of Excellence to develop the tools and weapons that will give America's soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines the technological edge in the global war on terror and on the battlefields of tomorrow. Team Maryland fought for the funding for this project in the fiscal year 2007 emergency supplemental spending bill. An additional $245 million has been approved by both the House and Senate in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 2008 spending bill. "This move is another example of the Army and Maryland's commitment to Aberdeen Proving Ground and the military personnel who will be moving here from Fort Monmouth, New Jersey. BRAC is about strengthening the security of our nation. Team Maryland is committed to ensuring a smooth and orderly transition as we work to keep our country safe," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). "This contract takes us a concrete step forward in our successful implementation of the BRAC Commission's decision. The recommendations were based on mission, merit and what is best for the nation as a whole," said Senator Mikulski (D-MD), Chair of the Maryland congressional delegation. "As we move forward, Team Maryland will continue to ensure that APG and its surrounding community have the resources they need to accommodate the anticipated new growth." "The announcement is an affirmation that the consolidation of the Army's C4ISR mission at a Center of Excellence at Aberdeen Proving Ground is right on schedule," said Senator Cardin (D-MD). "The BRAC Commission determined that the creation of this facility would enhance the Army's mission in the 21st Century. Maryland will continue to support the Army in ensuring an efficient and timely transition to the new Center of Excellence." Staff from the members' offices met with U.S. Army Materiel Command (AMC) representatives in August and received a briefing on AMC's step-by-step timeline for moving assets into Maryland and a detailed funding plan to support these moves while ensuring no disruption in support for the war fighter. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) honors a 17-year old Lutherville student who won Safeway’s “Art of Dairy” contest. Mary Bolgiano, a Junior at Notre Dame Preparatory (NDP) in Towson, created “Revol-moo-tion” by decorating a life-size plaster model of a cow. Her cow was chosen out of 9,000 entries and awarded the grand prize. Ms. Bolgiano has always been creative and comes from a family of talented artists. Her art teacher at NDP, Ann Walker, encouraged her to participate in the contest. Safeway hopes to promote artistic creativity, academic excellence, and healthy lifestyles with the program. “Mary Bolgiano is a talented, creative young artist who worked for hours to perfect her creation. I applaud such hard work and dedication. I come from a family of educators. My wife, sister, mother, and sister-in-law were all teachers. I truly believe that art is a critical component of a well rounded education,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd). Ms. Bolgiano and Ms. Walker will receive $1,000 from Safeway and the Art Department at NDP will receive $20,000. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) together with Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) applaud the move by the U.S. Army Materiel Command (AMC) to send an “advance team” from Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, to Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) in Harford County, Maryland. The team consists of 32 communications, electronics, research, development and engineering positions. The move is the first of many as the Army closes Fort Monmouth and moves many of the positions to Aberdeen Proving Ground in accordance with the recommendations of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission. "Team Maryland salutes America's warfighters as they make this move to our state. Maryland is at the ready to help to ensure a smooth and orderly transition as these military personnel work to keep our country safe. BRAC is about strengthening the security of our nation. Team Maryland is working hard to ensure that our servicemen and women, military bases, and surrounding communities have the resources they need to get the job done," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). "Today's announcement is another step in demonstrating the Army's commitment to APG. We will continue to work as Team Maryland to ensure that APG and its surrounding community has the resources it needs to accommodate the anticipated new growth," said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). "As we move forward, I hope we will continue to focus on what is best for the nation as a whole. The BRAC recommendations, and its great news for APG, were based on mission and merit. The recommendations are a testament to the strength of Maryland's military bases, our military and the communities that support them." "I am pleased that the Army is moving forward with its plans to move personnel to APG. The BRAC recommendations are geared to strengthening our nation's military so that we can deal with challenges we may face in the future. Our goal is for an efficient and orderly transition, and Maryland is ready to assist in that process," said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD). Staff from the member's offices met with U.S. Army representatives earlier this month and received a briefing on AMC's step-by-step timeline for moving assets into Maryland and a detailed funding plan to support these moves while ensuring no disruption in support for the warfighter. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) held a Congressional Forum on Internet safety at Magnolia Middle School in Joppa, Maryland, on Monday, May 22, 2006. “Students use the internet for everything from researching school papers to chatting with friends. We must do all we can to keep our children safe online. Protecting our children from internet predators and bullying must be a priority,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). A study by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children and the Justice Department found that one of every five young people ages 10 to 17 surveyed said they had received a sexual solicitation over the Internet. Child health advocates and internet experts offered the following tips to keep your kids safe online. • Talk to your children about their internet use on a regular basis. • Keep computers in a family room or other common area around the house. • Teach your children to never give out their personal information online. • Prohibit children from personally meeting anyone they met online without your approval. Congressman Ruppersberger periodically holds Town Hall Forums on a range of topics from the new Medicare Prescription Drug law to the issues facing our nation’s Veterans at locations all across the 2nd Congressional District of Maryland. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) hosted two honor students from Archbishop Spalding High School in Severn, Maryland. Seniors Kayleigh Bryant and Sadatu Dennis visited the Capitol with their AP Government Class to learn about how Congress works first-hand. “It is always encouraging to meet with such bright and motivated young people. These students are already demonstrating exemplary leadership skills that will equip them to succeed in college and beyond. Our future looks bright with these students working today to become the leaders of tomorrow,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Kayleigh Bryant of Pasadena is a senior at Archbishop Spalding High School. She will attend the University of Maryland College Park next year on an art scholarship. Sadatu Dennis of Columbia is also a senior at Archbishop Spalding High School. She will attend Columbia University in New York City next year to study public relations. The students talked with Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) about his role as a federal legislator and Member of the Intelligence and Government Reform Committees. The young women were in the nation’s capitol as part of a field trip with their classmates at Archbishop Spalding High School. The students also attended a lecture at the Supreme Court, met with both Maryland Senators, and attended a hearing on crime and terrorism. Please feel free to use the attached pictures for your publication. (####)
11.20.2009	(Timonium, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) honored our country’s Veterans at a special ceremony at Dulaney Valley Memorial Gardens in Timonium on Memorial Day on May 29, 2006. Since the birth of our nation, millions of American men and women have answered the call to service and risked their lives on behalf of the United States of America for the protection of freedom and liberty. In World War I, World War II, Korea, Vietnam, the Gulf War, and now in Iraq and Aghanistan, the Members of our Armed Services have made their country proud. “I believe we must honor the service and sacrifice of our Veterans with words and more importantly actions. We must keep our promises and provide our Veterans with the benefits they deserve. In Congress, I am working for full funding for Veterans’ healthcare, for fair concurrent receipts, for a resolution to the survivor benefits plan, and much more,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). This Memorial Day has extra special meaning for Congressman Ruppersberger. The last time Congressman Ruppersberger attended the Memorial Day Service at Dulaney Valley Memorial Gardens, his father, Albert Ruppersberger, was with him. Big Al, as he was called, was a World War II Veteran and served in the Army Air Corp while the Congressman’s mother went to work in the Domino Sugar Refining Company Factory in the Port of Baltimore. Big Al passed away two months ago. The Congressman honored his Dad’s memory at the service. The Congressman joined Maryland Governor Robert Ehrlich, Major General Bruce Tuxill of the Maryland National Guard and other elected officials at the ceremony. Right now, over 4,000 men and women in uniform from Maryland are serving their country - 2,000 active duty servicemen and women and 2,000 National Guard and Reservists who have been called up to active duty. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) just returned from a trip to Iraq where he met with Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki, Iraqi Speaker of the Council of Representatives Mahmoud al-Mashhadani, Iraqi Cabinet Ministers, Members of the Multinational Iraqi Force, U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Dr. Zalmay Khalilzad and Maryland troops. The Congressman is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He feels it is important to go to the front lines and talk to soldiers, military leaders, political leaders and intelligence workers on the ground to get a first hand account of what is going on in Iraq. “Important progress is being made in Iraq. The Iraqi people have successfully created their own government. I believe it is now time to let the Iraqi security forces take more control of their country and test their ability to secure their own nation. I believe American troops should stop patrolling the streets of the major Iraqi cities and should instead guard the perimeter. The troops will be available if there is an emergency but the Iraqi security forces need to take more responsibility and gain more confidence in what they can do for their country. The ultimate goal of the United States is to completely withdraw American troops and bring our men and women in uniform home. I believe the best way to do that is to give the Iraqi police greater and greater roles in protecting their country so they are not as dependent on the United States Military,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger traveled to Iraq with House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Illinois), Congressman Ray LaHood (R-Illinois), and Congressman Adam Putnam (R-Florida). Feel free to use the attached photographs in your publication. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) announced he was able to secure $750,000 in funding for important children’s programs at the Kennedy Krieger Institute (KKI) in Baltimore. The money will be used to operate and pay for professional staff at KKI’s Community Behavioral Center and Outpatient Facility that focuses on early intervention to prevent juvenile crime and delinquency. The program helps children manage behavioral problems that could lead to delinquency, drug use, pregnancy, and academic failure. The program also focuses on how children are impacted by childhood abuse and neglect. “I believe we must get to kids early. Early intervention is the key to keeping kids out of trouble. The Kennedy Krieger Institute is a world class facility dedicated to helping children and their parents. It is an honor to be able to secure $750,000 for these important programs,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The $750,000 was in the Fiscal Year 2006 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill. The Kennedy Krieger Institute is an internationally recognized facility dedicated to improving the lives of children and adolescents with pediatric developmental disabilities through patient care, special education, research, and professional training. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) announced he was able to secure $750,000 in funding for important children’s programs at the Kennedy Krieger Institute (KKI) in Baltimore. The money will be used to operate and pay for professional staff at KKI’s Community Behavioral Center and Outpatient Facility that focuses on early intervention to prevent juvenile crime and delinquency. The program helps children manage behavioral problems that could lead to delinquency, drug use, pregnancy, and academic failure. The program also focuses on how children are impacted by childhood abuse and neglect. “I believe we must get to kids early. Early intervention is the key to keeping kids out of trouble. The Kennedy Krieger Institute is a world class facility dedicated to helping children and their parents. It is an honor to be able to secure $750,000 for these important programs,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The $750,000 was in the Fiscal Year 2006 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill. The Kennedy Krieger Institute is an internationally recognized facility dedicated to improving the lives of children and adolescents with pediatric developmental disabilities through patient care, special education, research, and professional training. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will hold a Congressional Forum on Internet safety on Monday, May 22, 2006. Child Health Advocates and Internet Experts will be available to answer questions from students and their parents. “Students use the internet for everything from researching school papers to chatting with friends. We must do all we can to keep our children safe online. Protecting our children from internet predators and bullying must be a priority,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Child Health Advocates Internet Experts WHAT: Internet Safety Town Hall WHEN: 7 pm – 9 pm., Monday, May 22, 2006 WHERE: Magnolia Middle School 299 Fort Hoyle Road Joppa, Maryland 21085 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) hosted Olympic figure skater Kimmie Meissner at a Capitol Hill reception on May 17, 2006. The Congressman congratulated the 16-year old skating sensation from Bel Air, Maryland, on her 2006 Olympic debut in Torino, Italy, where she placed fifth in the short program and sixth overall. “Kimmie Meissner is a world-class skater and a world-class young lady. She works hard at perfecting her skating as well as succeeding in school. It was an honor to host and congratulate such a talented young woman from Belair, Maryland, on her Olympic achievements. I wish her continued success in the future,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Kimmie Meissner is a Junior at Fallston High School in Harford County. Meissner recently won the World Ladies Figure Skating Championships in Calgary, Canada making her one of the youngest world champions in history. Meissner also won the bronze medal at the 2005 U.S. Championships and the silver medal at the 2004 World Junior Championships. Only the second American woman to land a triple Axel in competition, Meissner is also the March United States Olympic Committee Female Athlete of the Month. The Capitol Hill reception was put together by the Maryland Congressional Delegation. Feel free to use the attached pictures in your publication. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and residents of Eastern Baltimore County participated in a Capitol Hill Rally on May 10, 2006. The group called on the Bush Administration to extend the Medicare deadline. The deadline to enroll in the new Medicare prescription drug program is May 15, 2006 – next Monday. The federal government estimates that 190,000 Seniors in Maryland who are eligible to sign up for the new program have not signed up. Many Seniors don’t know that the new Medicare drug plan is available or are confused by the myriad of options. “Seniors have worked hard, raised their families, and paid their taxes. They deserve a prescription drug benefit that allows them to buy medicines they need at a reasonable price so they can stay healthy and enjoy their golden years,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger has held more than a dozen town hall meetings across the Maryland 2nd District where Medicare experts worked one on one with Seniors to help find the plan that best meets their needs. Feel free to use the attached photographs in your publication. In one of the pictures, Congressman Ruppersberger is shaking hands with Dundalk resident Bud Howard. For more information about the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit, go to www.medicare.gov. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is calling on the Bush Administration to extend the Medicare deadline. The deadline to enroll in the new Medicare prescription drug program is May 15, 2006 – next Monday. The federal government estimates that 190,000 Seniors in Maryland who are eligible to sign up for the new program have not signed up. Many Seniors don’t know that the new Medicare drug plan is available or are confused by the myriad of options. Congressman Ruppersberger has held more than a dozen town hall meetings across the Maryland 2nd District where Medicare experts have helped Seniors find the best plan for them. “Seniors have worked hard, raised their families, and paid their taxes. They deserve a prescription drug benefit that allows them to buy medicines they need at a reasonable price so they can stay healthy and enjoy their golden years,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger joined Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) at a rally at the Sandtown-Winchester Senior Center in Baltimore on May 9, 2006. The event was sponsored by Progressive Maryland, a grass roots advocacy organization. For more information about the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit, go to www.medicare.gov. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) introduced a resolution today honoring the Port of Baltimore on its 300th Anniversary. The Congressman introduced the legislation on June 14th, Flag Day, because of the extraordinary contributions the Port of Baltimore has had in the history of America. It was during the War of 1812 that Francis Scott Key while sequestered on a boat off the shores of Fort McHenry in Baltimore was inspired by the American Flag to write our National Anthem, the Star Spangled Banner. It was also during that war that Fort McHenry protected the City of Baltimore and the Port of Baltimore. “I believe that today, Flag Day, is an appropriate day to recognize the Port of Baltimore on its 300th Anniversary. Established in 1706, the Port of Baltimore is here today because it was successfully defended by the American soldiers and militiamen at Fort McHenry and North Point during the War of 1812. Today, the Port of Baltimore is one of America’s busiest international deepwater ports and serves as a critical anchor for Baltimore and the Inner Harbor. It is also an economic engine for the state. From cars to tractors, from coal to paper, from sugar to aluminum, the Port of Baltimore handles 400,000 containers a year filled with goods that help us in our everyday lives. The Port employs more than 19,000 people, supports more than 42,000 jobs related to the maritime industry, and generates more than $2 billion in revenue annually. A busy Port has ensured a buzzing economy and more jobs for Maryland residents. The hard work and dedication of Baltimore’s port workers together with the support of local, state, and federal leaders have ensured that the Port will be a success today as well as tomorrow,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The resolution honoring the 300th Anniversary of the Port of Baltimore has the support of the entire Maryland Congressional Delegation in the House. The Members of the Delegation are co-sponsors of the measure. Congressman Ruppersberger’s statement about the resolution is attached. Feel free to use the attached photographs of Congressman Ruppersberger at the Port of Baltimore in your publication. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) introduced a resolution today honoring the Port of Baltimore on its 300th Anniversary. The Congressman introduced the legislation on June 14th, Flag Day, because of the extraordinary contributions the Port of Baltimore has had in the history of America. It was during the War of 1812 that Francis Scott Key while sequestered on a boat off the shores of Fort McHenry in Baltimore was inspired by the American Flag to write our National Anthem, the Star Spangled Banner. It was also during that war that Fort McHenry protected the City of Baltimore and the Port of Baltimore. “I believe that today, Flag Day, is an appropriate day to recognize the Port of Baltimore on its 300th Anniversary. Established in 1706, the Port of Baltimore is here today because it was successfully defended by the American soldiers and militiamen at Fort McHenry and North Point during the War of 1812. Today, the Port of Baltimore is one of America’s busiest international deepwater ports and serves as a critical anchor for Baltimore and the Inner Harbor. It is also an economic engine for the state. From cars to tractors, from coal to paper, from sugar to aluminum, the Port of Baltimore handles 400,000 containers a year filled with goods that help us in our everyday lives. The Port employs more than 19,000 people, supports more than 42,000 jobs related to the maritime industry, and generates more than $2 billion in revenue annually. A busy Port has ensured a buzzing economy and more jobs for Maryland residents. The hard work and dedication of Baltimore’s port workers together with the support of local, state, and federal leaders have ensured that the Port will be a success today as well as tomorrow,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The resolution honoring the 300th Anniversary of the Port of Baltimore has the support of the entire Maryland Congressional Delegation in the House. The Members of the Delegation are co-sponsors of the measure. Congressman Ruppersberger’s statement about the resolution is attached. Feel free to use the attached photographs of Congressman Ruppersberger at the Port of Baltimore in your publication. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) voted against the Iraq Resolution today. The Congressman believes we should not be using our troops for political purposes that are offensive to the troops risking their lives in Iraq and their families living without them here at home. “A vote today in favor of the Iraq Resolution would be a vote in favor of the status quo and staying the course in Iraq and continuing along this bumpy, dangerous, and deadly road. I believe we need a new strategy in Iraq. I believe the Iraqi security forces must take on more responsibility in securing their country. I believe we must move American troops to the perimeter of the urban areas and let the Iraqi military patrol the streets of their cities. The American military will still back up the Iraqis in an emergency. This will reduce the Iraqi dependency on Americans and help them gain confidence in their own ability to secure their country. The ultimate goal is to establish a free, open, and democratic Iraqi government and bring our men and women in uniform home. This perimeter strategy will free up American troops and help us do that,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger has been to Iraq four times and just returned from a trip to the country with House Speaker Dennis Hastert over the Memorial Day Recess. Congressman Ruppersberger presented his perimeter plan to President Bush and his Cabinet on two separate visits to the White House. When talking to Generals with the Iraqi and U.S. forces including General George Casey, Commanding General of the Multi-National Force, during his most recent trip to Iraq, the Generals told the Congressman that they were confident that the Iraqi military was ready to take on this new responsibility in large parts of the country. They said the Iraqi security forces would be ready in all areas of the country by the end of the year. The American people are losing confidence in the War in Iraq. Americans are turning on the news and opening up the newspaper to see more and more stories about troops being killed by roadside bombs, suicide bombers, and improvised explosive devices (IEDs). Yesterday the Department of Defense announced that 2,500 troops have died in the War in Iraq since it began more than three years ago and close to 20,000 have been injured. “The only people sacrificing in the War in Iraq are the troops and their families. I believe we should not set an arbitrary date and deadline for the withdrawal of American troops. That will give the insurgents an incentive to lay low and then attack once the American troops are gone. I believe we need a new strategy in Iraq. I believe my perimeter plan will help turn the tide in Iraq so we can start bringing our military Servicemen and Women home,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger is a strong supporter of the troops. He created “Operation Hero Miles,” an innovative program that allows people to donate their unused frequent flyer miles so the troops can get free flights home from Iraq and Afghanistan. The program was expanded and now family members of wounded troops can receive free plane tickets to visit their loved ones recovering at military hospitals across the country. Visit www.heromiles.org for more information. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will hold a Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid to Pay for College on Monday, October 23, 2006. The Congressman will be joined by co-host, Senator Joan Carter Conway, as well as financial aid experts to help students learn about ways to make the dream of going to college a reality. “I believe every child should have the opportunity to go to college. The cost of tuition is rising but there is help. Please join me for an important forum to help find financial aid to pay for college,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Senator Joan Carter Conway Financial Aid Experts WHAT: Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid for College WHEN: Monday, October 23, 2006 7:00 p.m. WHERE: Reginald Lewis School 6401 Pioneer Drive Baltimore, Maryland 21214 410-545-1746 (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- In a show of solidarity for the students and faculty at their alma mater, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-D) and Congressman Benjamin Cardin (MD-D) greeted students on the first day of school at City College in Baltimore on Monday, August 28, 2006. Both Congressmen graduated from City College over forty years ago. City College was broken into and vandalized on Sunday, August 13, 2006. Portions of the art classroom were destroyed. Several computers and copy machines were damaged. Fire extinguishers were sprayed throughout parts of the building. School officials estimate the damage is more than $100,000. Baltimore City Police have arrested six youths and charged them with vandalism and destruction of property. “I am proud to be a graduate of City College, one of the best high schools in the state of Maryland. When something like this happens, I believe we need to come together as a community - as students, alumni, school leaders, neighbors, and friends – to show our support for such a top notch institution,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD) In a show of solidarity for the students and faculty at their alma mater, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-D) and Congressman Benjamin Cardin (MD-D) will greet students on the first day of school at City College in Baltimore on Monday, August 28, 2006. Both Congressmen graduated from City College over forty years ago. City College was broken into and vandalized on Sunday, August 13, 2006. Portions of the art classroom were destroyed. Several computers and copy machines were damaged. Fire extinguishers were sprayed throughout parts of the building. School officials estimate the damage is more than $100,000. Baltimore City Police have arrested six youths and charged them with vandalism and destruction of property. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) Mr. Timothy Dawson, City College Principal WHY: Show Solidarity for Students & Faculty at City College After Break-In WHEN: Monday, August 28, 2006, at 7:30am WHERE: Baltimore City College Main Entrance 3220 The Alameda Baltimore, MD 21218 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-D) joined a bi-partisan group of lawmakers at the White House today for the historic signing of the Voting Rights Act. President Bush signed H.R. 9, the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006, into law this morning. “Even more than forty years after the Voting Rights Act was first signed into law, this measure still ensures millions of citizens that they are guaranteed the right to vote. The bill is the most effective civil rights laws granting access to the ballot boxes for all Americans by eliminating discriminatory practices and other barriers. I applaud passage of this historic and bi-partisan measure,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Congressman Ruppersberger took the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives and participated in a rally on Capitol Hill in support of the measure. The bill passed the United States House of Representatives by a vote of 390 to 33 on July 13, 2006. Congressman Ruppersberger joined other Members of Congress and civil rights leaders at a rally on the East steps of the Capitol on the eve before the historic vote on July 12, 2006. The Voting Rights Act of 2006 reauthorizes for 25 years key provisions of the original bill signed into law in 1965. The provisions require jurisdictions with a history of discrimination in voting to get federal approval of any new voting practices or procedures, ensure that American citizens with limited English proficiency get the help they need at the polls, and authorize the Attorney General to appoint federal election observers where there is discrimination. All provisions were set to expire in 2007. Feel free to use the attached photograph of the White House ceremony in your publication. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- In light of the recent killing and abduction of Israeli soldiers by the terrorist group Hezbollah, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-D) expresses his support for Israel and her right to defend herself. Congressman Ruppersberger sent a letter to Israeli Ambassador, Daniel Ayalon, on July 21, 2006. In the letter, the Congressman wrote, “Please know our thoughts and prayers are with you and the Israeli people during this unsettling time of violence and unrest. We are deeply saddened for the innocent people who have lost their lives and those who have lost family members in this attack.” The letter continues, “I would like to extend my support of Israel’s right to defend herself and your recent charge to secure the safe return of your kidnapped soldiers.” Congressman Ruppersberger has visited Israel several times over the last several years. Click here to view the Congressman’s letter to Israeli Ambassador Daniel Ayalon. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-D) participated in a bi-partisan Congressional field hearing to help curb gang violence. The hearing was held in Fairfax, Virginia, where a regional task force has been formed to combat a rise in gang activity. Authorities in Maryland believe the success of the task force is unintentionally pushing gang violence into the I-95 corridor in Maryland. “Gangs like MS-13 and others are sophisticated crime networks not contained by state or international borders. It is critically important that we work together as a team across jurisdictional lines on the federal, state, and local level to combat gang violence and keep our communities safe. We need to build on regional efforts already underway while at the same time getting to kids early by enhancing our gang prevention and intervention efforts,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). During his tenure as the Baltimore County Executive and now in Congress, Representative Ruppersberger supports after-school programs like Police Athletic Leagues that keep kids busy with sports and other activities. This gives them a sense of community so they are not as vulnerable to pressure to join a gang. Recent data shows that gang recruitment is starting even earlier than in the past. Middle school and high school students are being pressured to join gangs. Congressman Ruppersberger believes teaching kids to respect themselves and their community through smart decisions and getting involved in positive activities can help put them on a successful path to the future. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-D) praises passage of H.R. 9, the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006. The Congressman took the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives and participated in a rally on Capitol Hill in support of the measure. It passed the United States House of Representatives by a vote of 390 to 33 on July 13, 2006. “The Voting Rights Act has been one of the most effective civil rights laws granting access to the ballot boxes for all Americans. It has encouraged millions of citizens to exercise their right to vote by eliminating discriminatory practices and other barriers. I applaud passage of this historic and bi-partisan measure,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Voting Rights Act of 2006 reauthorizes for 25 years key provisions of the original bill signed into law in 1965. The provisions require jurisdictions with a history of discrimination in voting to get federal approval of any new voting practices or procedures, ensure that American citizens with limited English proficiency get the help they need at the polls, and authorize the Attorney General to appoint federal election observers where there is discrimination. All were set to expire in 2007. Congressman Ruppersberger joined other Members of Congress and civil rights leaders at a rally on the East steps of the Capitol on the eve before the historic vote on July 12, 2006. Feel free to use the attached photograph in your publication. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-D) received the prestigious 2006 Navigator Award from the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies for his work in the intelligence community. Congressman Ruppersberger serves on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and represents Maryland’s 2nd Congressional District which includes the National Security Agency at Fort Meade, Aberdeen Proving Ground, the Port of Baltimore, the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay, and BWI-Thurgood Marshall Airport. Ruppersberger is also the co-chair of the Congressional Port Security Caucus. Congressman Peter Hoekstra (R-Michigan), Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and a previous recipient of the Navigator award, presented the award to Congressman Ruppersberger. “Dutch is a real consensus builder on the Intelligence Committee. We have been able to reach across the aisle and work together to protect our national security and put America first. If there is a way to help America, Dutch will be there, even if it means traveling to Iraq, Afghanistan, or Libya on short notice,” Chairman Hoekstra said during the award ceremony. General Keith Alexander, Director of the National Security Agency, also received the 2006 Navigator Award. Past Navigator Award Recipients include Senator Joseph Lieberman (2004), Senator Pat Roberts (2002), Congressman Sherwood Boehlert (2003) and Congressman Curt Weldon (2000). “I am honored to receive the Navigator Award from the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies. I believe good intelligence is the best way to prevent another terrorist attack. I am working together with the best and the brightest in the intelligence community at the National Security Agency, Fort Meade, Aberdeen Proving Ground, the CIA, the FBI, and other locations around the world to ensure they have the resources they need to keep our country safe. These men and women do all they can to protect our families and our communities. They deserve our support,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In addition to General Alexander, Dr. John Marburger, Science Advisor to the president and Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the late Vice Admiral Arthur K. Cebrowski also received 2006 Navigator Awards. The Potomac Institute for Policy Studies is an independent, not-for-profit public policy research institute. The Institute works to develop meaningful science and technology policy options by shepherding discussion between business, government, and academia. Feel free to use the attached picture in your publication. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) honored a talented young artist from Patapsco High School during a special ceremony on Capitol Hill. 18-year old Marie Rose Mapanao of Baltimore won the 2006 Congressional Art Contest for the Maryland 2nd District for her artwork entitled “Self Portrait.” Her captivating artwork was unveiled as part of the 2006 Artistic Discovery Exhibit, a 25 year old nationwide competition sponsored by Congress. “Marie Rose Mapanao is an exceptionally talented young artist. She has great creative vision and honesty and the ability to capture that vision and emotion on paper. I admire her hard work and dedication to the arts. It is an honor to give her this prestigious award.” said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger established a panel of qualified judges from Maryland’s art community to choose a piece worthy of such an honor. Ms. Mapanao’s “Self Portrait” lines the walls of our nation’s Capitol in the Cannon Tunnel. The artwork on display provides inspiration to all Capitol visitors and Members of Congress as they make their way to the House floor. An estimated 12,000 people will see the exhibit every day for the next year. Ms. Mapanao is a recent graduate of Patapsco High School and Center for the Arts. Family members recognized her talent at a young age and encouraged her to pursue her interest in art. She plans to attend Essex Community College in the fall for nursing. Contest winners were honored at a special ceremony in Washington where they had an opportunity to tour the Capitol, have photographs taken with their Member of Congress, and meet celebrity guests. Feel free to use attached photographs for your publication. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) authored an amendment to the Flood Insurance Reform and Modernization Act of 2006, H.R. 4973. The Ruppersberger Amendment requires the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Director provide policy holders with plain language in easy to understand terms about the policies they are purchasing when they are purchasing them. The measure will help reduce confusion for homeowners over what coverage they are actually buying when it comes to replacement cost of damaged and destroyed items. “It is important for Maryland families to know which items are covered in their homes and which are not before any type of flood even begins. My amendment helps do this. It requires the FEMA Director provide policy holders with important information about their coverage when they purchase their policy not after,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The issue hits very close to home for Congressman Ruppersberger. In September, 2003, Hurricane Isabel slammed into Maryland and other areas of the East Coast leaving overwhelming flood water and more than $410 millions of dollars in damage in its wake in Maryland alone. Congressman Ruppersberger’s staff worked with dozens of families and businesses who thought they had adequate insurance coverage but were surprised to find out that much of the damage was not covered because they had purchased the wrong type of policy. Others believe they were not given adequate compensation to cover the costs of damaged and destroyed items and repairs to their homes and businesses. This measure will also be helpful in light of the recent rains that are flooding some parts of Maryland causing many homeowners to consider purchasing new flood insurance policies. The amendment passed unanimously by voice vote on Tuesday, June 27, 2006. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD) - Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will tour the Port of Baltimore and meet with officials from the Customs and Border Protection Agency at the Port of Baltimore on Monday, March 6, 2006 to review security operations. Congressman Cardin is the Senior Democrat on the House Trade Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the Customs & Border Protection Agency. Congressman Ruppersberger is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and is a co-chair of the Congressional Port Security Caucus. Congressman Ruppersberger has called for Congressional hearings about the potential sale of container operations at the Port of Baltimore to a government owned company in the United Arab Emirates. Congressman Ruppersberger co-authored a letter to President Bush asking him to stay the sale until a thorough 45 day full review can be conducted. In addition, the Congressman has also co-sponsored several pieces of legislation that call for a thorough investigation in to the deal. WHO: Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) WHAT: Press Availability with Congressmen Cardin and Congressman Ruppersberger after Tour of Port of Baltimore WHEN: 11am, Monday, March 6, 2006 WHERE: Pasha Parking Lot Directly across from the Seagirt Marine Terminal Truck Gate 2600 Broening Highway Baltimore, MD (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) opposes the construction of a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) plant in Dundalk. He wrote a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission today asking it to deny the request to build the facility. The Congressman believes the proposed facility is wrong for the area. If constructed, the facility would be less than two miles from a residential neighborhood. Congressman Ruppersberger believes area residents could be harmed if there is an accident at the facility or a terrorist attack. Liquefied natural gas is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. The Coast Guard is already patrolling the LNG facility at Cove Point in Calvert County. The Coast Guard’s surveillance capabilities could be stretched thin if another plant is opened nearby. In addition, Congressman Ruppersberger believes an LNG facility would ruin revitalization efforts on the Eastside of Baltimore County. As the Baltimore County Executive, the Ruppersberger Administration invested over $130 million dollars to help revitalize this area. The Congressman wrote a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) today asking it to deny a request to build the facility. An October 12, 2005 report by the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service entitled “Liquefied Natural Gas Infrastructure Security: Issues for Congress” cautioned that “potentially catastrophic events could arise from a serious accident or attack on such facilities, such as pool or vapor cloud fires.” “I do not believe Dundalk should be a dumping ground for this type of facility. A liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this residential area. I am concerned that there could be an accident at the facility and or on the tankers that bring liquefied natural gas through the Chesapeake Bay. In addition, the facility and the tankers could become potential terrorist targets. This type of plant would negatively impact years of revitalization efforts in Eastern Baltimore County and move the neighborhood in the wrong direction,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In January, the Virginia based AES Corporation announced that it wants to build an LNG terminal on the site of the former Sparrows Point shipyard – located less than two miles from Turner Station. The $400 million terminal would receive shipments of super-chilled liquefied natural gas which it would then pump to a distribution center in Pennsylvania. The proposed LNG facility must be approved by FERC. The letter the Congressman wrote to FERC asking it to deny the request is attached. Letter to FERC (####)
11.20.2009	(Edgewood, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger will attend a celebration honoring the complete restoration of the Hosanna School, the first African American School in Harford County. The Congressman will honor Ms. Christine Tolbert who spearheaded the effort to restore the building that is now being used as a living history museum and meeting center. The Hosanna School is located in Darlington, Maryland, and was originally known as the Berkley School. It was built in 1867 and was used as a school and a church. The school closed its doors in 1946 and was transformed into a community center shortly thereafter. The Hosanna School was placed on the National Register for Historic Places in 1991. The celebration and banquet will be held at the Richlin Ballroom of the Ramada in Edgewood on Friday, February 10, 2006 at 6 p.m. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Ms. Christine Tolbert WHY: Hosanna School Celebration WHERE: The Richlin Ballroom The Ramada 1700 Van Bibber Road Edgewood, MD 21040 WHEN: 6pm, Friday, February 10, 2006 (####)
11.20.2009	(Timonium, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) honored Dr. James P. McGee for his efforts to help boost morale within the New Orleans Police Department. Dr. McGee is the retired Director of Psychology and Director of Law Enforcement and Forensic Services at Sheppard Pratt Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland. Dr. McGee specializes in sports psychology and has counseled many athletes including Olympic Gold Medal winners and members of the Baltimore Orioles. After spending time with members of the New Orleans Police Department in the storm ravaged area, Dr. McGee quickly realized the officers’ spirits were low as well as their supplies. Dr. McGee immediately created “Operation: Call A Cop.” He enlisted sports figures and politicians including former Baltimore Oriole Cal Ripken, former Redskin and current sportscaster Sam Huff, and members of the Baltimore Ravens and New York Mets. The celebrities called the police officers and offered words of support and encouragement. “Hurricane Katrina was the worst natural disaster to hit America’s shores. My heart goes out to the residents of New Orleans and the rest of the Gulf Region who lost so much. I applaud Dr. James P. McGee for his unwavering commitment to help boost the spirits of the New Orleans Police Department. I'm sure the phone call from Cal Ripken or Sam Huff offered a bright moment in the lives of the officers during this very difficult recovery and rebuilding process,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger inserted a statement honoring Dr. McGee into the Congressional Record. The Congressman gave Dr. McGee a framed copy of the text at a special ceremony at the Congressman's District Office in Timonium on January 26, 2006. Feel free to use the attached photograph in your publication. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- The Maryland Delegation is pleased to announce $1 million in federal funding for the world renowned R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center at the University of Maryland Medical Center in Baltimore. The money will be used to establish a trauma resuscitation lab to improve techniques to save even more lives. The team of scientists and support staff personnel at the lab will develop new techniques to improve shock and trauma care. The team will also test current methods to ensure they are helping patients as much as possible. This is the first installment of funds needed to set up the lab. The funding was in the defense spending bill that Congress passed and the President signed at the end of last year. Shock Trauma is the cornerstone of Maryland’s EMS Trauma System and provides the highest level of trauma care in the state. Its physicians, nurses, and technicians care for more than 7,000 injured patients each year. In addition, medical personnel from the United States Military complete monthly rotations at Shock Trauma to help prepare them for their assignments in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world. Injuries suffered by troops on the battlefield resemble injuries sustained by law enforcement personnel and other accident victims here at home. The discoveries that the lab makes will help Marylanders as well as servicemen and women around the world. "The University of Maryland's Shock Trauma Center is a national model for trauma care and research. The United States Military has a long-standing relationship with the Shock Trauma Center to train medical personnel. I am pleased the Maryland Congressional Delegation was able to work with the military to build on this relationship and fund basic research on trauma-induced shock and death," said Congressman Ben Cardin (D-MD). Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger’s life was saved at Shock Trauma. The Congressman was in a serious car accident in 1975 when he was a young State’s Attorney investigating drug trafficking cases. Thanks to the unwavering dedication of the doctors, nurses, and technicians at Shock Trauma and a little luck, the Congressman survived. “I am honored to be able to give back to the hospital that gave me so much – my life. The doctors, nurses, and technicians at Shock Trauma saved my life after I was seriously injured after a terrible car accident over thirty years ago. This new lab will give medical personnel at Shock Trauma as well as our servicemen and women even more tools to help save lives in the future,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Mr. Jeffrey Rivest, President & CEO of the University of Maryland Medical Center and Dr. Thomas Scalea, Physician-in-Chief of Shock Trauma were all hand for the announcement at the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU) at Shock Trauma on Monday, February 6, 2006. (####)
11.20.2009	(White Marsh, MD)- {Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) applauds General Motors’ decision to design and build hybrid transmissions at the Allison Transmission Plant in White Marsh. GM says it plans to invest $118 million in upgrades to the facility and create 87 new jobs. “This is wonderful news for Maryland. Hybrid vehicles help cut our dependence on foreign oil while protecting the environment. Congress just recently passed legislation that offers a $4,000 federal tax credit for people who purchase hybrids. In addition, jobs are the gasoline that fuels our economy. If you don’t have a job, you can’t support your family or your community. This announcement helps protect the environment while also strengthening our communities,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger is a champion of federal hybrid legislation that offers Americans valuable tax credits when they purchase hybrid vehicles. The Congressman sponsored legislation in 2004 and 2005 that encourages people to drive environmentally friendly hybrids by creating a Clean Vehicle Tax Credit of up to $4000. The language in the Congressman’s bill was included in the Energy bill that passed Congress last year. When the Congressman was the Baltimore County Executive, he played a critical role in encouraging Allison Transmission to build its facility in White Marsh. The facility opened in 2000 and currently employs 440 workers. Congressman Ruppersberger was invited to attend today’s announcement in White Marsh but was not able to because important votes were being held in Congress. Congressman Ruppersberger visited Allison Transmission in September, 2004, and asked GM to consider expanding the plant to produce hybrid vehicles. The Congressman test drove a hybrid truck. Please feel free to use the attached photograph of the visit in your publication. } (####)
11.20.2009	(Pasadena, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will hold a Congressional Forum on Medicare’s New Prescription Drug Benefit Program on Monday, Feburary 13, 2006. The new prescription drug benefit available through Medicare began January 1, 2006, but many Maryland Seniors still have lots of questions. Congressman Ruppersberger and a team of Medicare experts will help Seniors navigate through the program’s guidelines and determine which plan is right for them if they have not already chosen one. “Seniors have worked hard, raised their families, and paid their taxes. They deserve a prescription drug benefit that allows them to buy medicines they need at a reasonable price so they can stay healthy and enjoy their golden years,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Medicare Experts Maryland Seniors WHAT: Congressional Forum on Medicare’s New Prescription Drug Benefit Program WHEN: 10am, Monday, February 13, 2006 WHERE: Pasadena Senior Center 4103 Mountain Road Pasadena, MD 21122 (####)
11.20.2009	(Joppatowne, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will hold a Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid to Pay for College on Monday, February 13, 2006. The Congressman will be joined by financial aid experts to help students learn about ways to make the dream of going to college a reality. “I believe every child should have the opportunity to go to college. The cost of tuition is rising but there is help. Please join me for an important forum to help find financial aid to pay for college,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Harford County Executive David Craig Ms. Kasey Coleman, Sallie Mae WHAT: Congressional Forum on Finding Financial Aid for College WHEN: 7pm, Monday, February 13, 2006 WHERE: Joppatowne High School Auditorium 555 Joppatowne Farm Road Joppa, MD 21085 (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) toured the Port of Baltimore and met with officials from the Customs and Border Protection Agency at the Port of Baltimore on Monday, March 6, 2006 to review security operations. Congressman Cardin is the Senior Democrat on the House Trade Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the Customs & Border Protection Agency. Congressman Ruppersberger is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and is a co-chair of the Congressional Port Security Caucus. In addition, the Port of Baltimore is in the Maryland 2nd Congressional District that Congressman Ruppersberger represents in Congress. Congressman Ruppersberger has called for Congressional hearings about the potential sale of container operations at the Port of Baltimore to a government owned company in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Congressman Ruppersberger also co-authored a letter to President Bush asking him to stay the sale until a thorough 45 day full review can be conducted. In addition, the Congressman has also co-sponsored several pieces of legislation that call for a thorough investigation into the deal. Two of the September 11the hijackers were UAE nationals. In addition, much of the funding that the hijackers used to carry out their attacks used UAE financial networks. “I am here today to gather more facts about the potential sale of container operations to a government owned company from the United Arab Emirates. I am very concerned about this sale and do not believe we should be gambling with our national security. We must always protect the safety and security of Maryland families,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The United States Treasury Department has approved the sale of the Baltimore Port operations from Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company (P &O) of London, England, to Dubia Ports World, a government owned company from the United Arab Emirates, for a reported $6.8 billion. P&O currently operates the terminal and manages the unloading and loading of containers at the Seagirt and Dundalk marine terminals. The company currently employs about 65 employees. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- {Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) is asking Maryland’s Public Service Commission (PSC) to investigate why Baltimore Gas and Electric (BGE) is raising rates by 72%. In a letter to the PSC, the Congressman asked the commission to search for relief for customers who can’t afford to pay these higher bills. “I am asking the PSC to thoroughly investigate why BGE is raising rates so dramatically. Maryland citizens depend on BGE for their power needs. The Public Service Commission (PSC) should take all actions necessary to protect Maryland families and small businesses against this unexpected and large spike in their energy bills. Increasing rates over a period of time instead of inflicting a sudden rate increase should be considered. In addition, the elderly and those on fixed incomes who will be hit hard by these massive extra costs must be protected,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). BGE has served Central Maryland for more than 200 years and provides power to more than one million businesses and residential electric customers. The Maryland General Assembly approved deregulation for the state’s energy companies in 1999 and insisted that the companies not raise rates for six years. The rate freeze is set to expire on July 1, 2006. Baltimore Gas and Electric (BGE) Company recently announced it plans to raise rates by an average of 72 percent, an increase of $743 for many Maryland families. A copy of Congressman Ruppersberger’s letter to the Public Service Commission is attached Letter to PSC (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will hold a Congressional Forum on Medicare’s New Prescription Drug Benefit Program on Monday, April 24, 2006. The new prescription drug benefit available through Medicare began January 1, 2006, but Seniors can continue to enroll in the new program until May 15, 2006. Many Maryland Seniors still have lots of questions. Congressman Ruppersberger and a team of Medicare experts will help Seniors navigate through the program’s guidelines and determine which plan is right for them if they have not already chosen one. “Seniors have worked hard, raised their families, and paid their taxes. They deserve a prescription drug benefit that allows them to buy medicines they need at a reasonable price so they can stay healthy and enjoy their golden years,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Medicare Experts Maryland Seniors WHAT: Congressional Forum on Medicare’s New Prescription Drug Benefit Program WHEN: 10am, Monday, April 24, 2006 WHERE: Gardenville Recreation Center 4517 Hazelwood Avenue Baltimore, MD 21206 (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD) - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) held a Congressional Forum on Medicare’s New Prescription Drug Benefit Program on Monday, April 24, 2006, at the Gardenville Recreation Center. The deadline to enroll in the new program is May 15, 2006, and is quickly approaching. Many Maryland Seniors still have lots of questions. Congressman Ruppersberger and a team of Medicare experts helped Seniors navigate through the program’s guidelines and determine which plan is right for them if they have not already chosen one. “Seniors have worked hard, raised their families, and paid their taxes. They deserve a prescription drug benefit that allows them to buy medicines they need at a reasonable price so they can stay healthy and enjoy their golden years,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). For more information about the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit, go to www.medicare.gov. (####)
11.20.2009	(Baltimore, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) honored the 300th anniversary of the Port of Baltimore at a celebration at Lexington Market on April 19, 2006. The Port of Baltimore is one of Maryland’s largest economic engines and generates an estimated $1.4 billion annually. The Port currently employs 126,000 people in maritime related jobs. “Over the past 300 years, the Port of Baltimore has become one of the largest economic engines for the state of Maryland and the entire Mid-Atlantic region. I want to keep the Port steaming ahead so it can continue to prosper in the future. Protecting the Port and keeping commerce moving are one of my top priorities in Congress. As co-Chair of the Congressional Port Security Caucus and member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, I work to ensure that America’s ports remain safe and profitable,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) In 1706, the Port of Baltimore was opened as the point of entry for transatlantic trade between the U.S. and England. The Port has matured into a world class maritime center and handles nearly 400,000 containers each year. Today, the Port receives cargo including automobiles, paper, electronics, toys, coal, sugar, and clothing from countries across the globe. The Port covers more than 45 miles of shoreline. (####)
11.20.2009	(Pasadena, MD)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will hold a Congressional Forum on Medicare’s New Prescription Drug Benefit Program on Monday, April 10, 2006. The new prescription drug benefit available through Medicare began January 1, 2006, but Seniors can continue to enroll in the new program until May 15, 2006. Many Maryland Seniors still have lots of questions. Congressman Ruppersberger and a team of Medicare experts will help Seniors navigate through the program’s guidelines and determine which plan is right for them if they have not already chosen one. “Seniors have worked hard, raised their families, and paid their taxes. They deserve a prescription drug benefit that allows them to buy medicines they need at a reasonable price so they can stay healthy and enjoy their golden years,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Medicare Experts Maryland Seniors WHAT: Congressional Forum on Medicare’s New Prescription Drug Benefit Program WHEN: 10am, Monday, April 10, 2006 WHERE: Pasadena Senior Center 4103 Mountain Road Pasadena, MD 21122 (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) proudly announces the nominees for the United States Service Academies from the 2nd Congressional District of Maryland for 2006. The Congressman established an independent Academy Nomination Review Panel comprised of academy graduates, educators, business leaders, and other professionals to assist him in choosing the most qualified candidates from his district. “At this time our military must be armed with the brightest and most skillful people our nation has to offer. These students competed with a very strong slate of candidates. I am confident these eleven students will be great contributors to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Merchant Marine Academy, and the United States Naval Academy should they be selected. These young people are the future of this country,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger nominated: • Sarah Alexander of Joppatowne High School to the United States Military Academy at West Point.• Sara Brohawn of Baltimore Polytechnic Institute to the United States Naval Academy, the United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. • Carly Dorsey of Parkville High School to the United States Naval Academy.• Robert Hindle, Jr. of Eastern Technical High School to the United States Naval Academy.• Eugene Lee of Loch Raven High School to the United States Military Academy at West Point. • Marc Lockhart of Calvert Hall College High School to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Military Academy at West Point.• Jeremy Rubin of Parkville High School and Center for Math, Science, and Computer Science to the United States Air Force Academy.• Nelson Simmons of Parkville High School to the United States Naval Academy, the United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Military Academy at West Point.• Patrick Slaughter of Calvert Hall High School to the United States Naval Academy.• Kyle Tarver of Park School of Baltimore to the United States Military Academy at West Point.• Andrew Weiner of Calvert Hall College High School to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Although students have been nominated by Congressman Ruppersberger, they are not guaranteed an appointment. The individual academies make final appointments. Sara Brohawn has received an appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Jeremy Rubin has received an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Kyle Tarver has received an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Andrew Weiner received an appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Feel free to use attached photos in your publication. (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) joined President George W. Bush and other Members of the Maryland Delegation at the White House today to honor the University of Maryland Women’s Basketball Team, the University of Maryland Women’s Field Hockey Team, and the University of Maryland Men’s Soccer Team on their 2006 NCAA Championships. Congressman Ruppersberger, a University of Maryland alumnus, is thrilled that the Lady Terps were able to come from behind to defeat the Duke Blue Devils 78 to 75 in overtime. Congressman Ruppersberger watched the basketball game with an old college buddy and Towson native, Charles Daggs – an Executive Vice President with Wells Fargo, and relived his years of playing lacrosse for Maryland and Team USA. “It is so exciting to see such talented, young athletes from my alma mater win it all. The Lady Terps Basketball Team was behind but they didn’t give up. The players worked as a team, fought to the end, and won the NCAA Championship Title in overtime, That is definitely something we can all be proud of,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). “The success of these three outstanding sports teams, the University of Maryland Women’s Basketball Team, the University of Maryland Women’s Field Hockey Team, and the University of Maryland Men’s Soccer Team, brings Maryland to another level. These young student athletes should all be very proud of themselves and their performances. They worked hard and it shows,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will join President George W. Bush at the White House to honor the University of Maryland Women’s Basketball Team who recently won the 2006 NCAA Championship. Congressman Ruppersberger, a University of Maryland alumnus, is thrilled that the Lady Terps were able to come from behind to defeat the Duke Blue Devils 78 to 75 in overtime in Boston on Tuesday, April 2, 2006. Congressman will also honor the University of Maryland Women’s Field Hockey Team and the University of Maryland Men’s Soccer Team on the NCAA Championships. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) President George W Bush The University of Maryland Women’s Basketball Team The Uniersity of Maryland Women’s Field Hockey Team The University of Maryland Men’s Soccer Team WHAT: Congressman Ruppersberger to Honor University of Maryland Athletes on their NCAA Championships WHEN: 2:55pm, Thursday, April 6, 2006 WHERE: The White House South Lawn (####)
11.20.2009	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland 2nd) will return from a Congressional trip to Iraq, Afghanistan, the United Arab Emirates, Pakistan, Jordan, and Qatar and will be available to speak to the media on Monday, March 27, 2006. The Congressman met with military and political leaders in Iraq and Afghanistan, met with government leaders in the United Arab Emirates, and toured the Port of Dubai. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) WHAT: Media Availability after Congressman Ruppersberger’s Trip to Iraq, Afghanistan, the United Arab Emirates, Pakistan, Jordan, and Qatar WHEN: Monday, March 27, 2006 *****If you would like to schedule an interview, please call Heather Moeder Molino or Jessica Santillo at the Capitol Hill Office at (202) 225-3061 or on Heather Molino’s cell at (703) 615-5371.***** (####)
11.20.2009	Congressman Ruppersberger calls on Congress to create a Cabinet Level Intelligence DirectorWashington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) attended a Congressional hearing on Tuesday, August 3rd, 2004, to review the 9-11 Commission Recommendations. Congressman Ruppersberger is calling on Congress to create a Cabinet Level Intelligence Director immediately. Congressman Ruppersberger co-sponsored H.R. 4104, the Intelligence Transformation Act, that creates a Director of National Intelligence with budget and policy authority and a direct line to the President of the United States. The bill was introduced in April, 2004, but has sat on the shelf since then. Yesterday President George W. Bush announced that he is in favor of a National Intelligence Chief. "We do not have time to wait. We need to act now to create a Director of National Intelligence to keep our families and our communities safe. I am pleased that we are holding this important hearing during our summer recess so that we can move forward with plans to transform the Intelligence Community," said Congressman C.A. Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger with co-sponsors of H.R. 4101The 9-11 Commission found that there were systemic problem with intelligence sharing across the Intelligence Community. The Commission recommended that a Cabinet Level Director of National Intelligence be created to encourage better coordination and integration between the CIA, FBI, NSA, and military intelligence agencies. The hearing was held by the Committee on Government Reform in Room 2154 in the Rayburn House Office Building. See also: 911 Commission Caucus -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Representative C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, along with Representatives Carolyn Maloney and Christopher Shays and a bipartisan group of House members and the Family Steering Committee, are promoting quick implementation of Thursday's 9-11 Commission Report. Membership in their new 9-11 Commission Caucus will document the commitment of members of Congress to advancing the commission's recommendations and will be closely tracked by the Family Steering Committee, among others. 9-11 Commission ReportA bipartisan group of members of the House Armed Services, Intelligence, Government Reform and International Relations committees - including Representatives Mike Pence (IN), Mike Castle (DE), Jim Cooper (TN), Rob Simmons (CT), Jerry Nadler (NY) and Christopher Smith (NJ) - are among original members. "We must act now to protect our citizens and honor those lives lost on 9/11. The commission report created by a bipartisan group of American patriots provides the Administration and Congress with an action plan. We should get to work now and enact the recommendations made," said Congressman Ruppersberger, "Congress must streamline the committee system to ensure permanent priority status for homeland security. We need to appoint a Director of National Intelligence to make sure our intelligence community does not break down again. As national leaders, we have a responsibility to act and the time is now." Last Thursday, the group wrote Speaker Hastert and Minority Leader Pelosi to express support for the work of the commission and to urge the Congress to move forward on the Commission's recommendations on a bipartisan basis as soon as possible. Specifically, they believe: Working with the Commission, some recommendations can be implemented by an Executive Order of the President before September. House and Senate Committee Chairs, Ranking Members and staff can meet with Commission staff to prepare an omnibus bill on the more urgent, less controversial recommendations not able to be implemented by Executive Order that could be wrapped into a single bill voted on in early September. This process has begun already in the Government Affairs and Government Reform committees. Hearings on the most controversial issues, such as National Director of Intelligence and National Center on Counter-terrorism, should begin as soon as possible to begin building a national consensus. House/Senate leadership staff can begin working on Congressional reforms, to implement proposed changes in January (if not before). In its July 22 letter, the group noted, "Congress can further honor those who were lost by setting aside partisan, political rhetoric and moving swiftly on a bipartisan basis to implement the Commission's recommendations." Today, they added, "We will continue to work with members of the Family Steering Committee and colleagues on both sides of the aisle to emphasize that for the good of our country, there is not a moment to lose." See also: 911 Commission Caucus Dear Colleague Letter -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined a bi-partisan group of Representatives today to call on Congress to create a Cabinet Level Director of National Intelligence. Congressman Ruppersberger believes Congress should hold hearings on H.R. 4104, the Intelligence Transformation Act, that creates an Intelligence Chief before the 3rd Anniversary of the September 11th Attacks. Congressman Ruppersberger is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. 9-11 Commission ReportThe 9-11 Commission Report released today found that there were systemic problem with intelligence sharing across all of the intelligence agencies. The Commission recommended that an Intelligence Chief be created to encourage better integration among the CIA, FBI, NSA, and military intelligence agencies. Congressman Ruppersberger co-sponsored H.R. 4104 that creates a Director of National Intelligence with budget and policy authority and a direct line to the President of the United States. The bill was introduced in April, 2004, but has sat on the shelf since then. "We do not have time to wait. We need to act now to create a Director of National Intelligence to keep our families and our communities safe. One of the best ways to honor the memories of those who lost their lives on 9-11 would be to begin holding hearings before the third anniversary of September 11th attacks just seven weeks away. The family members of the victims deserve no less!" said Congressman C.A. Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger also applauds the hard work of the bi-partisan 9-11 Commission led by Chairman Tom Kean, the Republican former governor of New Jersey, and Lee Hamilton, the former Democratic Congressman from Indiana. -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) voted for H.R. 3574, the Stock Option Accounting Reform Act. Congressman Ruppersberger believes the government should not impede the growth of business and should encourage companies to expand and hire new workers. The bill passed by a vote of 312 to 111. H.R. 3574 prohibits the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from adopting proposals created by the Financial Accounting Standards Board that would require companies to list stock options as expenses. The move would cut deeply into profits of companies that rely on stock options to attract the best and brightest workers in the business. "We need to ensure that businesses, especially small businesses and high-tech companies, have the tools to attract the most talented workers so these businesses can grow and create more jobs in our communities. Offering stock options to employees is an important part of many company's recruitment and retention efforts. Many experts believe employees will work harder if they are co-owners of their companies. I don't believe the government should take away this important tool," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The bill would require that only stock options granted to the top five executives be listed as expenses on the company's balance sheet and only if the company's annual revenue is at least $25 million. Stock options permit employees to buy their company's stock at the price the stock was sold for when the options are granted. If the price rises and employees cash in those options, employees can make a profit. A recent study estimated that non-executive workers at the top one hundred internet companies made an average of $425,000 in stock option profits between 1994 and 2002. -end-
11.20.2009	Waves, by Bryant Ramos Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) honored a talented young artist from Dundalk today at a special reception on Capitol Hill. Congressman Ruppersberger honored Bryant Ramos, a Freshman from Patapsco High School and Center for the Arts, for his work "Waves". The pencil drawing earned him the top honor in the Congressional Art Contest for Maryland's 2nd District. A panel of qualified judges put together by Congressman Ruppersberger's staff chose "Waves" out of thirty pieces submitted for the contest. The piece is prominently on display in the tunnel that connects the House of Representatives Office Buildings to the Capitol. Members of Congress, staffers, and thousands of tourists pass through this area every year. "This is such a wonderful honor for Bryant Ramos, a talented young artist. I know he worked very hard on 'Waves' and it is absolutely exquisite. Bryant's teachers call him a shining star and I agree. I know he has a bright future in whatever he chooses to do," said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). Bryant Ramos was also awarded a $3,000 scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design in Savannah, Georgia. Pictures of Byrant Ramos and 'Waves' -end-
11.20.2009	FEMA Employee with Congressman Ruppersberger Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) voted for the Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2004 (S 2238). The legislation reauthorizes the National Flood Insurance Program and makes much needed reforms. The bill that passed the United States of House of Representatives by a voice vote will help prevent problems experienced by Hurricane Isabel victims from happening again. In September, 2003, Hurricane Isabel slammed into Maryland along with other areas of the East Coast leaving overwhelming flood water and millions of dollars in damage in its wake. Congressman Ruppersberger's staff worked with dozens of families and businesses who thought they had adequate insurance coverage but were surprised to find out that much of the damage was not covered because they had purchased the wrong type of policy. Others believe they were not given adequate compensation to cover the costs of repairs to their homes and businesses. Congressman Ruppersberger surveying the damage with County Executive James Harkins and Mayor David Craig The legislation requires that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) provide plain English disclosures to policy holders describing what coverage they're purchasing. It establishes minimum training standards for insurance agents who are the main point of contact for many flood victims. It requires FEMA to establish a formal appeals process to handle complaints from policy holders. It asks the General Accounting Office to conduct a thorough review of the flood insurance program. It also stabilizes the National Flood Insurance Program by providing $40 million a year to states and communities to help mitigate flood risks. "These reforms to the National Flood Insurance Program will ensure that families buying flood insurance know exactly what they are purchasing. It makes sure that insurance agents are properly trained. It gives policy holders a formal way to appeal a decision and it gives states and communities money to help reduce the risk of floods. The legislation makes sure that flood victims are fairly and adequately compensated for their losses so what happened after Hurricane Isabel does not happen again," said Congressman Ruppersberger. -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) together with Senator Jim Talent (R-Missouri) and Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) are pleased to announce that the bill that will make "Operation Hero Miles" permanent passed the United States House and Senate. The innovative program allows Americans to donate their unused frequent flyer miles to servicemen and women and their families. Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger with Senator Talent and Army Specialist John Perkins, announcing that the bill to make Operation Hero Miles permanent has passed the House and Senate. "Our men and women in uniform are risking their lives for our country in Iraq, Afghanistan, and in other locations around the world. Their service is to be commended. I believe making 'Operation Hero Miles' permanent is the least we can do to make their personal lives a little easier. Service members will be able to quickly fly home to handle an emergency and military family members will be able to quickly fly to see their injured loved one without worrying about how much it will cost. We believe this legislation will make a big difference in the lives of our military families in the years come," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The "Operation Hero Miles" bill was attached as an amendment to both the House and Senate Defense Authorization Bills. The bill gives the Department of Defense (DOD) the authority and flexibility to give free, unrestricted, last minute plane tickets to servicemen and women on leave - to handle an urgent family situation or other unexpected emergency. The legislation also gives DOD the authority to give free plane tickets to family members of wounded troops traveling to visit their injured loved ones at military hospitals around the world. "Our amendment will allow the families of wounded service personnel to visit their loved one in a military hospital at no personal expense for the airfare. It will also permit soldiers who must return home from overseas while on emergency leave to do so at no cost by using donated frequent flyer miles. A service member who has to return home would face real financial hardship if they had to purchase commercial airfare on a moment's notice. This amendment will allow Americans to directly support and assist our service men and women and their families by donating frequent flyer miles." said Senator Jim Talent (R-Missouri). "The amendment will justly allow the families of wounded service personnel to visit their loved ones in a military hospital at no personal expense for airfare. It also will permit soldiers who must return home from overseas to do so at no cost by utilizing the air miles donated by Americans. This program allows Americans to show in a tangible way their support for our troops and it will help the military avoid the very real financial hardship caused when they need to purchase commercial airfares on short notice. It is the least we can do for our troops who are protecting us overseas," said Senator Murkowski (R-Alaska). Army Specialist John Perkins with Senator Talent and Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger, speaking on the importance of Operation Hero Miles The bill gives DOD the authority to collect unused frequent flyer miles, mileage credits, or free tickets and designates an office to manage "Operation Hero Miles." In just five months, 534 million 'hero miles' have been donated. That is enough miles for 22,000 free tickets for the troops. The legislation will now go to Conference Committee where the differences between the versions will be worked out. The lawmakers also introduced Army Specialist John Perkins who alerted the lawmakers about the need for "Operation Hero Miles" last September while Congressman Ruppersberger was welcoming home troops at BWI Airport. Specialist Perkins was traveling through BWI on his way home to Georgia on his two weeks of leave from Iraq. He paid more than $400 for his ticket. His buddy from Arizona paid more than $1200. Photo Album More on Operation Hero Miles -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - On the eve of the final trip to Washington, D.C. by President Ronald Reagan, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) today issued the following statement: "President Reagan was a great American who will be remembered for the pride and patriotism he restored to our country. His positive attitude and ability to communicate are skills this country looks for in a leader," said Congressman Ruppersberger. "As we recall his time, and the civility and dignity which he brought to politics, it is my hope our current political debate will be improved." "I extend my deepest sympathies to Nancy Reagan and the entire Reagan family. Ronald Reagan's remarkable service to our country will never be forgotten, and he will be greatly missed." -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released the following statement on the appointment of Congressman Peter Hoekstra (R-Michigan) as the Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. "I am pleased with the appointment of my colleague, Congressman Peter Hoekstra, as the Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He is a hard working, dedicated, patriotic American who will ensure that politics have no place in the Intelligence Community. He will make sure that our Committee continues to put the 'United States First' as we work to improve our national security. I believe our country will be well served by Mr. Hoekstra's leadership as we face the challenges ahead as our entire Committee works hard to keep us safe." Congressman Porter Goss who headed the Intelligence Committee for eight years stepped aside as Chairman after his August 10th nomination as CIA Director. Congressman Ruppersberger is also a member of the Intelligence Committee. See also: House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined a bi-partisan group of lawmakers including Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) and Congressman Christopher Shays (R-CT) to . Dutch Ruppersberger introduces the 9/11 Commission Report Implementation Bill "This is the right bill at the right time. The 9-11 Commission debated these issues for nearly two years, interviewed more than 1,200 witnesses, reviewed millions of documents, and held a series of public hearings. Now it is time to act!!! The third anniversary of 9-11 is this Saturday. I believe the best way to honor the memory of those lost is to enact this legislation to keep our country safe and help prevent another terrorist attack," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). This bill encompasses the recommendations of the 9-11 Commission. It creates a National Director of Intelligence and establishes a National Counterterrorism Center. It is the only Intelligence Reform bill supported by the co-chairs of the 9-11 Commission as well as the "Families of September 11th" Organization. "There are other bills out there. One even attempts to dismantle the CIA. I do not believe we should be taking apart the CIA when we are fighting this war on terror. As part of my role on the Intelligence Committee, I traveled around the world to Iraq and Afghanistan and met with the men and women working on the front lines in our Intelligence gathering agencies. I know the sacrifices they are making ... as well as their families. These workers are the anonymous soldiers on the front lines of the war on terror. Day in and day out, they are putting their lives on the line in places far from home to protect our country and our way of life. I do not want to tear down the CIA. I want to build it up. This is the right bill to keep our country safe. Let's honor the memories of those courageous Americans who lost their lives on 9-11 and make this bill become law," said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). See also: 9/11 Commission Report Implementation Act of 2004 Related: Families of September 11th -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) together with Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD) and Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC) introduced H.R. 5057, the Disabled Veterans Transition Assistance Act of 2004. The legislation will help severely wounded troops from Iraq and Afghanistan smoothly transition back into civilian life. This week, the number of U.S. military deaths in Iraq moved past 1,000. This significant milestone is accompanied by over 7,000 servicemen and women who have been wounded in combat. The Department of Defense recognized this critical need and initiated the Disabled Soldier Support System (DS3) program in April 2004 to help servicemembers and their family's transition from military service back to civilian life, but this program needs additional resources to help as many severely wounded military personnel as possible. DS3 is currently staffed by only ten people and has a budget of only $1 million. "We believe Congress must act now - before we leave in October - to help these heroes and heroines. Many of these surviving men and women now face the daunting task of rebuilding their lives with severe disabilities - some have lost a limb, been blinded or lost an eye, or suffered a disabling brain injury or disfiguring burn or wound. These men and women have served their country honorably and bravely. They deserve our help now to transition back to civilian life as they work to put their lives back together," said Congressman C.A. Ruppersberger (D-MD). "Our brave armed forces and their loved ones make a tremendous sacrifice for our country, our people and our security during times of war," said Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD). "It is our duty and responsibility to provide our troops and their families with the necessary assistance when they return home. The DS3 program is already overdue. As a demonstration of our recognition and gratitude for their service and sacrifice, Congress must act now to effectively expand this program." "The men and women of our armed services bravely put their lives on the line day in and day out to defend our freedom. They are the true heroes in our society," Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC) said. "America must guarantee that if they return home wounded we will give them the best assistance possible to help them recuperate and return to their normal lives with their families and loved ones. This bill will help meet that guarantee, and I am honored to be a sponsor of such an important piece of legislation. " Tony Coelho, former Congressman and author of the Americans with Disabilities Act said, "One of the major factors of a war where we commit American troops is those who return home disabled cannot find a job and don't have government support for accommodations or benefits -- this program is critical to recognize that need. We now have close to 10,000 American young men and women whose own lives and families have been impacted for the rest of their lives. This is something that is critically needed." This bill addresses that critical need by giving the Secretary of Defense discretional authority to transfer funds to this program to help soldiers and their families resolve pay, benefits, entitlement, and care issues immediately. This bill also expands this assistance to all wounded Soldiers, Marines, Sailors, Airmen, Coast Guardsmen, National Guardsmen, and Reservists. Related Bill: HR 5057 See Also: Disabled Veterans Issues -end- Press Contact for Congressman Steny Hoyer: Katie Elbert (202) 225-4131 Press Contact for Congressman Walter Jones: Kristen Quigley (202) 225 3415
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) voted for the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 that passed the United States House of Representatives by 336 to 75 this evening. The legislation overhauls America's Intelligence Community and enacts the major recommendations of the bi-partisan September 11th Commission including creating a National Intelligence Director. Congressman Ruppersberger believes the legislation will improve communication and accountability within the Intelligence Community to keep our country safe. "This is a historic measure. We are doing more than re-arranging boxes on an organizational chart. We are ensuring that the intelligence community has one boss to ensure better communication and accountability. I spent close to twenty years in local government in Baltimore County, Maryland, where I managed close to nineteen thousand employees. I know that workers need to answer to one person who sets policy and manages the budget. This is critically important to help prevent another terrorist attack and keep our country safe," said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). This measure has the support of September 11th Commission as well as most of the families of the 9/11 Victims. The United States Senate is expected to vote on the legislation tomorrow. Congressman Ruppersberger is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Related Bill: S 2845 See Also: House 911 Commission Caucus -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2) is pleased to announce that the Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation has been awarded $72,750 in federal funding for construction of a new baseball stadium in Aberdeen, Maryland. The stadium will be used to host camps and after school activities where disadvantaged kids from all across the country will develop leadership skills, good work habits, and a healthy lifestyle through team sports. "This money is a home run for at risk kids. It will allow the Ripken Foundation to continue to help these children learn the value of teamwork, good sportsmanship, personal responsibility, and a strong work ethic - all skills important for success in life. These youngsters will bring these life changing experiences back home to their communities to make their neighborhoods stronger," said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation was created in 2001 in memory of Cal Ripken, Sr. who worked for 37 years as a player, coach, and manager with the Baltimore Orioles' organization. His teachings and "The Ripken Way" influenced thousands of young ballplayers including his sons, Cal, Jr. and Bill Ripken. The Foundation benefits thousands of youth annually through a variety of community efforts. More information about the Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation can be found at www.ripkenfoundation.org. The funding was included in H.R. 4818, the Omnibus Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2005. -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2) is pleased to announce that the Rosedale Volunteer Fire Company in Baltimore County has been awarded a $56,000 federal grant. The Fire Company says it will use the money to pay for a diesel exhaust system for the station as well as head set intercoms and voice amplifiers to help firefighters communicate with one another better. "Our first responders are our frontline troops in the war on terrorism and we should do all we can to support them. This money will help to protect the Rosedale Volunteer firefighters while they are protecting our families and communities against emergencies of all kinds," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The Rosedale Volunteer Fire Company is a group of dedicated volunteers who devote their personal time to serving the safety needs of citizens of eastern Baltimore County. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as part of the "2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant" program. A total of 326 grants were announced by DHS today. The department expects to award approximately 8,000 grants by the end of the 2004 cycle for a total of nearly $750 million in direct assistance to firefighters throughout the country. -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) is pleased to announce that the bill that will make "Operation Hero Miles" permanent was signed into law by the President. The legislation allows the Department of Defense (DOD) to give free, unrestricted, last minute plane tickets to military personnel on leave - to handle an urgent family situation or other unexpected emergency. The "Operation Hero Miles" bill also gives DOD the authority to give free plane tickets to family members of wounded troops traveling to visit their injured loved ones at military hospitals around the world. Congressman Ruppersberger created "Operation Hero Miles" in October, 2003. "Whether we're at war, like we are right now, or in times of peace, I believe Americans should have a way to help our troops and their families. 'Operation Hero Miles' gives Americans a tangible way to do that now and in the future. Our men and women in uniform in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other areas around the world are risking their lives for their country. They deserve our support," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Since the program was started 540 million "hero miles" have been donated. That is enough miles for 22,000 free tickets for the troops. The strong support of "Operation Hero Miles" helped Congressman Ruppersberger persuade Congress to change the military regulation and allocate money to pay for these domestic flights for the troops. The legislation that made "Operation Hero Miles" permanent was attached to H.R. 4200, the Conference Report on the Department of Defense (DOD) Authorization Bill. It was signed by the President on October 28th, 2004. Related Bill: HR 4200 See Also: Operation Hero Miles -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) today announced that the bill that will make "Operation Hero Miles" permanent is one step closer to becoming law. The legislation is attached to H.R. 4200, the Conference Report on the Department of Defense (DOD) Authorization Bill. It passed the United States House of Representatives today by 359 to 14.. "Operation Hero Miles" is the innovative program that allows Americans to donate their unused frequent flyer miles to servicemen and women and their families. The bill gives the Department of Defense (DOD) the authority and flexibility to give free, unrestricted, last minute plane tickets to military personnel on leave -- to handle an urgent family situation or other unexpected emergency. The legislation also gives DOD the authority to give free plane tickets to family members of wounded troops traveling to visit their injured loved ones at military hospitals around the world. "The overwhelming response to 'Operation Hero Miles' has been absolutely amazing! Making the program permanent will give patriotic Americans a way to help our men and women in uniform in the future. Whether we're at war, like we are right now, or in times of peace, I believe Americans should have a way to help our troops and this will provide them a way to do that," said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). Since the program was started 540 million "hero miles" have been donated. That is enough miles for 22,000 free tickets for the troops. The strong support of "Operation Hero Miles" helped Congressman Ruppersberger persuade Congress to change the military regulation and allocate money to pay for these domestic flights for the troops. The Senate is expected to take up the measure over the weekend. The President must sign the bill before it becomes law. Related Bill: HR 4200 See Also: Operation Hero Miles -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) announced that the U.S. Senate took up companion legislation to the Ruppersberger/Jones/Hoyer Veterans Transition Act of 2004 today. Senator Christopher "Kit" Bond (R-Missouri), Senator Edward Kennedy (D-Massachusetts), Senator Conrad Burns (R-Montana) and Senator Bill Nelson (D-Florida) co-sponsored the Senate version. The legislation will help severely wounded troops from Iraq and Afghanistan smoothly transition back into civilian life. Congressman Ruppersberger introduced the House version together with Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD) and Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC) on September 9th, 2004. According to the Congressional Research Service, the survival rate of American casualties during Operation Iraqi Freedom is higher than in any other war. Seven thousand servicemen and women have been wounded in combat in Iraq. The lawmakers behind this bill believe America must take care of our wounded troops when they come back from the battlefield, and that we must do it today. The Department of Defense recognized this critical need and initiated the Disabled Soldier Support System (DS3) program in April 2004 to help servicemembers and their family's transition from military service back to civilian life, but this program needs additional resources to help as many severely wounded military personnel as possible. DS3 is currently staffed by only ten people and has a budget of only $1 million. "I applaud Senator Bond and Senator Kennedy for answering the call to help these brave men and women in uniform who have been severely injured. These men and women and their loved ones have made tremendous sacrifices for their country. Many of these surviving men and women now face the daunting task of rebuilding their lives with severe disabilities -- some have lost a limb, been blinded or lost an eye, or suffered a disabling brain injury or disfiguring burn or wound. They deserve the best assistance possible to help them recuperate and return to their normal lives with their families and loved ones," said Congressman C.A. Ruppersberger (D-MD). "As Chairman of VA -- HUD I continue to work with my distinguished colleague Senator Mikulski to make the transition from the military support system to the VA support system as seamless possible. This legislation is vital for the welfare of our troops, their loved ones and families, and for the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs," said Senator Bond of the floor of the U.S. Senate today. This bill addresses that critical need by giving the Secretary of Defense discretional authority to transfer funds to this program to help soldiers and their families resolve pay, benefits, entitlement, and care issues immediately. This bill also expands this assistance to all wounded Soldiers, Marines, Sailors, Airmen, Coast Guardsmen, National Guardsmen, and Reservists. Ruppersberger said he hoped the House and Senate could complete action on the companion bills next month and send the legislation to the President to be signed into law before the end of this year. Related Bill: HR 5057 See Also: Disabled Veterans Issues -end-
11.20.2009	Congressman Ruppersberger discusses legislation to encouraging Americans to drive environmentally friendly hybrid vehicles. Baltimore, MD - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) visited GM's Baltimore Transmission Plant on Monday, September 27th, 2004, and test drove the new Chevy Silverado Hybrid Truck. Congressman Ruppersberger also discussed new legislation that he sponsored with Congressman Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD) to help protect our air quality and cut fuel consumption by encouraging Americans to drive environmentally friendly hybrid vehicles. Currently, consumers who purchase a hybrid electric vehicle can qualify for a $2,000 Clean Fuel tax credit. The federal tax credit will be eliminated by 2006 if Congress does not take action. H.R. 5146, the Common Sense Automobile Efficiency Act of 2004, increases the Clean Fuel Vehicle tax credit to $4,000 and extends the tax deduction indefinitely. Hybrid electric vehicles are the most fuel-efficient vehicles on the road today. Hybrids combine an electric motor with a conventional, but cleaner, gasoline powered engine to deliver above-average gas mileage. Driving a hybrid vehicle not only helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also limits fuel consumption by at least 50% and reduces our dependence on foreign oil. Plus, the manufacturing of the GM trucks means more jobs here in the United States. "Hybrid vehicles help to protect our environment for our children and our children's children. This tax break coupled with rising gas prices makes purchasing a hybrid vehicle an economical and environmentally friendly decision," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Related Bill: HR 5146 See Also: Hybrid Vehicle Issues See Also: Additional Photos -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) praised the new SkyWish partnership with Fisher-House Foundation that will enable Delta Air Lines' SkyMiles program members to donate miles to assist families of hospitalized military personnel with their travel needs. The Delta SkyWish program will help strengthen "Operation Hero Miles," the innovative program created by Congressman Ruppersberger to help troops on emergency leave or Rest and Relaxation (R & R) from Iraq and Afghanistan fly home for free. The Fisher House Foundation is a non-profit organization that donates "comfort homes" built on the grounds of major military and VA medical centers throughout the United States and overseas. The network of 32 homes enables family members to be at the bedside of a loved one who is receiving care at the nearby hospital. In December 2003, the Hero Miles program partnered with the Fisher House Foundation so that Hero Miles tickets can be used to fly family members of wounded soldiers to U.S. military hospitals and be with their loved ones. Often these families have to make many trips and stay for months at a time to help seriously wounded soldiers through long recuperations and multiple surgeries. The Fisher House provides free lodging for the families and Hero Miles provides transportation. "I applaud Delta and Fisher House for supporting our men and women in uniform. The SkyWish program offers patriotic Americans the chance to help our military personnel risking their lives for their country in Iraq and Afghanistan" said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, "Sometimes the love and support of family is the best medicine to help an injured troop recover from his or her injuries. We are thrilled that this new program will help soldiers heal with their families at their side during this very important time." Delta Air Lines is proud to celebrate its 75th anniversary in 2004. Delta is the world's second largest airline in terms of passengers carried and the leading U.S. carrier across the Atlantic, offering daily flights to 493 destinations in 87 countries on Delta, Song, Delta Shuttle, the Delta Connection carriers and its worldwide partners. Delta's marketing alliances allow customers to earn and redeem frequent flier miles on more than 14,000 flights offered by SkyTeam, Northwest Airlines, Continental Airlines and other partners. Delta is a founding member of SkyTeam, a global airline alliance that provides customers with extensive worldwide destinations, flights and services. For more information, please visit delta.com. More information about "Operation Hero Miles" can be found at www.heromiles.org. Additional SkyWish donation information can be found at delta.com/skymiles/use/donate. -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) are asking the Army to reconsider its decision to cut EMS Service at Fort Meade, the home of military families and government agencies, including the National Security Agency (NSA), the Defense Security Service (DSS), and several Guard and Reserve Units. Congressman Ruppersberger and Congressman Cardin sent a joint letter today asking the Acting Secretary of Defense Les Brownlee not to reduce EMS Service. "Continued EMS service for Ft. Meade and NSA is vital to the operations of these installations. It is unacceptable to have vital national security personnel at risk because of a delay in getting EMS service to the base... We need to enhance the resources available to our rescue personnel, not eliminate or diminish them... Anne Arundel County cannot be expected to assume the responsibility being abandoned by the U.S. Army," read the letter. On April 5, 2004, the Army plans to reduce EMS service to Monday through Friday from 6 am to 9 pm with no coverage on holidays. Right now EMS Service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. During off hours, those who live and work at Ft. Meade will have to rely on emergency services from the EMS unit in Jessup. The trip to the base could take more than 15 minutes and response times could be longer if there is a security alert. "In the post 9-11 world that we live in, it is critically important that we give our first responders the resources they need to keep us safe. This is not the time to be cutting funding and slashing EMS Service at Fort Meade and the National Security Agency that plays a unique role in the global war on terrorism. The employees at NSA and Fort Meade deserve better. It is also unfair to force Anne Arundel County to pick up the bill because the Army has decided to reduce these services," said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD), a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. "This is the time we should be increasing first responder capabilities at important federal facilities, not reducing them," said Congressman Cardin (D-MD). He pointed out that since Sept. 11, the Administration has pledged to provide more support for first responders and homeland security. "This decision contradicts that pledge and the intent of Congress in appropriating more money for first responders and homeland security." -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - The Department of Defense is considering eliminating BWI Airport as the nation's only point of entry for troops returning from overseas. Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD) sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld on March 30th, 2004, asking him NOT to do this and keep troops traveling through the airport. In September 2003, the Pentagon started giving soldiers stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan two weeks of leave in the largest R & R program since the Vietnam War. Most soldiers on R & R or Emergency Leave travel through BWI Airport. "BWI Airport has gone above and beyond the call of duty for our men and women in uniform. BWI has the largest USO lounge in world with some of the most dedicated volunteers. I know because I've been there. I've thanked the soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines for their service to their country in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world. I've also thanked the energetic USO staff and volunteers who work around the clock to provide our troops with the comforts of home - anything from a clean shower to homemade snacks to a computer to communicate with loved ones," read the letter from Congressman Ruppersberger. The USO Gateway Lounge hosts more than 250,000 military personnel and their families each year. The military travel program brings more than $50 million to the state of Maryland each year. BWI Airport's close proximity to Baltimore and Washington makes it ideal for troop transport. It is located near Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Fort Meade, and Walter Reed Army Hospital. BWI also sits on the I-95 corridor which allows families easy access to the airport and the surrounding community. Congressman Ruppersberger created "Operation Hero Miles," the innovative program that allows travelers to donate their unused frequent flyer miles. Military personnel can use them to fly home for free and family members of wounded troops can use them to travel to military hospitals to visit their injured loved ones. -end-
11.20.2009	Arlington, VA - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined the ranks of General Colin Powell, Secretary of Defense William Cohen, former Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, then Secretary of State Richard Cheney, Senator John McCain and former House Speaker Thomas Foley as the 2004 USO Service Award Winner. Congressman Ruppersberger received this prestigious award at the USO Service Awards Dinner at the Ritz-Carlton, Pentagon City, on March 23, 2004. Congressman Ruppersberger is presented with the USO Service Award by Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz The Congressman was honored for creating "Operation Hero Miles," the innovative program that allows people to donate their unused frequent flyer miles and troops in Iraq and Afghanistan can use them to fly home for free. It also allows family members of wounded troops to visit their loved ones recovering at military hospitals across the country for free. In just five months, 534 million 'hero miles' have been donated. That is enough miles for 22,000 free tickets for the troops. Paul Wolfowitz, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, gave Congressman Ruppersberger the award. "All of this began with leadership of one man, a freshman member of Congress, who saw a problem and crafted a solution that enabled the American people to support our troops... The attention he brought to this problem prompted Congress to change the law so that as of January 1st we can now pay for domestic travel for servicemen and women returning on R & R or on Emergency Leave," said Mr. Wolfowitz. "This award isn't about me. It's about the troops. It's a way for patriotic Americans to help our men and women in uniform risking their lives for their country in Iraq and Afghanistan. The overwhelming response to this program shows our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines that Americans care about them and their families," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Secretary of Veterans Affairs Anthony Principi and his wife Elizabeth, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Richard Myers and his wife Mary Jo, actress and former USO Merit Award Recipient Miss Connie Stevens, USO Merit Award Recipient Alabama, Miss America 2004 Erika Dunlap and others were in attendance. More information about "Operation Hero Miles" can be found at www.heromiles.org. -end-
11.20.2009	Baltimore, MD - In the wake of the deadly train attacks last week in Madrid, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will be joined by Maryland first responders to announce new federal legislation to protect people who travel on mass transportation. Under this bill, an attack on our nation's trains, buses, ferries, or other forms of mass transportation will be considered an act of terrorism. Anyone who attempts, threatens, or conspires to attack our nation's public transportation network will face the full force of the federal government and its resources. Working together with local and state officials, this legislation provides law enforcement the tools to combat and prevent attacks on our mass transportation systems. "Americans take almost ten billion trips each year on our trains, buses, ferries, and other modes of mass transportation. They deserve to feel safe. Government needs to do everything it can to make it clear that acts of terrorism will not be tolerated. Not here at home. Not anywhere," said Congressman C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The measure is sponsored by Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and Congressman Christopher Shays (R-CT). WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Dennis Schrader, Director, Maryland's Office of Homeland Security Maryland State Police Officers Maryland Transit Police Officers WHAT: Announcement of New Anti-Terrorism Legislation that Will Protect People Who Travel on Mass Transportation WHEN: 1:30PM, Friday, March 19, 2004 WHERE: The MARC/Amtrak Station At BWI AirportMD Route 170 and Amtrak Way -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today in favor of H.R. 557, the Iraq Resolution, honoring the heroic service and dedication of our Armed Forces in Iraq. The Congressman also took issue with the partisan drafting of the resolution that aimed to divide Congress and the American people not unite them. The following is Congressman Ruppersberger's statement as prepared. "I will support this resolution as an expression of our nation's gratitude and pride in our men and women in uniform who were ordered to war in Iraq by their Commander In Chief. Whether you are for or against the war, the fact is we are there now and we need to support our troops. These military service members are working around the clock to make Iraq a better place for the Iraqi people. Many of them have left their young families behind to serve their country. They deserve our thanks especially here in Congress." "I recently returned from Iraq as part of a bi-partisan group of members from the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. I truly believe that good intelligence is the best way to prevent terrorist attacks in our country as well as in Iraq. The members of our Intelligence Community are working on the dangerous front lines of this war to try and protect our troops. They also deserve our gratitude. They serve in silence and get little thanks." "I was proud to join with my Republican Colleagues and visit the Iraqi police training academy and honor 23 Iraqi police officers killed in a recent bombing. Even in the face of tragedy, the resolve of the Iraqi people to take back their country and start governing themselves was truly amazing. We need to finish what we started in Iraq and give the country back to its people." "This resolution should have simply expressed our support for our Armed Forces working and living in harm's way. Regrettably, however, the Majority has handled this resolution in a manner intended to divide us not unite us. I share the view that the world and in particular the Middle East are better off without Saddam Hussein and his brutal regime, but success must be our only exit strategy. When those goals are accomplished, we can say with certainty that the world is a safer place. We owe our military men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice for their country in Iraq nothing less!" -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) are pleased to announce that a $4.7 million grant has landed at the Baltimore Washington International (BWI) Airport. The money will help pay for the concrete ramps and taxi-ways around Pier A, the new terminal for Southwest Airlines. "As one of the fastest growing airports in the nation, it is critical to provide BWI Airport with the necessary funds for new construction and improvements to keep pace with passenger growth," said Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD). "This new infusion of funds will help to expand airport operations at BWI and continue the revving of this economic engine for the State of Maryland." "BWI is critical for a robust Maryland economy. Expansion of the airport through these funds will help BWI and Maryland remain competitive in the future," said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). "This grant is great news for business and vacation travelers in Maryland. BWI Airport is one of the biggest economic engines in the state and it is important that we continue to improve and expand this vital resource to bring jobs to the state and improve our economy," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Pier A construction project is a key component of BWI's $1.8 billion expansion plan and will provide facilities needed by Southwest Airlines. When complete, the new Southwest terminal will provide the airline with 26 gates to accommodate future growth at BWI. Construction is expected to be complete in the spring of 2005. The grant is being awarded by the Department of Transportation. -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) calls on the Administration to end failed economic policies. According to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) released this morning, the unemployment rate remains at a stagnant 5.6% and only 21,000 new jobs were created during the month of February. This falls far short of predictions by the White House and independent economists. "The lack of true job growth shows that the Administration's tax cut is not working. It was the wrong tax cut at the wrong time. I am in favor of a tax cut that gives businesses incentives to buy equipment, hire workers, or pay for employee health insurance but this tax cut did not do that. In the history of our country, we have never been at war and had a tax cut. It is poor policy. I never thought I'd be on the floor of Congress asking Republicans to be more fiscally responsible to stop spending and stop borrowing. We are borrowing to pay for a tax cut that is not working. Our great grandchildren will be forced to pay off this debt," said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). Nearly three million private-sector jobs have been lost since President George W. Bush took office. In addition, manufacturing jobs have been lost every single month of Bush's presidency. This is the worst showing of job creation since Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression. ###
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) commends Baltimore Washington International (BWI) Airport for its work on a new security system used for international visitors traveling through the airport. At a Government Reform Committee hearing today, Congressman Ruppersberger and other members of the committee evaluated the newly implemented entry-exit tracking program and reviewed the changes made to policies for issuing visas as a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. "It is essential that we know who is entering and exiting the United States to keep our country safe. This pilot program at the Baltimore Washington International (BWI) Airport is working and helps us do that. Now we need to take what we've learned at BWI and implement this program across the country," said Congressman C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger. BWI Airport was the first airport in the nation to use the new system to track visitors beginning in January 2004. The US-VISIT (United States Visitor and Immigration Status Indicator Technology) confirms the identity of visitors and ensures that the visitors are complying with visa and immigration regulations as they enter and leave the United States. The pilot program at BWI Airport will be used as a model to help set up a national program. Approximately 330 million non-citizens enter the United States at almost 400 designated ports of entry each year, 18% enter through our nation's airports. The biographic and biometric information collected during this process will be used by U.S. Customs and Border protection officers to verify the identity of the visitor and compare it with information on terrorism watch lists. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at 202-225-3061
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will attend a Congressional hearing to evaluate the security system used for international visitors traveling through Baltimore Washington (BWI) International Airport. Members of the Government Reform Committee will review the newly implemented entry-exit tracking program and the changes made to policies for issuing visas as a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. BWI Airport was the first airport in the nation to use the new system to track visitors beginning in January 2004. The US-VISIT (United States Visitor and Immigration Status Indicator Technology) confirms the identity of visitors and ensures that the visitors are complying with visa and immigration regulations as they enter the United States. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) The Honorable Asa Hutchinson, Department of Homeland Security The Honorable Maura Harty, Department of State David Plavin, Airports Council International Randel Johnson, U.S. Chamber of Commerce Jessica Vaughan, Center for Immigration Studies WHAT: Congressional Hearing to Evaluate Security System for International Visitors Traveling Through BWI Airport WHEN: 2pm, Thursday, March 4th, 2004 WHERE 2154 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at 202-225-3061
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - In honor of the 34th anniversary of Earth Day, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Congressman Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD) will introduce a bill that will help protect our air quality and cut fuel consumption by encouraging Americans to drive environmentally friendly hybrid vehicles. The measure will increase the Clean Fuel Vehicle tax credit to $4,000 and extend the tax deduction indefinitely. It will also require the federal government to dramatically increase the number of hybrids in the federal fleet. Hybrid electric vehicles are the most fuel-efficient vehicles on the road today. Hybrids combine an electric motor with a conventional, but cleaner, gasoline powered engine to deliver above-average gas mileage. Driving a hybrid vehicle not only helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also limits fuel consumption by at least 50% and reduces our dependence on foreign oil. "Hybrid vehicles help to protect our environment for our children and our children's children. This tax break coupled with rising gas prices makes purchasing a hybrid vehicle an economical and environmentally friendly decision," said Congressman Ruppersberger. "Providing a tax incentive to promote this type of technology makes sense," said Congressman Gilchrest. "The more we can do to encourage consumers to make smart choices, the quicker we can wean ourselves from our dependence on foreign oil." Currently, consumers who purchase a hybrid electric vehicle can qualify for a $2,000 Clean Fuel tax credit. The federal tax credit is set to be phased out by 2006. -end-
11.20.2009	www.heromiles.orgWashington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives today that will make "Operation Hero Miles" permanent. The bill gives the Department of Defense (DOD) the authority and flexibility to give free, unrestricted, last minute plane tickets to servicemen and women on leave - to handle an urgent family situation or other unexpected emergency. The legislation also gives DOD the authority to give free plane tickets to family members of wounded troops traveling to visit their injured loved ones at military hospitals around the world. "Military spouses, parents, and other family members are well aware of the important situations that come up when a loved one is stationed away from home for an extended period of time. This legislation will help servicemen and women quickly fly home for free to address the situation together with their family. These men and women are risking their lives for their country. I feel it is the least we can do," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The "Operation Hero Miles Act of 2004" is supported on both sides of the aisle. Chairman Duncan Hunter (R-CA) and Ranking Member Ike Skelton (D-MO) of the House Armed Services Committee, Chairman Jerry Lewis (R-CA) and Ranking Member John Murtha (D-PA) of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee are co-sponsors of the legislation. The bill gives DOD the authority to collect unused frequent flyer miles, mileage credits, or free tickets and designates an office to manage "Operation Hero Miles." In just five months, 534 million 'hero miles' have been donated. That is enough miles for 22,000 free tickets for the troops. "The overwhelming response to Operation Hero Miles shows that Americans are truly patriotic. They want to help members of Armed Services travel to see their loved ones in their time of need. This legislation will help them do that in the years to come," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The legislation also orders the DOD to reimburse troops who paid for their Rest and Relaxation (R & R) travel from September 15, 2003, to December 18, 2003, before DOD began paying for travel. HR 4130: Operation Hero Miles Act of 2004 -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) are pleased to announce that Fort Meade has decided to continue full EMS Service until June 1, 2004. This move gives the Army time to reconsider its decision to cut medical services at Fort Meade and gives Anne Arundel County more time to study the full scope of the potential impact. Fort Meade is the home of military families and government agencies - including the National Security Agency (NSA), the Defense Security Service (DSS), and several Guard and Reserve Units. "I commend the leaders at Fort Meade and in Anne Arundel County for working together in the best interest of the people they serve. I will continue to help in any way I can. In the post 9-11 world that we live in, it is critically important that we give our first responders the resources they need to keep us safe. This is not the time to be cutting funding and slashing EMS Service at Fort Meade," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). "I am pleased that the decision has been made to delay the reduction of EMS to the Ft. Meade Campus. I hope that we will see a permanent reversal of the decision. We should be increasing homeland security to major military/intelligence facilities, not reducing it," said Rep. Benjamin L. Cardin (D-3rd), a member of the Homeland Security Committee. The Department of the Army had decided to reduce EMS service on evenings, weekends, and holidays beginning Monday, April 5, 2004. Right now EMS Service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Army intends to cut that service to Monday through Friday from 6 am to 9 pm with no coverage on holidays. During off hours, those who live and work at Ft. Meade will have to rely on emergency services from the EMS unit in Jessup. The trip to the base could take more than 15 minutes and response times could be longer if there is a security alert. Congressman Ruppersberger and Congressman Cardin sent a joint letter to the Acting Secretary of Defense Les Brownlee yesterday asking him not to reduce EMS Service. "Continued EMS service for Ft. Meade and NSA is vital to the operations of these installations. It is unacceptable to have vital national security personnel at risk because of a delay in getting EMS service to the base... We need to enhance the resources available to our rescue personnel, not eliminate or diminish them... Anne Arundel County cannot be expected to assume the responsibility being abandoned by the U.S. Army," read the letter. -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce that the bill that will make "Operation Hero Miles" permanent unanimously passed the United States Senate. The bill gives the Department of Defense (DOD) the authority and flexibility to give free, unrestricted, last minute plane tickets to servicemen and women on leave - to handle an urgent family situation or other unexpected emergency. The legislation also gives DOD the authority to give free plane tickets to family members of wounded troops traveling to visit their injured loved ones at military hospitals around the world. "Our men and women in uniform are risking their lives for our country in Iraq, Afghanistan, and in other locations around the world. Their service is to be commended. I believe making 'Operation Hero Miles' permanent is the least we can do to make their personal lives a little easier. Service members will be able to quickly fly home to handle an emergency and military family members will be able to quickly fly to see their injured loved one without worrying about how much it will cost. We believe this legislation will make a big difference in the lives of our military families in the years come," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Senator James Talent (R-Missouri) offered the "Operation Hero Miles" bill as an amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill. The amendment passed unanimously last night, June 3rd, 2004. "I commend Senator Talent's initiative on this issue. He is a true advocate for our servicemen and women fighting for our country around the globe. It is wonderful to have a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers working to make the 'Operation Hero Miles' Bill become law," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The bill gives DOD the authority to collect unused frequent flyer miles, mileage credits, or free tickets and designates an office to manage "Operation Hero Miles." In just five months, 534 million 'hero miles' have been donated. That is enough miles for 22,000 free tickets for the troops. The Senate Defense Authorization Bill will now go to Conference where differences between the House and Senate versions will be worked out. HR 4130: Operation Hero Miles Act of 2004 -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement after the resignation of George Tenet, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. "George Tenet is a great American. He served his country well as the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. When Mr. Tenet began his tenure at the CIA, the cupboard was bare when it came to human intelligence. He led the effort to rebuild our human intelligence capabilities. He helped transform the Intelligence Community from a group of dedicated workers focused on fighting the Cold War to a group of dedicated workers focused on fighting the war on terrorism." "Mr. Tenet served in a bi-partisan fashion under two Presidents and worked hard to enhance our national security and make our country a safer place. I worked closely with him during my service on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He has taken the Intelligence Community a long way but we still have a long way to go. Mr. Tenet has laid a solid foundation for the future." The Congressman's statement is his personal opinion and does not represent the opinion of the Intelligence Committee. -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - The Pentagon has decided to eliminate Baltimore Washington International (BWI) Airport as the nation's major point of entry for troops returning from overseas. The Department of Defense says it will divert all military travel, including R & R troop travel, to Hartsfield Airport in Atlanta and DFW Airport in Dallas. The move will take effect in mid - June. "I am disappointed to hear that the Department of Defense plans to end a program that works. The employees at BWI Airport along with the dedicated USO staff and volunteers go above and beyond the call of duty for our troops and their families. They provide our military personnel with the comforts of home - anything from a clean shower to homemade snacks to a computer to communicate with loved ones. They also provide shuttle service to nearby airports. I believe ending this system that benefits our troops is a bad decision," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). In September 2003, the Pentagon started giving soldiers stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan two weeks of leave in the largest R & R program since the Vietnam War. Most soldiers on R & R or Emergency Leave travel through BWI Airport. The State of Maryland spent $1.1 million dollars for construction of the one-of-a-kind USO International Gateway Lounge at BWI. It hosts more than 250,000 military personnel and their families each year. The military travel program brings more than $20 million annually to the state of Maryland. BWI Airport is close to Baltimore and Washington and makes it ideal for troop transport. It is located near Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Fort Meade, Walter Reed Army Hospital, Bolling Air Force Base, Andrews Air Force Base, Ft. Myers, Quantico Marine Base, the Pentagon, the Capitol and the White House. BWI also sits on the I-95 corridor which allows families easy access to the airport and the surrounding community. In addition, BWI offers exceptionally low fares as a hub to Southwest Airlines and is close to two other large commercial airports, Reagan National Airport and Dulles International Airport. BWI is also served by Amtrak. Congressman Ruppersberger plans to ask Congress to take a second look at the decision. All of the democratic members of the Maryland Delegation sent a letter to President George W. Bush on May 10th, 2004, asking him NOT to allow this to happen and keep troops traveling through BWI. Congressman Ruppersberger also sent a similar letter to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld on March 30th, 2004. Congressman Ruppersberger created "Operation Hero Miles," the innovative program that allows travelers to donate their unused frequent flyer miles. Military personnel can use them to fly home for free and family members of wounded troops can use them to travel to military hospitals to visit their injured loved ones. -end-
11.20.2009	Halethorpe, MD - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) joined Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), and Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith on Monday, May 24, 2004, and unveiled a new piece of equipment to keep Baltimore County Firefighters safe and healthy. Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith, Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger, Congressman Ben Cardin, and Senator Paul Sarbanes with fire fighters at the unveiling of new equipment at Halethorpe Fire Station #5. A $750,000 federal grant helped pay for a new diesel exhaust removal system for all twenty five Baltimore County Career Fire Stations. Station #5 in Halethorpe is the first career station to get the technology. In the past, firefighters at most stations used fans or opened windows to ventilate the fumes. "First responders are our first line of defense in an emergency. I believe we must provide our firefighters, police, and EMTs with the resources, equipment, and training they need to keep our families and our communities safe. The diesel exhaust removal system will improve the air quality at the fire stations and help keep our firefighters safe and healthy," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). "I'm proud to help announce this important federal investment in Baltimore County's first responders. Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to save families, save homes, and save communities. They deserve the best equipment and gear to protect themselves while they work hard to protect us," said Senator Mikulski. "It is critical that our first responders have the resources and equipment necessary to accomplish their mission as safely as possible. This grant ensures that the health of our firefighters is protected," said Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-MD). "We're so grateful for this federal aid because it means we can use the county dollars we had planned to spend for other services our citizens need. We have an obligation to give our employees the safest possible working environment and this grant will help us do that," said County Executive Smith. -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - The Pentagon is considering eliminating Baltimore Washington International (BWI) Airport as the nation's major point of entry for troops returning from overseas. The Department of Defense (DOD) has already begun diverting flights from BWI to airports in Atlanta and Dallas. Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD) together with every democratic member of the Maryland Delegation sent a letter to President George W. Bush on May 10th, 2004, asking him NOT to allow this to happen and keep troops traveling through BWI. "We strongly urge you to recognize how essential the airport, its workers, and the USO staff and volunteers are to making travel for our military personnel and their families as comfortable as possible. The systems in place work and we don't believe they should be changed... The State of Maryland spent $1.1 million dollars for construction of the one-of-a-kind USO International Gateway Lounge. It is staffed by some of the most dedicated volunteers. BWI Airport has gone above and beyond the call of duty for our men and women in uniform. We know because many of us have been there. We have thanked the soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines for their service to their country in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world. We have also thanked the energetic USO staff and volunteers who work around the clock to provide our troops with the comforts of home - anything from a clean shower to homemade snacks to a computer to communicate with loved ones," read the letter to the President. In September 2003, the Pentagon started giving soldiers stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan two weeks of leave in the largest R & R program since the Vietnam War. Most soldiers on R & R or Emergency Leave travel through BWI Airport. The USO Gateway Lounge at BWI hosts more than 250,000 military personnel and their families each year. The military travel program brings more than $20 million annually to the state of Maryland. The Democratic members of the Maryland Delegation also invited President Bush to join the group in a visit to BWI to greet returning troops and thank the dedicated USO volunteers. "We cordially extend an invitation for you to join us at BWI to greet the returning troops and tour the facility at your convenience. Many of us have been to the USO lounge and met with soldiers returning and departing for Iraq. Not until we made that trip could we appreciate the full value of the special USO mission there," read the letter. BWI Airport's close proximity to Baltimore and Washington makes it ideal for troop transport. It is located near close to a dozen military installations, the Pentagon, the Capitol and the White House. BWI also sits on the I-95 corridor which allows families easy access to the airport and the surrounding community. In addition, BWI offers exceptionally low fares as a hub to Southwest Airlines and is close to two other large commercial airports, Reagan National Airport and Dulles International Airport. BWI is also served by Amtrak. Congressman Ruppersberger created "Operation Hero Miles," the innovative program that allows travelers to donate their unused frequent flyer miles. Military personnel can use them to fly home for free and family members of wounded troops can use them to travel to military hospitals to visit their injured loved ones. -end-
11.20.2009	Lutherville, MD - Congressman Benjamin L. Cardin (MD-D) and Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-D) today announced $750,000 in new federal funding to widen the northern portion of the Baltimore Beltway I-695. The money, which is part of the FY 2004 budget, will be used to widen the Beltway from I-83 to MD 147, Harford Road. Congressman Ruppersberger with Mahlon Anderson, Congressman Cardin and Trent Kittleman at announcement of the new Highway Funds Approximately 189,000 motorists travel along the 12-mile stretch of roadway every day. The Maryland Department of Transportation (MDOT) expects that number to increase by more than a third by 2025. The Baltimore metropolitan region is one of the 25 most congested in the nation, according to the Texas Transportation Institute. In 2001, Baltimoreans spent 33% of their daily travel in congestion compared to 12% in 1982. Both Congressmen agree this money will "be a big help in reducing congestion that has choked much of the beltway in recent years." "The beltway is one of the most important transportation arteries in our region. It is critical to future economic growth that we keep traffic moving in an efficient and effective manner. Funding to widen I-695 is my one of my top transportation priorities, and it is one that I will continue to work for in Congress," said Congressman Cardin. "Keeping Marylanders moving along the Baltimore Beltway is incredibly important to keep our economy moving and improve the quality of life for our residents. These federal dollars will keep the I-695 widening project on the right track to reduce traffic congestion. I will continue to fight in Washington to bring this important federal funding to the Baltimore Region," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Congressmen were joined at the press conference by Trent Kittleman, Deputy Secretary of MDOT and Mahlon G. Anderson, AAA Mid-Atlantic Director of Public and Government Relations. "Federal support is extremely important in realizing Gov. Ehrlich's vision for reducing traffic congestion in Maryland," said Maryland's Deputy Transportation Secretary Trent M. Kittleman. "We appreciate this funding for the Baltimore Beltway widening effort and we look forward to working with Congressman Cardin and Congressman Ruppersberger throughout the federal transportation reauthorization process to insure Maryland receives the transportation funding it needs." Congressman Ruppersberger and Congressman Cardin at announcement of the new Highway Funds "Baltimore is in the throws of a mobility crisis -- we have gridlock growing everywhere and few dollars to address it. Nowhere is this more evident than on the Baltimore Beltway. Clearly our gridlock is growing much faster than the state dollars available to address it, so federal dollars are a necessary part of the solution. We congratulate Congressmen Cardin and Ruppersberger for their successful efforts to bring home some new federal dollars to improve life for motorists on the Baltimore Beltway," said Lon Anderson, Director of Public and Government Relations for AAA Mid-Atlantic. The $750,000 will be used along with $1.2 million in previous funding for the engineering design phase. The first segment of the inner loop of I-695 to be designed and built is between MD 41 (Perring Parkway) and MD 147 (Harford Road). It is estimated that construction will cost $23.5 million and engineering $3.5 million. As funding becomes available, future plans call for widening the outer loop of I-695 and the remaining portion of the inner loop from I-83 to Perring Parkway. The project will total more than $315 million and will be completed in several phases. Federal highway transportation funds account for 80% of the funding. The FY2005 transportation bill that recently passed the House contains $9.7 million in new federal money for the Beltway widening project. -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) voted in favor of H.R. 627, Condemning the Abuse of Iraqi Prisoners. The following is a statement by Congressman Ruppersberger: "Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 627." "I was outraged when I saw the photographs of American Service Members physically and mentally abusing Iraqi prisoners being held at the Abu Ghraib Prison. This is not what America is all about." "An investigation into this situation is already underway. I believe we need to get to the bottom of what went on and hold the people who committed these horrid acts accountable for their actions. We also need to see if there was a lack of proper training or supervision." "We need to follow the chain of command to see if leaders were aware of this behavior, turned a blind eye to it, or encouraged it. The system obviously broke down and we need to find out why so we can prevent it from happening again." "I think it is unfortunate that a small group of soldiers who acted horribly are tarnishing the reputations of tens of thousands of American military personnel who are acting honorably... who are doing their jobs... who are helping Iraqis take back their country... who are putting their lives on the line for our liberties and freedom. We applaud their hard work." -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) supports House Resolution 598 that recognizes the valuable contributions of teachers, administrators, and staff who work at schools serving America's military communities. The following is Congressman Ruppersberger's statement as prepared. "Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 598." "Tens of thousands of men and women in uniform are serving our country around the world. I believe we owe it to them to make sure that their children here at home have access to a quality education. Teachers, staff, and administrators at schools serving our military communities are a critical part of achieving this goal. These professionals work hard to educate our youth as well as support families who are dealing with a loved one serving overseas - very often in a dangerous, combat area. That is why I am taking time today to honor these great educators for the work they do every day. The commitment of the staff at these schools is unwavering and I am proud to stand here today in support of these great Americans." "In my district, the Maryland 2nd Congressional District, schools around Fort Meade in Anne Arundel County, especially elementary schools, are feeling the pinch. The military is funding the development of 3200 new housing units on the base in the next few years. This is welcome news for military families but this initiative coupled with the fact that more military personnel are being called to duty is expected to bring 700 new students to the Anne Arundel County School System. These military families typically don't pay taxes in Anne Arundel County because their home of record is in another state. This situation is expected to overburden the school system and disrupt the system's construction and modernization plan due to this influx of new students." "As the former Baltimore County Executive, I understand the financial constraint situations like this put on local governments. I am doing everything I can here on Capitol Hill to make sure that this situation does not unfairly burden Anne Arundel County. I believe we need to fully fund Impact Aid to counties serving military children like Anne Arundel County. Impact Aid is federal assistance that helps offset the costs of educating military children when their families don't pay taxes in the area. Right now Impact Aid is only funded at 60%. I believe we should completely fund the program." "The teachers, staff, and administrators at these schools do their part to educate and support these military families in this very difficult time. We in Congress must do our part and give them the resources they deserve." -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - For only the first time in history, the travel industry is presenting the prestigious "Freddie Distinguished Achievement Award" to a member of Congress. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is receiving this honor for creating "Operation Hero Miles," the innovative program that allows people to donate their unused frequent flyer miles and troops in Iraq and Afghanistan can use them to fly home for free. It also allows family members of wounded troops to visit their loved ones recovering at military hospitals across the country for free. In just five months, 540 million 'hero miles' have been donated. That is enough miles for 22,600 free tickets for the troops. "I applaud the airline industry for participating in 'Operation Hero Miles' and supporting our men and women in uniform, but the 'Freddie Distinguished Achievement Award' isn't about either of us. It's about the troops. It's a way for patriotic Americans to help our military personnel risking their lives for their country in Iraq and Afghanistan. The overwhelming response to this program shows our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines that Americans care about them and their families," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Travel industry executives presented the "Freddie Distinguished Achievement Award" to Steve Jost, Congressman Ruppersberger's Chief of Staff, at a special ceremony on April 29, 1004, at the Embassy Suites Hotel in New York City. On April 2, 2004, Congressman Ruppersberger introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives today that will make "Operation Hero Miles" permanent. The bill gives the Department of Defense (DOD) the authority and flexibility to give free, unrestricted, last minute plane tickets to servicemen and women on leave - to handle an urgent family situation or other unexpected emergency. The Freddies were inspired by Sir Freddie Laker, who in 1978 was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II for his contribution to commercial aviation and the British economy. Previous "Freddie Distinguished Achievement Award" winners include Senator John McCain (R-AZ), Senator Bob Graham (D-FL), and Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND). More information about "Operation Hero Miles" can be found at www.heromiles.org. -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) voted in favor of the H.R. 4181, the Marriage Penalty Tax Bill, but is disappointed that the Republican Leadership brought this bill to the floor without a means to pay for it. The following is a statement by Congressman Ruppersberger. "I support HR 4181. It will permanently get rid of the marriage penalty. I voted for this tax cut as a matter of equity and fairness. I do not believe couples should be penalized for getting married. The standard deduction for a single person should simply be doubled when a couple gets married. This measure does this and makes it permanent. Under current law, relief from the marriage penalty ends in 2010." "In our current economic climate, families across our country deserve tax relief from the time they are newlyweds to the time they are parents with children to the time they are enjoying their golden years. This move is a good first step to help all families." "But, I am disappointed that the Republican leadership brought this bill to the floor without a plan or a means to pay for it. This move will add to the deficit. I believe the U.S. House of Representatives has a responsibility to fund this cut. We can no longer cut taxes and increase the deficit. We are borrowing against our children and grandchildren's future." "I supported the Democratic Alternative that would have permanently eliminated the marriage penalty while not adding to the deficit. Here on Capitol Hill, we should provide tax relief but at the same time we must exercise fiscal restraint." "The Republican leadership intends to bring more tax cuts to the floor and I will consider each on a case by case basis. We must find the right tax cuts for the right time. Our children and grandchildren deserve it." -end-
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) ) today praised the U.S. Department of Defense for speedily implementing legislation approved by Congress that requires DOD to pay for domestic travel for troops on Rest and Relaxation Leave (R & R) from Iraq and Afghanistan. The Pentagon began paying for the domestic travel this week, after generous Americans had donated more than 400 million frequent flyer miles - equal to more than 16,000 free round-trip tickets - for soldiers who were required under previous law to pay their own way home from U.S. airports where military travel terminated. "Operation Hero Miles," the innovative program created by Congressman Ruppersberger, allows travelers to donate their frequent flyer miles to the U.S. Army for soldiers to use to fly home for free. The program became a huge grass roots movement, featured in hundreds of news stories and highlighted on the DOD official website. As of today, almost 200,000 visits have been made to www.heromiles.org, where air travelers donate miles through a dozen airline frequent flyer programs. "I am pleased the Pentagon is now using the $55 million Congress appropriated to pay for domestic flights for our troops on R & R. These men and women are in Iraq and Afghanistan fighting for our country. It is the least we can do to pay for their flights homes so they can spend time with their loved ones in these very uncertain times," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The unprecedented R & R program is run by the U.S. Army out of Camp Champion in Kuwait, and is the first time U.S. combatants have been returned to the continental United States for R & R leave during any U.S. conflict. Ruppersberger said that senior DOD Defense officials had pledged to him that should the $55 million not be sufficient to pay for all domestic travel, the Pentagon would find the funds to continue paying for soldier's flights home, or ask Congress for more, or both. "I am willing to predict that Congress would almost unanimously approve more funding to pay for R & R travel for our men in women in combat if needed, or to authorize the use of free tickets for other travel," Ruppersberger said. Troops who are heading home on "Emergency Leave" to attend the funeral of a loved one, be present for the birth of a child, attend to a seriously ill parent, or other emergency do NOT get paid flights home through the Department of Defense. Ruppersberger announced that the U.S. Army will continue working through "Operation Hero Miles" so these soldiers can be eligible for free flights through "Operation Hero Miles". Ruppersberger said he would contact the airlines participating in "Hero Miles" to explain the continuing need and encourage them to continue their patriotic support of the effort. "Operation Hero Miles" continues to grow and give free plane tickets to troops on Emergency Leave as well as to families of troops injured in Iraq & Afghanistan. On December 30, 2003, "Operation Hero Miles" gave 680 free plane tickets that will allow family members to visit their loved ones recovering at 14 U.S. military hospitals around the country. Sometimes the love and support of family is the best medicine to help an injured troop recover from his or her injuries.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - In a joint letter, Congressman Jim Ramstad (R-MN), Congressman Dennis Moore (D-KS), and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) asked Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to reimburse all troops in Iraq and Afghanistan who paid for their Rest and Relaxation (R & R) travel out of their own pocket. In September, 2003, the Pentagon began giving soldiers stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan two weeks of leave in the largest R & R program since the Vietnam War. The troops were flown to airports in Baltimore, MD, Atlanta, GA, and Dallas, TX, by the Department of Defense (DOD) and then required to pay their own way to take connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. "We are asking you to do the right thing for our men and women in uniform risking their lives for our country in Iraq and Afghanistan. Please support our efforts to reimburse all our troops for the money they paid out of their own pockets to travel home on R & R to spend quality time with their loved ones during these very uncertain times," read the letter sent to Secretary Rumsfeld on January 15th, 2004. During several trips to Baltimore Washington International (BWI) Airport, Congressman Ruppersberger heard from dozens of men and women in uniform who told him they were paying anywhere from $400 to $1000 for plane tickets to their hometowns. The Congressman was concerned about the excessive financial burden placed on military families and created "Operation Hero Miles", the innovative program that allows travelers to donate their unused frequent flyer miles and allows troops to use them to fly home for free. In November, 2003, Congress passed an amendment sponsored by Congressman Dennis Moore of Kansas and Congressman Jim Ramstad of Minnesota and supported by Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger of Maryland that earmarked $55 million to pay for R & R travel. The DOD began using the money for military travel in January, 2004, but says it will not reimburse soldiers who paid their own way and traveled before December 19th, 2003. "This means thousands of service members who by chance were granted R & R before December 19th, 2003, and paid for their travel with their own money will not be reimbursed but those who traveled after that date will be. We believe this policy is completely unfair and should be changed so that all troops who dug deep into their pockets to pay their own way home will be reimbursed," read the joint letter.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) praised Congressman Dick Gephardt (D-MO) for his two decades of outstanding public service for our nation. Today in Missouri Congressman Gephardt announced he is dropping out of the race for the democratic nomination for President. Congressman Ruppersberger had endorsed Gephardt in his race for the White House. "Congressman Dick Gephardt is an outstanding public servant who has spent more than two decades working hard to improve our country by fighting for working men and women. Congressman Gephardt is a real class act. When the numbers didn't go his way in Iowa, he thanked his supporters and dropped out of the race at a time when his supporters have a lot of choices," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger will be closely watching the developments in the race for the White House and will not endorse a democratic presidential candidate until after the New Hampshire Primary on January 27th, 2004. "Our country needs a President that has proven leadership skills and well tested experience. Our country needs a President that will fight for working families and is familiar with the domestic issues that matter with them. Our country needs a President with a proven track record of understanding the complicated world of foreign affairs. I believe we can find that candidate in the diverse field of democratic contenders," said Congressman Ruppersberger.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will address an important forum about the Port of Baltimore on Monday, February 2nd, 2003, called "Keeping the Port of Baltimore Competitive in a Global World." The Maryland Port Administration reported a record year in 2003 and handled 7.1 million tons of general cargo. "So many jobs across the state of Maryland depend on the Port of Baltimore. We need to make sure the Port, one of the largest economic engines in the state, has the latest in technology and security to keep commerce flowing," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Speakers will also include Maryland Secretary of Transportation Robert Flanagan, Maryland Secretary of the Department of Business and Economic Development Aris Melissaratos, Chairman of the Terminal Corporation Jack Menzies, and Captain Lorenzo di Cassagrande from the Mediterranean Shipping Company among others. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger MD Secretary of Transportation Robert Flanagan MD Secretary of the Dept of Business & Economic Dev. Aris Melissaratos Chairman of the Terminal Corporation Jack Menzies Captain Lorenzo di Cassagrande from the Mediterranean Shipping Comp. WHAT: Important Forum about the Port of Baltimore "Keeping the Port of Baltimore Competitive in a Global World" WHEN: 8AM - 10:30AM, Monday, February 2, 2004 WHERE: Baltimore World Trade Center Building 401 East Pratt Street, Baltimore, MD Constellation Ballroom
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is disappointed with the new Department of Homeland Security Budget released today. The Department proposed cuts of $618 million or 15% from the 2005 budget compared to actual spending last year. This means less money for our local first responders. "The Department of Homeland Security is out of touch with the needs of our local first responders. We live in an era of uncertain threat levels. Local resources are already stretched incredibly thin. We have identified areas where we need to increase our homeland security efforts. This is not the time to be cutting funding for our firefighters, EMT's, and police officers who work hard to try and keep our communities and families safe," said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). The Department proposed completely eliminating grants that help first responders buy equipment that will allow different departments to communicate with either other, known as "Interoperability Communications Grants". DHS proposed cutting the firefighter grant program by $250 million and completely eliminating urban search and rescue grants. Last fall, Congressman Ruppersberger conducted a comprehensive survey of first responders in Maryland's 2nd Congressional District and found that: 76% of the first responders and government agencies that participated in the survey have received NO FEDERAL FUNDING for homeland security needs. 67% of the agencies that responded put the need for BETTER COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY as one of their top three priorities. "I am confident that Congress will restore this funding and I urge the President to reconsider these cuts," said Congressman Ruppersberger.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is proud to be an original co-sponsor of legislation introduced today in Congress that will restore full military survivor benefits to American families. The bill is sponsored by Congressman Jeff Miller (R) of Florida. Members of the military who signed up for survivor benefits in the 1970's were led to believe that they were purchasing annuities that would provide their surviving spouses 55% of their retired pay for life. After paying decades of premiums, their surviving loves ones feel betrayed when they later learn that their benefits actually drop by more than a third when they reach age 62. This issue affects approximately 250,000 military survivors, mostly widows, across the country according to The Military Coalition of Alexandria, VA. "These Americans served our country well and their families made countless sacrifices along the way. The United States Government made a promise to these men and women in uniform that it would support their surviving spouses once they were gone. We have broken that promise. Many military families rely on this payment to make ends meet and our government is taking it away. This is wrong. We need to give the spouses of our dedicated servicemen and women the treatment they deserve. We must keep our word," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD).
11.20.2009	Timonium, MD - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is due to return to the United States after a week long trip to Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan. Congressman Ruppersberger talked extensively with Libyan Leader Muammar al-Qadafi about his commitment to getting rid of the country's weapons of mass destruction. The Congressman was impressed with the teamwork showcased by the soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines working to rebuild Iraq and Afghanistan. He also spent some extra time talking to troops from Maryland. Congressman Ruppersberger will be available for interviews on Thursday, February 19th, 2003. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger WHAT: Media Availability Concerning Congressman Ruppersberger's Trip to Libya, Iraq, and Afghanistan WHEN: Thursday, February 19th, 2003 Congressman Ruppersberger is a member of the House Intelligence Committee. **IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN SETTING UP AN INTERVIEW WITH CONGRESSMAN RUPPERSBERGER, CALL HEATHER MOEDER MOLINO AT (202) 225-3061 OR ON HER CELL AT (703) 615-5371.
11.20.2009	Timonium, MD - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce his nominees for the United States Service Academies. The Congressman consulted a diverse panel of academy graduates, educators, business leaders, and other professionals to help him choose the twelve most qualified students from Maryland's 2nd Congressional District interested in attending a service academy. "These students represent the best and the brightest of Maryland. In our uncertain world, we need a focused and well trained military. I am confident these students will make great additions to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Naval Academy, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. These young people will be the leaders of tomorrow," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger nominated: John Cobb who is home schooled to the United States Air Force Academy. Daniel Decker of Towson High School to the United States Air Force Academy and the United States Naval Academy. David Devan of Loyola Blakefield High School to the United States Naval Academy. Armin Farazdaghi of Dulaney High School to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Bernard Habersham of Randallstown High School to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. William Han of the University of Maryland, College Park, to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Robert Higgins of Perry Hall High School to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Timothy Hollenshade of Mount Saint Joseph High School to the United States Air Force Academy. Mark Horodowicz of Parkville High School to the United States Naval Academy. Michael Lee of Dulaney High School to the United States Naval Academy, the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Sheehan Murphy of Mount St. Mary's College to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Scott Steele of Towson High School to the United States Naval Academy. A nomination from Congressman Ruppersberger does not guarantee an appointment to a United States Service Academy. It is up to the individual academies to issue appointments. Attached is the list of community leaders that served on Congressman Ruppersberger's Nominations Panel. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at 202-225-3061
11.20.2009	Edgemere, MD - The North Point Edgemere Volunteer Fire Company needs to replace an outdated fire engine and upgrade its breathing equipment but that may NOT happen because of proposed cuts to federal first responder grants. The Department of Homeland Security proposes cutting $1.5 billion from over a dozen popular grant programs. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) met with volunteer firefighters and EMTs at the North Point Edgemere Volunteer Fire Company on Monday, February 23rd, 2004, and talked with them about his effort to stop this move in Congress. "We live in an era of uncertain threat levels and local resources are already stretched incredibly thin. We have identified areas where we need to increase our homeland security efforts. This is not the time to be cutting funding for our firefighters, EMTs, and police officers who work hard to try and keep our communities and families safe," said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). Last fall, Congressman Ruppersberger's staff conducted a comprehensive survey of first responders in Maryland's 2nd Congressional District and found that: 76% of the first responders and government agencies that participated in the survey have received NO FEDERAL FUNDING for homeland security needs. 67% of the agencies that responded put the need for BETTER COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY as one of their top three priorities. But DHS wants to completely cut out a grant program that will help first responders improve their communication systems. "I will work hard with my colleagues in Congress to restore this funding and I urge the President of the United States to do the same," said Congressman Ruppersberger.
11.20.2009	Maryland - In a significant display of unity, a large group of leading Maryland Democrats announced their support today for John Kerry for President. The leaders cited Kerry's vast experience, strong leadership, and positive vision for America in their joint endorsement. The group of leaders consists of United States Senator Paul Sarbanes, United States Senator Barbara Mikulski, Maryland Comptroller William Donald Schaefer, Attorney General Joe Curran, House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, Representative Ben Cardin, Representative Dutch Ruppersberger, Representative Chris Van Hollen, Maryland House Speaker Mike Busch, Montgomery County Executive Doug Duncan, Baltimore City Mayor Martin O'Malley, Howard County Executive Jim Robey, and Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith. The Maryland Leaders' joint statement follows: "We join together today in enthusiastic support of John Kerry for President because of his strong record on national security and his positive vision to restore economic prosperity in America. He combines a 35-year record of fighting for Democratic values with a unique understanding of national security issues. "Maryland has suffered in the Bush economy, and we need John Kerry's leadership to help all our people who are working overtime just to keep up with the high cost of health insurance, child care, tuition and other basic needs. John Kerry will bring back job growth, keep America stronger and safer, fight to make health care affordable, work to ensure our children receive a quality education and protect our environment. "We urge all Marylanders to unite behind John Kerry for President, the Democrat who can and will defeat George W. Bush in November - and restore the promise of the American dream for all." John Kerry said, "Maryland is a leader for Democratic values, so I am truly honored to have the support of so many of this State's distinguished Democrats as we fight to win every vote on March 2nd. George W. Bush has been an economic disaster for Maryland. Bankruptcies are up, and thousands of jobs have been lost. But together, we can retake the White House and bring back job growth for the people of this State." In addition to demonstrating the appeal of Kerry's experience, character and vision, the endorsement by many of Maryland's highest-ranking Democratic elected officials adds significantly to Kerry's momentum in Maryland. Last week, Kerry was endorsed by some 80 state legislators, county officials and other local Democratic leaders from across the State of Maryland. Kerry is the only Democrat running a national campaign and the only candidate to win delegates in every state that has held a primary or caucus. He has now won 15 out of the 17 primaries and caucuses so far, and has a commanding lead in the nomination race with over 600 total delegates - nearly 30% of the total delegates needed for the nomination. Kerry is the only candidate with active campaigns in all ten Super Tuesday states, as well as the primaries in Hawaii, Idaho and Utah that fall on February 24.
11.20.2009	Edgemere, MD - The North Point Edgemere Volunteer Fire Company #26 needs to replace an outdated fire engine and upgrade its breathing equipment but that may NOT happen because of proposed cuts to federal first responder grants. The Department of Homeland Security proposes cutting $1.5 billion from over a dozen popular grant programs. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) will meet with volunteer firefighters and EMTs on Monday, February 23rd, 2004, and talk to them about his effort to stop this move in Congress. "We live in an era of uncertain threat levels and local resources are already stretched incredibly thin. We have identified areas where we need to increase our homeland security efforts. This is not the time to be cutting funding for our firefighters, EMTs, and police officers who work hard to try and keep our communities and families safe," said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Members of the North Point Edgemere Volunteer Fire Company #26 WHAT: Congressman Ruppersberger to Talk With First Responders about Consequences of Funding Cuts WHEN: 10am, Monday, February 23rd, 2004 WHERE: North Point Edgemere Volunteer Fire Company #26 7500 North Point Road Baltimore, MD 21219
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is proud to announce "Operation Hero Miles" goes prime time with nine. Nine airlines, 89 % of the domestic airline market, are giving troops on emergency leave or Rest and Relaxation (R & R) from Iraq and Afghanistan free flights home. US Airways and Midwest Airlines are the latest airlines to announce their participation. 203 million miles have been donated by travelers and the airlines. This means that 8,100 free tickets are available for the troops. "This means that 8,100 men and women in uniform who are from one corner of the country to the other and many places in between can fly home for free this holiday season. Generous travelers have given our troops and their families a wonderful gift in the true spirit of the season," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The soldiers who have been granted two weeks of R & R are flown to Baltimore Washington International Airport, Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, GA, and Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in Texas by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to make connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. Congressman Ruppersberger is concerned about the financial burden placed on military families and created Operation Hero Miles. Participating Airlines AirTran Airways Alaska Airlines American Airlines Delta Airlines Midwest Airlines Pan Am and Boston-Maine Southwest Airlines United Airlines US Airways "Operation Hero Miles" is also teaming up with America Online, the world's leading interactive services company. AOL will display information about "Operation Hero Miles" on its "Welcome" page, the screen that appears when AOL subscribers first log on, with a special feature about a decorated American soldier. AOL will run this feature from 5pm, Thursday, December 11, 2003, until 5am, Friday, December 12th, 2003.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is proud to announce that America Online, Inc., the world's leading interactive services company, is teaming up with "Operation Hero Miles" to help American troops stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan. "Operation Hero Miles" will be displayed on America Online's "Welcome" page, the screen that appears when AOL subscribers first log on, with a special feature about a decorated American soldier. Information about this innovative program that helps troops fly home for free will be featured from 5pm, Thursday, December 11, 2003, until 5am, Friday, December 12th, 2003. AOL will also be kicking off a three month public service campaign December 15, 2003, to continue to spread the word about this program created by Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger. AOL will run public service messages for the next 90 days describing this program on its website, www.aol.com and at "Keyword: Military". AOL will also provide a link to the "Operation Hero Miles" website, www.heromiles.org. AOL has 24.7 million internet subscribers in the United States. The public service banner ads and messages will be targeted to special AOL communities especially those supporting the troops or with an emphasis on travel. "Somewhere in America a loved one is going to log on to AOL and that familiar refrain, 'You've Got Mail' will bring home news from Iraq and Afghanistan of a free flight home for the holidays courtesy of Operation Hero Miles," said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger. "AOL should be commended for stepping up for our men and women in uniform and for our country." More than 170 million frequent flyer miles have been donated to this program that helps troops on Rest and Relaxation (R and R) from Iraq or Afghanistan or emergency leave get free flights home. The generosity of thousands of travelers this holiday season means soldiers can get 6,700 free plane tickets allowing them to spend quality time with family and friends without worrying about how much it will cost. The soldiers who have been granted two weeks of R & R are flown to Baltimore Washington International Airport, Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, GA, and Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in Texas by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to make connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - The Maryland Congressman who started a program to help U.S. troops fly home on donated frequent flyer miles says a new report from the Library of Congress reveals that a plan for the government to begin paying for the flights falls short of the funds required. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released a memo from the Library's Congressional Research Service (CRS), which says the $55 million recently appropriated by Congress to pay for soldier's domestic flights, "...is not sufficient to ensure each and every service member on R&R would receive travel assistance to his or her home." The report noted that officials of the Department of Defense told CRS that the total cost of a program to pay for R&R travel all the way home would mean the $55 million would run out in a matter of a few months. A report in this week's edition of the Army Times says that none of the $55 million approved by Congress last month has been spent while the Department of Defense re-writes government travel regulations. Pentagon officials told the Times that process would take weeks more. Meanwhile, more than 3,000 soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines each week are returning home and paying for their own domestic flights. "The $55 million is a good first step, but it is not enough. It appears not a single soldier will realize the benefit of this funding before Christmas or even the end of the year. The American flying public needs to understand that our men and women in uniform in Iraq need their donated miles today," Ruppersberger said. Ruppersberger said he would lead an effort in Congress to increase the funding for domestic R&R travel whenever the Pentagon reported that more was needed. "This program does not help soldiers on emergency leave. It does not help any soldier flying this week, or even this year. It does not help to get families together during this important holiday season and that's why we need Operation Hero Miles," Ruppersberger said. The "Operation Hero Miles" website can be found at www.heromiles.org. Seven major airlines are participating in the program and more than 150 million frequent flyer miles have been donated. That is the equivalent of 6,000 free round trips in the first four weeks of the effort.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) is proud to announce "Operation Hero Miles" has hit a milestone on the eve of Thanksgiving. More than 133 million frequent flyer miles have been donated to this program that helps troops on Rest and Relaxation (R and R) from Iraq or emergency leave fly home for free. The generosity of thousands of travelers this holiday season means soldiers can get 5,350 free plane tickets allowing them to spend quality time with family and friends without worrying about how much it will cost. "On the eve of Thanksgiving, more than 5,000 men and women in uniform can give thanks for the generosity of thousands of Americans who donated their frequent flyer miles so the troops can be reunited with their families for the holidays. Americans across the country are stepping up in amazing numbers. This overwhelming response to 'Operation Hero Miles' has been absolutely amazing and inspiring and it means even more during the holidays," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The soldiers who have been granted two weeks of R & R are flown to Baltimore Washington International Airport, Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, GA, and Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in Texas by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to make connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. Congressman Ruppersberger is concerned about the financial burden placed on military families in these very uncertain times and created Operation Hero Miles. How to Donate Travelers can donate their frequent flyer miles by visiting Congressman Ruppersberger's web site, www.heromiles.org, or by visiting the participating airlines web sites, Air Tran Airways, Alaska Airlines, American Airlines, Delta Airlines, Southwest Airlines, Pan Am-Boston Maine Airways, United Airlines.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is proud to announce that Continental Airlines has joined "Operation Hero Miles", the innovative program that helps troops on emergency leave or Rest and Relaxation (R & R) from Iraq and Afghanistan fly home for free. Continental has donated 5 million miles to kick off its participation in the program. Ten airlines, 91% of the domestic airline market, are helping our men and women in uniform who are risking their lives for our country. 213 million miles have been donated by travelers and the airlines. This means that 8,500 free tickets are available for the troops. "This is truly the season of giving. Continental Airlines is giving American troops and their families a wonderful gift this holiday season, the gift of quality time with loved ones without worrying about how much it will cost. Continental Airlines and all of the other airlines participating in this great program should be commended for being great corporate citizens," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The soldiers who have been granted two weeks of R & R are flown to Baltimore Washington International Airport, Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, GA, and Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in Texas by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to make connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. Congressman Ruppersberger is concerned about the financial burden placed on military families. That's why he created "Operation Hero Miles". AirTran Airways, Alaska Airlines, American Airlines, Delta Airlines, Midwest Airlines, Pan Am and Boston-Maine Airways, Southwest Airlines, United Airlines, and US Airways are also participating in "Operation Hero Miles". Information can be found on the web site, www.heromiles.org. This site is a clearinghouse for soldiers, their families, and travelers filled with information about how to donate frequent flyer miles, how soldiers can receive complimentary tickets, and other ways to help our troops serving our country in Iraq.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) released the following statement about the capture of the Iraqi dictator, Saddam Hussein. "The capture of Saddam Hussein is great news for the United States of America and for our troops fighting for our country in Iraq. The heroic discovery of this brutal dictator is a huge morale boost for our men and women in uniform. It shows the perseverance of the United States but our mission in Iraq is far from over. We should still expect additional violence in the near future. We need to continue our work to secure the country, create a democratic government, and give the country back to the people of Iraq," said Congressman Ruppersberger. "The Iraqi people can rejoice in the fact that they will never have to fear the vicious wrath of Saddam Hussein ever again," said Congressman Ruppersberger. "I am confident that Saddam Hussein's capture will help us gather additional human intelligence so we can find out who is attacking and killing our troops. I believe we need to stop the search for weapons of mass destruction and redeploy our resources and focus our efforts on gathering more of this intelligence to protect our men and women in uniform. I believe we should put together an Iraqi commission that can search for weapons of mass destruction in their country," said Congressman Ruppersberger. "I am also hopeful that Saddam Hussein's capture will help us bring together a broad coalition of countries to rebuild Iraq. I believe that is incredibly important for the success of our mission," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence. This statement reflects his personal views and does not represent the views of the committee.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce that "Operation Hero Miles" will be giving 680 free plane tickets to the families of troops injured in Iraq and Afghanistan so family members can visit their loved ones at Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington, DC, for free. The tickets were donated by Anheuser-Busch Inc., the world's largest beer brewer, and will be distributed through the "Fisher House Foundation," a non-profit organization that opens its homes to military families visiting their injured loved ones at hospitals across the country. "Sometimes the love and support of family is the best medicine to help an injured troop recover from his or her injuries. We are thrilled to be able to help these soldiers heal with their families at their side during this very important time," said Congressman Ruppersberger. WHO: Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Fisher House Employees Injured Soldiers Recovering at Walter Reed Medical Center and Their Families WHAT: "Operation Hero Miles" to Give Free Plane Tickets to Families of Injured Soldiers Press Conference, Tour of the Fisher House, and Interviews with Injured Troops and Their Families WHEN: 11am, Tuesday, December 30, 2003 WHERE: Press Conference to be held outside the Walter Reed Gate at Elder Street and Georgia Avenue. The Tour and Additional Interviews Will Follow at the Fisher House on the Walter Reed Medical Center Campus in Washington, DC. The Fisher House is located at the corner of Dahlia and 14th Streets "Operation Hero Miles", the innovative program created by Congressman Ruppersberger, helps troops on emergency leave or Rest and Relaxation (R & R) from Iraq and Afghanistan fly home for free. Congressman Ruppersberger is pleased to expand this program to help the families of wounded troops. *** Media outlets wishing to cover this press conference MUST contact Heather Moeder Molino by phone at (202) 225-3061 or (703) 615-5371 or email, Heather.Molino@mail.house.gov, by 12 Noon on Monday, December 29th, 2003. For security reasons, please include the name of the reporter and photographer covering the event as well as the color, make, model, and tag number of the vehicle the crew is driving. *** ***The MEDIA CONTACT ON THE DAY OF THE EVENT will be Steve Jost, Chief of Staff for Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. His mobile number is (301) 602-9164.***
11.20.2009	www.heromiles.org Congressman Ruppersberger presents 680 free airline tickets toDavid Coker, executive director of the Fisher House Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce that "Operation Hero Miles" is expanding its mission and is giving 680 free plane tickets to the families of troops injured in Iraq and Afghanistan. The tickets will allow family members to visit their loved ones who are recovering at Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington, DC, for free. The tickets were donated by Anheuser-Busch Inc., the world's largest beer brewer, and will be distributed through the Fisher House Foundation, a non-profit organization that opens its homes to military families visiting their injured loved ones at hospitals across the country. "Sometimes the love and support of family is the best medicine to help an injured troop recover from his or her injuries. We are thrilled to be able to help these soldiers heal with their families at their side during this very important time," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger visited with wounded soldiers and their families at the Fisher House on the campus of Walter Reed Medical Center on December 30th, 2003, to thank them for their service for their country. Alice Rodgers speaks of her son, Army Spc. Joe Gottschalk, who is recuperating at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. Gottschalk, of the 2133rd Transportation Unit, Iowa National Guard, was seriously wounded in an ambush near the Syrian border during Operation Iraqi Freedom. "Operation Hero Miles", the innovative program created by Congressman Ruppersberger, helps troops on emergency leave or Rest and Relaxation (R & R) from Iraq and Afghanistan fly home for free. Right now troops are flown to airports in Baltimore, Maryland, Atlanta, Georgia, and Dallas, Texas by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to make connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. Congressman Ruppersberger is concerned about the financial burden placed on military families. That is why he created "Operation Hero Miles". Travelers can donate their unused frequent flyer miles and soldiers can use them to get free flights home. So far 366 million frequent flyer miles have been donated to "Operation Hero Miles." That is enough miles for 15,300 free round trip tickets for the troops. Visit www.heromiles.org for more information about participating airlines and to learn how to donate your frequent flyer miles.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce that DreamWorks SKG, the makers of blockbuster films such as 'Saving Private Ryan', 'Shrek', 'The Ring' and dozens of other memorable movies, has announced that they will be donating a half million frequent flyer miles to "Operation Hero Miles," the innovative program that allows troops to fly home from Iraq and Afghanistan for free. "Millions of movie fans have marveled at the creative genius of the talented movie makers at DreamWorks that make dreams come alive on the silver screen. Today, they are fulfilling the dreams of service men and women and their families by giving them the gift of quality time with loved ones this holiday season. It is wonderful to see Hollywood helping our American heroes who are risking their lives for our country in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world. We salute the generosity of DreamWorks. It means so much all year but especially now during this holiday season," said Congressman Ruppersberger. "Congressman Ruppersberger deserves to be applauded for creating 'Operation Hero Miles,'" said DreamWorks Co-Founder and Principal, Jeffrey Katzenberg. "On behalf of our employees, we are delighted to contribute our mileage to this program as a small gesture of our appreciation for the many sacrifices our troops have made." 309 million frequent flyer miles have been donated to "Operation Hero Miles." That is enough miles for 12,700 free round trip tickets for the troops. Travelers can donate their frequent flyer miles to thirteen different airlines, AirTran Airways, Alaska Airlines, America West Airlines, American Airlines, Continental Airlines, Delta Airlines, Frontier Airlines, Midwest Airlines, Northwest Airlines, Pan Am and Boston-Maine Airways, Southwest Airlines, United Airlines, and US Airways. Soldiers who have been granted two weeks of Rest and Relaxation (R & R) from Iraq and Afghanistan as well as troops on Emergency Leave can receive free plane tickets home through this program. Right now troops are flown to airports in Baltimore, Maryland, Atlanta, Georgia, and Dallas, Texas by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to make connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. Congressman Ruppersberger is concerned about the financial burden placed on military families. That's why he created "Operation Hero Miles". Visit www.heromiles.org for more information.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is proud to announce that Frontier Airlines is joining "Operation Hero Miles," the innovative program that helps troops on emergency leave or Rest and Relaxation (R & R) from Iraq and Afghanistan fly home for free. Congressman Ruppersberger together with Frontier CEO Jeff Potter and members of the Colorado Congressional Delegation including, Senator Wayne Allard (R-CO), Congressman Bob Beauprez (R-CO), and Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), made the announcement at Frontier's Headquarters in Denver, Colorado, on Monday, December 22, 2003. "Our men and women in uniform answered the call to serve and are fighting for our country in Iraq and Afghanistan. Frontier Airlines also answered that call by supporting our troops and their families through 'Operation Hero Miles.' Frontier Airlines should be commended for giving troops the gift of quality time with their families this holiday season," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). "We are honored and proud to participate in Operation Hero Miles," said Jeff Potter, CEO and President of Frontier Airlines. "This is a unique and easy way to provide assistance for our American soldiers to come home and visit with their families. This is particularly important for Colorado soldiers who will now have the opportunity to fly Frontier Airlines back to their home in Colorado." Right now troops on R & R or Emergency Leave are flown to airports in Baltimore, Maryland, Atlanta, Georgia, and Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas, by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to take connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. Congressman Ruppersberger is concerned about the financial burden placed on military families. That is why he created "Operation Hero Miles", a program where travelers can donate their frequent flyer miles to the participating airlines and soldiers can use them to get free flights home. So far 300 million miles have been donated to the program. That is enough for 12,250 free round trip flights for the troops. Visit www.heromiles.org for more information. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at 202-225-3061
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - First responders need more money and more resources to keep our communities and our families safe in Maryland. That's what emergency personnel and elected leaders from all across the Maryland 2nd Congressional District told U.S. Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (Democrat - MD 2) in a comprehensive survey of Hometown Security. First responders from Baltimore County, Harford County, Anne Arundel County, the Maryland Port Administration, and the City of Aberdeen responded to the survey. Here are some of the critical findings of the survey: 76% of the local government agencies that responded to the survey have received NO FEDERAL FUNDS for Hometown Security or First Responder needs. Together the agencies have spent $7.3 MILLION DOLLARS of their own money on Hometown Security and First Responder needs. 67% of the agencies that responded put the need for BETTER COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY in their top three priorities; Radios and other equipment that will allow first responders to from different departments to communicate with each other. Additional findings are in the attached Fact Sheet. "It is clear from this survey that our first responders need more funding. How can we expect our firefighters, EMTs, and police officers to protect our families in an emergency if they don't have the equipment or proper training to do that?" said Congressman Ruppersberger. "It's a shame that at this day and age after the events of September 11th two years ago... that any fire company - including mine, the Cowenton Volunteer Fire Company in White Marsh - should have to stand on a street corner and beg for money to protect the citizens of their communities," said Ken Bielecki, Sr., President of the Cowenton Volunteer Fire Company. Responses to the survey and a fact sheet is attached.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2) is pleased to announce that the Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation has been awarded a $2 million federal grant. The Foundation will use the money to fund baseball themed programs that will help underprivileged kids from all across the country find the path to success. The program will help youngsters develop leadership skills, good work habits, and a healthy lifestyle through team sports and other after school activities. "The Ripkens exemplify hard work, dedication, and strong leadership that has led them to phenomenal success. It is wonderful that they want to share their talents and experiences with at risk kids. This $2 million federal grant will help them improve the lives of these children and make our entire community stronger," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The Ripken Foundation camps have been in full swing this past summer giving more than 250 disadvantaged kids a once in a lifetime experience to attend baseball and softball camps across the country. The children learned the value of teamwork, good sportsmanship, personal responsibility, and a strong work ethic. The grant will help the Ripken Foundation continue this great work. The Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation was created in 2001 in memory of Cal Ripken, Sr. who worked for 37 years as a player, coach, and manager with the Baltimore Orioles' organization. His teachings and the "Ripken Way" influenced thousands of young ballplayers including his sons, Cal, Jr. and Bill Ripken. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice as part of its Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Program.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2) is pleased to announce that the Wise Avenue Volunteer Fire Company in Baltimore County has been awarded a $46,000 federal grant. The Fire Company says it will use the money to pay for safety improvements to the firehouse including an upgrade to the building's exhaust system. "Our first responders are vital to the safety of our families and our communities. This money will help firefighters with the Wise Avenue Volunteer Fire Company in Baltimore County keep their firehouse safe so they can keep our neighborhoods safe," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The Wise Avenue Volunteer Fire Company is a group of dedicated volunteers who devote their personal time to serving the safety needs of citizens of eastern Baltimore County. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security as part of the "2003 Assistance to Firefighter Grant" program. To date, over 2600 fire companies across the country have received almost $170 million to support the work they do in our communities.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger is blasting the Pentagon for trying to cut pay for 148,000 US troops serving in Iraq and 9,000 serving in Afghanistan. The Pentagon wants to cut pay for the troops by $225 a month or $2,700 a year. "Many military families rely on this pay to help make ends meet when their loved ones are away serving our country and fighting for our freedom. If we can afford the wrong tax cut at the wrong time, surely we can afford to pay our men and women risking their lives in Iraq and Afghanistan the money they deserve," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Our troops face daily guerilla attacks. They face unbearable temperatures and they have to deal with missing their family and loved ones, but still the Pentagon wants to cut the soldiers' "imminent danger pay" as well as their "family separation allowances." Congressman Ruppersberger wrote a letter today to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld asking him to reconsider his decision. "This sends the wrong message to our soldiers and their families. It says to them the Pentagon does not care about their well being. It suggests that their efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan are no longer dangerous. We cannot let our soldiers and their families feel like we do not understand and appreciate what they are going through," wrote Congressman Ruppersberger in the letter. "I hope you will not proceed with the Pentagon's combat pay reduction recommendation and instead submit a request to Congress for additional funding so that we can honor our soldier abroad and their families at home. These men and women make a huge sacrifice and we need to make sure that they receive all the resources and compensation they need to ensure that their families are well supported" wrote Congressman Ruppersberger. This affects the men and women serving in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines and their National Guard units serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Baltimore area Head Start Centers are in danger of losing critical funding. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (Democrat-MD) is outraged by the proposed changes that attempt to dismantle Head Start, a federal program with a proven track record of success. Congressman Ruppersberger toured the Herring Run Head Start facility on Tuesday, September 2, 2003, in Baltimore, Maryland, and talked to teachers, parents, and children about their concerns. "We are here today at Herring Run Head Start in Baltimore because Head Start works! Last year, Head Start helped 912,000 children build a solid foundation so they are ready to tackle reading and math in kindergarten. Head Start makes them ready to succeed in school and in life," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The Head Start program also provides youngsters and their families with a comprehensive list of support services - from health screenings to nutritional advice to parent counseling. Head Start helps the entire family so it can grow and succeed together, but some lawmakers on Capitol Hill want to tear apart this successful program. The U.S. House of Representatives barely passed a measure that will create a pilot program that will allow eight states, including Maryland, to divert federal funds to their own early childhood programs. This will leave federal Head Start program with little or no funding. "This misdirected legislation could leave dozens of existing Maryland Head Start Centers with drastically less funding or no funding at all. That means hundreds of needy children all across the Baltimore area will not get the extra boost they need to succeed in school and in life. It also means that hundreds of Maryland families will see the support services they depend on disappear. This is wrong! It takes services away from the people who need them the most," said Congressman Ruppersberger. When Congress reconvenes for its fall session on Wednesday, September 3, 2003, Congressman Ruppersberger is calling on his colleagues in the Senate to change this proposal that is sending our children down the wrong path.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - In response to dozens of complaints about long lines at security checkpoints at Baltimore-Washington International Airport, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger is asking the Transportation Security Administration to immediately employ additional security screeners to ease the burden for travelers. Congressman Ruppersberger sent a letter to James Loy, the Administrator of the TSA on Monday, August 11, 2003, requesting the additional personnel. "In order to resolve the immediate passenger delay issues two actions need to occur. TSA personnel need to immediately be reassigned from other nearby airports not experiencing delays and the TSA mobile passenger screening team needs to be immediately assigned to BWI through the Labor Day weekend," wrote Congressman Ruppersberger in the letter. Just a year ago, BWI was considered the model for moving passengers smoothly through security. BWI was also the first airport in the country to have federal TSA employees take over security screening from workers from private companies, but now many travelers say they are waiting in security checkpoint lines at BWI for up to three hours. "Security at our airports is incredibly important for the safety of our families and our country, but travelers should not be forced to waste their valuable time waiting for hours to get through security checkpoints at BWI Airport. Additional screeners are needed immediately at BWI to help ease this excessive burden on travelers," said Congressman Ruppersberger. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at (202) 225-3061
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger accelerated several important road improvement projects for the Baltimore area. Congressman Ruppersberger secured one million dollars of federal funds to pay for major improvements to the Baltimore Beltway, Interstate 695. The money will fund the much needed widening and maintenance of I-695 from Interstate 83 to Interstate 95. "These improvements to the Baltimore Beltway are important for the safety of Marylanders. The upgrades to I-695 will ease traffic congestion and help trim vital time off of people's commutes," said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger also secured $40 million dollars for important upgrades to Maryland's light rail system. This money will provide a second track for trains in Baltimore. Right now there is only one track available at a time and frequently trains have to wait for another train to pass by before they can pull into a station. "These improvements will speed up travel times for Marylanders using the light rail system and will allow them to spend less time commuting and more time at home with their families," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Both projects were approved by the House Appropriations Committee. The measures must also be approved by the full House and Senate. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at (202) 225-3061
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger honored a group of talented college graduates who received scholarships through a special program at the National Security Agency on Thursday, July 31st, 2003. Many of these 15 students who attend an array of prestigious schools from the University of Maryland to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are planning to pursue careers in the Intelligence Community. "Good intelligence information is our first line of defense in our war against terrorism. You are the nation's eyes and ears. Your work will protect the very freedom and liberty we enjoy everyday. I thank you for your service on behalf of the Maryland 2nd Congressional District and a grateful nation," Congressman Ruppersberger told the students at the NSA graduation ceremony at Fort Meade, Maryland. Congressman Ruppersberger is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. These 15 students were chosen out of over 700 applicants and awarded the Stokes Education Scholarship. The graduates received full tuition at the college of their choice. The Stokes Education Scholarship hopes to facilitate the recruitment of individuals particularly minority high school students majoring in math, computer science, engineering, and languages. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at (202) 225-3061
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - In a 9th inning rally before the US House of Representatives wrapped up for the summer, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2) tried to give the Baltimore Orioles the honor it is due on Capitol Hill. The Congressman put together the "Orioles Amendment." Congressman Jose Serrano (NY-16) authored a resolution honoring the New York Yankees on their 100th Anniversary. Congressman Ruppersberger heard this resolution might come before the Government Reform Committee and in good fun the Congressman put together his own amendment honoring his hometown ball club - the Baltimore Orioles - especially because it is the 20th Anniversary of the Orioles 1983 World Series win over the Philadelphia Phillies. "While I fully respect what the New York Yankees have done in their hundred years, we must look to the nation's . . . no, the world's best baseball team, the Baltimore Orioles, and honor them," read Congressman Ruppersberger's resolution. "Why we should honor the Baltimore Orioles and not the New York Yankees is simple. The Orioles represent the best of what the game of baseball and our country are about. The Orioles have heart. They come to work everyday and play hard ... But more importantly all Orioles players are community leaders who have given so much back to the Baltimore area," read Congressman Ruppersberger's amendment. The resolution fouled out during the final days of the House session on Capitol Hill and was pulled from the agenda on Thursday, July 24, 2003. The House recessed for its summer break Friday evening, July 25th, 2003, and Congressman Ruppersberger is pledging to go up to bat again for the Orioles when Congress is back in session in September. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at (202) 225-3061
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (Democrat - MD 2) says the Intelligence Community is learning from the mistakes made before the September 11th terrorist attacks and is moving forward to protect our country. "At this point it is not clear if 9-11 could have been prevented. What is clear is that there was a lack of coordination, lack of analysis, and lack of follow through with the intelligence information that was gathered," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger is a member of the Intelligence Committee that put together the September 11th Report that was released this afternoon. "The Intelligence Community is learning from its mistakes and has improved it communications. The CIA, the FBI, and the NSA are now working closely with local and state governments to aggressively prevent terrorism. Intelligence information is our first line of defense to protect our families, our communities, and our country," said Congressman Ruppersberger. "In my district, the Maryland 2nd Congressional District, we have the best in professionals protecting our country - from the specialists at the National Security Administration (NSA) to the soldiers at Fort Meade and Aberdeen Proving Ground to the security personnel at BWI Airport and the Baltimore Port. We need to make sure these professionals can do their jobs effectively to protect our nation," said Congressman Ruppersberger. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at (202) 225-3061
11.20.2009	Washington, DC (July 22) - U.S. Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (Democrat - MD 2) joined leaders of the House and Senate today in the Capitol to honor the 40th anniversary of the March on Washington. Forty years ago 250,000 people from every race and ethnicity converged on Washington, DC, to demand equality for African Americans and urge Congress to pass civil rights legislation. "They traveled to the nation's capital by plane, car, bus, and on foot in a show of solidarity against segregation and discrimination. The courage and conviction of these individuals should always be remembered. It is our duty as Americans to honor their efforts and honor this important day in history," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger joined Civil Rights leader and now Congressman John Lewis of Georgia, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, DC Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton, Maryland Senator Paul Sarbanes and other members of Congress in Statuary Hall for the program. The group also watched a video clip from Doctor Martin Luther King Junior's monumental "I Have a Dream Speech." The actual anniversary of the March on Washington is August 26, 1963, but many Members of Congress will be spending the break away from Washington, DC, in their home districts. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at (202) 225-3061
11.20.2009	Timonium, MD - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (Democrat) has put together an "Emergency Response Team" ready to help Maryland communities hit hard by Hurricane Isabel. Congressman Ruppersberger and his staff are also working closely with local, state, and federal officials to make sure help is available before, during, and after Hurricane Isabel hits Maryland. "We hope we dodge the wrath of Hurricane Isabel, but if there is severe damage or flooding, residents should know that local, state, and federal officials will be working together to provide whatever help is needed," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The "Emergency Response Team" of Congressional staff members will tour the affected communities and help residents of the Maryland 2nd District if the hurricane causes extensive damage or flooding. The team will help residents fill out any disaster relief paperwork that they need to file with the federal government. The Maryland 2nd District includes the city of Baltimore and sections of Baltimore County, Anne Arundel County, and Harford County. Congressman Ruppersberger has also updated his web site www.dutch.house.gov to include important information for residents before, during, and after Hurricane Isabel hits Maryland. There are links to the National Weather Service, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the American Red Cross.
11.20.2009	Timonium, MD - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (Democrat) is pleased to announce that Maryland residents and business owners can now apply for federal assistance to help them rebuild in the aftermath of Hurricane Isabel. President George W. Bush declared Maryland a disaster area on Friday making millions of dollars available to people hit hard by Hurricane Isabel. Maryland residents can now apply for grants from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to help cover temporary housing, home repairs, and other disaster related expenses. Free State business owners and residents can also apply for low interest loans through FEMA for repairs and other rebuilding costs not covered by their private insurance. FEMA will also help local governments pay for up to 75% of the cost of debris removal and other emergency needs in the aftermath of Hurricane Isabel. "Many communities in Baltimore, Anne Arundel, and Harford Counties ... as well as the City of Baltimore are dealing with worst flooding residents have ever seen. This federal assistance in the aftermath of Hurricane Isabel will be critical in helping residents and business owners rebuild after this devastating disaster," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger has also updated his web site www.dutch.house.gov to include important information for residents looking to apply for federal assistance. There are links to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Maryland Emergency Management Agency (MEMA), and the American Red Cross.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) is proud to announce that NASCAR and MBNA America Bank are teaming up to support our troops and have joined "Operation Hero Miles". Two race cars sponsored by MBNA will proudly display the "Operation Hero Miles" logo and website, www.heromiles.org, this weekend at the NASCAR races at the Homestead-Miami Speedway. The No. 18 Interstate Batteries/MBNA Chevrolet driven by Bobby Labonte will display the logo at Sunday's Ford 400 Winston Cup race and the No. 18 MBNA Chevrolet driven by Coy Gibbs will display the logo at Saturday's Ford 300 Busch race. "NASCAR and MBNA are pacing 'Operation Hero Miles' to the front of the pack. The support of the MBNA America Bank and the NASCAR family is truly amazing and will help fly our troops home for free. This partnership will make every soldier feel like the points leader in the championship," said Congressman Ruppersberger. 60 Million frequent flyer miles have been donated to "Operation Hero Miles" since Congressman Ruppersberger created the program on October 21, 2003. Travelers have donated 25 million miles and the seven participating airlines - American Airlines, United Airlines, Delta Airlines, Alaska Airlines, Southwest Airlines, Air Tran Airways, and Pan Am/Boston - Maine Airways - have donated 35 million miles. This means that 2300 troops on R & R or emergency leave from Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world can receive free plane tickets for flights home. That is more than 100 free tickets a day since the program was created three weeks ago. The soldiers who have been granted two weeks of R & R are flown to Baltimore Washington International Airport, Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, GA, and Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in Texas by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to make connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. Additional information about how to donate frequent flyer miles can be found on the web site, www.heromiles.org.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) is pleased to announce that Maryland is receiving $17.8 million from the federal government for first responders. The City of Baltimore is slated to receive a $16 million grant to enhance the city's security and preparedness to prevent, respond, and recover from acts of terrorism. Baltimore was chosen based on a formula that takes into account critical infrastructure, population density, and credible threat information. MARC is scheduled to receive a $1 million grant and the Maryland Department of Transportation is set to receive an $800,000 grant to beef up security. These funds can be used to install barricades, video surveillance devices, motion detectors, thermal imagery, chemical/radiological material detection systems, and integrated communications systems. The money can also be used for prevention planning, training, and related exercises. "This money is incredibly important to help Maryland prevent and prepare for a terrorist attack. It will help Baltimore and the rest of the state increase security on MARC trains, on our roads, and around other critical facilities to protect our communities and our families. But this is only the beginning. I will continue to fight for more money for Maryland in Washington, DC," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The grants are administered through the Department of Homeland Security.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce that American Airlines, the world's largest air carrier, has joined "Operation Hero Miles." American Airlines has joined this program that allows travelers to donate their frequent flyer miles so soldiers on R & R (Rest and Relaxation) or emergency leave can fly home from Iraq and Afghanistan for free. American Airlines is donating 10 million miles to bring America's heroes home. 59 Million frequent flyer miles have been donated to "Operation Hero Miles" since Congressman Ruppersberger created the program on October 21, 2003. Travelers have donated 24 million miles and the five participating airlines - American Airlines, United Airlines, Delta Airlines, Alaska Airlines, and Southwest Airlines - have donated 35 million miles. This means that 2300 troops on R&R or emergency leave can receive free plane tickets for flights home. That is more than 100 free tickets a day since the program was created three weeks ago. "The overwhelming response from travelers and the enthusiasm from the participating airlines, American Airlines, United Airlines, Delta Airlines, Alaska Airlines, and Southwest Airlines, has been truly inspiring and amazing. It shows that Americans really do want to help our troops serving our country in Iraq and Afghanistan and help their families here at home," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The soldiers who have been granted two weeks of R & R are flown to Baltimore Washington International Airport, Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, GA, and Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in Texas by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to make connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. Additional information about how to donate frequent flyer miles can be found on the web site, www.heromiles.org.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce that United Airlines that has the number one frequent flyer program in the country with 42 million enrollees has joined "Operation Hero Miles". United Airlines has joined this program that allows travelers to donate their frequent flyer miles so soldiers can fly home from Iraq for free. United is donating 10 million miles and will match up to 5 million additional miles through their "Mileage Plus" program. "Veteran's Day is next Tuesday. It is truly patriotic that United Airlines is stepping forward to help our men and women in uniform spend time with their families without worrying about how much it will cost. This a great gift for the troops and their families on the eve of Veteran's Day," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The soldiers who have been granted two weeks of R & R are flown to Baltimore Washington International Airport, Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, GA, and Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in Texas by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to catch connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. Congressman Ruppersberger is greatly concerned about this excessive financial burden placed on the soldiers trying to visit with family and created "Operation Hero Miles". Delta Airlines, Southwest Airlines, and Alaska Airlines previously joined "Operation Hero Miles". Information can be found on the web site, www.heromiles.org. This site is a clearinghouse for soldiers, their families, and travelers filled with information about how to donate frequent flyer miles, how soldiers can receive complimentary tickets, and other ways to help our troops serving our country in Iraq.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) ) is pleased to announce the expansion of "Operation Hero Miles" to include troops on emergency leave. Many of these soldiers are coming home to the United States to spend time with a dying loved one, attend a funeral of a family member, or share in the birth of a child. Now they also can get free plane tickets home through "Operation Hero Miles". "Soldiers serving our country overseas who are granted emergency leave need to get home quickly to handle important family situations. They should be able to do this without worrying how much it will cost. 'Operation Hero Miles' will allow them to do this. 'Operation Hero Miles shows our troops and their families that we value their sacrifice for America," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Soldiers coming home for emergency leave or R & R from Iraq are required to purchase their own tickets to fly to their hometowns once they land at American airports. The troops on R & R are flown to one of three airports - Baltimore Washington International Airport in Maryland, Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, GA, and Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in Texas. Troops on "R and R" (rest and relaxation) from Iraq are already receiving free plane tickets home as part of "Operation Hero Miles." Congressman Ruppersberger is greatly concerned about this excessive financial burden placed on the soldiers trying to visit with family and created "Operation Hero Miles". Travelers all across the United States have donated more than 7.8 million frequent flyer miles to "Operation Hero Miles" through the web site www.heromiles.org since the program was started October 21st, 2003. This tremendous response doesn't include the frequent flyer miles donated directly to the airlines. Delta Airlines, Southwest Airlines, and Alaska Airlines are currently participating in "Operation Hero Miles". Congressman Ruppersberger is challenging all of the other airlines that offer service in the United States to follow suit and start similar programs of their own. More frequent flyer mile donations are still needed so "Operation Hero Miles" can help more troops fly home for free. Please check out these important stories written about the program, Flights Home Uncertain, RecordNet, Stockton, CA Soldier dies while heading home for mother's funeral, Post-Gazette.com, Pittsburgh, PA 5 million frequent-flyer miles donated to troops, Baltimore Sun, Baltimore, MD
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - In response to a myriad of phone calls, emails, and other inquiries, Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is launching a new web site with information about 'Operation Hero Miles'. The new web site is www.heromiles.org. This site is a clearinghouse for soldiers, their families, and travelers filled with information about how to donate frequent flyer miles, how soldiers can receive complimentary tickets, and other ways to help our troops serving our country in Iraq. The soldiers who have been granted two weeks of R & R are flown to BWI Airport by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to catch connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. Congressman Ruppersberger is greatly concerned about this excessive financial burden placed on the soldiers trying to visit with family and friends. After consultation with the Congressman's staff about this problem, Delta Airlines started a program where citizens can donate their frequent flyer miles and soldiers can use them to fly to their hometowns for free, but Delta doesn't fly everywhere these soldiers need to go. Congressman Ruppersberger has written a letter to the presidents of the major airlines challenging them to start similar programs. "I am getting a phenomenal response to 'Operation Hero Miles.' So many Americans want to donate their frequent flyer miles to help our men and women in uniform in Iraq so they can spend quality time with their family and friends here at home. I am confident that other airlines will want to join this effort to help our soldiers risking their lives for our country," said Congressman Ruppersberger.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is pleased to announce that travelers all across the United States have donated more than five million frequent flyer miles to "Operation Hero Miles" through the web site www.heromiles.org. That number doesn't include the frequent flyer miles donated directly to the airlines. "Operation Hero Miles" allows servicemen and women to catch free flights home to spend quality time with family and friends while on leave in the United States. "This tremendous response to 'Operation Hero Miles' shows that Americans really are patriotic and want to help our men and women serving our country in Iraq. It also shows our troops and their families that we value their sacrifice for America. The overwhelming response to this program is truly inspiring but we need to do more. We still need travelers to donate their frequent flyer miles so we can help more troops visit their families without worrying about how much it will cost," said Congressman Ruppersberger. The soldiers who have been granted two weeks of R & R are flown to Baltimore Washington International Airport by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to catch connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. Beginning this weekend, troops will be arriving at two additional airports, Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, GA, and Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in Texas. Congressman Ruppersberger is greatly concerned about this excessive financial burden placed on the soldiers trying to visit with family and created "Operation Hero Miles". Delta Airlines, Southwest Airlines, and Alaska Airlines are currently participating in "Operation Hero Miles". Information about the program can be found on the web site, www.heromiles.org. This site is a clearinghouse for soldiers, their families, and travelers filled with information about how to donate frequent flyer miles, how soldiers can receive complimentary tickets, and other ways to help our troops serving our country in Iraq. Congressman Ruppersberger is challenging all of the other airlines that offer service in the United States to follow suit and start similar programs of their own.
11.20.2009	FEMA Employee and Dutch Ruppersberger Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (Democrat) toured storm ravaged areas all across the Maryland 2nd Congressional District - from Havre de Grace in Harford County to Bowley's Quarters and Miller's Island in eastern Baltimore County - offering help to residents and business owners in the aftermath of Hurricane Isabel. Congressman Ruppersberger joined dozens of local, state, and federal leaders including Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge, Maryland Governor Robert Ehrlich, Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith, and members of the Maryland Congressional Delegation to see the damage first hand and explain how the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) can help residents and business owners rebuild. FEMA will reimburse residents who need to stay in a hotel or rent an apartment because their home in uninhabitable. FEMA will also award grants to residents for up to $5,000 for home repairs that are not covered by private insurance. The Small Business Administration in coordination with FEMA will help residents and business owners get low interest loans so they can rebuild storm damaged property. FEMA will also help local governments pay for up to 75% of the cost of debris removal and other emergency needs in the aftermath of Hurricane Isabel. Local Resident talks with Dutch Ruppersberger Many of the people who live and work in these areas along the Chesapeake Bay experienced the worst flooding they have ever seen. "The residents of Bowley's Quarters, Miller's Island, Havre de Grace, and other areas hit hard by Hurricane Isabel are resilient. Representatives from FEMA are working in these communities to help residents get the resources they need to rebuild," said Congressman Ruppersberger. There are three Disaster Recovery Centers in the Baltimore and Annapolis areas where residents can go to meet with FEMA representatives, Maryland Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) representatives, and local officials to help get aid in the wake of Hurricane Isabel. Anne Arundel Center44 Calvert StreetAnnapolis, MD Back River Neck Community Center801 Back River Neck RoadBaltimore, MD(Baltimore County) St. Stanislaus Catholic Church724 South Ann StreetBaltimore, MD(The City of Baltimore) Dutch Ruppersberger speaks at Press Conference The centers will be open: Monday through Friday, 9am to 7pm Saturday, 9am to 5pm Sunday, Noon to 5pm Residents and business owners are also encouraged to call FEMA within 60 days of Hurricane Isabel at 1-800-621-FEMA to register for assistance. The TTY number is 1-800-462-7585 for those who are speech or hearing impaired.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2) is pleased to announce that the Aberdeen Technology Transfer Initiative at Aberdeen Proving Ground will receive one million dollars from the federal government to attract high tech companies to Harford County. Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) is the Army's premier technology installation with research, development, test, and evaluation assets valued at over $1 million. APG is also one of the U.S. Department of Defense's highest concentrations of scientific and engineering capabilities. The Aberdeen Technology Transfer Initiative will help private sector companies access these capabilities. Close to three quarters of the money will be invested in 13 different defense contractors in the Harford County area to partner with companies at Aberdeen Proving Ground. "Jobs are the gasoline that fuels our economy. The one million dollars of federal funding will help Aberdeen Proving Ground attract high tech companies and bring more jobs to Harford County," said Congressman Ruppersberger. APG is Harford County's largest technology generator, a significant catalyst for military research and testing, the county's anchor for commercial technology development and attraction, and the source of the county's technology workforce. A similar technology transfer model is successfully up and running at the Patuxent River Naval Air Station. The project is a partnership between the Maryland Technology Development Corporation (TEDCO), Aberdeen Proving Ground, and Harford County.
11.20.2009	Soldiers at BWI going back to Iraq Washington, DC - Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (Democrat-MD) reluctantly voted for the $87 billion aid package for Iraq and Afghanistan. "Whether you believe we should or should not have gone to war in Iraq, the fact is we are there now. Our men and women in uniform are in Iraq risking their lives to serve our country and they deserve our support. We need to finish what we started by quickly rebuilding Iraq and helping to create a democratic government," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Soldiers at BWI going back to Iraq But Congressman Ruppersberger is concerned about the lack of a well thought out plan as well as a lack of accountability for the Administration with this $87 billion aid package and the fact we have not had enough time to determine where the money is going and for what purpose. "How will we know if this money is being used wisely? What checks and balances are there? We have a commitment to the men and women serving our country in Iraq but we also have a commitment to our tax payers here at home. The Administration has released little information about how it plans to use this funding to rebuild the country. One thing the Administration has continued to do is ask for an unending amount of money without figuring out a way to pay for it. Instead, the Administration is choosing to leave the repayment of this debt on the shoulders of our children and grandchildren," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Specialist Dupree and his new wife and family Congressman Ruppersberger believes the Administration's ill fated tax cut is making the country's billion dollar deficit much worse. "In the history of this country, we have never had a tax cut when we've been at war. The Bush tax cut is simply the wrong tax cut at the wrong time and our country's economy is paying the price," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger believes the Iraqi oil fields should be properly secured so the country can use the sale of oil to stimulate its economy. Congressman Ruppersberger is also worried about the lack of an exit strategy in Iraq. "If our goal is to liberate the people of Iraq and not occupy the country, why don't we have a well thought out exit strategy? We need to draw up a plan where American troops leave Iraq and we let the people of Iraq govern themselves," said Congressman Ruppersberger. Congressman Ruppersberger also believes that a broad coalition of countries is needed to successfully stabilize Iraq and liberate its citizens.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) is challenging other airlines to follow Delta's lead and start "Operation Hero Miles" programs of their own for American soldiers returning from Iraq. The soldiers who have been granted two weeks of R & R are flown to BWI Airport by the Department of Defense and then required to pay their own way to catch connecting flights to their hometowns all across the country. Congressman Ruppersberger is greatly concerned about this excessive financial burden placed on the soldiers trying to spend some quality time with family and friends. After consultation with my staff about this program, Delta Airlines has started a program where citizens can donate their frequent flyer miles to a "SkyMiles for Heroes" program where soldiers can use them to fly to their hometowns for free, but Delta doesn't fly everywhere these soldiers need to go. Congressman Ruppersberger has written a letter to the presidents of the major airlines (listed below) encouraging them to start similar programs. "I challenge other airlines to set up their own 'Operation Hero Miles' programs. Our men and women risking their lives serving our country in Iraq deserve our support. You can help American troops travel home to spend quality time with their loved ones without worrying about how much it will cost," said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger. AirTran 1-800-247-8726 American 1-800-433-7300 America West 1-800-235-9292 Continental 1-800-525-0280 Delta Air Lines 1-800-221-1212 Frontier Airlines 1-800-432-1359 Midwest Airlines 1-800-452-2022 Northwest Airlines 1-800-225-2525 Pan Am 1-800-359-7262 Southwest Airlines 1-800-435-9792 United Airlines 1-800-241-6522 US Airways 1-800-428-4322 USA3000 1-877-872-3000 Congressman Ruppersberger's staff is donating over 67,000 frequent flyer miles for this worthy cause. For more information about this issue and links to all of the airlines are on Congressman Ruppersberger's web site at www.dutch.house.gov.
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Ruppersberger welcomed the winner of the 2003 An Artistic Discovery Competition, Chelsea Geiger, to our Nation's Capitol today to celebrate the Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Together, they attended the Ribbon Cutting ceremony and reception to help commemorate artwork from over 300 high school students across the country. "We thought this wonderful contest provided a great opportunity for 2nd District students to showcase their artistic talents," said Rep. Ruppersberger. "It gives my colleagues and me the opportunity to encourage the artistic talents of young people in our districts." In all, more than 30 students submitted artwork from a variety of media including photograph, charcoal drawing, and both watercolor and oil painting. This year's winners include third place winner Nicholas Aldridge from Patapsco High School, and second place winner Lisa Goster from the Carver Center for Arts and Technology. In first place is Chelsea Geiger, also representing Patapsco High School, with her oil painting entitled Rainy Night. Ms. Geiger's Rainy Night is a series of three beautifully interpreted nighttime street scenes of Baltimore painted in oil. For her efforts, Ms. Geiger's painting will hang along side other winners from around the county in a tunnel connecting the Cannon House Office Building to the Unites States Capitol. Each day, the artwork provides inspiration for hundreds of lawmakers walking through the tunnel on their way to the House floor for debate and votes. Since the first competition in 1982, Members have conducted nearly 5,000 local contests involving more than 650,000 high school students. This impressive exhibit represents the combined efforts of House Members who conducted their local contests and the extraordinary talent of our nation's youth students who participated. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at (202) 225-3061
11.20.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Ruppersberger fulfilled a campaign promise by voting in favor of H.R. 8, the Death Tax Repeal Permanency Act. The bill ensures that farmers and small businesses will have the opportunity to pass their businesses along to their families, and eliminates the costly burden of estate planning. "No American should be forced to sell off part or all of their business or their farm to the government in form of taxes when they die," said Rep. Ruppersberger, "Repeal of the death tax will make it easier for parents to hand-down their businesses and farms for generations to come." Under the provisions of the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001, the estate tax is scheduled to be repealed in 2010 but reinstated in 2011. The purpose of H.R. 8 is to make the repeal of the estate tax permanent, by phasing out the death tax over 10 years beginning in 2001. Currently, a family-owned business stands to lose 55% of all its assets when it passes from one generation to the next. Because of this tax, 70% of families choose to cash out or abandon their business after just one generation, and only 13% survive into a third generation. Ninety-nine percent of U.S. farms are owned by individuals, family partnerships or family corporations. Estate-tax laws often force the sale of family farms rather than allowing future generations to continue farming. Furthermore, Small family businesses are forced to waste valuable time and resources preparing for a tax bill instead of investing in their business and their employees. Small businesses and family farmers are vital to America's economic growth. Without total and permanent repeal the estate tax will continue to threaten the future of family farms, ranches, and businesses. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at (202) 225-3061
11.20.2009	Towson, MD - Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger went back to his roots today, visiting Baltimore County's executive offices for a portrait hanging ceremony, a tradition that dates back to the county's first executive. Welcoming Dutch back was current County Executive Jim Smith, who praised the congressman for his accomplishments during his tenure in the executive's chair. In front of a packed reception of current and former staff members, each shared their thoughts on what it takes to run one of Maryland's largest counties and even joked about old times. Many years ago, Rep. Ruppersberger entered the political scene by filling the void left on the county council after then Councilman Jim Smith moved on to the judiciary. Almost two decades later, it was Jim Smith's turn to take over as County Executive for his old friend who had just become Maryland's 2nd District Representative. "Jim and I go way back," said Rep. Ruppersberger. "When I took over for him, he gave me great advice which has served me well throughout my elected career. That is why I know Baltimore County is in good hands today." Rep. Ruppersberger began his first term as County Executive in December 1994 and was elected again in 1998. Prior to serving as County Executive, he served nine years on the Baltimore County Council and was twice elected as council chairman. Under his leadership, Baltimore County was named as one of the nation's four best-managed counties by Governing Magazine in 2001 and is still today only one of 19 counties that has received a triple-A bond rating from all three of the country's bond rating agencies. A portrait of Congressman Ruppersberger, former County Executive for Baltimore County, now hangs on the walls of the Old Courthouse Building along with the portraits of all previous Baltimore County Executives. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at (202) 225-3061
11.20.2009	Baltimore, MD - Today, Rep. Ruppersberger joined East Baltimore County elected officials, business community and school leaders to break ground on a new chapter for Sparrows Point High School athletics during a ceremony. Although there are currently no grandstands from which fans can watch their teams play, Sparrows Point High School has a long and historic athletic tradition with more than half of the student population playing on one of the school's many sports teams. Over the last few years the boys and girls soccer teams have won a combined three championships. As County Executive, Rep. Ruppersberger was instrumental in helping Sparrows Point obtain funding for the project but it was the surrounding business community and the school's alumni association who got the lion's share of credit from the congressman. "Today we begin a great new chapter in the proud history of Sparrows Point High School. A new chapter built on a foundation of competition, sportsmanship and more important, teamwork." "Beyond Sparrows Point athletics, these grandstands will come to symbolize community teamwork. They will represent neighbors coming together, working side-by-side as a team, towards a common goal." The idea for grandstands was that of Sparrows Point's athletic director who, working with a local councilman John Olszewski, brought the need for field grandstands to the attention of then County Executive Ruppersberger. The executive then found a way to commit funds even during tight budget times. From there, the community and school pitched the idea to the local business community who cam up with the funds for the rest of the project. Because of their forward thinking and great teamwork, Sparrows Point High School will be the first high school in Southeast Maryland to construct Grandstands. Also in attendance were Senator Norman Stone, Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith, 7th District Councilman John Olszewski, Delegate Mike Weir, Delegate John Arnick, and Delegate Joseph Minnick. For more information, contact Heather Moeder Molino at (202) 225-3061
11.20.2009	2nd District Artwork to Hang in DC Timonium, MD - Today, Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger played host to local high school students who participated in this year's 22nd Annual Congressional Art Contest. With their families on hand, the Congressman also presented the first, second and third place winners with a plaque of appreciation during a reception held at his Timonium office. In March, Rep. Ruppersberger announced that the art contest was open to all students of 2nd Congressional District high schools. Themed An Artistic Discovery, this year's contest was an opportunity for high school students to demonstrate their artistic talent and creativity. In all, more than 30 students submitted artwork from a variety of media including photograph, charcoal drawing, and both watercolor and oil painting. This year's winners include third place winner Nicholas Aldridge from Patapsco High School, and second place winner Lisa Goster from the Carver Center for Arts and Technology. In first place is Chelsea Geiger, also representing Patapsco High School, with her oil painting entitled Rainy Night. Contest winner Chelsea Geiger with her parents"We thought this wonderful contest provided a great opportunity for 2nd District students to showcase their artistic talents," said Rep. Ruppersberger. "Plus, it gives me a chance to show off how great our 2nd district kids are to other members of Congress." Ms. Geiger's Rainy Night is a series of three beautifully interpreted nighttime street scenes of Baltimore painted in oil. For her efforts, Ms. Geiger's painting will hang along side other winners from around the county in a tunnel connecting the Cannon House Office Building to the Unites States Capitol. Each day, the artwork provides inspiration for hundreds of lawmakers walking through the tunnel on their way to the House floor for debate and votes. Thank You Students; An Artistic DiscoveryA panel of three professionals from Baltimore's art community served as judges for the contest. Congressman Ruppersberger will invite Chelsea Geiger to spend a day with him in Washington, D.C. this July to celebrate the unveiling of the 2003 student art work exhibition. Since the first competition in 1982, Members have conducted nearly 5,000 local contests involving more than 650,000 high school students. This impressive exhibit represents the combined efforts of House Members who conducted their local contests and the extraordinary talent of our nation's youth students who participated.
