12.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — This week the House unanimously passed bipartisan legislation introduced by Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) the Chinese American World War II Congressional Gold Medal Act, recognizing the dedicated service of Chinese American veterans of World War II and collectively awards them the Congressional Gold Medal. The bill now heads to the President's desk. “The United States remains forever indebted to the bravery and sacrifice that the Chinese American veterans of World War II displayed. From the Flying Tigers, to their service in the Pacific and across Europe—these heroes answered the call of duty when our nation needed them the most and are worthy of recognition. To these brave veterans of World War II, thank you for your sacrifice. We are a grateful nation, and we honor your service by working to build a better world.” Background: By the start of World War II, more than 100,000 Chinese Americans had made a life for themselves in the U.S. Chinese Americans faced major challenges, including discrimination, due to laws such as the Chinese Exclusion Act, which limited the size of their population and their ability to build thriving communities. Nevertheless, almost 20,000 of these brave men and women served in the armed forces in every theater of battle and every branch of service, earning citations for their heroism and honorable service. To recognize the dedicated service of Chinese American veterans of World War II, Rep. Royce introduced with Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA) the Chinese American World War II Congressional Gold Medal Act in May of 2017. This legislation would collectively award our brave Chinese American World War II veterans the Congressional Gold Medal—the highest honor that Congress can bestow. Companion legislation (S.1050) was introduced by U.S. Senators Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) and Mazie Hirono (D-HI) and unanimously passed in the Senate on September 14, 2018.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (CA-39), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and Department of Education (DOE) opened an investigation into whether Yale University illegally discriminates against Asian-American applicants: “The decision by the DOJ to investigate another Ivy League school for discriminatory admissions practices validates the complaint filed by 64 Asian-American associations. This disturbing trend of elite universities exercising admission quotas that unambiguously and systemically limit the admission of Asian-American students is indefensible, improper, and immoral. I applaud the administration for continuing this investigation and protecting Asian-American college applicants against any infringements on their constitutional rights or equal protection under the law.” Background: In 2015, Rep. Royce spearheaded a letter to the U.S. Department of Education and U.S. Department of Justice requesting the federal government review the complaint filed by 64 Asian-American groups against Harvard University alleging discrimination against Asian-American applicants. That letter can be found HERE. On August 30, 2018, the DOJ filed a legal brief in support of the lawsuit accusing Harvard University of limiting the number of Asian-American students. In filing the Statement of Interest, Attorney General Jeff Sessions provided the following statement: “No American should be denied admission to school because of their race. As a recipient of taxpayer dollars, Harvard has a responsibility to conduct its admissions policy without racial discrimination by using meaningful admissions criteria that meet lawful requirements. The Department of Justice has the responsibility to protect the civil rights of the American people. This case is significant because the admissions policies at our colleges and universities are important and must be conducted lawfully.”
09.04.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — This week, Representative Ed Royce (CA-39), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) filed a legal brief in support of a lawsuit accusing Harvard University of limiting the number of Asian-American students it admits: “As a longtime champion of merit-based college admissions, I commend the Justice Department’s brief critical of Harvard University’s admissions practice in the lawsuit brought by Students for Fair Admissions. The discrimination by elite American universities against Asian-American students is wrong and an offense to our Constitution’s 14th Amendment which offers citizens equal protection under the law. I argued against SCA-5 which would have directed public universities in California to prioritize race during the application process. I led my colleagues in contacting the federal government to urge a swift review of this complaint in 2015. The DOJ’s brief confirms our long held suspicions.” Background: In 2015, Rep. Royce spearheaded a letter to the U.S. Department of Education and U.S. Department of Justice requesting the federal government review the complaint filed by over 60 Asian-American groups against Harvard University alleging discrimination against Asian-American applicants. That letter can be found HERE.
08.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — The office of U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) will host an informational Military Academy Night session on Wednesday September 5, 2018 for young men and women from California's 39th Congressional District interested in attending one of our nation's military academies. Each year, Rep. Royce has the privilege of nominating local high school students of the highest caliber for admission to the United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy, United States Coast Guard Academy, and United States Merchant Marine Academy. The appointment process is rigorous, highly selective, and based on a candidate's academic achievement, athletic ability, extracurricular activities, and community service. The Military Academy Night gives both students and parents the opportunity to hear from official representatives from the academies as well as Rep. Royce's staff on how to best navigate the application process. Event details are as follows: What: 2018 Fall Military Academy Night Location: Buena Park City Hall (Council Chamber) Address: 6650 Beach Boulevard, Buena Park, CA 90621 Date: Wednesday September 5, 2018 Time: 6:30 PM/PT This event is free to attend and open to the public. RSVP: https://goo.gl/forms/MPBjDzGJxStWIVcy2 Nomination Applications are due by 5:00 PM/PT on September 21, 2018 and can be found here: https://royce.house.gov/uploadedfiles/2018_application_for_congressional_nomination.pdf Questions regarding the event or military academy nominations from Rep. Royce can be directed to Alison Martin at Alison.Martin@mail.house.gov or (714) 255-0101.
07.25.2018	Click on the video above to watch Rep. Royce's remarks from the House floor on reforming the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) this past Tuesday. WASHINGTON, D.C. — This week, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) spoke on the House floor in support of bipartisan reforms that will extend the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) which is currently set to lapse on July 31, 2018. Below is Representative Royce’s statement as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Speaker, we stand here today doing what we have done 38 times since 1998. Passing an extension of the National Flood Insurance Program without much needed reforms. This is unacceptable. Subsidized flood insurance represents a moral hazard. We tell Americans that if you buy flood insurance from Uncle Sam, no matter how many times your house floods, we will give you money to rebuild it. We haven’t worked to decrease moral hazard; rather we have embraced and celebrated it. We make it more difficult for people to move than rebuild. We fail to encourage communities to mitigate flood risk. And we continue to build in high-risk areas. The clearest sign of moral hazard is the number of repeatedly flooded properties that are rebuilt with little deference to mitigation. The examples are staggering. A $90,000 home in Missouri flooded 34 times at a cost of more than $600,000. A $56,000 home in Louisiana flooded more than 40 times at a cost of $430,000. And a $72,000 home in Texas – that flooded again last year – costing taxpayers over $1 million in payouts. They have another word for this, Mr. Speaker, ‘insanity.’ I came to the Floor, today, hoping to support a bill, Mr. Blumenauer and I authored, that would have extended the flood program with – what the Wall Street Journal called – ‘de minimis policy changes… that have broad bipartisan support.’ Reforms that would address the fact, outlined by the Journal, that ‘Fewer than 2% of five million policies have absorbed more than $8 billion in payments.’ That is not the bill before us. Unfortunately, I oppose this ‘can-kicking’ exercise and urge my colleagues to do the same.”
07.19.2018	Click on the video above to watch Rep. Royce's remarks during Wednesday's Financial Services Committee Hearing with Jerome Powell, Chairman, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. WASHINGTON, D.C. — This week, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) participated in a House Financial Services Committee Hearing Entitled “Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy.” During the hearing, Rep. Royce questioned Jerome Powell, Chairman, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, about housing finance reform as well as proposed changes to the $2.8 trillion money market mutual fund industry. Key excerpts: Rep. Royce: Chairman Powell, housing finance reform remains the great undone work of the financial crisis.You have previously called for reform stating that “we need to move to a system that attracts ample amounts of private capital to stand between housing sector credit risk and taxpayers. A nationalized mortgage market is an unsustainable status quo. Sadly, the situation we find ourselves in today was a predictable one. In 2003, I introduced legislation, and again in 2005, in the form of an amendment, which would have reigned in the GSEs, allowing them to be regulated for systemic risk. Then Fed Chairman Greenspan backed the amendment. But it was not enough to overcome the outsized political pressure brought by the GSEs themselves. To be fair, you said, last summer, that this is not a normal issue on which the Fed would comment, but that we are in a “now or never moment” for reform as there is “not a current risk” with a healthy economy and housing system. How long will this “now or never moment” last and what are the consequences of inaction? Chairman Powell: I think now continues to be a good time to move forward on this [being] one of the big pieces of unfinished business from the crisis. It is unsustainable to have the U.S. housing finance system on the government’s books for the long run. It’s not healthy. We are going to need to address this. I assume we will at some point, the sooner the better. Rep. Royce: Let me ask you another question on this front. Chairman Greenspan often commented on the role of the GSEs in our economy. In 2004, in testimony before the Senate he said: “…Concerns about systemic risk are appropriately focused on large, highly leveraged financial institutions such as the GSEs… to fend off possible future systemic difficulties, which we assess as likely if GSE expansion continues unabated, preventive actions are required sooner rather than later.” Ominous words, no doubt. Today, pressure is being brought on the Administration to release the GSEs out of conservatorship. Although I oppose this move, absent Congressional action – I am hopeful that if this were to occur, there is no doubt, today, that Fannie & Freddie, given their size and role in the housing market, would be regulated as systemically important. Do you share this view? Chairman Powell: The form in which this reform takes place will of course be up to you, not to us and is not in our lane. I would say that I really hope that these institutions would not be systemically important at some point. I would think that when we figure out a process where they can be moved off the balance sheet, the idea would be that they would not present systemic risk, ideally. Rep. Royce: Let me move to another question Chairman Powell. Earlier this year, this Committee passed legislation that would reverse a previous SEC rule requiring that certain money market funds float the NAV. I certainly remember when the Reserve Fund “broke the buck” in 2008 – and the massive backstop the U.S. taxpayers provided to restart the entire market. The fact is that the value of the underlying assets of these products fluctuate. They go up and down. As I said in opposition to the bill at the time, if we learned anything from the financial crisis, it should be that price should reflect risk. While understanding this is the primary jurisdiction of the SEC, and Chairman Clayton has already expressed his concerns. I was hoping, as a member of the FSOC and someone uniquely positioned to comment on macro financial stability, that you could comment on any concerns with this potential move? Powell answer: I very much share your concerns. This was one of the many critical weakness identified in our financial system during the crisis. We worked hard to address it; I think successfully to some extent and I would not like to see that undone.
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — This week, Representatives Ed Royce (R-CA) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) introduced the NFIP Extension and Enhanced Consumer and Community Protections Act of 2018 (H.R. 6402) — a bipartisan package of eight bills from the House Financial Services Committee to reform and extend the National Flood Insurance Program through November 30, 2018. H.R. 6402 includes common sense reforms to NFIP that ensure flood protections to those who need it while improving flood mapping and mitigation efforts that have previously passed the House with overwhelming support. Following introduction of the bill, Representatives Royce and Blumenauer released the following statements: “As we near the peak of the 2018 hurricane season, it is vital for Congress to extend flood protections to millions of homeowners,” said Rep. Royce. “H.R. 6402 takes bold action that will steer NFIP towards a sustainable path by modernizing flood risk assessments and reducing the burden of repetitive loss properties.” “The current flood insurance program keeps communities in harm’s way and costs taxpayers billions of dollars in the process.” said Rep. Blumenauer. “This bill is a small but important step toward much-needed reform of this troubled, fiscally irresponsible program. Congress should pass this legislation, but it can’t stop there.” Background: The full text of the NFIP Extension and Enhanced Consumer and Community Protections Act can be found HERE. NFIP is currently set to expire on July 31, 2018. A section by section summary can be found HERE and copied below: Sec. 1: Short title: NFIP Extension and Enhanced Consumer and Community Protections Act of 2018 Sec. 2: Extension of NFIP through November 30, 2018 Sec. 3: Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act (Royce-Blumenauer/ Crapo-Brown) Requires FEMA to have communities (1) identify the areas within the community subject to repeated flooding; (2) develop a community-specific plan for mitigating those repetitive risks and submit it to FEMA; (3) implement the plan; and (4) make the plan available to the public. Votes: Passed the FSC as HR 1558 by voice vote; CBO = $0 Leg Text: Sec. 402 of HR 2874 (Duffy) || Sec. 101 of S. 1571 (Crapo-Brown) Sec. 4: Enhanced Increased Cost of Compliance coverage (Velazquez /Crapo-Brown) Authorizes the FEMA Administrator to supplement its existing Increase Cost of Compliance (ICC) program (which is typically mandatory for many policyholders) coverage of up to $30,000 with the option of allowing policyholders to purchase additional enhanced ICC coverage up to $100,000, as priced accordingly by NFIP. Votes: Similar provision passed the FSC as part of HR 2875 by 58-0; CBO =$0 Leg Text: Sec. 103 of S. 1571 (Crapo-Brown) || Similar provision in Sec. 403 of HR 2874 (Duffy) Sec. 5: Monthly Installments for Premiums (David Scott-Duffy) Requires FEMA to allow policyholders to pay their premiums in monthly installments. Votes: Passed the FSC as an amendment to HR 1558 by voice vote; CBO =$0 Leg Text: Sec. 106 of HR 2874 (Duffy) Sec. 6: Premium rates for Certain Mitigated Properties (Zeldin/Crapo-Brown) Authorizes FEMA to provide with credits when they use mitigation efforts required for buildings in dense urban environments. Votes: Passed the FSC as part of HR 2868 by 53-0; CBO =$0 Leg Text: Sec. 113 of HR 2874 (Duffy) || similar provision in Sec. 103 of S. 1571 (Crapo-Brown) Sec 7: Maximizing CRS Credits for Communities (LoBiondo) Requires FEMA to provide communities that have joined its Community Rating System program with appropriate credits for measures that protect natural and beneficial floodplain functions. Votes: Passed the FSC as part of HR 2874 by 30-26; CBO = $0 Leg Text: Sec. 401 of HR 2874 (Duffy) Sec. 8: Studies on Participation Rates (Duffy/Crapo-Brown) Requires FEMA, GAO, and bank regulators to report on NFIP participation rates for individuals subject to its mandatory purchase requirement. Votes: Not marked up by FSC; estimated CBO = $0 Leg Text: Sec. 513 of HR 2874 (Duffy) and Sec. 503 of S. 1571 (Crapo-Brown) Sec. 9: Disclosure of Flood Risk Information to Property Owners (Royce/Crapo-Brown) Requires as a condition of NFIP insurance that the seller of a property disclose in writing the prior flood damage and flood insurance claims to that property, any NFIP designation as a Repetitive Loss or Severe Repetitive Loss Property, and the property mandatory purchase status. Votes: Passed the FSC as part of an amendment to HR 2874 by voice vote; CBO = $0 Leg Text: Sec. 109 of HR 2874 (Duffy) || Sec. 105 of S. 1571 (Crapo-Brown) Sec. 10: Study on FEMA Buy-Out Program (Blumenauer-Sanford/Schatz-Scott) Requires GAO to conduct a study of the FEMA’s flood loss buyout program, including the efficacy of current practices and ways to streamline the program to provide more timely assistance in the future. Votes: Passed T&I by voice vote and the House Floor on voice; CBO = $0 Leg Text: H.R.5846 (Blumenauer-Sanford) || S. 2862 (Schatz-Scott)
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — With the House poised to pass the International Insurance Standards Act of 2017 (H.R. 4537) on the suspension calendar this week, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement: “This bill is not only unconstitutional but anti-competitive; hampering our ability to represent U.S. interests in international fora. Supporters of this bill, including many State regulators represented by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, appear more interested in winning an imaginary turf war than acting in the best interests of U.S. consumers. Fifty-plus State regulators and their trade association simply do not have the authority or capacity to engage in international negotiations in a global economy. “We cannot forget that the Federal Insurance Office was created by Congress to, among other responsibilities, ensure a strong, consistent, dedicated U.S. voice in international insurance arenas. Congress should be looking to build on the recent success of the first covered agreement. H.R. 4537 does the opposite; undermining our ability to work and act together internationally to promote and defend the U.S. system of insurance regulation. If chaos and confusion is the goal, we have achieved it.” Background On March 5, 2018, Assistant Attorney General Stephen Boyd sent the Committee on Financial Services Chairman, Jeb Hensarling, a memo detailing a number of provisions in H.R. 4537 that “raise constitutional concerns.” These concerns, according to the Department of Justice, would “contravene the president’s exclusive authority over the conduct of diplomatic relations.” Click here to read the full memo. The White House included similar concerns in the May 24, 2018 signing statement accompanying S.2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act saying: “These directives contravene my exclusive constitutional authority to determine the time, scope, and objectives of international negotiations.” On December 13, 2017, Rep. Royce joined three of his Democratic colleagues in bipartisan opposition to H.R. 4537 when the bill was considered by the House Financial Services Committee. This week, two major insurance organizations, the American Council of Life Insurers and the Reinsurance Association of America, issued statements in opposition to H.R. 4537 saying, “if enacted, the bill would hinder the U.S. industry’s ability to compete internationally and protect itself from future threats.”
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, by a vote of 258 to 159, the House passed a bipartisan economic regulatory relief package which incorporated three provisions authored by U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA). The Royce provisions are aimed at increasing lending for small businesses, empowering under-banked consumers to access the mortgage market, and improving access to capital for companies looking to go public and hire more workers. Following passage of S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, Rep. Royce released the following statement: “The passage of today’s bipartisan regulatory relief package will allow financial institutions to focus on the needs of homebuyers and small business owners instead of complying with burdensome and often flawed regulations.” “I’m pleased to have three important priorities of mine included in the final legislation that will unleash billions of dollars of capital for small businesses, provide potential homeownership for 26 million ‘credit invisible’ consumers, and empower new companies to tap into nationwide capital markets. These reforms are a major step towards correcting the mistakes of Dodd-Frank—ensuring that our financial system can responsibly increase lending to America’s small businesses.” Specific Royce Legislative Proposals included in the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act: Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act (Sec. 105): Removes loans made for the purchase of non-owner occupied, 1-4 unit dwellings from the calculation of the member business lending (MBL) cap currently imposed on credit unions. If enacted, the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act would allow credit unions to lend an additional $11 billion to small businesses, freeing up much needed private sector financing for commercial businesses and rental housing. Credit Score Competition Act (Sec. 310): Enables Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to consider alternative credit scoring models when making mortgage purchasing decisions. Alternative credit scoring models are also more likely to take into account rent and utility payments. Allowing the GSEs to consider such scores will bolster the chances of young, African-American, and Hispanic buyers attempting to enter the market. National Securities Exchange Regulatory Parity Act (Sec. 501): Modernizes Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1933 to eliminate references to specific national securities exchanges and to clarify that the state “blue sky” exemption shall be available for all securities that qualify for trading in the national market system. ###
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. —U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) delivered a statement on the House floor in support of S.J.Res.57, which uses Congressional Review Act (CRA) authority to nullify the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection’s (CFPB) guidance relating to indirect auto lending. Following Rep. Royce’s remarks, the House passed S.J.Res.57 by a vote of 234-175. Video of Rep. Royce’s remarks can be found HERE. Below is Rep. Royce’s statement (as prepared for delivery): “Following the housing and financial crisis, this House, led by Democrats, acted to pass major financial services legislation in the form of Dodd-Frank. As someone who sat on the Financial Services Committee at the time, and the subsequent Conference Committee, I can tell you we did not agree upon much. However, through all the debate, there was bipartisan belief that auto-dealers and lenders were not at the heart of the crisis and should not be the focus of new regulation. With that in mind, as the Chairman has noted, Section 1029 of Dodd-Frank explicitly exempted auto-dealers from CFPB supervision and regulation. If that’s the case, Mr. Speaker, why are we here today? Why are auto-dealers the focus of CFPB action that ends the consumers’ ability to receive discounted auto loans? Why are consumers facing higher – not lower – costs when going to buy a car? The answer is quite simple: regulatory overreach. CFPB ignored the will of Congress. As the Wall Street Journal noted, Congress’ explicit exemption ‘didn't stop former CFPB chief Richard Cordray, who used the back door of auto-financing to regulate dealers.’ While Mr. Cordray may have been able to suspend disbelief, we do not have the same luxury. We are not here by choice. We must act to pass this resolution today. In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, I would like to share the bipartisan call for enforcement of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. Let’s work together to tackle discrimination where it actually exists, not where regulators ignore the law and employ algorithms to guess it might exist.” Background: (Courtesy of the House Financial Services Committee) Former Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, Richard Cordray, issued guidance on March 21, 2013, attempting to regulate automobile dealers, even though they are specifically prohibited from doing so under the Dodd-Frank Act. They did this by telling financial institutions that have indirect lender relationships with auto dealers that they should either impose controls on dealer compensation policies or forbid dealer markup practices altogether, or be held liable under fair credit lending law for any and all alleged actions made by the dealers. In doing so, the Bureau sought to regulate companies over which it has no statutory authority, and also ignored due process as provided under the Administrative Procedures Act. Moreover, the Bureau’s own internal records show that then-Director Cordray chose to issue the guidance, which accused U.S. businesses of racial discrimination against consumers, despite knowing there were major flaws in the methodology on which it was based. ###
04.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) hosted the 2018 Congressional Art Contest Award Ceremony at the Muckenthaler Cultural Center in Fullerton, California this past Saturday. Over 200 local high school students from California's 39th Congressional district displayed their artwork for the public, and awards were presented to two dozen students. A panel of independent, local judges determined the winning submissions. The winner of the online, public contest known as the “Fan Favorite” was also recognized with an award. Before announcing the winners, Rep. Royce stated, “I am excited to once again be sponsoring this effort to discover our community's talented young artists. For over ten years, my office has collected the finest artwork from local students and recognized the very best of our artists in Washington D.C. In support of our youth, I will continue working to provide opportunities that will encourage them to pursue their artistic dreams.” Christine Zhou from Diamond Bar High School (pictured below) won first place for her piece “Portal into a World of Dreams,” which will be on display in the Capitol for one year alongside winners from other congressional districts. Christine's piece was also selected as the “Fan Favorite” which received 480 votes out of a total of 4,606 votes. Maille Uyehara from Glen A. Wilson High School won second place for “Wake Up, Sleepyhead!” Seokwon Lee from Buena Park High School won third place for “Me.” Other submissions that received special recognition from the local judges are listed below. (Category) (Student Name) (Title of Art) (School) Photography & Digital Sydney Ogden Behind the Blue El Camino Real High School Jonathan Sanders Smoke Screen Fullerton Union High School Leonardo Ramirez Prigionera di Primavera Fullerton Union High School Zizhao Zhang Just A Little Smell Troy High School Yinjie Hero Xu Pray Southlands Christian School Xuan (Leo) Wang My Room-mate Alex Z Southlands Christian School Best (digital) Yusi (Alice) Liu Bestfriend Southlands Christian School Best (photo) Margeaux Lau Isabella Study Fullerton Union High School General Category Anet Filatoff Natural Beauty Los Altos High School Hendrix Hernandez Little Cottage Los Altos High School Elizabeth Medina Devastation of a well known moment Glen A. Wilson Maille Uyehara Paint Myself American Glen A. Wilson Victoria Kozak Keep the mind's eye open Rowland High School Yesenia Gomez Far Out Buena Park High School Ashley Smith Broken But Not Destroyed Buena Park High School Seokwon Lee Lion Buena Park High School Youngsoeng Ryu Lunch Time! Buena Park High School Maria Dominguez New Chapter Brea Olinda High School Edward Zhang The Secret Garden L.A. County High School for the Arts Esther Lo Spirited Southlands Christian School Best Conceptual Renee Kao Divison Ayala High School All art entries were published on Rep. Royce's Facbeook page and can be found HERE. Background: The Congressional Art Competition is a national contest organized once a year to give high school students the opportunity to showcase their artistic abilities. All high school students within California's 39th Congressional District are encouraged to submit their favorite piece of original art to the competition. The Grand Prize Winner of the competition receives 2 complimentary round trip tickets to Washington, D.C. to see their artwork displayed in the Capitol Building, and is invited to an exclusive reception in their honor. Only one winner will be chosen for each Congressional District.
04.19.2018	Voting is OPEN! I need your help in deciding my "Fan Favorite" winner for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. This nationwide competition is held each spring and I am proud that California's 39th district had so much participation. This year we had over 200 entries submitted from high school students across the district. This event gives a chance for thousands of high school students across the country to demonstrate their incredible artistic skills. All of this year's entries are posted on my Facebook page: www.facebook.com/EdRoyce The artwork that receives the most “Likes” will be honored with the “Fan Favorite” Award. “Like” as many pieces as you want! Voting is open from Thursday April 19th through Thursday April 26th at 11:00 PM.
04.17.2018	Rep. Royce delivers testimony before members of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water, Power, and Oceans. WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) submitted testimony during a House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water, Power, and Oceans legislative hearing in support of his bill, the Shark Fin Sales Elimination Act (H.R. 1456). This bipartisan legislation has gained 237 cosponsors and would make the possession, sale, and purchase of shark fins illegal acts in the United States. Click HERE to watch the video of Representative Royce’s remarks. Below is Representative Royce’s statement, as prepared for delivery at the hearing: “Thank you, Chairman Lamborn and Ranking Member Huffman, for agreeing to hold this timely hearing on ocean conservation. I’m very grateful that my bill, the Shark Fin Sales Elimination Act, was included. Coincidentally, today I was with an old friend of mine, David Marinoff, who was telling me about how he and his wife had recently witnessed sharks washed up on a beach in the Galapagos Islands. These sharks had been finned which resulted in their deaths. I found it both tragic and ironic due to the Galapagos Islands’ history as being a case-study in ecological balance. Sadly, each year, the fins from as many as 73 million sharks end up in the global shark fin trade, putting multiple species of sharks at risk for extinction. Shark fins, as many of you know, are considered a delicacy in parts of the world. Sold for high prices, they drive a trade that is not only inhumane due to the practice of shark finning, but increasingly detrimental to our oceans due to its size. Sharks play an integral role in our oceans’ ecosystems and if populations continue to decline at the current rate, our oceans, as we know them, will cease to exist. My bill, which has over 230 bipartisan cosponsors, including a majority of this committee and subcommittee’s members, would make it illegal to buy, sell, or possess shark fins in the United States. To be clear, the bill does not prohibit shark fishing. The proposal builds on previous Congressional action targeting the shark fin trade and mirrors similar state-level bans. Additionally, I’ve conferred with the Congressional Budget Office, and they have told me that the bill will not cost the government. While protecting wildlife from extinction is, from my perspective, the right thing to do, it also makes sense economically. As apex predators, sharks ensure balance below them in the food chain. Their preying, or lack thereof, on species directly below them in the food chain has a compounding effect on the availability of fish that many people rely on as a food source and that the fishing industry depends on for income. For example, a decrease in the population of tiger sharks could lead to an increase in prey species, such as turtles, monk seals, and reef sharks, which in turn could cause a decline in tuna populations. Shark survival also contributes to the ever-growing shark eco-tourism industry. My home state, California, is home to 134 dive shops. In Florida, which is home to 185 dive shops (the most in the nation), direct expenditures for shark encounters brought in $221 million and fueled over 3,700 jobs in 2016. This market dwarfs that of the domestic shark fin market, which, in 2016, was only worth $850,000 in exports. I’m a firm believer in the principle that when the United States leads, other countries follow. We’ve seen this with the ivory trade. After the United States took action to eliminate its own ivory trade, China acquiesced to pressure and shut down its ivory trade at the end of 2017. I’m pleased to say that we’re starting to see this now with the shark fin trade. Last year, in response to pressure associated with this bill, both Air China and China Southern Air announced that they would no longer allow shark fin cargo. With the strong support for this bill and today’s hearing, we have laid the foundation to move this bill. I can only imagine what impact signing the bill into law will have in the United States and around the world. Thank you for your consideration.” ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement after joining Representatives Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO), and Dennis Ross (R-FL) in introducing H.R. 5381, the Government Risk and Taxpayer Exposure Reduction (GRATER) Act which reduces the risk of bailing out federal government programs by encouraging prudent risk management by agency and department heads: “Too often, American taxpayers are on the hook for government failures. However, recent examples of federal de-risking have shown that this doesn’t have to be the case. In the past several years, the government saved billions of dollars by transferring taxpayer risk off of its balance sheet for programs like the National Flood Insurance Program. Instead of taxpayers paying for all the damage, private reinsurance covered over $1 billion in losses from Hurricane Harvey. “There is a ready market for the federal government to build on successful precedents and extend de-risking to more federal programs, such as export financing, U.S. aid, agricultural credits, and housing finance programs.” Background: The full bill text of the GRATER Act can be found HERE. The GRATER Act directs the Office of Management and Budget to identify areas of the federal balance sheet where de-risking could be used to protect taxpayers from future bailouts. This legislation builds on previous examples of successful government de-risking. In 2012, FHFA initiated a credit risk transfer program with the goal of reducing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s overall risk. Using global capital and reinsurance markets, Freddie and Fannie have transferred almost $10 billion of taxpayer risk, while the figures from the reinsurance industry support the notion that the private sector could take up to $80 billion. As a result of the reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program, FEMA and the NFIP were required to buy $1 billion of reinsurance in what was essentially a pilot program. Unfortunately, hurricanes generated a large number of insured losses in 2017 and early reports are that taxpayers will recover eighty-five cents per dollar spent on reinsurance at NFIP. Analysis by Aon Benfield, a global reinsurer, has estimated that there currently is an estimated $605 billion in reinsurance capital and capacity available to meet the demand for derisking and other purposes worldwide. A recent white paper by a former U.S. Treasury official, Greg Wilson, found that derisking not only protects taxpayers from future losses, but also reduces systemic risk, and enables federal agencies to meet their statutory objectives more efficiently.
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-CA), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Steve Stivers (R-OH), and Joyce Beatty (D-OH) released the following statements after introducing H.R. 5393, the Working Together to End Homelessness Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation to repeal the sunset date for the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness (USICH): “Ending homelessness is a national priority that both sides of the aisle support,” said Rep. Royce (R-CA). “However, history has shown us that increasing federal dollars alone is not enough to solve this complex issue. USICH has demonstrated a successful track record of decreasing homelessness by coordinating across all levels of government, as well as with private sector partners, in order to maximize the impact of federal resources. This approach is an effective and efficient solution proven to help lift millions of Americans out of homelessness.” “It is shameful that there are over 550,000 people experiencing homelessness in this country, including seniors, veterans, people with disabilities, and families with children,” said Ranking Member Waters (D-CA). “The U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness (USICH) plays a critical role in addressing this national crisis and has a far-reaching impact as it coordinates with every level of government, and communities across the nation, to work toward ending homelessness. I am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing this commonsense bill that will make USICH permanent and allow it to continue its important work. Currently, the law says USICH will have to shutter its doors if Congress doesn’t act to extend its authority each year. Ending homelessness in this country should be a top priority for Congress, as every American deserves a safe, decent and affordable place to call home.” “We need to address homelessness in all populations, especially for all those who wore a uniform and our children. The U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness (USICH) has made progress, but there is still work to be done,” Congressman Steve Stivers (R-OH) said. “This bill ensures the USICH will have the authority to continue working to end homelessness in our country. I am proud to work with Representatives Royce, Waters, and Beatty on this legislation.” “Homelessness is not a Republican or Democratic issue,” said Rep. Beatty (D-OH). “That is why I am honored to join a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers in introducing the Working Together to End Homelessness Act. Together, we can ensure more Americans and families have a place to call ‘home sweet home.’” Background: The full text of the Working Together to End Homelessness Act can be found HERE. USICH, which Congress created in 1987, serves as an independent body that coordinates the federal response to homelessness. After Congress passed the Homeless Emergency Assistance and Rapid Transition to Housing (HEARTH) Act in 2009, USICH put forward the Opening Doors strategy, the first-ever Federal strategic plan to prevent and end homelessness. USICH has made significant strides towards ending homelessness in this country, including overall declines in chronic homelessness by 18%, veteran homelessness by 46%, and family homelessness by 24% between 2010 to 2017. A 2014 Government Accountability Office report entitled “Managing for Results: Implementation Approaches Used to Enhance collaboration in Interagency Groups,” highlighted the effectiveness of USICH in implementing collaborative interagency efforts to leverage data sources, establish performance metrics, and to track and report progress in a transparent manner. The Urban Institute also published a report in October 2016, entitled “How Would Terminating USICH Affect Efforts to End Homelessness?” which found that after interviewing more than 40 federal and local stakeholders across the public, private, and nonprofit sectors, there was an overwhelming consensus that USICH played an important role in a highly effective performance-driven partnership, and that terminating USICH could slow down efforts to end homelessness.
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (CA-39) released the following statement after the House passed legislation he cosponsored, H.R. 1865, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act which strengthens criminal penalties for websites that facilitate sex trafficking: “In order to stay one step ahead of sex traffickers, local, state, and federal law enforcement need to have the tools and resources necessary to stop this form of modern day slavery before it happens. This includes the legal authority to crack down on websites that host sex trafficking content, as well as holding online collaborators accountable for criminal activity. Additionally, H.R. 1865 empowers victims to seek justice against online websites that knowingly promote sex trafficking. These bipartisan measures will ensure that fewer victims are trafficked online while sending a clear message to sex traffickers that their days are numbered.” Background: (Courtesy of the Speakers Office) This legislation amends the Communications Decency Act (CDA) to hold websites that knowingly facilitate or support sex trafficking more accountable. FOSTA also creates a new federal crime for websites engaging in illegal prostitution, gives states and prosecutors the tools they need to enforce sex trafficking statutes on the books, and provides victims a path forward so they can sue websites that knowingly provide safe harbor to traffickers. This past October, Rep. Royce partnered with the Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force to teach local hotel industry leaders how to spot signs of human trafficking and prostitution. Additionally, in 2013, Rep. Royce launched the Human Trafficking Congressional Advisory Committee (HTCAC) to address human trafficking concerns, as well as offer policy recommendations. The HTCAC is comprised of victims’ rights groups, local and federal law enforcement agencies, and community advocates, and is actively working to combat human trafficking in Southern California. Additionally, in July of 2017, the House of Representatives unanimously passed a bipartisan bill sponsored by Rep. Royce called the TARGET Act. This bill turns the tables on human traffickers by allowing the State Department to use cash rewards to help bring them to justice. Rewards issued under similar programs have helped lead to the capture of major terrorists and international criminals. Click HERE to read more about the TARGET Act.
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Today, Representative Ed Royce (CA-39) announced his guest to be seated in the House gallery during the President’s first State of the Union address. “I’m honored to have a local Southern California jobs creator join me as my guest for this year’s State of the Union,” said Rep. Royce.James Lin is the CEO of Unified Network Information Services LLC., headquartered in Walnut, CA. James grew a small trucking company into a high-tech, global supply chain corporation. UNIS also manufactures electronics and is growing jobs in California; the company employs more than 1,100 full-time employees. “I believe the state of our union is strongest when job creators, like James, have the opportunity to thrive,” said Rep. Royce. James also participated in Rep. Royce’s inauguralSouthern California Competitiveness Councillast July. This event brought together small and medium businesses in Southern California for a discussion on how to better compete in the 21st century economy. During the event, Rep. Royce highlighted James’ accomplishments as a jobs creator saying,“James is an entrepreneur, philanthropist, and executive. His amazing story of success – taking the company his father grew from one truck and one employee – to where it is today is the American Dream in action.” Background: The White House has sent out their guest list for the State of the Union which includes two guests from California: David Dahlberg (Santa Maria, CA): David Dahlberg works as a fire prevention technician in southern California, stationed at the Pine Canyon Fire Station in the Santa Lucia Ranger District. In July 2017, he saved 62 children and staff members from a raging wildfire that had encircled their camp. Preston Sharp (Redding, CA): Preston Sharp was visiting his veteran grandfather’s grave in 2015, when he noticed that other local veterans’ graves were not being honored with American flags or flowers. Today, Preston has organized the placement of more than 40,000 American flags and red carnations on soldiers’ graves, as part of his goal to honor veterans in all 50 states and to challenge others to join the Flag and Flower Challenge (#FandFChallenge). ###
01.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (CA-39) released the following statement after China Airlines confirmed the first dates for newly added international flights from Ontario International Airport (ONT) to Taipei (TPE), Taiwan: “Today, we celebrate an important milestone in the decades-long effort to bring daily, nonstop international flights to Ontario, California. As Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I fought to make this possible given the important role that Southern California plays as gateway to the Asia-Pacific region. China Airlines’ decision to expand flights from Taipei, Taiwan, into Ontario will create job growth and opportunity throughout our region.” “Taiwan’s entry into the Visa Waiver Program in 2012 and Global Entry in 2017 – two programs that I championed – have already translated into new growth with travel volume between the U.S. and Taiwan increasing by more than 50 percent. Bringing international flights to Ontario Airport will energize Southern California and fulfill the promise of broad economic development.” Background: In August of 2017, Rep. Royce led a bipartisan delegation to Taiwan for a fifth time as Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee to advocate for peace, stability, and economic growth. During the visit, the delegation met with the mayor of Taoyuan, Taiwan and the chairman of China Airlines to discuss the company’s plans to expand nonstop service to California’s Ontario Airport. Taiwan is California’s seventh largest trading partner, and the people of Taiwan spend approximately $7 billion a year on Californian goods and services. This translates into significant economic benefits for California residents as more tourists and business travelers take advantage of a closer and more efficient way to travel across the Pacific Ocean.
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (CA-39) released the following statement: "It’s truly an honor to represent the people of California’s 39th Congressional District. Every day, it’s my mission to fight for freedom, opportunity and a limited government. In recent years, we’ve made a real difference. From Sacramento to Washington, we’ve enacted critical reforms to combat the modern day slavery of human trafficking. We’ve achieved commonsense tax and regulatory reforms to help small businesses and middle class families realize their American dream. "In this final year of my Foreign Affairs Committee chairmanship, I want to focus fully on the urgent threats facing our nation. With this in mind, and with the support of my wife Marie, I have decided not to seek reelection in November. I want to extend my deepest appreciation to the people of the 39th District for entrusting me with the responsibility to represent them. Our district is blessed to be diverse, and I’ve been successful in part because of my great staff and the relationships we’ve built with families, businesses, and leaders in each of our communities. "Orange County will always be home to Marie and me, and we look forward to being with all our friends at Lunar New Years, Korean American Days, Fourth of Julys, and many other community events for years to come." ###
12.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, penned the following op-ed for the Orange County Register calling on House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi to return campaign donations from a former owner of Backpage.com —a website which knowingly facilitated prostitution and sex trafficking of children: Orange County Register After taking Backpage money, Nancy Pelosi needs to make things right By: House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce December 28, 2017 At best, Nancy Pelosi’s October 2016 acceptance of a $10,000 check from James Larkin, a co-owner of Backpage.com, was extremely careless. At worst, she knew and didn’t care. Either way, it’s time for Pelosi to do the right thing and finally wash her hands of this dirty money. Backpage.com has long been one of the most evil sites on the internet. For years, it knowingly facilitated prostitution and sex trafficking of children. Backpage was purposely filtering out certain words in web ads to help traffickers evade authorities. Now, as this has come to light, Backpage is facing increasing pressure from law enforcement agencies across the country. In fact, just one week before donating to Pelosi’s Super PAC, Larkin was charged in California on conspiracy to commit pimping. Larkin still faces counts of money laundering, and is surely hoping Backpage’s $200,000 in contributions to Democrats will give him political protection. That’s why Pelosi’s refusal to unequivocally renounce Backpage by donating or returning this money is so troubling. There are many California victims’ rights groups that could do a lot of good with $10,000. Because the truth is we’re still far from putting an end to this form of modern slavery. Despite some important progress, human trafficking is still considered the fastest-growing crime in the world. Tens of millions of lives have been devastated around the globe — including far too many right here in Southern California. As representative to California’s 39th District, I’m proud to help lead the fight to protect our most vulnerable. In 2013, I launched a human trafficking advisory committee comprised of victims’ rights groups, local and federal law enforcement agencies, and community advocates to better share information and coordinate on solutions. Later that year, we held a field hearing at Cal State Fullerton for the public to hear directly from victims. And our work continues. Two months ago, we again hosted a training seminar for local hotel managers and owners to help them better prepare their staff to identify the signs of human trafficking and to report it. Of course, each of us can play a role too. At airports, hotels and other transit hubs, human trafficking victims might lack clothing to match weather conditions, appear distressed and significantly younger than the individual they are traveling with. If you suspect someone is being trafficked, do not hesitate to call 911. In the Capitol, I’m leveraging my role as Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee to help empower our law enforcement agencies to stop these criminals cold in their tracks. I’m an original co-sponsor of H.R. 1865, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017. This legislation, which recently moved one step closer to a vote on the House floor, provides prosecutors with new tools to bring online actors like Backpage who knowingly facilitate human and sex trafficking to justice. Additionally, my committee earlier this month passed legislation I authored targeting forced labor profits — estimated at $150 billion annually — that are being laundered far too easily in this digital age. H.R. 2219, the End Banking for Human Traffickers Act, provides law enforcement new tools to cut off human traffickers from our banking system, and joins a series of bills my committee has passed to combat these horrific crimes. Americans today are divided on many political issues. But human trafficking and sex trafficking shouldn’t be one of them. We should all be able to agree that more needs to be done to help end human trafficking. And we should all be able to agree that keeping money from child sex traffickers is wrong. I hope Nancy Pelosi will choose to make things right. Rep. Ed Royce, R-Yorba Linda, represents the 39th Congressional District.
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (CA-39) released the following statement in support of the Conference Report for H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the first major overhaul of our nation’s tax code since 1986: “Since day one, I’ve been fighting for provisions that allow struggling California families to keep more of their hard-earned money. I’m pleased to see many of those provisions protected in the final Conference Report including a deduction for state and local taxes, the mortgage interest deduction, the student loan interest deduction, as well as the exclusion for graduate student tuition assistance. “Combined with reducing tax rates for small businesses, the vast majority of California families will see their taxes reduced and simplified while keeping more of their paychecks. The final version of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act creates a competitive, pro-growth tax code that will empower a new generation of American innovation and prosperity.” The full text of Conference Report can be found HERE. Summary of the Conference Report for H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: (Courtesy of the House GOP Conference) Lowers individual taxes rates across the board so people can keep more of their hard-earned money. Significantly increases the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what you earn each year from taxes – from $6,500 and $13,000 under current law to $12,000 and $24,000 for individuals and married couples, respectively. Continues to allow people to write off the cost of state and local taxes– up to $10,000. Gives individuals and families the ability to deduct property taxes and income – or sales – taxes to best fit their unique circumstances. Expands the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000 for single filers and married couples to help parents with the cost of raising children. The tax credit is fully refundable up to $1,400 and begins to phase-out for families making over $400,000. Parents must provide a child’s valid Social Security Number in order to receive this credit. Preserves the mortgage interest deduction – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. For all homeowners with existing mortgages that were taken out to buy a home, there will be no change to the current mortgage interest deduction. For homeowners with new mortgages on a first or second home, the home mortgage interest deduction will be available up to $750,000. Improves savings vehicles for education by allowing families to use 529 accounts to save for elementary, secondary and higher education. Provides support for graduate students by continuing to exempt the value of reduced tuition from taxes. Retains popular retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) so Americans can continue to save for their future. For job creators of all sizes: Offers a first-ever 20% tax deduction that applies to the first $315,000 of joint income earned by all businesses organized as S corporations, partnerships, LLCs, and sole proprietorships. For Main Street job creators with income above this level, the bill generally provides a deduction for up to 20% on business profits – reducing their effective marginal tax rate to no more than 29.6%. Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers – unleashing growth of jobs, productivity, and paychecks. Protects the ability of small businesses to write off interest on loans, helping these Main Street entrepreneurs start or expand a business, hire workers, and increase paychecks Retains the low-income housing tax credit that encourages businesses to invest in affordable housing so families, individuals, and seniors can find a safe and comfortable place to call home. Modernizes our international tax system so America’s global businesses will no longer be held back by an outdated “worldwide” tax system that results in double taxation for many of our nation’s job creators. Makes it easier for American businesses to bring home foreign earnings to invest in growing jobs and paychecks in our local communities. Prevents American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas by eliminating incentives that now reward companies for shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad. ###
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representatives Ed Royce (R-CA), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Mia Love (R-UT), and Bill Keating (D-MA) released the following statements after the House Financial Services Committee unanimously passed the End Banking for Human Traffickers Act (H.R. 2219) during a full committee markup: “In order to stop sex trafficking in our local communities and around the world, we must constantly strive to be one step ahead of the perpetrators who commit these horrible crimes,” said Rep. Royce. “This abhorrent trade is increasingly carried out by sophisticated international criminals who pose a threat to U.S. national security interests. The End Banking for Human Traffickers Act will hit these criminals where it hurts the most: their bank accounts. I’m pleased to see this bipartisan solution continue to gain support in order to proactively fight human trafficking before it occurs.” “Human trafficking is happening in this day and age, in this country and all around the globe,” said Rep. Maloney. “It is the fastest-growing criminal enterprise in the world, generating more than $150 billion in profits every year. Some of those funds are undoubtedly flowing through U.S. financial institutions – with or without their knowledge. That’s why it’s so important to make sure that financial institutions are actively monitoring for money laundering specifically related to human trafficking. This bill will help us crack down on this despicable industry and I am proud to join my friend Rep. Royce in this effort and thank him for his leadership.” “Human trafficking, in all its destructive forms, earns criminals roughly $150 billion per year,” said Rep. Love. “It is more profitable and sophisticated than ever. Therefore, we must ensure our response is cooperative and multifaceted in order to root out these activities wherever they are. The End Banking for Human Traffickers Act of 2017 represents a crucial step in our efforts to defeat these tragic crimes, and I’m grateful for the efforts of Chairman Royce and the Committee to advance it.” “Yesterday's markup underscores two important facts: that human trafficking continues to present a serious challenge for law enforcement that must be addressed, and that the most effective way to do so – as is true with most threats to human security – is in a bipartisan manner,” said Rep. Keating. “I am proud to be a sponsor of this common-sense bill with my colleagues Reps. Royce, Maloney, and Love, which will provide law enforcement and their partners with the tools necessary to prevent human trafficking and hold perpetrators responsible for their horrific crimes.” Background: The End Banking for Human Traffickers Act amends the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 to add the Secretary of the Treasury as a member of the President's Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking. The task force must submit to Congress recommendations for the revision of anti-money laundering programs to specifically target money laundering related to human trafficking. The full bill text of H.R. 2219 can be found HERE.
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) and Congressman Ed Royce (CA-39) announced that the California National Guard will be receiving upgraded Blackhawk helicopters. Specifically, the Guard’s old UH-60L/A Blackhawks will be replaced by with UH-60M Mike models. “The California National Guard deserves modern equipment to carry out its mission,” said Rep. Calvert. “Providing our Guard with these upgraded Blackhawks has been a high priority. In recent days, the Guard has utilized its Blackhawk fleet to help combat the California wildfires. With upgraded aircraft, the Guard will be in a better position to help California.” “Investing in California’s National Guard has proven to save countless lives when unexpected danger strikes,” said Rep. Royce. “In Southern California, the Los Alamitos Joint Forces Training Base (JFTB) is vitally important to federal and state contingency operations and is essential to keeping the public safe. The addition of the upgraded Blackhawk helicopters means that JFTB will be able to better serve Californians when we need them the most.” “The Cal Guard is the nation's most frequently deployed National Guard force, and our Black Hawk helicopters are pivotal to many of our missions. Whether it's battling wildfires at home or terror overseas, these cutting-edge aircraft enhance our ability to respond when California or the nation calls,” said Maj. Gen. David S. Baldwin, Adjutant General of the California National Guard. “I'm grateful to Congressman Calvert and Congressman Royce for their ongoing dedication to our Guardsmen. They understand our soldiers need the best and latest tools to accomplish their mission.” Rep. Calvert, Vice-Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, and Rep. Royce, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, led the effort along with other California members to advocate for the Guard’s Blackhawk upgrade through the Defense authorization and appropriations bills. The California National Guard currently has one of the oldest Blackhawk fleets while also having one of the highest utilization rates.
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Royce (R-CA) released the following statement after becoming a cosponsor of H.R. 4494, the Congressional Accountability and Hush Fund Elimination Act, legislation to inject accountability and transparency into the process for harassment claims paid out under the Congressional Accountability Act and ends the ability for Members of Congress to use taxpayer dollars to settle future sexual harassment or sexual assault claims: “Members of Congress are public servants of the people and should not be afforded a privileged status. There is absolutely no justification for Members of the House and Senate being able to use taxpayer dollars and forced non-disclosure agreements to cover up sexual harassment settlements. This not only betrays the trust of American taxpayers, it also creates incentives for bad behavior and produces a hostile work environment. This harmful practice must end now and I’m pleased to see so many of my colleagues—on both sides of the aisle—support this common sense legislation.” Background: (Courtesy of Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-FL) The Congressional Accountability and Hush Fund Elimination Act will: Require disclosure within 30 calendar days of all settlement payments funded by taxpayers, the reason for the payment and the nature of the allegation, and the member of Congress or congressional staffer implicated in the matter. Prohibit the future use of taxpayer dollars to pay sexual harassment and sexual assault claims against members of Congress and staff. Prohibit members of Congress from using office budgets to camouflage payments. Require members of Congress and staff that have ever been named in a sexual harassment or sexual assault settlement paid for by taxpayers reimburse the U.S. Treasury with interest. Any individual who received an award may make public statements about the claims notwithstanding the terms of a nondisclosure agreement and nondisclosure agreements cannot be made a condition of any future settlements. The full text of H.R. 4494 can be found HERE.
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, the House unanimously passed H.R. 995, the 21st Century Respect Act, legislation cosponsored by Rep. Royce which requires the Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Department of the Interior to replace the term “Oriental” with “Asian American or Pacific Islander” from all regulations. “Nobody, let alone the federal government, should use a hurtful term like ‘Orientals’ when referencing Americans of Asian descent,” said Rep. Royce. Americans of all backgrounds deserve to be treated with dignity and respect. Congress is responsible for updating our laws and regulations with the times. This should also be true for the terminology. I’m pleased to see my House colleagues unanimously support taking action to ensure that our laws and regulations will no longer refer to Asian Americans in such an offensive way.” Background: Rep. Royce has taken a lead role in removing offensive terminology from federal laws and regulations during the 114th and 115th sessions of Congress. In May of 2016, former President Obama signed legislation first authored by Rep. Grace Meng (D-N.Y.) and Rep. Royce to strike the term “Oriental” from preexisting federal law and replace it with “Asian American.” That legislation, H.R. 4238, also removes the terms “Negroes,” “Indians,” and “Eskimos” from federal law. In December of 2015, Rep. Royce and Rep. Grace Meng successfully amended H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act of 2015, to strike the term “Oriental” from Title 42 of the United States Code and replace it with “Asian American.” The amendment also removes the terms “Negroes,” “Indians,” and “Eskimos” from the same law.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, legislation that will lead to new job-growth, more take-home pay, and a stronger American economy: “It’s been 31 years since we last reformed our tax code. The current tax system is broken, burdensome, and continues to hurt job creation. In order to compete in a 21st century economy, California families and small businesses need tax relief—not more of the status quo. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act focuses on boosting growth and helping people across the board keep more of what they earn. “Enacting pro-growth tax policies will directly lead to more economic prosperity for every single American. While this bill is not perfect, it’s a good start. I’m committed to ensuring that the final product works for all Californians, especially for those who need it most.” Impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on California: According to the analysis conducted by the non-partisan Tax Foundation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act would lead to an increase of 111,108 new full time jobs in California over the next 10 years. Additionally, the median household in California would see a gain of $2,932 in after-tax income. Overview of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: • Lowers individual tax rates for low- and middle-income Americans. Income from $24,000 to $90,000 will be taxed at 12%, income from $90,000 to $260,000 will be taxed at 25%, income from $260,000 to $1 million will be taxed at 35% and income above that is taxed at the current top rate of 39.6%. • Simplifies our increasingly confusing and complex tax code so an individual or family can file their taxes on a form as small as a postcard. • Significantly increases the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what you earn each year from taxes – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. • Establishes a new Family Credit, which includes expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 to help parents with the cost of raising children, and providing a credit of $300 for each parent and non-child dependent to help all families with their everyday expenses.” • Continues to allow people to write off the cost of state and local property taxes up to $10,000. A full overview of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act can be found HERE.
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House passed H.R. 2874, the 21st Century Flood Reform Act, which incorporates a number of reforms authored by Rep. Royce including language aimed at decreasing the number of repeatedly flooded properties and a provision mandating better disclosures to consumers about flood risk before the sale of a house. Rep. Royce gave the following remarks (as prepared for delivery) in favor of the bill’s passage: “I rise in strong support of the 21st Century Flood Reform Act. I would like to congratulate Chairman Hensarling and Chairman Duffy on putting forward a bill that has brought together the Montagues and Capulets. A bill supported by the environmental community, taxpayer advocates, conservative think tanks, affordable housing groups, reinsurers, and insurers. “I set two priorities as we looked to reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program: To provide better disclosure to consumers about flood risk and decrease the number of repeatedly flooded properties. This bill accomplishes both. “Section 108 of the bill includes language I authored, which will provide information to homebuyers about past flood events, damage, insurance claims, and any obligation to carry flood insurance. The National Association of Realtors supports this common-sense approach. “Section 402 of the bill includes the bipartisan Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act, sponsored by Rep. Earl Blumenauer and myself. Repeatedly flooded properties comprise less than two percent of NFIP policies, while accounting for one third of all claims. Responsible, community driven mitigation is a win-win proposal; one which will help make our neighborhoods stronger and address the fiscal footing of the overall program. “Finally, Mr. Speaker, I would particularly like to thank the Pew Charitable Trusts’ flood-prepared communities initiative’ for their support of our reform efforts. I urge passage of the underlying bill, and I yield back.” Video of Rep. Royce’s remarks can be found HERE. Specific Royce Legislative Proposals included in the 21st Century Flood Reform Act: Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act: The bill requires communities participating in the NFIP with a significant number (50 or more) of repeatedly flooded properties to reduce flood risk rather than continually rebuilding. Communities would be required to map repeatedly flooded areas and create a unique plan to lower flood risk, including identifying areas that need drainage improvements, and areas that could be part of a voluntary buyout program or other mitigation efforts. The bill also sets deadlines for FEMA to develop criteria to govern these plans and determine any appropriate sanctions for failure to act. The Homeowners’ Flood Risk Disclosure and Transparency Act: The bill requires those who sell or lease a property to disclose available information to consumers about past flood events, known flood risks, and obligations to carry flood insurance. This will provide current and potential homeowners with the information necessary to accurately assess flood hazards and history, foster interest in flood insurance, and promote investments in mitigation against future events. In June of this year, the House Financial Services Committee passed legislation sponsored by Rep. Royce, H.R. 1558, the Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act. The original press release can be found HERE. The taxpayer-backed National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) was created in 1968 to provide government insurance protection against flood risks for both homeowners and commercial businesses. 50 years later, the federal program has a monopoly, has borrowed over $30 billion from taxpayers, operates a $1.4 billion annual deficit and lacks the innovation expected of a company with $1.2 trillion of insurance coverage. The NFIP’s 5 million policies represent 4% of U.S. households at an annual average cost of $884. Over 94% of NFIP residential policyholders paid less than $2,000 in annual premiums for NFIP coverage. The House Financial Services Committee’s revised package of reforms is supported by: the National Association of Realtors (NAR), the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB), the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America (PCI), the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA), the National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies (NAMIC), and many other industry stakeholders. ###
11.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-CA) and Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX) introduced H.R. 4373, the bipartisan Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Modernization Act or the AML and CTF Modernization Act which strengthens the United States anti-money laundering (AML) and counter-terrorism financing (CTF) system. “Financial criminals and terrorists have evolved in the decades since our anti-money laundering regime was built but our regulatory structure hasn’t kept pace,” said Rep. Royce. “By some estimates, nearly 70 percent of spending on AML compliance is focused on inputs over outcomes. This does little to thwart criminal syndicates, rogue nations, and terrorist networks but it strips away resources that could be better spent on new technologies and other innovations to support national security. The AML and CTF Modernization Act will refocus our regime on quality over quantity, providing new tools to assist law enforcement.” Rep. Royce also echoed previous calls for passage of legislation to combat anonymous shell companies involved in money laundering saying, “Tackling beneficial ownership is an essential part of comprehensive reform.” Specifically, he is a cosponsor of the bipartisan Corporate Transparency Act, sponsored by Reps. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) and Peter King (R-NY). “Money laundering poses a serious threat to the legitimacy and stability of our local, national, and international financial institutions,” said Rep. Gonzalez. “The Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorism Financing Modernization Act establishes a protocol that allows banks to share targeted information without liability; requires regulators to produce rulings that will advance financial institutions’ ability to abide by Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing regimes; and will require the U.S. Department of the Treasury to share helpful Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing intelligence that would empower our financial institutions to fight against money launderers. Enacting this important legislation will bolster the transparency and efficiency of our financial system while enhancing our ability to prevent money laundering schemes in a timely manner.” Background: In July, Representatives Royce and Nydia Velázquez (D-NY) sent a letter to the Treasury Secretary with several recommendations for improving the U.S. AML regime. Several of their recommendations are contained in the legislation introduced today, including adjusting for inflation the thresholds for filing suspicious activity reports (SARs) and currency transaction reports (CTRs) which haven’t been updated since 1996 and 1972, respectively. Doing so would reduce the number of filings which now total over 55,000 per day and allow FinCEN to prioritize those of the highest law enforcement and national security consequence. H.R. 4373 would expand the ability of financial institutions to share suspicious activity reports within their organization to improve enterprise-wide risk management and require the Treasury Department to improve qualitative feedback for financial institutions and Federal financial regulators on their AML/CTF efforts. Lastly, the legislation would improve FinCEN’s administrative rulings process and require Treasury to explore the potential for artificial intelligence, machine learning, and other technologies to help detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. Rep. Royce gave keynote remarks at the Bipartisan Policy Center in September about his efforts to curb money laundering and terrorism financing. You can watch his remarks HERE. Last week, Rep. Royce questioned the Treasury Department’s Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, Sigal Mandelker, at a Subcommittee hearing where he asked her about adjusting the threshold for SARs and CTRs, to which the Under Secretary responded by calling on Congress to go even further, saying “I think it’s time for us to revisit the [anti-money laundering] regime writ large. We have to get out of the 1970s and the 1990s and move way past 2017…” You can watch the video from that hearing HERE. Rep. Royce is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and both Rep. Royce and Rep. Gonzalez are members of the House Financial Services Committee. Full text of the bill can be viewed HERE and a section-by-section can be found HERE. For more information, contact: Steven Smith (Royce) at Steven.Smith@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111 Aryn Fields (Gonzalez) at Aryn.Fields@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-2531
11.07.2017	Rep. Royce (pictured far right) attended the ceremony for Bridget Blehm (pictured center right) as she was sworn into be a Civilian Aide to the Secretary of the Army. WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) attended a ceremony at the Pentagon for Yorba Linda resident Bridget Blehm as she was sworn in to serve as Civilian Aide to the Secretary of the Army (CASA). After the ceremony, Rep. Royce released the following statement: “Military families throughout Orange County are very familiar with Bridget Blehm and the incredible work she has done serving as Executive Director of For Families of Active Military (FFAM). For more than a decade, Bridget has provided hope and support to active military and their families when they needed it the most. As a Civilian Aide to the Secretary of the Army, Bridget is the ideal candidate to support and advocate for U.S. Army soldiers, veterans, and families of Southern California.” Bridget Blehm (pictured center) is sworn in by the U.S. Secretary of the Army, Ryan McCarthy (pictured left), during a ceremony held at the Pentagon on Tuesday. Background: Rep. Royce endorsed Bridget Blehm’s nomination to serve as a Civilian Aide to the Secretary of the Army (CASA) and submitted a letter of support which can be found HERE. Bridget Blehm was one of five Californians to be selected to serve as a CASA, which comes with a 3-star general rank. Bridget’s duties will include participating in advisory panels that will help create a better dialogue between the civilian and military communities in Southern California. (Courtesy of For Families of Active Military) Bridget Blehm founded FFAM in 2006 after years of inviting active military to her home at Thanksgiving and Christmas. When the invitation list kept growing, she moved the celebrations to a larger space. She soon realized how formalizing her efforts would allow her to increase support for active military men and women as well as their families. She expanded her support to include pre-deployment activities, soldier care packages, welcome home celebrations, new baby baskets, respite care and more. And, in 2016 FFAM opened The Re-Entry Lodge in Lake Arrowhead where military from Camp Pendleton, Miramar Air Station and Fort Irwin (all branches across the US) may take their families for time away together to reconnect and rejuvenate post-deployment or in times of need. For families of Active Military (FFAM) is a not for profit that began in 2006 in response to the increasing awareness of the hardships that our military families experience, and the desire to give back to those who sacrifice so much on our country's behalf. FFAM works with military bases in Southern California to provide holiday meals and gifts, pre- and post-deployment support, food and furnishings assistance, new baby baskets, bereavement and respite care, and a retreat center for families to reintegrate and relax after returning from deployment. ###
11.03.2017	Click on the video above to watch Rep. Royce's remarks during Thursday's Housing and Insurance Subcommittee Hearing Entitled “Sustainable Housing Finance: Private Sector Perspectives on Housing Finance Reform – Part II.” WASHINGTON, D.C. — This week, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) participated in a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee Hearing Entitled “Sustainable Housing Finance: Private Sector Perspectives on Housing Finance Reform – Part II.” During the hearing, Rep. Royce advocated for two of his bills aimed at increasing private sector involvement in the secondary housing market and improving the structure and transparency of PACE loans. Key excerpts, as prepared for delivery: “Housing finance reform remains the great undone work of the financial crisis. A nationalized mortgage market is an unsustainable status quo. Sadly, the situation we find ourselves in today was a predictable one. In 2003, I introduced legislation, and again in 2005, in the form of an amendment, which would have reigned in the GSEs, allowing them to be regulated for systemic risk. “Alan Greenspan backed the amendment. But it was not enough to overcome the outsized political pressure brought by the GSEs themselves. While claiming that Fannie and Freddie posed no threat to the financial markets and the systemic risk was “a theoretical term,” the opponents of my amendment won that day. “But they do not have to win today. We have a chance to learn from the past and put to rest the model of private gains and public losses once and for all. Increasing private sector involvement in the secondary housing market – through increased credit risk transfer and a truly common securitization platform – is the first step in preventing another bailout paid for by American taxpayers.” *** Rep. Royce went on to question witnesses participating in Thursday’s hearing asking, “Mr. Stevens, as you know, along with Rep. Gwen Moore, I have put forward bipartisan legislation that would direct Fannie and Freddie to increase the amount and the types of credit risk transfer transactions to the maximum level that is economically and commercially viable. When FHFA Director Watt appeared before this Committee, in early October, he told me that they are looking to encourage more front-end credit risk transfers at Fannie & Freddie. How do you think they intend to accomplish this goal? Do you think deeper mortgage insurance is part of the equation?” David H. Stevens, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mortgage Bankers Association replied, “Credit risk transfers are critical to almost every model being presented going forward. To date, the credit risk transfer model has mostly been in the form of structured finance through CRT executions that have taken place. We believe in order to have a truly functioning deep first-loss credit enhancement market you need to utilize both institutional risk transfers via mortgage insurance and reinsurance markets as well as structured. FHFA should be directed to do this sooner rather than later because we believe ultimately proving that point will bring more capital into the markets—both good and bad—regardless of whether credit spreads are wide or narrow. It’s something we encourage FHFA to pursue and we appreciate your efforts to try and do the same.” “Mr Goodwin, in your testimony you highlight the work SFIG has done around the revitalization of the PLS market. Outside of lowering conforming loan limits, can you highlight some of the recommendations you have that we, as legislators, can undertake to help?” asked Rep. Royce. Dan Goodwin, Director of Mortgage Policy, Structured Finance Industry Group responded saying, “There are three broad areas that need focus. One is an industry focused area of providing alignment of interest. Defining clear roles and responsibilities is part of the undertaking that SFIG is doing under its RMBS 3.0 umbrella. That is an industry self-regulating piece. We should continue the work we have been doing over the last several years with prudential regulators and the CFPB to clarify liability around investors, and to tailor regulatory and capital rules to better suit the products we are working with. Finally, we should continue to work to reduce the GSE footprint.” “Mr. Stevens, as you know, Rep. Sherman and I share some of your criticism of the PACE Loan program. On the face of it, helping homeowners improve energy efficiency is a good thing. But the structure of these loans and sales practices have raised some concerns - what role should the GSEs play in addressing these concerns?” asked Rep. Royce. David H. Stevens replied, “The PACE program we view as a danger to the average home owner. One of the problems is that it’s not a loan, it’s a tax assessment which means it’s not subject to the traditional consumer disclosures and protections that have been established under the CFPB’s consumer disclosure requirements. As a result it creates an opportunity for a cottage industry of whoever can invent the next energy enhancement without oversight can go sell it to consumers who may have no idea whether the value is there. It also takes first lien rights after the fact. Our view is that the GSE’s should be forbidden from allowing the PACE loan in their portfolio as well as the FHA.” Kevin Brown, Chair, Conventional Financing & Policy Committee, National Association of Realtors added, “I totally agree. There needs to be a consumer educational component. Most consumers that get PACE loans don’t understand what they are. It does take a first lien holder position. I very much agree with Mr. Stevens.” Background: In July of this year, Representatives Royce and Gwen Moore (D-WI), introduced H.R. 3556, the Taxpayer Protections and Market Access for Mortgage Finance Act, legislation requiring the GSEs to increase credit risk transfers (CRT) with the private sector. This legislation directs the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director to establish guidelines requiring Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the GSEs) to engage in significant, increasing, and varied credit risk transfer (CRT) with an emphasis on front-end transactions when mortgages are originated. The GSEs would be required to set and publish guarantee fees, including loan level price adjustments (LLPAs), to reflect the reduced credit risk resulting from new CRT transactions. Both authors of the legislation are senior members of the House Financial Services Committee. Full text of the bill can be viewed HERE. In April, Representative Royce cosponsored H.R. 1958, the Protecting Americans from Credit Entanglements Act introduced by Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA). This legislation amends the Truth in Lending Act, to ensure that PACE lenders are subject to the same basic disclosure requirements that apply to traditional lenders, including providing to consumers the annual percentage rate, a schedule of payments, and the total cost of the loan. Homeowners will also be notified that they will be taking a lien on their home. The full text of H.R. 1958 can be found HERE. ###
11.02.2017	The office of U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) is hosting a wildfire assistance seminar for local residents living in the 39th Congressional District. This past year, Southern Californians have experienced some of the worst wildfires in recent history. In response, Rep. Royce has brought together organizations including FEMA, the California Governor's Office of Emergency Services, and the Small Business Administration to provide critical resources for homeowners and small businesses who want to learn more about financial assistance and fire preparedness. The seminar will be held on Friday November 10, at 4:00 PM at the East Anaheim Community Center. General attendees can RSVP by clicking here. Those interested in further details on the event may contact Alison Martin in Rep. Royce's office at (714) 255-0101 or Alison.Martin@mail.house.gov. WHAT: Wildfire assistance seminar for local residents living in the 39th Congressional District. WHO: Hosted by the office of Representative Ed Royce, FEMA, the California Governor's Office of Emergency Services, the Small Business Administration and other local organizations. WHEN: Friday November 10, at 4:00 PM WHERE: East Anaheim Community Center, 8201 E. Santa Ana Canyon Road, Anaheim, CA 92808
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 2936, the Resilient Federal Forests Act, bipartisan legislation aimed at streamlining resources for federal agencies to proactively prevent wildfires before they occur: “Californians can no longer afford to suffer the consequences of short-sighted and reactive forest management policies. The California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection reports that wildfires have burned 556,090 acres this year statewide, more than double the amount of acres burned at this time in 2016. Tragically, the agencies responsible for managing forests on federal lands face too many bureaucratic and legal hurdles to effectively treat our nation’s woodlands. Enacting proactive solutions that incorporate scientifically-proven forest management techniques will not only save millions of dollars in property damage, more importantly it will also save lives.” Background: H.R. 2936 would implement a series of reforms to how the Forest Service manages and administers national forests and grasslands. The bill would reduce project planning times, the cost of implementing forest management projects, and would simplify environmental requirements. Additionally, this legislation would include “wildfire on federal lands” within the definition of a major disaster under the Stafford Act which provides assistance to states during declared emergencies. Click HERE to read the full text of the legislation. Last year, Rep. Royce asked the leadership of the U.S. Senate to consider changes to how Congress funds the U.S. Forest Service and Department of Interior's wildfire fighting operations. In the letter, signed by 57 other members of the House, Rep. Royce highlighted the nearly $700 million federal land agencies borrowed from land management and other important activities to fight wildfires during 2015. That letter can be found HERE. ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement in response to a protest held outside his Brea office: “I condemn in the strongest possible terms any and all violence. There is no room for physical confrontation or actions that put lives at risk. My staff and I remain committed to meeting with all constituents who wish to voice their opinions in a civil and respectful manner.” ###
10.25.2017	Rep. Ed Royce met with Filipino veterans of World War II during Wednesday's Congressional Gold Medal Ceremony including Celestino Almeda pictured above. WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) joined House and Senate leadership at the U.S. Capitol to present a Congressional Gold Medal in honor of Filipino veterans of World War II for their service and sacrifice during the war. Rep. Royce had the pleasure of hosting two Southern California families who attended today’s ceremony as surviving relatives of Filipino veterans of World War II. The family members included Clarita Prepuse Quinto—daughter of veteran Marcos Prepuse—and her husband Alfred Quinto, and Dalmacio B. Calas—son of veteran Pedro Calas—and his wife Celia L. Calas. (Pictured left to right) Dalmacio B. Calas—son of veteran Pedro Calas—and his wife Celia L. Calas, andClarita Prepuse Quinto—daughter of veteran Marcos Prepuse—and her husband Alfred Quinto. Below are highlights of Rep. Royce’s remarks (as prepared for delivery): “It is an honor to be a part of today’s ceremony recognizing the valor and sacrifice of the Filipino Veterans of World War II. This unsung group of heroes fought courageously for the defense of our country during one of the most important periods of American history. Their valor and patriotism is deserving of the highest civilian recognition from the U.S. Congress. “Some of the most significant contributions made by these veterans came when our nation needed them most. In 1941, more than 250,000 Filipino soldiers responded to President Roosevelt’s call-to-arms to fight under the American flag. 16,000 Filipinos enlisted from in my home state of California, and subsequently the United States Army’s 1st and 2nd Filipino Infantry Regiments were organized in California. “The contributions of the Filipino World War II veterans are an important part of our American military history, and their accomplishments deserve the foremost recognition, a Congressional Gold Medal of Honor. “To these brave veterans of World War II and their surviving family members, thank you for your service and sacrifice. We honor your service by working towards a better world.” Rep. Royce joined House and Senate leaders Wednesday in presenting the Congressional Gold Medal in honor of Filipino veterans of World War II. Background: On November 30, 2016, the House passed bipartisan legislation recognizing Filipino veterans of World War II and collectively awarding them the Congressional Gold Medal. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian honor the United States can bestow. In accordance with Public Law No: 114-265, a single gold medal has been struck to honor the Filipino veterans of World War II in recognition of their dedicated service during the war. As Foreign Affairs Chairman, Rep. Ed Royce led a bipartisan delegation to the Philippines in 2016 and has long worked to improve U.S.- Philippine relations. Video of Rep. Royce’s remarks at today’s ceremony are available HERE. ###
10.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement after the House passed S. 504, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act, legislation to permanently reauthorize the U.S. Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Card Program: “In order to keep California’s businesses competitive, it is critical to provide resources that improve access to growing markets. The APEC Business Travel Card program allows California businesses—which have deep ties with Asia-Pacific partners—to better compete in a 21st century global economy by allowing Travel Card holders expedited clearance at ports of entry in the 21 APEC member economies. Fast-track lanes allow American business travelers to reduce their cost of travel overseas while at the same time improves security at our ports of entry. The APEC Travel Card means increased opportunity and jobs right here in Southern California.” Background: The U.S. Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Card Program provides access to fast-track immigration lanes at airports for travelers who conduct verified business in the APEC region while maintaining the Department of Homeland Security’s authority to revoke an individual’s card if there is a sufficient security justification. APEC, a forum of 21 Pacific Rim economies including the U.S., created the ABTC program in 1997, and the U.S. started issuing cards to eligible Americans in 2014 after Congress passed the APEC Business Travel Cards Act in 2011. This program does not use any taxpayer money and facilitates travel for verified individuals who have enrolled in a trusted traveler program. The full text of the legislation is available here. ###
10.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — On Wednesday, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) teamed up with the Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force (OCHTTF) for the second time in the past three years to host an Anti-Human Trafficking Training Seminar designed specifically for the hospitality industry. Participants included Southern California hotel managers and owners who learned how to identify the signs of human trafficking and how to report it. “Millions of people, particularly in the hospitality and health industries, come into contact with victims of human trafficking every day, but are either not able to identify the nature of the problem or do not know where to report the situation. As a community, we have a duty to do everything we can to help those in danger and provide each other with the resources and training needed to properly identify and report victims of this horrific crime. All it takes is one person to notice what is going on and make a phone call to possibly end this cycle of modern slavery,” stated Rep. Royce. Additionally, Rep. Royce honored local hospitality industry leaders for their outstanding efforts in assisting the task force in combatting human trafficking. Pictured below: Anaheim PDSergeantJuan Reveles, representing the OC Human Trafficking Task Force, and Rep. Ed Royce presented awards to Buena Vista Inn, La Quinta Inn-Costa Mesa, and Motel 6-Stanton, honoring them for their tireless efforts to fight human trafficking in our communities. (Pictured above)Rep. Royce joined Anaheim Police Department Deputy Chief Julian Harvey to honor representatives from La Quinta Inn-Costa Mesa. (Pictured above) Rep. Royce joined Anaheim Police Department Deputy Chief Julian Harvey to honor representatives from Motel 6-Stanton. Rep. Royce has previously partnered with the Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force in 2015 to teach local hotel industry leaders how to spot signs of human trafficking and prostitution. In 2013, Rep. Royce launched the Human Trafficking Congressional Advisory Committee (HTCAC) to address human trafficking concerns, as well as offer policy recommendations. The HTCAC is comprised of victims’ rights groups, local and federal law enforcement agencies, and community advocates, and is actively working to combat human trafficking in Southern California. Additionally, this past July, the House of Representatives unanimously passed a bipartisan bill sponsored by Rep. Royce called the TARGET Act. This bill turns the tables on human traffickers by allowing the State Department to use cash rewards to help bring them to justice. Rewards issued under similar programs have helped lead to the capture of major terrorists and international criminals. Click HERE to read more about the TARGET Act.
10.12.2017	Click on the video above to watch Rep. Royce's remarks during Thursday's Financial Services Committee Hearing with U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson. WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) questioned U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson on federal housing reforms including his legislation, H.R. 3556, the Taxpayer Protections and Market Access for Mortgage Finance Act during a House Financial Services Committee Hearing. “Mr. Secretary, at the outset I want to invite you to my district, especially out to San Bernardino, California, where the Housing Authority is working on a ‘Moving to Work’ program. It’s an agency that’s been up and running for some time there and it’s running very effectively. They have had a number of self-sufficiency programs including home ownership programs with term limits and work requirements.We would love to have you see this first-hand if you could. I wanted to extend that invitation. “I was wondering if you could talk a little more about what the Department is doing to advance MTW as it’s called, the ‘Moving to Work’ program and other sustainable best practices which lift people out of their situations and onto economic independence,” said Rep. Royce. “Thank you for that question. The ‘Moving to Work’ initiative really aims to provide various municipalities with the ability to be flexible, recognizing that they were probably the people who best knew what their needs were. This allows for a significant amount of innovation. The first 39 districts that benefited from this have produced some pretty good results. This has resulted in us extending the program to another 100 communities over the next seven years. I’m hopeful that we will be able to go far beyond that and I look forward to working with you on ways to expand that program. We are looking for everything that is highly effective. Some of the programs that have been talked about here this morning have had some components that are highly effective. We are going to make sure that we learn from those things and continue to push those things. There may be different mechanisms to do it but we are not going to abandon those things. That would be foolishness,” replied Secretary Carson. “Two other questions, one is the Department is reviewing its policy to allow PACE (Property-Assessed Clean Energy) lien on FHA financed loans. As you know the defaults on these loans are on the rise. I was going to ask if you would comment on when you might make a decision on whether to withdraw the current Mortgagee Letter or clarify how the FHA will treat these PACE loans,” asked Rep. Royce. “Well you know obviously it’s a serious issue when you put in the first lien position somebody other than the major lender,” answered Secretary Carson. “It’s very concerning for us,” responded Rep. Royce. “It’s very concerning for me too. We are taking that into consideration and we will have a decision on that soon,” answered Secretary Carson. “And one last question. As you know Mr. Secretary, GSE’s have engaged in significant credit sharing transactions. This shields American taxpayers to some extent. Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI) and I have a bill to get them to do even more in terms of that approach. I’ve been told that the FHA may have the authority to do similar risk sharing transactions, or at least purchase co-insurance to reduce the risk to the public. I think this could be a very constructive means to reduce taxpayer exposure. Would you support legislation, or regulatory clarification of FHA’s existing authority to explore credit risk sharing,” asked Rep. Royce. “We have already engaged in some discussions on that and are continuing those discussions. I’m very much looking forward to having an FHA Commissioner but I agree with you that it’s an area ripe for discussion and movement,” answered Secretary Carson. Watch Rep. Royce’s full line of questions HERE. Background: The Taxpayer Protections and Market Access for Mortgage Finance Act directs the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director to establish guidelines requiring Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the GSEs) to engage in significant, increasing, and varied credit risk transfer (CRT) with an emphasis on front-end transactions when mortgages are originated. The GSEs would be required to set and publish guarantee fees, including loan level price adjustments (LLPAs), to reflect the reduced credit risk resulting from new CRT transactions. Both authors of the legislation are senior members of the House Financial Services Committee. Full text of the bill can be viewed HERE. The Protecting Americans from Credit Entanglements Act, or PACE Act, amends the Truth in Lending Act, to ensure that PACE lenders are subject to the same basic disclosure requirements that apply to traditional lenders, including providing to consumers the annual percentage rate, a schedule of payments, and the total cost of the loan. Homeowners will also be notified that they will be taking a lien on their home. The full text of H.R. 1958 can be found HERE. ###
09.22.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) and U.S. Treasury Department signed the U.S.-E.U. covered agreement: “Today’s signing of the covered agreement is a big win for American consumers. Providing regulatory certainty and leveling the playing field for U.S.-based insurers and reinsurers operating in the E.U. will result in billions of dollars in savings while protecting American jobs.” Background: Last September, Representative Royce questioned Federal Insurance Office (FIO) Director Michael McRaith about the importance of a U.S.-E.U. covered agreement to protect American insurance firms and consumers during a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “The Impact of the U.S.-E.U. Dialogues on U.S. Insurance Markets.” Chairman Royce also sent a letter to the Treasury Department and USTR urging them to begin the negotiations with the E.U. that led to the agreement.
09.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), circulated draft legislation, the Anti-Money Laundering Modernization Act, which strengthens the United States anti-money laundering (AML) and countering terrorism financing (CTF) system. Rep. Royce is seeking comments from stakeholders and bipartisan support to move this bill forward. “Our nation’s anti-money laundering and countering terrorism financing regime has been a 40-year work in progress and there is increasing recognition that it needs to be modernized,” said Rep. Royce. “The guiding principle of our anti-money laundering regime must be to protect the national security of the United States and our allies, as well as the integrity of the international financial system. In order to accomplish this end, our regulatory infrastructure must keep pace with the times. Criminal syndicates, rogue nations and terrorist networks are not sitting idly by, and neither can we.” Background: In July, Representatives Royce and Nydia Velázquez (D-NY) sent a letter to the Treasury Secretary with several recommendations for improving the U.S. AML regime. Several of their recommendations are contained in this draft legislation, including adjusting for inflation the thresholds for filing suspicious activity reports (SARs) and currency transaction reports (CTRs) which haven’t been updated since 1996 and 1972, respectively. Doing so would reduce the number of filings which now total over 55,000 per day and allow FinCEN to prioritize those of the highest law enforcement and national security consequence. The draft bill furthermore would expand the ability of financial institutions to share suspicious activity reports within their organization to improve enterprise-wide risk management and require the Treasury Department to improve qualitative feedback for financial institutions and Federal financial regulators on their AML/CTF efforts. Lastly, the legislation would improve FinCEN’s administrative rulings process and require Treasury to explore the potential for artificial intelligence, machine learning, and other technologies to help detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee. Full text of the draft bill can be viewed HERE and a section-by-section HERE. Rep. Royce gave keynote remarks at the Bipartisan Policy Center this week about his efforts to curb money laundering and terrorist financing. You can watch his remarks HERE.
09.07.2017	Click on the video above to watch Rep. Royce's remarks during Thursday's Financial Institutions and Consumer CreditSubcommittee Hearing. WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) questioned witnesses on his legislative proposal to protect and bolster consumer access to credit during a Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee Hearing entitled “Legislative Proposals for a More Efficient Federal Financial Regulatory Regime.” “Thank you Ms. Fortney, I think Congresswoman Maloney made a point there. Perhaps I could ask on my time. Ms. Fortney, would you respond to the Congresswoman’s question?” said Rep. Royce. “I would be glad to. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has brought action under its authority to deal with unfair or deceptive acts or practices. There is nothing in the Royce bill that addresses that at all that would interfere in any way. What the bill would do would simply let the FTC and consumers pursue the rights and protections of consumers under the credit repair organization act it does not in any way interfere with the ability of the CFPB to enforce the law,” answered Anne Fortney, Partner Emerita, Hudson Cook LLP. “Thank you and I’ll continue with another point here. CROA is a law that protects consumers from the predatory practices of credit repair organizations. It does this by requiring written contracts, statutory disclosures, a cooling-off periods, a prohibition on prepayment under what we’re doing here with the Credit Service Protection Act, what we propose is leaving CROA in place for credit repair while changing the regulatory regime, for what? For credit education. That’s the point. We’ve tried to strike the right balance. On one hand offering a clear path to better financial literacy for consumers, while maintain the strong consumer protection by the FTC, by the CFPB, and by the state Attorneys General. So, how would consumers continue to be protected under this provision? Can the bad actors that offer predatory forms of credit repair simply use this law to escape CROA liability? No, but I will ask Mrs. Forte if she wanted to reply?” asked Rep. Royce. “I would be glad to because that’s one of the misconceptions about this bill, that somehow companies that actually engage in credit repair could use this regulatory framework within the Federal Trade Commission to evade compliance with CROA. Actually in order to be certified and registered as an authorized credit services provider, there has to be a determination by the Federal Trade commission that you don’t engage in credit repair. I can say that there is no agency or entity in America that is better qualified to determine whether somebody’s engaging in credit repair or not. The FTC has successfully and vigorously enforced CROA for the last 20 years. What this bill does is create a separate regime, a separate framework, under the supervision of the FTC. One of the objections was that somehow credit repair organizations would apply in mass--I think it would take the FTC five minutes to determine if somebody is in fact a credit repair organization, or if somebody is an entity that actually wants to provide individualized consumer education; products and services; and identity theft protection services. The FTC would very carefully review the qualifications and the business of each of these entities. It would require a three day cancellation period. It would require a notice. I think there is concern also about whether this notice would be clear and conspicuous. You know the FTC has developed the standards for what’s clear and conspicuous--they’re going to know if the notice is clear and conspicuous. These companies that want to be authorized service providers would in fact subject themselves to very close scrutiny by the FTC. I think this would enhance the protections for consumers with respect to credit education and identity theft protection products,” answered Ms. Fortney. “I’ll throw another point out there for Mr. Quaadman because your members provide credit to millions of Americans who want to buy a house or a car or to finance education and so forth. In previous testimony, we heard from the Economic Research Council, personalized credit education materially benefits consumers, and 23% of consumers improved and moved up score bands such as from subprime to near prime or to prime, after receiving personalized credit education from a national credit bureaus. What then does access to credit education mean for consumers from your standpoint?” asked Rep. Royce. “You know Mr. Royce I think you’re exactly along the right lines that consumers are much more savvy and understand they need to stay on top of their credit scores and be much more aware of what is impacting their financial situation. To the extent that we can help educate consumers to be better informed and to better use tools to protect their credit scores they’re going to be not only better consumers they’ll be better entrants into the financial system,” responded Thomas Quaadman, Executive Vice President, Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask for unanimous consent to submit for the record, nine letters of support for my draft legislation, including from the Coalition to Improve Credit Education, the National Black Caucus of State Legislators, the National Bankers Association, the Policy and Economic Research Council, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the U.S Hispanic Chamber of Commerce,” said Rep. Royce.
09.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement on the DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) immigration policy: “The status of eligible DACA recipients should not change from one administration to the next. Congress should act now to provide a permanent, legislative solution that gives certainty to these kids. We should not deny residence to children who have only known America as their home, positively contributed to this great country, and passed a background check.”
09.02.2017	Rep. Royce meeting with Henry Cheng, Acting Chairman and CEO of 85℃USA Division. TAIPEI, TAIWAN – This week, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) met with several leaders from the Taiwanese government and local businesses, including 85°C Bakery, as part of a U.S. delegation trip to highlight the positive economic cooperation that exists between Taiwan and the United States. After the meeting, Rep. Royce released the following statement: “The successful economic partnership between the United States and Taiwan continues to play a major role in bringing jobs to Southern California. Thriving businesses, like 85°C, have introduced Taiwanese-style bakery products to a mainstream audience while creating roughly 1,000 jobs in my home district. The success of 85°C is a phenomenon that has swept the country and I’m thrilled to learn that they plan to continue growing and providing more job opportunities in California. With our shared values of democracy and open markets, it is more critical than ever that we continue to cultivate this positive economic relationship.” Note: Chairman Royce also met with CH Biotech, headquartered in Ontario, California, a Taiwanese company that is a leading producer of non-toxic agricultural products that help farmers grow more produce.
09.01.2017	Rep. Royce and members of the U.S. delegation met with the Mayor of Taoyuan, Cheng Wen-tsan (pictured third from left), and China Airlines Chairman Ho Nuan-hsuan (pictured far right). Rep. Royce and Mayor Cheng Wen-tsan seated in a China Airlines simulator. TAOYUAN, TAIWAN – During his first day in Taiwan, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) met with the Mayor of Taoyuan, Cheng Wen-tsan, to discuss expanding Taiwanese investment in the U.S. Rep. Royce was joined by China Airlines Chairman Ho Nuan-hsuan during the meetings to discuss China Airlines’ plans to expand direct flights from Taoyuan to Ontario Airport. After the meeting Rep. Royce released the following statement: “I am grateful to Mayor Cheng for extending such a warm welcome to the U.S. delegation. As Taiwan’s gateway to the world, I know that Mayor Cheng understands the importance of the free flow of tourism, goods, and services. I look forward to strengthening the long-standing relationships between American businesses and Taiwan that serve as a win-win for our economies.”
09.01.2017	TAIPEI, TAIWAN - Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauded China Airlines’ announcement that they will evaluate the launch of direct flights from Taoyuan, Taiwan to Ontario, California. After the announcement, Rep. Royce released the following statement: “Since Taiwan was granted visa waiver status--something I championed--travel between our two countries has increased by 50 percent. The demand for these flights, not only for family and friends to visit one another but for business opportunities, is high. That is why I have been working to secure direct flights from Taoyuan to Ontario for some time. “There is no question, Taiwanese entrepreneurs are contributing to jobs and economic growth in Southern California. Today’s announcement is welcome news, one that I hope will lead towards further increasing trade and investment opportunities for both the U.S. and Taiwan.” Note: Chairman Royce, currently in Taiwan, is leading his fifth delegation to Taiwan since becoming Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
08.29.2017	Rep. Royce and Rep. Ami Bera (CA-07) meeting with Chairman of CJ Group Sohn Kyung-Shik (pictured center) in Seoul, South Korea. Rep. Royce meeting with Chairman of SPC Group Hur Young-in (pictured center). SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA – Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) met with leaders from CJ Group and SPC Group to discuss expanding U.S. trade opportunities and establishing new partnerships in South Korea. After the meetings, Rep. Royce released the following statement applauding the announcement by both companies to expand investment in the United States—including facilities in Fullerton, California—over the next several years: “I could not be more thrilled to see these thriving businesses invest resources, and most importantly, bringing jobs into the United States. The impact of CJ Group and SPC Group on the U.S. economy cannot be denied. As one of the first supporters of KORUS FTA, I’m proud of the positive impact that our economic alliance with these companies is having on the people of Southern California, and I know that success stories like these will continue to grow in local communities throughout the U.S.” Background: The announcement by CJ Group today included exploring the following investment opportunities through its U.S. subsidiaries over the next several years: Investment of approximately $5 million in 2018 to expand food manufacturing operations in its facility in Fullerton, California, which will lead to an estimated 30 new jobs. Investment over the next two years of approximately $90 million to construct a ready-meal manufacturing plant in Southern California that will lead to an estimated 200 new jobs by the end of 2018. Investment within the next three years in mergers and acquisitions in various industries throughout the United States and seeking opportunities to expand its existing businesses. During the meeting with Rep. Royce, SPC Group Chairman Hur Young-in announced that the company is planning to increase the number of Paris Baguette stores in operation in the U.S. to 300 by 2020 creating up to 10,000 new jobs.
08.28.2017	Chairman Royce and delegation visit President Moon at the Blue House. SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA –Today, House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) and a bipartisan delegation met South Korean President Moon Jae-in at the Blue House. Over the coming days, the delegation will sit down with a number of key government and private sector officials for discussions on national security, trade, and business development. After the meeting, Chairman Royce said: “It was good to meet with President Moon again at this important time. The United States has a great friend in South Korea, and our continued partnership is vital to the peace and stability of the Korean peninsula. As Kim Jong Un’s threats grow, we must strengthen the bonds between our two countries – including trade that provides good jobs for both Americans and South Koreans.” Members of Chairman Royce’s bipartisan delegation: Rep. Ted Yoho (R-FL), Chairman of the Asia and Pacific Subcommittee Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA), Vice Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Rep. Brad Schneider (D-IL) Rep. Jenniffer González-Colón (R-PR)
08.28.2017	Chairman Royce participated in a wreath laying ceremony with his House colleagues at the Comfort Women Memorial in Seoul, South Korea. SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA – Today, House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement after participating in a wreath laying ceremony at the Comfort Women Memorial to honor victims of sexual assault and sex trafficking during World War II: “There is so much that unites the people of South Korea and America. Just as both of our countries strive to build a stronger future, it’s important to learn from our pasts. In what was one of the worst cases of human trafficking of the 20th century, the trauma that countless Korean women suffered drove many to conceal their past, either too embarrassed or scared to speak of it. The surviving victims deserve to be remembered and this Comfort Women Memorial serves as a symbol of peace and humanity across the world, as well as a reminder of the atrocities that occurred. It is on all of us to ensure that we work together to prevent similar violations of human rights.” Background: Rep. Royce co-authored House Resolution 121 which called on the Japanese government to acknowledge, apologize, and accept responsibility for the coercion of young women into sexual slavery during its occupation of Asia and the Pacific. This legislation was passed in the House of Representatives by unanimous consent on July 30, 2007. In March of this year, Rep. Royce defended the memory of Comfort Women in response to the Japanese’s government’s continuing efforts to remove a statue tribute at the Glendale Peace Memorial. Later that same month, Rep. Royce praised the decision by the U.S. Supreme Court which declined to hear a suit seeking the removal of the Glendale Comfort Women statue. Click HERE for more information about the history of the Comfort Women Memorial in Seoul, South Korea.
08.24.2017	Rep. Royce embraces Pastor Nguyen Cong Chinh for the first time following his release from a Vietnamese prison. Picture left to right:Dr. Huu Vo, Pastor Nguyen Cong Chinh, Rep. Ed Royce, and Bishop Van Tran. Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement welcoming Pastor Nguyen Cong Chinh – who was sentenced by a Vietnamese court to 11 years in prison for leading a Christian congregation in Vietnam – to his district office in Rowland Heights, California: “Today is a great day for religious freedom. It is a blessing to greet Pastor Nguyen Cong Chinh in person after his release from prison and his family’s safe arrival in the United States. Despite the unthinkable harassment, torture, and imprisonment he suffered under Vietnam’s communist government, Pastor Chinh never lost faith in fighting for the rights of his congregation to worship freely. Pastor Chinh’s sacrifice shines as a beacon of hope and strength to millions around the world who still lack even the most basic of human rights.” Background: Nguyen Cong Chinh is an evangelical pastor originally from the Quang Nam province, and has lived in the Central Highland provinces of Kon Tum and Gia Lai since 1985. Over the past three decades Pastor Chinh has been subjected to beatings and his family was continually harassed for simply practicing their faith. Following Pastor Nguyen's arrest in 2011, Representative Royce sent a letter to President Truong Tan Sang of Vietnam raising the case of Pastor Nguyen Cong Chinh and to Secretary of State John Kerry requesting that Vietnam be returned to the list of countries of particular concern. He also introduced legislation calling on the Department of State to re-list Vietnam as a country of particular concern and to sanction the communist government for its violations of human rights – as well as urging President Obama and President Trump to raise human rights concerns in meetings with leaders of the Vietnamese government.
07.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-CA) and Gwen Moore (D-WI), introduced H.R. 3556, the Taxpayer Protections and Market Access for Mortgage Finance Act, legislation requiring the GSEs to increase credit risk transfers (CRT) with the private sector. “Increasing private sector involvement in the secondary housing market is the first step in preventing another bailout paid for by American taxpayers,” said Rep. Royce. “Congress should direct Fannie and Freddie to increase the amount and the types of credit risk transfer transactions to the maximum level that is economically and commercially viable. This action will stabilize the housing market for decades to come and lays a foundation for future GSE reforms.” “One of the best ways we can help all American families achieve the dream of homeownership is by ensuring their access to housing finance funding. This bipartisan bill makes such a dream reality by providing guidelines for increased credit risk transfer transactions to make financing home ownership more accessible.” said Rep. Moore. Background: H.R. 3556 directs the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director to establish guidelines requiring Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the GSEs) to engage in significant, increasing, and varied credit risk transfer (CRT) with an emphasis on front-end transactions when mortgages are originated. The GSEs would be required to set and publish guarantee fees, including loan level price adjustments (LLPAs), to reflect the reduced credit risk resulting from new CRT transactions. Both authors of the legislation are senior members of the House Financial Services Committee. Full text of the bill can be viewed HERE. For more information, contact: Steven Smith (Royce) at Steven.Smith@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111. Eric Harris (Moore) at Eric.Harris@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4572.
07.27.2017	Click on the video above to watch Rep. Royce's remarks during Thursday's Financial Services Committee Hearing with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) questioned U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on the state of the international financial system and the progress of Government Sponsored Enterprise (GSE) reforms during a House Financial Services Committee Hearing. “I would like to thank you for your commitment to leveling the trade and regulatory playing field for U.S. job creators. On this front, I was pleased to see the U.S.-E.U. covered agreement on insurance and reinsurance move across the finish line. This will mean billions of dollars in savings for U.S. firms which can be reinvested in our economy and passed on to consumers. I also appreciate your commitment to raising the equity caps for U.S. financial services in China. I was hoping you could update us on your most recent conversations and how the Chinese side reacts when we push them on the caps. Do you think we could get a win on this front?” said Rep. Royce. “I’m going to withhold how they react, but what I will say is that this is a yes, no answer. We expect them to be increased. We've told them to do that. I don’t care how they react, what I care about is when they tell us there is no cap. So I am not interested in them going from 49 to 52 percent, I want no cap,” replied Secretary Mnuchin. “On to the topic of housing finance reform, you have made it clear that ‘perpetual conservatorship’ is unsustainable and that you would prefer we deal with Fannie and Freddie through legislation. As we work towards reform in this Committee and in the Senate, we cannot lose sight of the benefits afforded to the GSEs by previous Congresses. These are benefits no other company has. They are benefits that helped created the duopoly and a broken system of private gains and public loses. Among them: tax exempt status from state and local jurisdictions; the ability to issue special SEC exempted ‘To Be Announced’ (or TBA) securities; the ability for the Fed to purchase GSE securities through their monetary policy operations; a perpetual line of credit directly to Treasury, beyond the 2008 bailout authority; and above all else, the implicit government guarantee that comes with the charter, which gave them the ability to borrow at below market rates and ignited the duopoly….Secretary Mnuchin, as you understand it, can you eliminate any of these benefits without legislation? Would you agree that reconstituting Fannie and Freddie as private companies with these Congressionally-mandated benefits should be avoided at all costs?” asked Rep. Royce. “I do, and let me first say that I look forward to working with you on this. Like I’ve said, we need a solution that creates liquidity for the housing market and doesn’t put taxpayers at risk. If there are any guarantees from the government going forward, it should be explicit and paid for and done so in a way that doesn’t put taxpayers at risk. We are determined to find a solution because this is a huge part of the economy and leaving them in conservatorship for the next four years makes no sense,” answered Secretary Mnuchin. Rep. Royce went on to press Secretary Mnuchin asking, “Do you agree or not that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should not, under any circumstances, be re-privatized as privately owned, implicitly government backed institutions?” Secretary Mnuchin responded saying, “I agree that there shouldn’t be implicit. If there is something it should be explicit and paid for. Otherwise, it should be very clear: there is no implicit government backing.” Watch Rep. Royce’s full line of questioning HERE.
07.26.2017	Washington D.C. - U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) has announced that the 2017 Congressional App Challenge for students in California's 39th Congressional District will open for submissions starting today, July 26 through November 1, 2017. The competition is designed to engage students’ creativity and encourage their participation in STEM education fields. It allows students to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet or computer devices on a platform of their choice. “If we want California to remain the innovation capital of the world, we need to encourage and support young people who are interested in science, technology, engineering, and math. The Congressional App Challenge is a unique opportunity for students to have fun developing skills that they will use for the rest of their lives. I strongly encourage students throughout the community to accept the challenge and participate in this year's competition,” said Representative Royce. Last year's Congressional App Challenge first place winners from the 39th district were: Christopher Jhaveri, Christopher Leung, Jason Kwan, and Santiago Torres of the La Puente Valley Regional Occupational Program at Los Altos High School. The winning students created Election Connection, a mobile application designed to educate voters on candidates' political positions. Election Connection was displayed in the United States Capitol alongside winning submissions from around the nation. Click on the video below to watch the creators of Election Connection discuss their winning App. The 2017 Congressional App Challenge submission period will run from July 26 – November 1, culminating in an exhibition and judging event during December. The competition winners will be selected by a panel of local judges and recognized by Rep. Royce and community leaders. Students, teachers, and administrators interested in entering the competition can do so by clicking HERE, or contacting Stephanie Hu from Rep. Royce's office at (626) 964-5123 or Stephanie.Hu@mail.house.gov. Additional information can be found HERE.
07.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee penned the following op-ed for World Journal highlighting the importance of Southern California being ready to compete in the new global economy: Ready to Compete in the 21st Century Global Economy World Journal By: Representative Ed Royce July 21, 2017 The 21st century global economy is transforming the way we live our lives. Nowhere is this more evident than in Southern California where we are fortunate to lead the nation in sectors such as advanced logistics, high-tech innovation, and financial services. Our very own Silicon Beach is leaving an indelible mark by producing successful startups such as Snap, Dollar Shave Club, and StartEngine. Ensuring that the southland is ready to compete in the new global economy is one of the most important duties that I have as Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. That is why I support commonsense, pro-growth policies that encourage entrepreneurship and innovation while welcoming investment. East San Gabriel Valley is home to many competitive entrepreneurs and businesses in Southern California. This is where James Lin grew a small trucking company started by his father into a high-tech, global supply chain corporation. Headquartered in Walnut, Unified Network Information Services operates in the City of Industry delivering end-to-end logistics solutions for the largest retailers in the world. UNIS also manufactures electronics and is growing jobs in California; the company employs more than 1,100 full-time employees. DSG Business, Tax, and Wealth Planning is another success story worth highlighting. Tony Yu is a second generation owner who grew a family financial services company into a thriving successful business. DSG recently celebrated its 30th anniversary and supports 10 employees. The company is known for offering 21st century solutions such as cybersecurity insurance. Being ready to compete also means that we need to educate our children for the jobs of tomorrow. Bixel Exchange – also known as Los Angeles’ Center for Innovation and Technology – is partnering with the industry to place community college graduates with degrees in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics into high-tech jobs. Similarly, I sponsor an annual coding contest that encourages children in elementary and middle schools to develop apps to help solve public policy challenges. In this manner, I hope to do my part to stir the imagination and unleash creativity which are the main ingredients of the knowledge economy. Rep. Royce attending the 2017 RobotNation Competition hosted by the Fullerton School District. This annual competition pits student-made robots against each other in a test of digital programming and mechanical engineering skills. Southern California is home to some of the most innovative and dynamic businesses in the world. Many of these amazing companies are located in our own neighborhoods. Helping the southland thrive in the 21st century global economy is one of the most important duties that I have. So, let’s work together to strengthen our competitiveness and build a brighter, more prosperous future. Ed Royce is Representative of California’s 39th Congressional District and Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
07.21.2017	City of Industry, CA – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today held his first Competitiveness Council meeting, an event designed to bring together small and medium businesses for a discussion on how to better compete in the 21st century economy. Tom Hardy, the Acting Director of the U.S. Trade and Development Agency, and Ms. Sarah Kemp, Minister Counselor of Commerce at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, will also be in attendance to discuss export promotion, selling overseas, and market access. Text of Chairman Royce’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, follows: “Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Southern California Competitiveness Council. My name is Ed Royce, and I represent California’s 39th Congressional District which includes East San Gabriel Valley and North Orange County. I am also Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Economic growth, jobs, and prosperity are issues that are extremely important to me. The Southern California Competitiveness Council is an extension of my work over the years on business issues such as export promotion, access to capital, banking reform, and high-tech education. By bringing together southland small and medium businesses into a dialogue, my goal is to promote our business community and help increase your ability to compete in the 21st century economy. Southern California is changing rapidly. We are America’s gateway to the Pacific – where Asia is our “Near West” rather than Far East – and at the same time we are Asia’s gateway to the United States. This means we have tremendous opportunity to sell overseas and domestically to tourists visiting from overseas. As Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I have always placed economic growth and prosperity at the top of my priority list alongside national security. I have the unique opportunity to promote Southern California to the rest of the world. That’s why today’s meeting is so important. I want to thank our special guests Sarah Kemp – who is here doing double duty on her vacation – and Tom Hardy for coming to East San Gabriel Valley to be a part of this event. Sarah is a great champion for American businesses and jobs. She is the chief Department of Commerce official stationed at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. Sarah joined the Department in 1992 as a Presidential Management Fellow and has risen through the ranks. Most recently, she served as Acting Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce for the International Trade Administration. She is an outstanding public servant, and I am honored to have you here. Thank you. Tom Hardy is the Acting Director of the Trade and Development Agency. Tom is an expert on international trade and is joining us from Washington, DC. You’re a Southern California at heart, are you, Tom? Thank you, Tom, for making time in your busy schedule to be with us. I also want to take this opportunity to thank James Lin, Chief Executive Officer of UNIS. James is an entrepreneur, philanthropist, and executive. Your amazing story of success – taking the company your father grew from one truck and one employee – to where it is today is the American Dream in action. I look forward to hearing from you about the future of advanced logistics and supply chain. There are so many people I want to recognize but will hold off until later in our conversation. I will tease for the moment that we do have a real life Wharton Business School drag racing business owner in the audience that you’ll all want to meet. What a combination, isn’t it? Thank you all for coming.”
07.16.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. - U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement praising the decision by the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) and U.S. Treasury Department agreeing to sign the U.S.-E.U. covered agreement: “After nearly 18 months of discussions, collaboration and negotiations among relevant stakeholders, I’m pleased to see the U.S.-E.U. covered agreement near the finish line. This agreement with the EU will level the regulatory playing field for U.S.-based insurers and reinsurers resulting in billions of dollars in savings which can be reinvested in the U.S. economy and passed on to consumers.” Background: Last September, Representative Royce questioned Federal Insurance Office (FIO) Director Michael McRaith about the importance of a U.S.-E.U. covered agreement to protect American insurance firms and consumers during a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “The Impact of the U.S.-E.U. Dialogues on U.S. Insurance Markets.” Chairman Royce also sent a letter to the Treasury Department and USTR urging them to begin the negotiations with the E.U. that led to the agreement.
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 23, the Gaining Responsibility on Water (GROW) Act, bipartisan legislation that he cosponsored aimed at modernizing water policies in California and throughout the entire Western United States: “California continues to be a dominant force in American agriculture. Californian farmers produce more than 400 commodities that represent over a third of the country’s vegetables and two-thirds of the country’s fruits and nuts. This is an incredibly important industry, not only to Californians, but to every American family that puts food on their dinner table at night. “For numerous years, California has been experiencing a drought of epic proportions. As a result, thousands of jobs disappeared, hundreds of thousands of acres of farm land had to be left idle, and billions of dollars were lost. And while we’ve been blessed with normal levels of rainfall across much of the State this year, one year’s worth of rain does not represent a permanent fix to California’s water needs. Proactive solutions are necessary to build on the reforms enacted at the end of last year in the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act. “The GROW Act does just that. This commonsense bill provides additional relief to California families, farmers, and communities by restoring water deliveries and requires regulators to actually comply with the Bay-Delta Accord. H.R. 23 will also clear the path forward for much needed water storage projects that have been unnecessarily impeded by bureaucratic red tape. These reforms will help in the short term, but, perhaps more importantly, will ensure the entire Western United States is more prepared during future droughts.” ###
06.29.2017	Chairman Royce joined Speaker of the House Paul Ryan to meet with South Korean President Moon Jae-in on Thursday in the U.S. Capitol Building. WASHINGTON, D.C. — This week, House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) joined members of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, U.S.-Korea Business Council, and Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry to welcome South Korean President Moon to the United States. Text of Chairman Royce’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, follows: “Good evening Your Excellency, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen: “On behalf of the House of Representatives, it is my distinct honor and pleasure to welcome President Moon Jae-in to the United States of America. “As Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I have long said that there are few relationships more consequential or economically important than the strategic alliance between the U.S. and South Korea. Ours is a bond that has grown over the past 65 years, and today, we celebrate a close friendship that is borne on the shoulders of the hardworking people of our two nations. Korea has blossomed so much that economic prosperity is now synonymous with the Korean nation. “When it comes to our economic relationship, the KORUS Free Trade Agreement is contributing significantly to job creation in the United States. There is no better example of this than in the congressional district that I am honored to represent. “CJ Foods, which is a subsidiary of Korea’s CJ Group, makes delicious dumplings at an advanced facility in Fullerton, California. These “mandu” are some of the best, and I know, because I’ve eaten many over the years! “The story of CJ in Fullerton is the story of KORUS. “CJ began operations in Fullerton a few months after KORUS was implemented with 70 employees operating one line of production. Three years later, the company has grown organically to over 270 employees operating three production lines, 24-hours per day! “Of course, CJ’s success is attributed to outstanding products; however, it was the framework agreement of KORUS that allowed CJ to setup shop in Fullerton and hire Americans. The economic impact of CJ on the U.S. economy cannot be denied. CJ sources vegetables from Southern California and protein from the Midwest. CJ products meet stringent standards established by well-known retailers such as Costco and Whole Foods. In turn, many of its dumplings are now exported all over the world to customers in Latin America, Australia, and even Asia. “In the 21st century global economy, economic prosperity, competitiveness, and jobs are inextricably linked. As one of the first supporters of KORUS FTA, I am proud of the positive impact that our economic alliance is having on the people of Southern California, and I know that stories like these abound in local communities all over the United States. “President Moon Jae-in has a distinguished history of public service on behalf of the Korean nation; he is well-known for championing democracy and human rights. In 1976, then-soldier Moon participated in Operation Paul Bunyan in response to North Korea’s brutality. Elected earlier this year, President Moon is no stranger to executive leadership and international affairs, having served previously in the Roh Administration. “Mister President, as you embark on this important visit, please know that we stand side by side with you and the Korean people for a safer and more prosperous tomorrow. “Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome President Moon.”
06.29.2017	Click on the picture above to watch Thursday's press conference announcing that H.R. 19 had gained 227 bipartisan cosponsors. WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) and Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA) today announced that their bill to create a Smithsonian museum dedicated to American women’s history on the National Mall is now supported by a majority of the House of Representatives. With 227 co-sponsors, the representatives gave President Trump a joint letter at last week’s White House Picnic asking for a meeting and his support of the first U.S. museum dedicated to telling the comprehensive history of American women, their accomplishments, and contributions to our nation. The Representatives also sent letters to the Committees on House Administration, Natural Resources, and Transportation and Infrastructure to request hearings on the bill. Reps. Maloney and Royce were joined today by bill co-sponsors Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC); Rep. Mia Love (R-UT); Rep. Lois Frankel (D-FL), co-chair of the Congressional Women’s Caucus; and Rep. Brenda Lawrence, co-vice chair of the Congressional Women’s Caucus. “Just three months after Rep. Royce and I introduced H.R. 19, the Smithsonian Women’s History Museum Act, a majority of the House of Representatives has now cosponsored our bill,” said Rep. Maloney. “That’s what I call momentum and I believe the enthusiasm for this effort is only growing. Now is the time to get this done, which is why Mr. Royce and I have requested that the President lend his support to our efforts. A new Smithsonian museum dedicated to women’s history will inspire young women and men for years to come and demonstrate to the world our country’s commitment to equality. How can we expect to empower women if we do not recognize them? That is a mission we can all support.” “The National Mall in Washington D.C. is a special place because it tells our uniquely American story. But that story is incomplete without paying tribute to the countless examples of courageous women who helped build America and sacrificed to ensure that it remains the land of the free,” said Rep. Royce. “I’m proud to have joined Rep. Maloney in sponsoring the legislation that ensures future generations will always know their story.” “Women have played a vital role in shaping our nation, many without the deserved recognition,” said Rep. Frankel. “A women's museum will enlighten and inspire visitors of all walks of life.” “I'm proud to have led a bipartisan team of women who collectively created a workable plan for a museum designed to be the gateway for connecting and enhancing the full spectrum of American women's history and I’m proud that this plan inspired H.R.19,” said Jane Abraham, chair of the American Museum of Women's History Congressional Commission. “Now is the time for Congress to pass this legislation to establish the museum. I applaud Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney and Congressman Ed Royce and their 227 cosponsors for putting forward H.R. 19. This bipartisan leadership is an extension of the Commission's bipartisan work.” Background: HR 19 Summary Establishes a Smithsonian national museum for the collection, study and establishment of programs covering the contributions of women to various fields throughout history; Establishes an advisory council consisting of 25 members appointed by the Smithsonian Board of Regents to make recommendations concerning planning, design and construction, operations and finances, and programming for the museum; Directs Smithsonian to appoint a Director to manage the museum and carry out educational programs in cooperation with other Smithsonian institutions and schools; Instructs the Board of Regents to choose one of two locations for the museum site, both located on the National Mall and recommended by the Congressional Commission and authorizes the transfer of the chosen site to the Smithsonian Institution; Ensures that private funds finance the construction of the museum building, while authorizing federal funds for the planning, design, and operation of the museum by the Smithsonian. H.R. 19 is based on the work of the bipartisan American Museum of Women's History Congressional Commission, which was created in 2014 to study the need for such a museum through legislation introduced by Reps. Maloney and Marsha Blackburn (R-TN-7) in the House and former Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME) in the Senate. The bipartisan commission submitted its report to Congress in November 2016 with a unanimous recommendation that a comprehensive women’s history museum should be established on or near the National Mall as part of the Smithsonian Institution. The bipartisan commission’s report found: The future Museum of Women’s History should be part of the Smithsonian; The exhibits and collections should be inclusive and represent a diverse array of viewpoints and perspectives of women who have helped shape America; The museum deserves a prominent location on or very close to the National Mall; Private sector money should finance the construction of a world-class museum.
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Yesterday, House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) delivered remarks on the House floor ahead of the Republic of Korea’s President Moon Jae-in’s visit to the United States. Below are the video and transcript of Chairman Royce’s remarks. “Mr. Speaker, I rise to welcome President Moon of South Korea to the United States of America as he makes his inaugural visit here later this week. “President Moon’s trip comes at a critical time – a critical time for America’s strategic relationship with South Korea. And I look forward to welcoming him to Capitol Hill. “The friendship between our two nations, which was forged during the Korean War, has withheld the test of time. It has withstood so many challenges. The people of South Korea have persevered in the face of incredible adversity. They’ve succeeded in building a modern, prosperous nation. And today, we stand together in defense of democracy, and freedom, and prosperity. And the strength of our friendship is now more important than ever as we face growing challenges in the Asia-Pacific region. “As the President begins his visit, let’s recognize the contributions of Korean Americans to the relationship between our two countries. The close bond that Korean Americans have for South Korea, the country of their heritage, creates a strong sense of community that extends across the Pacific Ocean. This is the keystone in the bridge of our alliance. “Mr. Speaker, I welcome President Moon, and I look forward to our meeting.”
06.22.2017	Click on the video above to watch Rep. Royce's remarks during Wednesday's Financial Services Committee Markup. WASHINGTON, D.C. — On Wednesday, the House Financial Services Committee passed five bills to reform and reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) including legislation sponsored by Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), H.R. 1558, the Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act. Highlights of his remarks from Wednesday’s markup are copied below: “It has been said that ‘insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results.’ Yet when it comes to the National Flood Insurance Program that is exactly what has happened. “The Financial Services Committee has heard testimony at multiple hearings about the outsized financial impact of repeatedly flooded properties on NFIP. These properties comprise just one percent of those insured, but represent nearly one-third of all flood claims. “This insanity must come to an end. The Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act addresses this fiscal crisis through a community-driven mitigation approach. The bill does not dictate particular responses to local flood problems but requires those communities with significant numbers of repeatedly flooded properties to develop and implement plans for lowering flood risk in these problem areas and to be held accountable for a failure to act. “I should also mention, this is a bipartisan bill – cosponsored by Rep. Earl Blumenauer from Oregon. It is supported by taxpayer and environmental groups, as well as The Pew Charitable Trusts and the National Association of Realtors.” Background Rep. Royce introduced the Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act on March 16, 2017. The original press release can be found HERE. The bill passed the House Financial Services Committee by a voice vote.
06.22.2017	(Published June 21, 2017) Momentum for a museum of women’s history on the National Mall is building, with 198 lawmakers signing on to co-sponsor legislation to create it. That’s a jump from 150 co-sponsors on June 6, a surge in support that is edging closer to a House majority. “I believe that there’s no reason not to support it,” said Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-N.Y.), who introduced the bill. “It helps the country, it helps women, and it’s truly bipartisan.” Maloney took a letter to the White House Thursday asking President Trump, first lady Melania Trump and adviser Ivanka Trump for their backing. The top Republican sponsor, Rep. Ed Royce (Calif.), said he is encouraging House members from both sides of the aisle to support it. “We are seeing such a large amount of bipartisan support for this legislation because of how well-planned this effort has been,” he said. “Everyone agrees that our National Mall should include a Smithsonian that tells the story of America’s great female leaders.” The measure now has 30 GOP co-sponsors... ...The women’s museum would be built with private funds and then operated within the Smithsonian Institution’s budget. “The way we wrote the bill is that it would be part of the Smithsonian, but it would be built with private money, which we estimate will be $150 million to $180 million,” said Maloney... ...After 1995, Maloney proposed a bill in every legislature until a law was passed in 2014 creating a privately funded commission to study the possibility of a women’s museum. That commission returned a report in November issuing recommendations on how to move forward, including proposed locations and funding alternatives. The Smithsonian is launching a $10 million fundraising effort to curate objects in its current collection that are relevant to women’s history. Some of those objects could join external donations to form the museum’s permanent collection. “It takes vision, determination and collaboration to see a project like this cross the finish line. Leaders like Carolyn Maloney, Laura Bush and countless others have done an exceptional job of including as many voices as possible in the conversation to build support for a National Women’s History Museum,” said Royce. The current bill was introduced in March and numbered H.R. 19, in honor of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, which gave women the right to vote when it was ratified in 1920. If passed, it would provide a roadmap to construction of the museum, which Maloney said would help fill a void in the Smithsonian’s depiction of American history. “We have to do everything we can to turn this dream into a reality,” she said. “How can we empower the next generation if we don’t tell them the whole story?” Click HERE to read the full story published in The Hill.
06.14.2017	Click on the video above to watch Rep. Royce’s remarks from this morning’s House Foreign Affairs Committee Hearing addressing the shooting in Alexandria, VA. Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) gave the following remarks at this morning’s House Foreign Affairs Committee Hearing addressing the shooting at a Republican baseball team practice in Alexandria, VA: “Before we say or do anything else today, I want to pause and extend our thoughts and prayers for the well-being of Whip Scalise, our colleagues, police, and staff who were attacked by a gunman this morning in Virginia. Several members of this committee where there. This is a sad day for our country. We still don't have all the details, but we do know that there are those who want to use acts of violence to create chaos, to disrupt our democracy. The American people will not let them win.”
06.13.2017	(Courtesy of All America Chinese Youth Federation) U.S Representative, Chairman of the House Foreign Affair Committee, Hon. Ed Royce and Los Angeles county Supervisor Hon. Kathryn Barger with all other supervisors signed on congratulation letters and certificates to “AACYF 2017 30 under 30” all recipients during Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. All America Chinese Youth Federation (AACYF) started holding 30 under 30 selection for Chinese American from this year, 30 excellent young professional and start up entrepreneurs, innovators and game changers were selected from about 700 candidates, the award is broadly recognized as most influence and valuable recognition for Chinese young start up entrepreneurs and professionals in the states. The selection is 1st time this kind of award focusing on oversea Chinese young generation worldwide. 30 young future leaders from east coast to west coast on different industries, some are still universities students. Congressman Ed Royce expressed congratulation to all recipients: “This high distinction is a tribute to your hard works and commitment to leaving a lasting impact in your industry. This 30 under 30 group has taken your respective industries to new heights. I commend you on the courage it takes to push forth in new directions. I know that your efforts in this respect were not without adversity, but your perseverance and devotion to your fields has served you well and provide you with vital skills that will undoubtedly be advantageous in all of your future endeavors. ” Los Angeles county supervisor Hon. Kathryn Barger led with Ret. Congresswoman Janice Hahn, Ret. United States Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis and other supervisors signed together on county congratulation certificate. This year’s Outstanding Startup Entrepreneur Award presented to Mr. Xiao Liu co-founder of Doctor Glasses which just listed on Shenzhen Stock market earlier this year. Three of this year’s recipient were listed into Forbes’ 30 under 30 Asia after. Click HERE to read the full press release from AACYF.
06.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement after the House passed the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act by a vote of 368-55: “For too long, the endless bureaucracy and red tape at the VA have protected underperforming and negligent employees instead of supporting our veterans. Providing the highest quality care for our nation’s heroes requires commonsense accountability measures such as those included in today’s bipartisan legislation that will now be signed into law. “These reforms will shake up the antiquated and toxic culture that has plagued the VA while empowering the vast majority of hard working employees to restore the integrity of this department. I’m proud to have been a cosponsor of H.R. 1259, which was included in today’s legislation, and applaud my House colleagues for taking this important action that will directly improve the care of America’s veterans.” Background: (Courtesy of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs) The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 would create a new streamlined and efficient process to remove, demote or suspend any VA employee for poor performance or misconduct with a concrete shortened timeline, while still protecting employees’ due process rights and providing them with the ability to appeal the action. It would also provide expanded protections for whistleblowers and would specifically bar the VA from using this removal authority if the employee has an open whistleblower complaint/case with the Office of Special Counsel. The House passed H.R. 1259, the VA Accountability First Act of 2017 on March 16, 2017. The Senate passed S. 1094, the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 on June 6, 2017.
06.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — This week, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) spoke on the House floor in support of H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act which will provide much needed relief to California's community financial institutions in a responsible and proactive way. Copied below are his remarks. “I would like to make the point, I’m from the state of California and that has long been the innovation capital for new ideas in America and for high-tech. A place where a person with an idea, hard-work and a little startup capital can grow a business. We have had a major problem with respect to our community banks and our credit unions, and that is they are going out of business at a very fast rapid clip. “A large percentage of them are struggling under this Dodd-Frank legislation that was passed in 2010. Now I think this legislation was well-intended, but to put all of the regulatory burden and these costs on the smaller institutions has ended up with a one size fits all regulation that makes it very difficult for them to give credit to entrepreneurs across our state. “I think that many of the provisions have been injurious not only to the community bank--the credit unions and smaller ones--but to the small businesses, to the borrowers, to the savers that rely on these institutions. We do need to make an adjustment of this and the Financial CHOICE Act will provide much-needed relief to the community financial institutions in a responsible and proactive way. I think that the premise is straightforward which is a banking institution has to be strongly capitalized and well managed to get the off-ramp from Dodd-Frank.”
06.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — The movement to establish a new Smithsonian museum dedicated to American women’s history is gaining steam. The bill to create a women’s history museum (HR 19), sponsored by Reps. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) and Ed Royce (R-CA), just passed the 150 cosponsor mark and the Smithsonian Institute is now raising funds for an American Women’s History Initiative. Under the new initiative the Smithsonian will hire new curators, survey its collection and begin to “amplify the voices of women from the past to inform the present and inspire the future.” “I believe we’re closer now to a women’s history museum than ever before,” said Rep. Maloney. “Our bill is gaining more and more bipartisan support in Congress and with this new initiative, the Smithsonian is laying the groundwork for the collection and stories that will be told in a new museum. We’ve got to keep the momentum going and do everything we can to turn this dream into a reality. From the founding of our country, women have always been at the center of every major moment, but too often women are left out when the story of our nation is told. We need to change that. We need this new museum to preserve the full story of our past and ensure that women are empowered to strive for their full potential.” “This museum is long overdue. Women have played a critical role throughout U.S. history, but their stories and accomplishments remain underrepresented in history books, monuments and museums,” said Rep. Royce. “I am proud to join Rep. Maloney in introducing the Smithsonian Women’s History Museum Act, which acknowledges the incredible women who have helped build our great nation.” The first step to create such a museum is underway, as the Smithsonian is launching a fundraising campaign for the American Women’s History Initiative. Funds will be used to recruit new curators, hire an education specialist, take on interns, survey the Smithsonian’s existing collection for relevant objects, and produce an annual symposium. It will expand the program with the recruitment of a senior curator, establish Washington-based and traveling exhibitions, development of print and digital resources, and the launch of a venture fund to finance competitive grants. Background: A Congressional Commission was created in 2014 to study the need for such a museum through legislation introduced by Reps. Maloney and Marsha Blackburn (R-TN-7) in the House and former Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME) in the Senate. The bipartisan American Museum of Women’s History Congressional Commission submitted their report to Congress in November of 2016 with its unanimous recommendation that a comprehensive women’s history museum should be established on or near the National Mall as part of the Smithsonian Institution. The bipartisan American Museum of Women's History Congressional Commission’s report found: The future Museum of Women’s History should be part of the Smithsonian; The exhibits and collections should be inclusive and represent a diverse array of viewpoints and perspectives of women who have helped shape America; The museum deserves a prominent location on or very close to the National Mall; Private sector money should finance the construction of a world-class museum. HR 19 Summary: Establishes a Smithsonian national museum for the collection, study and establishment of programs covering the contributions of women to various fields throughout history; Establishes an advisory council consisting of 25 members appointed by the Smithsonian Board of Regents to make recommendations concerning planning, design and construction, operations and finances, and programming for the museum; Directs Smithsonian to appoint a Director to manage the museum and carry out educational programs in cooperation with other Smithsonian institutions and schools; Instructs the Board of Regents to choose one of two locations for the museum site, both located on the National Mall and recommended by the Congressional Commission and authorizes the transfer of the chosen site to the Smithsonian Institution; Ensures that private funds finance the construction of the museum building, while authorizing federal funds for the planning, design, and operation of the museum by the Smithsonian.
05.11.2017	Today, during Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, U.S. Rep. Grace Meng (D-Queens) and U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) reintroduced a resolution that urges the United States Postal Service to issue a commemorative postage stamp in honor of the Chinese railroad workers who helped build America’s first Transcontinental Railroad from 1865 to 1869. This week marks the 148th anniversary of the railroad’s completion. Approximately 12,000 Chinese immigrant laborers worked under extremely dangerous and challenging conditions to help construct the railroad – which connected the U.S. from the east coast to the west coast – by laying tracks, breaking through granite and planting explosives that blasted through mountains. The workers are credited with playing an integral role in the growth of America, and being a key part of U.S. history. “The story of the Chinese railroad workers and the tremendous contributions they made to the growth and prosperity of our country must be told,” said Meng. “They deserve the recognition they earned, and a commemorative postage stamp would be a very appropriate tribute to this important part of American history. I urge my colleagues to support this resolution.” “I am proud to be a lead sponsor of legislation honoring the thousands of Chinese immigrants who made tremendous sacrifices to link California with the rest of the United States by building the Transcontinental Railroad,” said Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA). “Even in the face of bitter discrimination, the nearly 12,000 Chinese immigrants who worked on the project were indispensable to its successful completion. They and their descendants have left our country with an enduring legacy that has contributed to our vibrant Asian American community.” Meng’s measure also calls on the Citizens’ Stamp Advisory Committee to recommend to the Postmaster General that a stamp honoring the Chinese railroad workers be issued. Her resolution is expected to be referred to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. The 12,000 Chinese railroad workers who helped build the railroad comprised more than 80 percent of the workforce. Nearly 1,200 of the workers died from the harsh winters and brutal working conditions. They were also paid lower wages than other workers. The Transcontinental Railroad has long been considered one of the most remarkable engineering feats of the 19th century. # # #
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) and Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA) introduced today the Chinese American World War II Congressional Gold Medal Act (H.R. 2358). The bipartisan legislation recognizes the dedicated service of Chinese American veterans of World War II and collectively awards them the Congressional Gold Medal. Chairman Royce: “The United States remains forever indebted to the bravery, valor, and dedication that the Chinese American veterans of World War II displayed. Their commitment and sacrifice demonstrates a highly uncommon and commendable sense of patriotism and honor in the face of discrimination. “To these brave veterans of World War II, thank you for your service and sacrifice. We are a grateful nation, and we honor your service by working towards a better world. We must promote diplomacy over conflict and ensure that war is the absolute last resort.” Rep. Lieu: “I am honored to join Congressman Ed Royce in introducing the Chinese American World War II Veterans Congressional Gold Medal Act. As we observe this month of May as Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, the introduction of our bill is a timely reminder of the many contributions AAPIs have made to our great nation, including serving in our military. From the Atlantic to the Pacific, Chinese Americans served with courage and distinction during WWII and it is time for Congress to recognize them by awarding them the Congressional Gold Medal. As an Air Force veteran, I am thankful for those who came before who answered our nation’s call to serve. I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill to recognize the valiant contributions of our Chinese American Veterans.” NOTE: By the start of World War II in 1941, slightly more than 100,000 Chinese Americans had made a life for themselves in the U.S. Chinese Americans faced major challenges, including discrimination, before the start of World War II due to laws such as the Chinese Exclusion Act, which limited the size of their population and their ability to build thriving communities. Nevertheless, and even with the Chinese Exclusion Act in place, almost 20,000 of these brave men and women served in the armed forces in every theater of battle and every branch of service, earning citations for their heroism and honorable service. ###
05.04.2017	Royce Statement on the American Health Care Act Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement after the House passed the American Health Care Act, H.R. 1628: “Under current law, Southern Californians are paying more and more for fewer choices. Too many families are struggling with premiums that are out of control. And things are only getting worse. "That’s why I voted today to move the reform process forward. This bill, while far from perfect, is a step toward lowering costs, protecting those with pre-existing conditions and expanding choices for everyone. As we continue this important work, I will continue to listen to my constituents and fight for solutions that protect our most vulnerable." ###
05.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) today received The Order of Diplomatic Service Merit, Gwanghwa Medal, 1st Class, for his significant contributions to strengthening relations between the Republic of Korea and the United States. The medal is the highest honor a foreign dignitary can receive from the Republic of Korea. On receiving the award, Chairman Royce said: “I am honored to receive one of Korea’s highest distinctions. I have long championed closer ties between our two nations. As a member of Congress from Southern California, I have seen Korean Americans serve as important pillars of strength for the friendship between the U.S. and South Korea. I know firsthand the incredible respect Korean Americans have for their heritage and for their adopted homeland, the United States. Korean Americans’ love for the U.S. has continually driven me to work to bolster a partnership I firmly believe is the most important in Asia. “The United States has no better partner and friend in the Asia Pacific than the Republic of Korea. And that is why I’ve dedicated so much time focusing on this special partnership. The future of our partnership is bright, and I will continue to build upon our truly remarkable progress.” Republic of Korea Ambassador Ahn: “It is my immense, yet humble honor to bestow upon Chairman Ed Royce, The Order of Diplomatic Service Merit 'Gwanghwa' Medal. The scope and breadth of the Chairman's indispensable leadership, unwavering support and personal affection for the U.S.-Korea alliance has been both remarkable and unmatched in his nearly a quarter century of service in the United States Congress. The Gwanghwa Medal carries with it, a deep and abiding appreciation for Chairman Royce's distinguished career not just as a legislator but as a true statesman and ardent defender of democracy, free market economy and the rule of law on the Korean Peninsula, in Northeast Asia and beyond. It is given in the spirit of friendship, admiration, and gratitude by the Government and people of the Republic of Korea. I wish to extend my heartfelt congratulations to Chairman Royce and to also his wife Marie." NOTE: Chairman Royce has worked to highlight the historic wrongs committed against the "Comfort Women," denuclearize the Kim regime, strengthen U.S.-Korea trade ties through KORUS, and address the abysmal human rights situation in North Korea. ###
04.28.2017	Reps. Royce, Maloney, Love and Keating Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Combat Human Trafficking Washington, D.C. – House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) and Reps. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Mia Love (R-UT), and Bill Keating (D-MA) have introduced the End Banking for Human Traffickers Act (H.R. 2219) to help law enforcement and the financial industry better detect money laundering related to human trafficking. Chairman Royce: “Human trafficking has devastated the lives of tens of millions of victims around the world, including here in the United States. The perpetrators of these disgusting acts prey on some of the most defenseless people in our societies, including women and even young children. This form of modern-day slavery makes criminal gangs billions each year. The End Banking for Human Traffickers Act will help law enforcement and financial institutions identify and report suspected human traffickers so that they can be prosecuted to the full extent of the law. We must start using every tool at our disposal to help end human trafficking.” Rep. Maloney: “Many Americans remain unaware that modern day slavery is happening here in the United States, but it is a multibillion dollar criminal industry. Human traffickers are holding people captive, degrading their humanity and selling victims and their bodies over and over again – and making huge profits. They are using our financial institutions to launder illegal income. This bill’s straightforward approach directs federal banking regulators to coordinate with law enforcement and financial institutions to target pimps and the traffickers and stop their operations. By employing smart strategies to follow the money in these illegal transactions, we can more effectively identify and prosecute traffickers. I am proud to join Reps. Royce, Keating and Love as a cosponsor of the End Banking for Human Traffickers Act.” Rep. Love: “Human trafficking is both a domestic and global problem that takes many forms and severely harms millions of victims every day. While these pernicious and heinous crimes destroy lives, families, and communities, they bring billions of dollars of revenue in for criminals each year. This is unacceptable. That’s why I am proud to cosponsor the End Banking for Human Traffickers Act, which provides the financial industry and regulatory agencies additional tools to deny traffickers access to the financial system.” Rep. Keating: “This legislation is a critical piece of the puzzle necessary to eliminate human trafficking. By providing financial institutions and regulators with the resources and tools to both detect and prevent these crimes and hold criminals responsible, we are further reinforcing the tireless work of the Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons. I am proud to join in introducing this common-sense, bipartisan legislation.” NOTE: Earlier this week, Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) introduced the End Banking for Human Traffickers Act (S. 952). ###
04.19.2017	"I will always remember Milt, first and foremost, as a very good friend. Our prayers are with Marge, their sons Patrick, Michael and Vincent, and the entire CSUF community.” share: f t U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) issued the following statement on the passing of former California State University, Fullerton President Dr. Milton Gordon: “Marie and I were saddened to learn of Dr. Gordon’s passing. I first met Milt more than 20 years ago, when he was in his first years as president at Cal State Fullerton, my alma mater. As a State Senator, and then as a Member of Congress, I worked closely with Milt and deeply admired his commitment to improving access to education for all. Milt transformed CSUF from a regional school to a global one with his vision to help students pursue intellectual, cultural and economic dreams far beyond Orange County. Throughout his life, Milt’s determination shattered racial barriers, inspiring so many others. Yet for all his achievements, I will always remember Milt, first and foremost, as a very good friend. Our prayers are with Marge, their sons Patrick, Michael and Vincent, and the entire CSUF community.”
04.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Ahead of President Trump’s meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) – along with 150 of his colleagues – sent a letter to President Trump that emphasizes the mutual interests between the U.S. and Taiwan and urges the president to reaffirm the Taiwan Relations Act and the Six Assurances as the cornerstone of U.S.-Taiwan bilateral relations. Text of the letter is below, and a signed copy is available here. Dear Mr. President: We write to emphasize the mutual interests of the United States and our vital strategic partner Taiwan before your upcoming meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping. As co-chairs and members of the Congressional Taiwan Caucus, and other good friends of Taiwan in Congress, we seek to ensure that the United States continues to adhere to the Taiwan Relations Act (TRA) and the Six Assurances – cornerstones of U.S.-Taiwan policy. We also urge your administration to uphold the commitment of every president since the TRA’s passage in 1979 to continue to provide defensive weapons to Taiwan predicated on Taiwan’s demonstrated military needs, and without any prior consultation with Beijing. Taiwan is a vibrant democracy and our tenth largest trading partner. Consistent U.S. policy toward Taiwan is key to sustaining peace, security, and stability in the Asia-Pacific region. We trust that any future discussions will be rooted firmly in the Taiwan Relations Act and the Six Assurances. We wish you success in your impending meeting with President Xi Jinping. ###
03.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced that his office is now accepting submissions from California’s 39th Congressional District for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. The Congressional Art Competition is an annual contest organized to give the nation’s high school students an opportunity to showcase their artistic talents. All high school students within California's 39th Congressional District are encouraged to submit their favorite piece of original art to the competition. “I look forward to the Congressional Art Competition every year, and I’m excited to again showcase the creativity and talent of our local high school students,” said Rep. Royce. The winner, as determined by a panel of independent judges, will receive two complimentary airline tickets to Washington, D.C. so that they may see their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol Complex and meet with Rep. Royce. Only one winning artist will be chosen from each Congressional District around the country. Bianca Gutierrez of Glen A. Wilson High School won last year’s Congressional Art Competition with her entry "Doña Agustina.” Artwork must be submitted to either Rep. Royce’s Brea Office (210 W. Birch Street, Ste. 201, Brea, CA) or Rowland Heights Office (1380 S. Fullerton Road, Ste. 203, Rowland Heights, CA) by 5 PM on Friday, April 14, 2017. Additional details and important privacy release forms that must accompany every competition entry can be found here. Questions regarding submitting a piece of art to Rep. Royce's Congressional Art Competition may be directed to Lauren Pong at (626) 964-5123 or Lauren.Pong@mail.house.gov. ###
03.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the below statement after the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear a suit seeking the removal of the comfort women statue in Glendale’s Central Park: “I applaud the Supreme Court's decision to let the Glendale Peace Memorial stand. By remembering the past, including the women who suffered immensely, we help ensure these atrocities are never committed again. Now that the highest court in the land has spoken, I hope those who’ve wasted years trying to rewrite history will finally move on.” NOTE: Rep. Royce’s statement in defense of the Glendale Peace Memorial, read at a March 7 rally in Glendale, can be found here. ###
03.24.2017	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement on the American Health Care Act: “Southern Californians are struggling with rising health care costs, and today’s events leave this fact unchanged. I want to thank those – on all sides of this debate – who’ve reached out to share their stories. Rest assured, I will continue to work in a bipartisan and constructive manner on solutions to increase access to quality, affordable health care." ###
03.16.2017	Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 1558, the Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act. The bill aims to limit the financial resources expended by the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) on claims for properties flooded multiple times: “A tiny number of properties that are flooded and rebuilt over-and-over again are responsible for a massive chunk of the indebted NFIP's spending. Any serious effort by Congress to reform the Program and make it less of a drain on taxpayers needs to address repeatedly flooded properties and reward local communities making progress on mitigation. I look forward to continuing my work with Chairmen Hensarling and Duffy to see the Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act included in this year's NFIP reauthorization and enacted into law," said Rep. Royce. “We have a unique and timely opportunity for real reform with the NFIP reauthorization this year,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Repetitive flood loss is a weak point in the system—burdening taxpayers, homeowners, and families. Allowing these proprieties to continue to flood is dangerous and irresponsible, yet existing policy continues to encourage it. This legislation will help communities across the country address repeated flood loss and is a critical step to stabilize the troubled flood insurance program.” As of January 2016, there were more than 150,000 structures around the country classified as “Repetitive Loss Properties" (RLPs) by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). FEMA estimates that these properties comprise just one percent of those insured by the NFIP, but represent 25 to 30 percent of all flood claims. The NFIP is more than $23 billion in debt to the U.S. Treasury and according to a 2009 report by FEMA’s Inspector General, the number of RLPs increases by nearly 5,000 each year. From 1978 through 2011, RLP losses added up to more than $12 billion— or approximately half of the NFIP’s debt. The Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act requires communities with a significant number of RLP to: - Map repeatedly flooded properties and public infrastructure to determine the specific areas that should be priorities for voluntary buyouts, drainage improvements, or other mitigation efforts. - Develop and implement plans for mitigating flood risk in these problem areas. - Submit these plans as well as reports on progress to FEMA, an organization that is under the purview of Congressional oversight. A summary of the bill can be viewed here.
03.16.2017	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned expert witnesses about his proposal to help local communities mitigate flood risk and ways to increase transparency in flood insurance coverage for homeowners during a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “Flood Insurance Reform: A Community Perspective." “Mr. Hecht, you testified that, ‘Of course, no private market provider will choose to write FEMA’s severe repetitive loss properties.’ And really that’s no surprise, because repeatedly flooded properties make up one percent of those insured by NFIP, but it represents 25 to 30 percent of all the flood claims. They are not a ‘good risk’ for private insurers or the American taxpayer. Today, Congressman Blumenauer and I introduced, a bill, H.R. 1558, this is the Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act, and the concept here is to proactively reduce flood risk instead of continuing our current model of rebuilding these properties over and over again. The way we do it, and let me just give you by way of example, we got a couple of cities here: Tulsa and Charlotte. Both have had very pronounced success in decreasing flood risk because what they did was proactively take on a plan for storm water management, promoting voluntary buyouts, sometimes that can be effective, reviewing new development proposals for flood impacts, and steering development away from risky areas. So that’s part of their plan Many of their peers though, many of the other cities and communities have not kept up with that kind of approach. So, what this bill would require, is that communities with a large amount of repeatedly flooded properties to implement plans, to have that city council or those counties put forward that plan for lowering flood risk and then, in terms of keeping the records, holds them accountable for failing to act. I would just ask for thoughts on this issue,” said Rep. Royce. “And I would also ask a follow up question that I wanted to get to. Do you think the home buying public truly grasps flood risk? Is this registering with them? Do they understand how subject to hazard their property is when they talk with their realtor? Do they understand how flood risks change over time when areas nearby are developed or when a forest fire might occur? So maybe I could ask the panel also on that aspect about recommendations for how we can change this lack of education on flood risk. Besides just what we can do at the county level or city level, how do we improve take up rates for flood insurance and strengthen these mitigation efforts?” asked Rep. Royce. “My statement that 'of course we would not want to write severe repetitive loss properties' is a statement that we would not want to write severe repetitive loss properties at rates that were competitive with FEMA, because FEMA charges much too little for the severe repetitive loss properties. [Per] the Wharton study last year, regarding consumer recognition of flood risk, consumers… think their property is going to flood more than it actually does, they overestimate that, but they underestimate the amount of damage an actual flood would do,” answered Mr. Hecht, Chief Executive Officer of the Flood Insurance Agency. “Congressman Royce, we’ve taken a look at the legislation you and Congressman Blumenauer have introduced. We’re supportive, and one of the things we like about it is that it does have a measure of accountability. Under current law, which comes from the Stafford Act, community mitigation plans are required to at least assess how many repetitive loss properties there are. But it doesn’t really require them to do anything about it. So I think the innovative element to this legislation is that it does have some requirements there to actually do some planning and actual mitigation, or face some potential consequences. In terms of broader education and awareness of risk…we’ve got to, first of all, map all of these areas in the country. Oroville Dam, I think, is a great example in California. 200,000 people evacuated, far beyond what the mapped flood plan showed, yet how many of those people knew that they were in… a dam release inundation zone? Probably none of them. Because that information, while it has been produced, is not publicly available,” added Mr. Chad Berginnis, Executive Director of the Association of State Floodplain Managers. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning here or by clicking the image below.
03.16.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement on the postponement of his 2017 Women's Conference: "I meet with constituents of all political leanings, host tele-town halls while I'm in Washington to gather constituent feedback, and am home as much as possible. My office ensures that every constituent who writes, emails, calls, or visits me receives a response from me. “I've hosted a nonpartisan Women's Conference every year since 2009 that features speakers and resources chosen by women from my district. The audience is made up of women from all walks of life. “A vocal and disruptive group of political activists has repeatedly harassed this year’s speakers in an effort to intimidate them and stop them from speaking. As my first priority is the safety and comfort of all involved, I have decided to postpone the 2017 Conference and will reschedule for a later date.” Rep. Royce's Women’s Conference is a Congressional, nonpartisan seminar dedicated to giving women the tools and resources necessary to enrich their lives. Past speakers include former U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Hewlett-Packard CEO Meg Whitman, and actress Kristen Bell. In addition to the keynote speech, the Conference traditionally includes breakout sessions on topics suggested by past conference attendees, such as personal finance, healthy living and career advice. For more information about Rep. Royce’s past Women’s Conferences, please click here.
03.09.2017	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned a witness from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) about the need for greater flood risk mitigation and transparency during a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “Flood Insurance Reform: FEMA’s Perspective.” “My question is sort of a follow up on the Chairman’s question concerning repetitive loss properties. I actually have bipartisan legislation with Mr. Blumenauer from Oregon on this. One of the things we seek to do here is empower communities to tackle this problem and we’d like to work with you on that legislation. The precise numbers change from time to time, but the bottom line seems to be that a small fraction of policies, let’s say it’s roughly 1% of the policies, seem to account for somewhere between 20% and 30% of the claims and losses. In ‘09 the Department of Homeland Security’s Inspector General said that an increase in new and repetitive loss properties was outpacing what we were attempting to do in terms of mitigation by a factor of 10 to 1. Now that is a troubling number. Have our mitigation programs began to catch up, as in have the numbers turned lately or does it look like we are still growing the number of repeat loss properties? Can you provide the Committee with the most up-to-date data on that?” asked Rep. Royce. “So I can get back to the Committee on the specifics on the data and I look forward to the opportunity to collaborate with you all as you look at potential legislation. The number continues to rise,” answered Mr. Wright, Deputy Associate Administrator of Federal Insurance and Mitigation Administration, FEMA. "The other point I would make is just taking FEMA’s current guidance document on the Community Rating System, as it relates to potential homeowners, and I think it is pretty cogent here: 'Most prospective buyers do not take the time (or know how) to investigate whether a property is subject to a hazard. In many cases a property may not be near a shoreline or a stream, past flooding may have been minor, or there may be no history of flooding since the area was developed. As a result, many people are caught by surprise when the properties are flooded. One of the best times to advise someone of a flood hazard is when he or she is considering the purchase of that property.’ So as I understand it, FEMA gives credit to communities that are able to work with local realtors and the community to push this sort of pre-closing flood disclosure.” said Rep. Royce. “We do and we offer discounts on the premiums on the result of those activities,” said Mr. Wright. “And I think that is helpful, and my question is, what more can FEMA or what more can Congress do to ensure the American people aren’t in the dark when it comes to flood history? Won’t we improve take-up rates for flood insurance and strengthen individual and community mitigation if we better inform communities and people about flood risks when they’re looking at potential properties or developing potential properties?” asked Rep. Royce. “So this is a conversation that I have a couple of times a year with the realtors who obviously become that first forward leaning part of this conversation. And we’ve had conversations with some of the private sector app developers that we all know well that provide data on the values of homes and what is for sale. I think greater disclosure about the risks on the front side are very helpful, some states require this, and most states do not," answered Mr. Wright. “As we look at what different states are doing, we can get feedback of what seems efficient, what seems easy, and what is effective in getting to this conclusion,”stated Rep. Royce. “I think there are some things to be learned from your state of California that does have some responsive requirements related to earthquake risks, related to dam safety risk and the like. There’s things that could be learned from there,” said Mr. Wright. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning here or by clicking the image below.
03.09.2017	Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (I-MP) introduced the Shark Fin Sales Elimination Act (H.R. 1456) to make the possession, sale, and purchase of shark fins illegal acts in the United States. “The United States can set an example for the rest of the world by shutting down its market for shark fins, which are often harvested by leaving these animals to die a slow and painful death at the bottom of the ocean. While California led the way with a state-wide ban, there are still almost 40 states where the purchase of shark fins is legal. The bipartisan Shark Fin Sales Elimination Act is needed to eradicate shark finning for good,” said Chairman Royce. “Americans don’t want shark fins in the U.S. Eleven states have already passed bans on fins, and now we need to take this movement nationwide,” said Lora Snyder, campaign director at Oceana. “Healthy shark populations support healthy ocean ecosystems, which, in turn, contribute millions of dollars to economies around the world. The bill introduced today will remove the United States from the shark fin trade altogether, a huge step in the right direction for shark conservation." The demand for fins, the key ingredient in shark fin soup, is one of the greatest threats facing shark populations around the world. Fins from as many as 73 million sharks end up in the global market every year, and more than 70 percent of the most common shark species involved with the fin trade are considered at high or very high risk of extinction. While shark finning is illegal in U.S. waters, shark fins continue to be bought and sold throughout the U.S. and imported through California ports. The Shark Fin Sales Elimination Act eliminates the market for shark fins on a 50-state basis. Actor and activist Morgan Freeman previously joined Chairman Royce at an event on Capitol Hill in support of the cause of banning the sale of shark fins.
03.07.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, delivered the following statement via a staff member at the Glendale Peace Memorial today in response to the Japanese's government's continuing efforts to remove the statue tribute to "comfort women": "It is an honor to address this important issue to which we have all been committed for so long. And I want to thank the city of Glendale for its efforts to protect this important monument. As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee - and as an American citizen - no issue is more important to me than the fight for human rights. As Americans, it is our duty to always defend free speech and seek justice on behalf of the victims of human rights abuses, both past and present. All of us here know the enormous suffering endured by so many women at the hand of the Imperial Japanese Army during the occupation of Asia and the Pacific. The systematic, state-sponsored enslavement of hundreds of thousands of women from Korea, China, the Philippines, and other countries was an affront to human dignity and against the very essence of humanity. For the handful of survivors – “grandmothers” – the persistent efforts by senior Japanese officials to deny history are a personal injustice; but it’s also an insult to an entire generation which suffered under wartime occupation. And that is why it’s so important that we stand firm against revisionist history and other efforts to minimize this tragedy. I have met with many surviving victims over the years, I know how deeply these wounds are still felt and how critical it is they receive an apology and the recognition of history as it occurred. These abuses took place over 70 years ago. They are a matter of historical record, but they are also an issue for the present day. Because demanding accountability for past abuses helps us prevent future ones. I’ve long fought misguided efforts to minimize the suffering endured by hundreds of thousands of women at the hands of the Imperial Japanese Army. Nearly ten years ago, I co-authored House Resolution 121 calling on the Japanese government to acknowledge, apologize, and accept responsibility for the coercion of young women into sexual slavery during its occupation of Asia and the Pacific. As a senior member of the Asia Subcommittee at that time, I was proud to help organize a hearing at which we heard testimony from several surviving Comfort Women and in seeing to it that this important legislation was brought to the floor and passed. That was a great victory and we have made even more progress bringing this issue to light over the past ten years. And yet sadly some in the Japanese government continue to deny the existence of comfort women or the plight they suffered at the hands of the Imperial Army. It is equally egregious that the Japanese government continues to support efforts to force Glendale to remove this memorial to hundreds of thousands of victims of military sexual slavery. This is unacceptable and I will continue to work with you to fight for justice and recognition for the victims of these abuses. I do this as the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I do this as your representative in Congress. And I do this as an American. We owe it to our “grandmothers” and we owe it to their grandchildren." Chairman Royce at a past visit to the Glendale Peace Memorial.
02.28.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement ahead of this evening’s joint session of Congress: “Tonight’s joint session of Congress marks an important moment for our country. All of us must come together to meet the challenges facing America head on. After eight years of failed foreign policies, we face more threats than ever before. At the same time, I hear every day from Southern Californians who are still trying to get ahead. Many are parents who are struggling with skyrocketing health care costs. Others are workers hurt by a tax code that hampers job creation. There is much to do in the weeks and months ahead. I will continue to listen to your priorities and concerns, and work relentlessly to get results.”
02.16.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, highlighted the benefits of enacting a U.S.-EU covered agreement during a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “Assessing the U.S.-EU Covered Agreement.” “In my committees, there is a practical limitation, I usually only have three or four witnesses. But in this particular case, if we’re going to have a full conversation about this agreement, we do need to think about all the negotiating parties and all the parties affected that are not at the table: The USTR, the life insurers, the reinsurers, and the major brokers. The practical limitations do not allow us really to make the hearing that broad, but I would make that point. If I could summarize where I think we are today in terms of these tracks. On the one hand, the states are going down a path where reinsurance collateral requirements are already being lowered, albeit at a snail's pace. In return, the EU has not agreed to any relief for U.S. insurers or reinsurers. It's possible we get nothing then, for something. That's one path. Meanwhile, Congress gives Treasury and the USTR the power to negotiate a covered agreement. A power, by the way, which was debated in this very Committee and unanimously supported by both sides of the aisle on a bipartisan basis. Treasury and USTR then negotiated an agreement that effectively agrees to what the states have already agreed to do and lower the reinsurance collateral. In return, we open up the entire EU reinsurance market to U.S. reinsurers without discrimination, and we save direct writers billions of dollars in European compliance costs, which, as we have heard today, can be passed along to consumers. I would just ask Ms. Pusey, am I missing something here in the way this appears to me?" asked Chairman Royce. "No sir, that's our read as well," replied Ms. Leigh Ann Pusey, President and Chief Executive Officer of the American Insurance Association. “I would ask Mr. McRaith, without this agreement in place, we have seen regulators in the U.K., the Netherlands, Austria, Germany, and Poland place U.S. companies at a disadvantage. If we scrap this agreement, as some are suggesting today, where does that leave us? What are state regulators authorized to do to adequately address these issues? Is the EU looking to sign MOUs with 50 states?" asked Chairman Royce. "U.S. reinsurers were being denied opportunities nine, ten months ago in the EU. We resolved that issue through the agreement and opened the entire European market to U.S. reinsurers. U.S. primary companies were being asked to comply with extraordinary regulatory requirements in the EU that could be increasingly burdensome but for this agreement. I can't speak to what the Europeans would do in the event this agreement were to fail in the United States, but I know... that our industry has a lot to lose and American insurance jobs are at stake," replied Mr. Michael McRaith, former Director of the Federal Insurance Office (FIO). Watch Chairman Royce's remarks here or by clicking the image below.
02.15.2017	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) questioned Chair of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors Janet Yellen on bolstering the safety and soundness of the U.S. financial system through the CHOICE Act and housing finance reform during a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled "Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy." “We know on the one hand, that overleveraged institutions are vulnerable to market shocks. We remember the consequences. If you look back at the overleveraging of the investment banks, the large ones, 40-to-1, and if you look at the GSEs that were leveraged at that time over 100-to-1. That was in the lead up to the financial crisis. So we can see that capital standards must play a role in building resilience in the U.S. financial system. On the other hand, raising capital also has a cost to the economy and a cost in terms of what it does to the potential for growth. So what we have here is a classic cost-benefit test. There is a benefit to higher capital standards: they reduce the risk of a future financial crisis and bailouts, as well as potentially increasing tax revenues. While the costs could be borne by borrowers in the form of higher funding costs and the economy as a whole with less capital formation and a lower GDP, you’ve got that on the other side of the equation. You’ve said in the past, cost-benefit analysis is difficult work. And I agree it is not easy, but it’s not impossible and it is important. In 2010, the Basel Committee did some work on this study. Also, researchers at George Mason recently published a paper on the 'Benefits and Costs of a Higher Bank Leverage Ratio,'" said Rep. Royce. "So how do we get to the right number? Should it be 5 percent, the 10 percent in the CHOICE Act, or 23.5 percent as proposed by the Minneapolis Fed President? There’s quite a range there, and I don’t expect you to say a number today. But can’t you agree that a cost-benefit analysis could help us more effectively [regulate] that capital?” asked Rep. Royce. "So I do agree, that in deciding on the appropriate level of capital standards we are weighing costs and benefits. The benefit of a lower probability of a financial crisis that has incredibly high costs, against the cost of slightly higher intermediation and borrowing costs. As you indicated, Basel III was partly informed by the Basel committee’s analysis of those costs and benefits and the Federal Reserve participated in producing that analysis. I think it did inform our views of what a reasonable level of capital requirements would be. The Minneapolis Fed study that you mentioned also contains cost-benefit analysis and draws the line differently," replied Chair Yellen. “So from my standpoint, it seems to me that the Fed would be best suited to conduct the analysis and the research on this. We have such a range of opinions, although we agree on the basic concept here. So my question would be, short of us mandating the Fed do it, would there be a way for you to try to move forward and approximate what that ratio should be?" continued Rep. Royce. “So there are different aspects of it as I said. We did do cost-benefit analysis and it informed our judgment at the time. You’ve referred several times to a leverage requirement, and I think our understanding of the risks facing banks lead us to think that a simple leverage requirement would not be an adequate way to determine capital. In particular, a simple leverage requirement treats the risk associated with a U.S. treasury and a junk bond identically and we think that capital requirements need to be risk sensitive with a leverage ratio serving as a backup," said Chair Yellen. "There’s another question I wanted to ask you too and that’s yesterday you told Senator Crapo that the ‘goal of bringing private capital back into the mortgage market… is important.’ And that your hope is that ‘if there are guarantees [in the secondary mortgage market], that they would be recognized and priced appropriately.’ It is my understanding then that you believe that the pre-crisis GSE model of private gains and public losses did not price the government backstop appropriately?” concluded Rep. Royce. "I think that's correct," answered Chair Yellen. Watch Chairman Royce's questioning here or by clicking the image below.
02.07.2017	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced that actress and activist Maggie Q will deliver the keynote address at his 9th Annual Women's Conference. The event will take place at California State University, Fullerton's Titan Student Union Center (800 N. State College Boulevard, Fullerton, CA 92831) on Saturday, April 8, 2017. "Maggie and I share a passion on the important causes of advancing women's rights and international conservation. I look forward to her sharing the insights she's gained through both her career and activism," said Rep. Royce. "As a proud Titan, it's always a pleasure to host engaging events at CSUF that both the student body and surrounding community can partake in." Maggie Q currently stars as FBI Agent Hannah Wells on ABC’s new hit drama Designated Survivor. Most recently, she starred opposite Dylan McDermott on CBS’ drama thriller series Stalker. Maggie is best known for her role on CW’s successful action series Nikita and starring as Tori in Summit Entertainment’s box office hits Divergent and Allegiant. Maggie is a native of Honolulu, Hawaii, and one of Hollywood's premier Asian-American figures. She is an animal and human rights activist through her support of programs and organizations such as PETA, Best Friends, WildAid, Kageno, and the PCRM (Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine). The Women’s Conference, which Rep. Royce has hosted every year since 2009, is a half-day seminar dedicated to giving women the tools and resources necessary to enrich their lives. Past speakers include former U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Hewlett-Packard CEO Meg Whitman, and actress Kristen Bell. In addition to the keynote speech, the conference will include breakout sessions on topics suggested by past conference attendees, such as personal finance, healthy living and career advice. Specific breakout session details will be announced later this month, in addition to the opening of general admissions. For more information about Rep. Royce’s annual Women’s Conference, please click here. NOTE: This event is open to the press, but an RSVP is required. Media RSVPs and inquiries can be directed to Rep. Royce's Communications Director Saat Alety at saat.alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
02.07.2017	Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-CA), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), and Terri Sewell (D-AL) introduced H.R. 898, the Credit Score Competition Act. The bill enables Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to consider alternative credit scoring models when making mortgage purchasing decisions. “Alternative credit score consideration by the GSEs is a win-win: it opens up the market in a responsible manner for those qualified to buy a home and eliminates the government-backed monopoly in credit scoring. That's why the Credit Score Competition Act has garnered such strong bipartisan support," said Rep. Royce. “Many creditworthy and financially responsible Arizonans don’t qualify for government-backed mortgages because of an outdated and flawed credit-scoring system,” said Sinema. “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should have the ability to look beyond traditional forms of credit and take into account factors including whether or not borrowers pay their rent on time. Our bipartisan solution helps more hardworking Arizona families achieve the American Dream,” said Rep. Sinema. "Home ownership remains an integral part of the American Dream that shouldn’t be out of the reach for low-income, rural, and minority borrowers who lack access to traditional forms of credit. I am proud to help reintroduce this critically important legislation as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac continue to rely on credit score models that are outdated and don’t necessarily take into account something as simple as whether borrowers have paid their rent on time. This legislation takes an important step towards addressing this issue and helps make homeownership a reality for more Americans across the country,” said Rep. Sewell. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac exclusively rely on a single credit scoring model to make mortgage purchasing decisions. When coupled with the GSEs’ overwhelming dominance of the secondary mortgage market, the result has been a government-backed monopoly in credit scoring. The Credit Score Competition Act directs the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) to create a mechanism that opens up the GSEs to alternative empirically derived and statistically sound credit scoring models. Alternative credit scoring models are also more likely to take into account rent and utility payments. Allowing the GSEs to consider such scores will bolster the chances of young, African-American, and Hispanic buyers attempting to enter the market. Last year, the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit held a hearing entitled "Examining Legislative Proposals to Address Consumer Access to Mainstream Banking Services" during which witnesses testified on the benefits of enacting the Credit Score Competition Act. Reps. Royce and Sinema are both members of the House Financial Services Committee. Rep. Sewell is seated on the House Ways and Means Committee.
02.02.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement on last night's riots at the University of California, Berkeley and the President's reaction to the events: “Cal students on work-study or scholarships shouldn’t be punished for the actions of a select few, and I’ll push back against any move to do so. UC Berkeley was right to embrace a free exchange of ideas. Those who destroyed campus property or committed acts of violence should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law."
01.31.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding the confirmation of Elaine Chao as the 18th United States Secretary of Transportation: “Secretary Chao's confirmation by a 93-6 vote is a testament to her leadership ability, prior service to our country, and vision for rebuilding America's transportation network. I count Elaine as a close friend and look forward to working with her to meet Southern California's infrastructure needs, especially the 57/60 confluence project," said Chairman Royce. Chairman Royce, who represents the Congressional district that encompasses the 57/60 confluence, has been a longtime advocate for fixing the freeways. Both former Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx and Chairman Bill Shuster of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee have visited the confluence at Chairman Royce's invitation to observe the gridlock. Chairman Royce has also wrote letters to the Department of Transportation in support of the 57/60 being included in the Primary Freight Network, which assisted Diamond Bar during its successful TIGER grant bid. Elaine Chao, the former United States Secretary of Labor, is the first Asian American woman to serve as a Cabinet secretary.
01.30.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, celebrated the Lunar New Year this past weekend throughout Southern California. He attended the following events: - Irvine Chinese School/SCCCA Lunar New Year Event (Irvine, CA) - Sunny Hills High School Lunar New Year Event (Fullerton, CA) - Hsi Lai Temple Lunar New Year Event (Hacienda Heights, CA) - Korean American Federation of Orange County's 2017 New Year Music Night (Anaheim, CA) - Orange County Supervisor Andrew Do's 2nd Annual Tet Concert Celebration (Fountain Valley, CA) - TECO Lunar New Year Event (El Monte, CA) "The Lunar New Year brings friends and family together for good food, festivities, and blessings for the new year. Thank you to the many members of our community that invited me to share in this joyous occasion with them. I wish everyone a healthy and prosperous Year of the Rooster," said Chairman Royce. Pictures of Chairman Royce celebrating Lunar New Year can be viewed and downloaded here. Last week, a resolution Chairman Royce has cosponsored to call for Congressional recognition of the Lunar New Year was introduced. The measure, authored by U.S. Representative Grace Meng (D-NY), encourages Congress to recognize the cultural and historical significance of Lunar New Year and express its deepest respect for Asian-Americans and all individuals throughout the world who celebrate the holiday.
01.30.2017	U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and Mark Pocan (D-Wisc.) have founded the Congressional Cooperative Business Caucus, a bipartisan initiative to promote the cooperative business model as a method of commerce that they will co-chair during the 115th Congress. "Cooperative businesses provide valuable goods and services, build wealth in local communities, and offer their members a piece of their success,” said Rep. Royce. “As a longtime advocate of cooperative businesses, from California’s credit unions and mutual insurers to Africa’s rural electric co-ops, I look forward to highlighting the benefits these organizations provide through my role as Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Cooperative Business Caucus.” “Cooperatives create good paying jobs and offer employees a chance to be directly involved in business decisions,” said Rep. Pocan. “I’m proud that my District is home to thriving cooperatives from the Willie Street Food Co-Op to UW Credit Union. I look forward to continue working with Rep. Royce to promote greater awareness of the cooperative business model and to advocate on federal policy issues unique to the co-op community.” “We are thrilled that this historic caucus dedicated to advancing the role of cooperatives in the nation’s economy has been reformed in the new Congress,” said NCBA CLUSA president and CEO Judy Ziewacz. “We encourage lawmakers to recognize the critical role co-ops play in their districts by joining this bipartisan caucus.” Cooperatives exist worldwide and inject $3 trillion into the U.S. economy every year. They create millions of jobs; can be found in virtually every sector of the U.S. economy; and offer solutions to meet challenging public policy needs — from affordable housing, to quality sourced food, greater access to electricity, banking and credit needs, and for early childhood learning. To learn more about the Congressional Cooperative Business Caucus, please click here.
01.30.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding the Administration's recent immigration-related executive order: “I support measures to better guard against threats from terror hotspots and strengthen our vetting process, but I have serious concerns with the implementation of this executive order. It is now clear that proper coordination and communication with appropriate agencies and law enforcement did not occur. It is unacceptable that individuals – some of whom live in the U.S. and others who served alongside U.S. troops – have been needlessly delayed or even turned away."
01.26.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement after being assigned to the Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee and the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee by House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) for the 115th Congress: "Despite being almost a decade removed from the financial crisis, we still grapple with the same moral hazard that wreaked havoc on our economy. As a member of the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee, I'll fight the GSEs' failed model of private gains and public losses and ensure that taxpayers do not foot the bill for insuring houses that are repeatedly flooded and rebuilt. Southern Californians face one of the nation's highest costs of living; access to credit is critical. My work on the Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee will help my constituents responsibly finance homes, cars, and small businesses, and provide regulatory relief to community financial institutions struggling under Dodd-Frank." The Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee has jurisdiction over banks, credit unions, banking depository institutions, federal deposit insurance, consumer access to credit, financial data security, financial market safety and soundness, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Rep. Royce has advanced regulatory relief for community financial institutions to the President's desk and has also focused on protecting consumer access to credit education services. The Housing and Insurance Subcommittee oversees the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs), the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), and the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Rep. Royce is a leading proponent of housing finance reform, recently authoring bipartisan legislation to increase credit risk transfers (CRT) by the GSEs to the private sector and successfully capping GSE CEO pay after attempted multimillion dollar raises. He also has proposed changes to the NFIP that will assist local communities mitigate flood risk on repeatedly flooded properties. Rep. Royce is one of the most senior members of the House Financial Services Committee and also serves as Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
01.24.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after introduction of a resolution he cosponsored calling for Congressional recognition of the Lunar New Year: "The Lunar New Year brings friends and family together for good food, festivities, and blessings for the new year. Asian Americans make up a vibrant part of the American story; it's only right that the United States Congress recognizes the millions of people celebrating this joyous occasion. I look forward to celebrating the Year of the Rooster in my district this week." The measure, authored by U.S. Representative Grace Meng (D-NY), encourages Congress to recognize the cultural and historical significance of Lunar New Year and express its deepest respect for Asian-Americans and all individuals throughout the world who celebrate the holiday. The measure also wishes Asian-Americans and all who observe the Lunar celebration a happy and prosperous new year. In addition, it details the history and customs of Lunar New Year.
01.13.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in reaction to the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) and Treasury Department finalizing terms of a U.S.-E.U. covered agreement: "After the implementation of Solvency II which disadvantaged U.S. companies, this historic agreement gives American reinsurers the opportunity to compete on a level playing field throughout Europe. We will see an end to discriminatory practices which adversely impacted the market. U.S. insurers also avoid the added European tax of global group supervision standards. Billions in savings can be reinvested in the U.S. economy and passed on to consumers," said Rep. Royce. "As Director McRaith's tenure comes to a close, I thank him for his years of dedicated public service and leadership. Without his guidance, this accomplishment would not have been possible." Last September, Chairman Royce questioned Federal Insurance Office (FIO) Director Michael McRaith about the importance of a U.S.-E.U. covered agreement to protect American insurance firms and consumers during a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “The Impact of the U.S.-E.U. Dialogues on U.S. Insurance Markets.” Chairman Royce also sent a letter to the Treasury Department and USTR urging them to begin the negotiations with the E.U. that led to the agreement.
01.13.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) spoke on the House floor yesterday in support of H.R. 78, the SEC Regulatory Accountability Act. The bill calls for the Commission to measure rules and regulations against the economic cost of enforcement and eliminate redundant past rules. “What is the attempt in the [SEC Regulatory Accountability Act]? It is to make sure that the U.S. capital markets are unmatched in terms of their size, their depth, their resiliency, and their transparency. This SEC Regulatory Accountability Act gives the Commission the opportunity to ensure that its rules and regulations, past and present, are worth pursuing when measured against their economic cost. Growing access to capital, protecting investors, and preserving the world’s strongest capital markets are not mutually exclusive objectives. The European Union clearly recognizes this conundrum right now. They're launching a ‘Call for Evidence’ to investigate the unintended consequences created by their regulatory framework, because they are searching for balance in this too, to make sure that they have retrospective examination. It’s prudent, as the effectiveness of regulation is measured by outcomes rather than volume in a situation like this. It drives us towards efficiency in the markets,” said Rep. Royce. Watch Rep. Royce deliver his remarks here or by clicking the image below.
01.13.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and former Chairman of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange, released the following statement to mark Korean American Day today: "Since January 13, 1903, when the first Korean families reached the United States, Korean Americans have taken root and thrived in our country through their strong family ties and hard work. In my own district, I am continually impressed with the Korean American community's commitment to upholding its rich heritage. The United States, and California in particular, has been strengthened by the contributions of Korean Americans in medicine, engineering, law, academia, art, and many other fields. Our country also shares close economic ties with South Korea, bolstered by passage of the Korea-U.S. free trade agreement which I championed in Congress. It was also my honor to champion the passage of H. Con. Res. 40, which encourages North Korea to allow Korean Americans to reunite with their family members."
01.11.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement to mark Human Trafficking Awareness Day: "Modern day slavery results in a $150 billion a year profit. It's egregious and unacceptable that millions of people around the world are trafficked. That's why I'm proud to be a leader in the fight against this heinous crime. While Congress has made progress by giving more resources to those on the front lines, there is still plenty of work to be done. Just recently, Backpage closed its adult advertising section after my colleagues and I pressured it to do so. Traffickers are changing their tactics in the Internet era, which means we must be innovative to stay one step ahead of them." Today, Chairman Royce cosponsored the Trafficking Survivors Relief Act, which allows human trafficking victims to petition courts to clear their criminal records of non-violent offenses that they committed while they were being trafficked. Chairman Royce voted for passage of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act to protect victims by requiring traffickers to be treated as violent criminals for purposes of pre-trial release, monitoring, and detention. It also recognizes child pornography production as a form of human trafficking and ensures that victims have access to crucial support services. The President later signed this bill into law. As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Chairman Royce also oversaw passage of three pieces of anti-trafficking legislation by the Committee last year. He authored H.R. 400, the Trafficking Prevention in Foreign Affairs Contracting Act, an anti-trafficking measure to ensure U.S. tax dollars do not support human trafficking among the thousands of foreign workers the U.S. government employs overseas. In 2013, Chairman Royce launched a Human Trafficking Congressional Advisory Committee (HTCAC) to address human trafficking concerns, as well as offer policy recommendations. The HTCAC is comprised of victims’ rights groups, local and federal law enforcement agencies, and community advocates, and is actively working to combat human trafficking in Southern California.
01.10.2017	Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Jared Huffman (D-Calif.), Don Young (R-Alaska), and Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 389, the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act. The bill ensures that loans to finance the purchase of small apartment buildings from both credit unions and banks are considered residential real estate loans: "The Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act unleashes billions of dollars of capital for small businesses at no cost to taxpayers and drives local economic investment," said Rep. Royce. "I look forward to working with Chairman Hensarling to advance this regulatory relief." “Credit unions are vital to local communities and their economies on the North Coast and across America,” said Rep. Huffman. “The Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act is a common-sense, bipartisan fix that ensures credit unions are able to do their job and assist small businesses in accessing capital, and making investments in local economies, while boosting the construction and housing sectors.” “This legislation is good for business and good for consumers,” said Rep. Young. “Not only does it free up capital and expand access to responsible home lending, it provides community lenders with some commonsense regulatory relief.” “Credit unions should not be constrained by arbitrary regulations that impair their ability to serve members who wish to invest in small residential properties," said Rep. DeFazio. "The Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act puts credit unions on equal footing with banks and allows members additional choices when shopping for investment capital.” Specifically, the bill removes loans made for the purchase of non-owner occupied, 1-4 unit dwellings from the calculation of the member business lending (MBL) cap currently imposed on credit unions. If enacted, the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act would allow credit unions to lend an additional $11 billion to small businesses, freeing up much needed private sector financing for commercial businesses and rental housing. Importantly, the bill maintains the ability of the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) to apply stringent underwriting and servicing requirements to these loans, which often depend on rent as a chief contributor towards repayment.
01.10.2017	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement after voting in favor of the Inspiring the Next Space Pioneers, Innovators, Researchers, and Explorers (INSPIRE) Women Act (H.R. 321) and the Promoting Women in Entrepreneurship Act (H.R. 255): “Inspiring young women to pursue careers in science, engineering, math and technology fields will help us build a stronger workforce, economy, and nation. If given the right tools and resources, there are no limits to what women in STEM fields can accomplish” said Rep. Royce. "Right now only 26 percent of women who attain degrees in STEM fields work in STEM jobs; that's a major problem that I'm committed to fixing." The INSPIRE Women Act authorizes the NASA Administrator to encourage women and girls to study science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) and to pursue careers that will further advance America’s space science and exploration efforts through support of initiatives such as: NASA GIRLS and NASA BOYS; Aspire to Inspire; and the Summer Institute in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Research. The bipartisan Promoting Women in Entrepreneurship Act authorizes the National Science Foundation (NSF) to use its entrepreneurial programs to recruit and support women to extend their focus beyond the laboratory and into the commercial world. Due to his advocacy for greater STEM education in schools and universities, Rep. Royce was selected to be the national Co-Chair of the Congressional App Challenge. The Congressional App Challenge is designed to engage students’ creativity and encourage their participation in STEM education fields. It allows students to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet or computer devices on a platform of their choice.
12.15.2016	U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and Terri Sewell (D-Ala.), members of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following joint statement in reaction to today's release of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) 2017 Scorecard: “Alternative credit score consideration by the GSEs is a win-win: it opens up the market to those looking to buy a home in a responsible manner and fosters healthy competition in the credit scoring field. That's why there is strong bipartisan support in Congress for such a move. We encourage the FHFA to move forward without further delay." Last year, Reps. Royce and Sewell introduced H.R. 4211, the Credit Score Competition Act, which enables Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to consider credit scoring models they currently don't evaluate when making mortgage purchasing decisions. The Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit held a hearing entitled "Examining Legislative Proposals to Address Consumer Access to Mainstream Banking Services" during which witnesses testified on the benefits of enacting such a policy change. The 2017 Scorecard states that the FHFA expects the GSEs to: "Conclude assessment of updated credit score models for underwriting, pricing, and investor disclosures, and, as appropriate, plan for implementation."
12.14.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced this year's winners from California's 39th Congressional District of the Congressional Award, the highest honor Congress bestows upon young Americans. This Congressional recognition is reserved for students who have completed up to 100 hours in the areas of public service, physical fitness, and personal development. A full list of winners can be viewed here. “The Congressional Award Program not only encourages public service, it fosters a sense of civic duty and good citizenship," said Rep. Royce. "Congressional Award winners often go on to become leaders in our community, and it's an honor to recognize these young people for their accomplishments." Established by Congress in 1979, the Congressional Award was created to honor young participants who have set, and achieved, personal goals driving service and individual development across the nation. There are no minimum grade point average requirements and the program accommodates youth with special needs and disabilities. In pursuit of the Congressional Award, over 49,000 students have performed more than 3.5 million volunteer hours. The CA-39 winners of the Award were presented with a Congressional Award certificate and medal by Rep. Royce during a reception he hosted in his Brea office. Additional details on the Congressional Award Program are available at http://congressionalaward.org and on Rep. Royce's website here.
12.12.2016	Thursday, two bills were introduced by a bipartisan group of members on the House Financial Services Committee to lay the groundwork for housing finance reform next Congress -- H.R. 6500, the Moving Housing Forward Act, introduced by Congressmen John K. Delaney (D-MD), John Carney (D-DE), and Jim Himes (D-CT) and H.R. 6487, the Taxpayer Protections and Market Access for Mortgage Finance Act introduced by Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA) and Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-WI). Both proposals seek to address issues in housing finance through pilot programs at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. “An all-of-the-above approach to credit risk transfers by the GSEs is critical, as we look for ways to decrease taxpayer exposure to future losses and maintain a stable housing market. Members of both sides of the aisle agree that the status quo of a housing market dominated by the federal government is unsustainable,” said Congressman Royce. “Owning a home has long been a key part of the American Dream. If Congress isn’t ensuring access to affordable housing and a stable housing market, we are failing millions of middle class families,” said Congressman Delaney. “With the current difficulty millions of Americans face getting mortgages, it’s time for Congress to end the gridlock on housing finance reform and start advancing reasonable bipartisan ideas like these innovative pilot programs that will help Congress finalize larger reforms. I’m proud to work with Congressman Himes and Congressman Carney on our bill and I’m grateful for Congressman Royce and Congresswoman Moore’s efforts to also advance housing reform. In these two bills, we advance reform efforts that combine the strengths of the private sector and public sector to keep an affordable fixed-rate thirty-year mortgage alive and preserve a government guarantee, while introducing greater fiscal responsibility and stability to the housing finance system. I look forward to working with my colleagues in both parties next Congress.” “Ensuring the stability of our housing market is crucial to our communities and our economy,’ said Congressman Carney. “These bills seek to address critical issues at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and to do so in a responsible way. While I’m disappointed that I won’t be in Congress to continue this work, I’m glad we were able to keep the ball rolling.” “Congress needs to make progress on issues that affect the lives of working families in tangible ways, and it is hard to think of anything that can build wealth and change lives more significantly than home ownership,” said Congressman Himes. “Our plan combines the best ideas and resources from the private and public sector, which is an approach that has wide support from the experts most knowledgeable in the field. This legislation can set the tone for a new way of doing business on Capitol Hill that puts the priorities of the American people first.” Eight years after the financial crisis housing finance reform remains unaddressed. Government conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac places taxpayers at risk for future bailouts and impacts access to credit for borrowers. On average, borrowers need a FICO score that is 50 points higher than they did 15 years ago. As a leading economic driver for the United States and an important asset for middle-class savings, stability in the housing sector and adequate access to mortgages for home buyers is imperative. To address these issues, House Financial Services members have introduced two proposals that establish pilot programs at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It is crucial that Congress take up legislation to fix the structure of both Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) to prevent future housing crises and protect American taxpayers while also ensuring that Americans retain the dream of owning their own home. Both bills seek to test strategies and gain feedback to better inform future Congressional actions. The Moving Housing Forward Act would test a pari passu finance pricing structure for Credit Risk Transfers, while Taxpayer Protections and Market Access for Mortgage Finance Act expands mortgage insurance to lessen risk for the enterprises. In addition, both efforts push the regulators and GSEs to explore new and innovative means of sharing risk and advance the conversation around how to best reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These pilots provide important real-world feedback to help Congress act on comprehensive housing finance reform. The members look forward to continuing to work together to examine new structures that ensure both affordability of mortgages and fiscal responsibility. To view bill text of the Taxpayer Protections and Market Access for Mortgage Finance Act click here. To view bill text of Moving Housing Forward Act click here. For a one-pager on the Moving Housing Forward Act click here.
12.09.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses about the ramifications of recent rules and regulations on short-term access to capital during a Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises hearing entitled “The Impact of Regulations on Short-Term Financing.” “The United States is home to capital markets that are unmatched in terms of the size of our markets, the transparency, the depth, and the resiliency as we have seen. They provide the fuel that keeps the largest economy in the world moving, and allow for investment, development and ultimately allow for job growth. At the end of the day, wages per worker are dependent upon productivity per worker, that’s dependent upon investment per worker, and that’s dependent upon the capital markets and getting everybody into the capital markets. The European Commission recently engaged in what they called a ‘Call for Evidence’. That was a request to the public for feedback on 'interactions, inconsistencies, and gaps' and 'unintended consequences' created by Europe’s regulatory framework, created by their bureaucracy. Mr. Toomey, should U.S. regulators engage in a similar project as the EU’s 'Call for Evidence', and what would the benefits be of such an undertaking?” asked Chairman Royce. “The European Commission effort in the 'Call for Evidence'… provides a framework for doing this cumulative analysis on the effects of all these different and overlapping regulations. The parameters that the European Commission outlined, the impact on economic growth, we think is key. Obviously the interactions and the inconsistencies [are] key to understand… The ultimate output from a domestic standpoint is understanding how all of these disparate rules are attacking and addressing different types of risk, and whether they’re overshooting their policy goals to the detriment of ultimately the economy. I think when we look at the European Commission effort, the parameters they outlined are very similar to what we believe should be done, and now is a good time to do it given the rules have been in place for some time or at least some of them have,” replied Mr. Robert Toomey, Managing Director and Associate General Counsel at SIFMA. “Mr. Deas, the testimony that you submitted which focused on the impact of bank capital and liquidity rules on end users and corporate treasures, there was this argument: less liquidity can mean production comes to a halt. Less liquidity means often that the inventories run low, that the payroll isn’t made on time. All of which of course harms the people that rely on these businesses and harms the economy, and I would ask what could we do in Congress to address these concerns?” inquired Rep. Royce. “I would [advise] … for you to mandate that the banking regulators undertake an analysis of both the individual effects but, equally as important, the cumulative effects based on their interactions of these different rules as they affect Main Street companies. The banking regulators have taken steps [which] put that capital burden instead on the banks… without fully appreciating that in the end [the banks] are intermediaries, and we, the end users and the manufacturing companies in this country, bear those costs,” responded Mr. Thomas C. Deas, Jr., Chairman of the National Association of Corporate Treasurers. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking the image below.
12.08.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) voted for S. 612, the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act, legislation to alleviate water shortages in California. The landmark compromise is the result of negotiations between California House Republicans and U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and will now be considered in the U.S. Senate. "Delivering relief from water shortages to California's families and farms isn't about politics. I'm glad that both sides of the negotiating table were able to come together and strike a good faith agreement. While this is only the first step in ensuring California's water distribution is sensible and fair, it is a positive one," said Rep. Royce. It's estimated that this legislation will provide for an additional 200,000 acre-feet of water for Southern California and the Central Valley annually, enough to meet the needs of 446,000 average California households. Specifically, the legislation: - Directs federal agencies (Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the National Marine Fisheries Service) to pump water at the high end of the Delta smelt and salmonid biological opinions (i.e. -5,000 cfs OMR). This is within current law and regulation. Only under certain conditions and if listed species are adversely impacted can pumping be reduced. - Authorizes federal agencies to increase pumping rates under certain conditions to capture water from storm events provided listed species are not adversely impacted. - Eliminates the water “payback” provision, which typically results in significant pumping reductions after storm events. - Requires that the Delta Cross Channel Gates remain open as much as possible, consistent with Federal and state law, to allow more fresh water to flow into the central Delta to be pumped south or to reduce salinity. - Expands the window for water transfers through the Delta to April 1 through November 30, which enables more water to flow from willing sellers in Northern California to willing buyers south-of-the-Delta. This will help reduce capacity limitation issues during certain times of the year. - Requires the Federal government to consult with local and state public water agencies on the re-consultation of the Delta smelt and salmonid biological opinions, which the Bureau of Reclamation initiated earlier this year. - Directs the Interior and Commerce Departments, using new science, real-time monitoring, and other information, to maximize water supplies through operational or management measures.
12.08.2016	Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and Gwen Moore (D-Wisc.), introduced H.R. 6487, the Taxpayer Protections and Market Access for Mortgage Finance Act, legislation requiring the GSEs to increase credit risk transfers (CRT) with the private sector. “Growing private sector participation in the secondary housing market reduces taxpayer exposure to future losses. Congress should encourage Fannie and Freddie to increase the amount and the types of credit risk transfer transactions to the maximum level that is economically and commercially viable. Doing so is not only compatible with housing finance reform, it eases the way for future action," said Rep. Royce. "I think this bipartisan legislation builds on the good work the FHFA has done in housing finance. Together, I am confident we will collectively pave the way for a stronger, more stable housing market for all Americans,” said Rep. Moore. The underlying purposes of the bill are to require the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) to establish guidelines for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to engage in significant and increasing credit risk transfer transactions. The bill includes changes to commodities rules which allow the use of credit-linked notes to transfer risk from the GSEs to the private sector. It also amends existing securities and tax laws to allow real estate investment trusts (REITs) to invest in GSE credit risk bonds. Finally, the bill establishes two pilot programs to increase risk sharing transactions with small lenders and mortgage insurers. Both authors of the legislation are senior members of the House Financial Services Committee. Full text of the bill can be viewed here. For more information, contact: Saat Alety (Royce) at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111. Eric Harris (Moore) at Eric.Harris@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4572.
11.30.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement after voting for the 21st Century Cures Act, landmark legislation to strengthen the government's search for cures to diseases like cancer, Alzheimer's, and cystic fibrosis, reform the nation's mental health care system, and bolster the fight against opioid abuse: "Today's effort is the culmination of years of feedback from doctors, nurses, scientists, and, most importantly, patients. I was glad to be a part of this victory for millions of Americans fighting diseases without a cure, mental illness, or an addiction to opioids, and look forward to the President signing this bipartisan compromise into law." Specifically, the 21st Century Cures Act: • Streamlines and improves the Federal Drug Administration's (FDA) review of life-saving drugs for patients with breast cancer and muscular dystrophy • Modernizes clinical trials and removes regulatory uncertainty for the development of new medical apps • Supporting greater investments in fostering the next generation of medial researchers •Provides $4.8 billion over 10 years to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for cancer prevention research and regenerative medicine using adult stem cells •Provides $500 million to the FDA over 10 years to move drugs and medical devices to patients more quickly •Provides $1 billion over 2 years for grants to states to supplement opioid abuse prevention and treatment activities, such as improving prescription drug monitoring programs and implementing prevention • Establishes an Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use (Assistant Secretary) to head the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) • Creates a coordinating committee to evaluate federal programs related to Serious Mental Illness (SMI) and provide recommendations to better coordinate mental health services for people with SMI • Reauthorizes and makes technical updates to develop and implement programs to divert individuals with a mental illness from the criminal justice system to community-based services • Reauthorizes and makes updates to grants for states to provide services to homeless individuals who are potentially suffering from serious mental illness • Reauthorizes grants to institutions of higher education or accredited professional training programs to support the recruitment and education of mental health care providers
11.29.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding the nomination of Elaine Chao for United States Secretary of Transportation: “Elaine Chao is a friend, and I've always been impressed with her leadership ability and grasp on the challenges facing our country. She will make an excellent Transportation Secretary and I look forward to working with her to address Southern California's infrastructure needs, such as funding to relieve congestion on the 57/60,” said Chairman Royce. Chairman Royce, who represents the Congressional district that encompasses the 57/60 confluence, has been a longtime advocate for fixing the freeways. Both the current Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx and his colleague Chairman Bill Shuster of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee have visited the confluence at Chairman Royce's invitation to observe the gridlock. Chairman Royce has also wrote letters to the Department of Transportation in support of the 57/60 being included in the Primary Freight Network, which assisted Diamond Bar during its successful TIGER grant bid. Elaine Chao, the former United States Secretary of Labor, is the first Asian American woman to serve as a Cabinet secretary. Her nomination is expected to be confirmed by the U.S. Senate early next year.
11.15.2016	Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and Mike Honda (D-Calif.) introduced legislation to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Norman Yoshio Mineta, a former U.S. Secretary of Transportation, U.S. Representative, and Mayor of San Jose, California. “Since the American Revolution, Congressional Gold Medals have been commissioned to show our nation’s highest expression of gratitude to those who have contributed greatly to our country. Secretary Norman Mineta’s lifetime of service is deserving of this recognition. Whether as a United States Army officer, Member of Congress, or Cabinet Secretary, Norman has given America his all,” said Rep. Royce, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “Norm had a strong record of reaching across the aisle on issues ranging from civil rights to transportation policy. He epitomizes what we can achieve when we work together. He is a true leader who has demonstrated how much someone can accomplish when they are not merely looking for credit or limelight,” said Rep. Honda. “Norm has dedicated his life to public service and has done so with exemplary dignity, leadership and integrity. This is despite having personally experienced the indignity of internment as a child by his own government. Rather, he used the experience to guide his lifelong commitment to his country.” In 1942, Mineta and his family were among 120,000 Americans of Japanese ancestry incarcerated during WWII. He went on to serve in the United States Army and as Councilmember and esteemed Mayor of San Jose, California, as a Member of the House of Representatives, and as Secretary of Commerce and Secretary of Transportation in Democratic and Republican Presidential Cabinets. His appointment by President Clinton in 2000 as Secretary of Commerce made him the first Asian American to serve in a Presidential Cabinet. Secretary Mineta stayed on in President George W. Bush’s cabinet as Secretary of Transportation where he was at the helm on September 11, 2001. In the aftermath of the attacks and through the end of his tenure as Secretary of Transportation, he ushered in critical reforms to the nation’s transportation and security screening networks.
11.15.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chair Mary Jo White about the cumulative impact of Commission regulations during a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “Examining the SEC’s Agenda, Operations, and FY 2018 Budget Request.” “The focus of the SEC originally was, and I think should continue to be, the strength and resilience of our markets. That is critical to economic growth, to the jobs that are created thereby. When it comes to capital markets lending, I've got a question about the last few years... because we've had a lot of major regulatory changes, such as risk retention, accounting changes, prudential changes with new capital and liquidity rules, new disclosure regimes, and automated trading platforms. And all of this is occurring at the same time," said Rep. Royce "European regulators have raised concerns about how these new regulations fit together. Specifically, on his way out the door, E.U. financial-services chief Jonathan Hill concluded that, "whereas after 2008 the greatest threat to financial stability had been the financial crisis, over time the greater threat had become the lack of growth itself. In other words, too little risk itself became a stability risk.' Then [Hill] went on to say that, 'the crisis may have made the scale and the pace of regulatory change inevitable. But the various layers of regulation could have been better aligned.' That was his reflection. I was going to ask you yours, whether you agree with that sentiment. If we stepped back and reflected on the cumulative impact of all these regulations and carefully understand what this means for growth and lending before we move forward with major changes, what would your observations be?" said Rep. Royce. “The capital markets are an innovation built on taking prudent risk with factors fully disclosed. That's obviously a very important driver of growth of the economy and everything else that is positive. One has to worry about, and we do, system risk that could destabilize the system and obviously cause tremendous harm to investors. I think in terms of the impact of the regulations mentioned a little earlier, our economists at the SEC are studying, and will be reporting to Congress next year, on the cumulative impact of regulations on capital formation as well as corporate bond liquidity. It's something we study all the time. When we do our rules, by the way, our economists do study the economic impacts and they do look at not just the particular four corners of one rule and what your're changing there. Look you've got these other nine rules out there, so when you add this one, what is going to be the cumulative effect on all sorts of economic impacts. There may be a benefit for investors, there might not be, but what are the costs of it?" answered Chair White. “I think [Hill] is just in retrospect looking at this at a time, as you know, when there is still more coming down the pipeline. We have discussions continuing on Basel 4. We have the proposals on the ‘Fundamental Review of the Trading Book’. I assume you share that overarching goal which I think [Hill] speaks to, that we need to balance the goals of market stability and safety and soundness with the needs of market liquidity, end-users, and overall economic growth,” concluded Rep. Royce. “That’s part of the cost-benefit analysis we do. You have to think more broadly as I said before when you do that, and that’s very much a part of it,” replied Chair White. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of Chair White here or by clicking on the image below:
11.15.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) cosponsored the VET Bonus Act (H.R. 6316), legislation to stop U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) efforts to reclaim bonuses rightfully paid to California National Guard members. “Bonus payments made in good faith to CalGuard members shouldn't be touched. These soldiers shouldn't be punished for serving their country,” said Rep. Royce. On October 22, 2016, the Los Angeles Times reported that nearly 10,000 soldiers in the California National Guard had been ordered to repay enlistment bonuses of $15,000 or more by DoD. Shortly thereafter, Rep. Royce wrote Defense Secretary Ash Carter to request a suspension of his Department's attempts to clawback such bonuses. The VET Bonus Act, authored by U.S. Representative Jeff Denham (R-Modesto), dictates that: • Bonuses paid between 2004 and 2010 in good faith shall not be subject to repayment to DoD unless the recipient committed fraud or did not satisfy corresponding service requirements • Bonus payments reclaimed by DoD shall be paid back with interest to veterans who accepted them in good faith • For veterans who are reimbursed by the U.S. Army, the Secretary of the Army must notify credit agencies that any debt previously reported is invalid • The Secretary of the Army shall provide financial assistance to veterans who suffered severe financial hardships after having bonus payments reclaimed
11.10.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), national Co-Chair of the Congressional App Challenge, announced the winners of his district's competition: Christopher Jhaveri, Christopher Leung, Jason Kwan, and Santiago Torres of the La Puente Valley Regional Occupational Program at Los Altos High School. The winning students created Election Connection, a mobile application designed to educate voters on candidates' political positions. Rep. Royce made his announcement during the competition's Exhibit and Awards Ceremony last night at the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum. "I enthusiastically chaired the Congressional App Challenge this year because its mission aligns with my priorities: promoting STEM education in our schools and encouraging students to pursue technology-related interests. Congratulations to Los Altos High School and all of the participating teams. I can't wait to see what the future holds for all of the talented competitors," said Rep. Royce. "As national Co-Chair of the Congressional App Challenge, Congressman Royce has led the charge in promoting STEM and computer coding education in our schools. Over 2100 students creating 650 apps participated in this year's Challenge, a 20% jump from last year," said Melissa Medina, Congressional Affairs Director for the Congressional App Challenge. Second place was awarded to Troy High School's Neil Prajapati for his app "AntiStipulator" and Ayala High School's Noah Allen, Justin Harsono, Jeffrey Hsu, and Ramakrishna Senthil for their app "TuteeMe." Third place was awarded to Los Altos High School's Aum Brahmbhatt, Tiffany Liao, and Breeze Hernandez for their app "BrainTrain." A panel of independent judges determined the winning team of the competition that featured mobile applications created by students from California's 39th Congressional District. Judging was based on factors such as quality of the application's operations, implementation of the application's concept, and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The winning student developers and Los Altos High School will have Election Connection displayed in the United States Capitol alongside winning submissions from around the nation.
11.01.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced details of this year's Congressional App Challenge Exhibit and Awards Ceremony, featuring mobile applications created by over 100 participating students from California's 39th Congressional District. A panel of independent judges will determine the winning team and Rep. Royce will announce their decision at the ceremony. Competition winners will have their work displayed in the United States Capitol. “I've had the opportunity to visit students hard at work for this year's Challenge and look forward to seeing the final products. As the national Co-Chair of the Congressional App Challenge, I thank our event speakers and judges, all of whom share my passion for instilling the value of a STEM education in our community's students," said Rep. Royce. Event Details What: Congressional App Challenge Exhibit and Awards Ceremony Who: U.S. Representative Ed Royce Date: November 9, 2016 Time: 7 PM Location: Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum Address: 18001 Yorba Linda Boulevard, Yorba Linda, CA 92886 Event Speakers Marc Fischer Marc Fischer is the founder and CEO of Dogtown Media, a mobile technology studio based in Santa Monica, California with offices in San Francisco and New York City. Fischer is also a Professor at Santa Monica College where he teachers App Design to computer science and graphic design students. Katie Lamkin Kathleen Lamkin is a Software Engineering major at Chapman University, graduating in December 2016. She works as a Software Engineer at Anivive Lifesciences. She has three years of industry experience in design and implementation of web services, backend web applications, and data integrations. She has worked in a wide range of industries consisting of media &amp; entertainment, consumer electronics, logistics, and pharmaceutical. Kathleen is the sole inventor on a pending patent entitled "Method for Creating and Displaying Content." Daniel Tenorio Daniel Tenorio is a full-stack developer at CASEpeer and recent Computer Science graduate from the University of California Irvine. Tenorio was involved in AppJam+, a program aimed at introducing young students to computer science by mentoring them as they build their first Android applications. Event Judges Shannon Alfaro, Lecturer, University of California Irvine Abby Atchison, Chapman University Melissa Crawford, Software Engineer, Capital One Scarlett Kwong, Walnut Valley Water District Erik Linstead, Professor, Chapman University John Natividad, Vice President, AlixPartner Japan Bing Neris, Environmental Engineer, City of Los Angeles Chi Ni, Education Consultant Captain Eugene Park, Assistant Civil Works Branch Chief, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Ryan Rysley, Chief Technology Officer, Wipfli LLP Press This event is open press. Those interested in attending can do so by contacting Stephanie Hu at (626) 964-5123 or Stephanie.Hu@mail.house.gov.
10.24.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) visited Fullerton School District members participating in the 2016 Congressional App Challenge, including Nicolas Junior High School and Robert C. Fisler Elementary School. Rep. Royce was selected as the national Co-Chair of the Congressional App Challenge due to his leadership in promoting STEM education. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional App Challenge, I know that a workforce proficient in STEM skills is critical to the United States leading the global economy. If we want California to remain the innovation capital of the world, we need to encourage young people to pursue the study of science, technology, engineering, and math. I'm blown away by the creativity, ingenuity, and talent displayed by these Fullerton School District students. Thank you to all of the competitors, teachers, and administrators participating in this team effort. I look forward to checking out the final products," said Rep. Royce. The Congressional App Challenge is designed to engage students’ creativity and encourage their participation in STEM education fields. It allows students to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet or computer devices on a platform of their choice. The 2016 Congressional App Challenge submission period is open until November 2, culminating in an exhibition and judging event during December. The competition winners will be selected by a panel of local judges and recognized by Rep. Royce, who is visiting Rosary Academy later this week. Students, teachers, and administrators interested in entering the competition can do so by clicking here, or contacting Stephanie Hu from Rep. Royce's office at (626) 964-5123 or Stephanie.Hu@mail.house.gov.
10.24.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, has written U.S. Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter regarding Department of Defense (DoD) efforts to reclaim bonuses paid to California National Guard members. On October 22, 2016, the Los Angeles Times reported that nearly 10,000 soldiers in the California National Guard have been ordered to repay enlistment bonuses of $15,000 or more by DoD. Chairman Royce, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Bakersfield), and other members of California's Congressional delegation have requested that these actions be halted immediately “The harassment of California National Guard members who were promised reenlistment bonuses should stop immediately as the Department of Defense and Congress investigate the fraud perpetrated by overzealous recruiters. These soldiers are being punished for serving their country,” said Chairman Royce. Text of the letter can be read below: October 25, 2016 The Honorable Ashton B. Carter U.S. Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Carter: We write to you with grave concern regarding Department of Defense efforts to recover decade-old reenlistment bonuses paid to thousands of California Army National Guard soldiers. We are dismayed that our men and women who answered their country’s call to duty are now being forced to repay what was promised to them in exchange for their honorable service. Some have faced the threat of wage garnishments and tax liens if they refuse. This is no way to treat those who have fulfilled their commitments to their country. They should be held harmless in light of the fraud that was perpetrated upon them by overzealous recruiters. On October 22, 2016, the Los Angeles Times reported that nearly 10,000 soldiers in the California National Guard have been ordered to repay enlistment bonuses of $15,000 or more. Many of these individuals served multiple combat tours. Wounded Iraq and Afghanistan veteran and former Army Captain Christopher Van Meter was asked to repay a $25,000 reenlistment bonus. Army Sergeant Robert Richmond, who suffered permanent injuries in Iraq due to a roadside bomb attack, was asked to repay his $15,000 reenlistment bonus. These are just two examples of the burden that our brave men and women are being asked to bear. It is unjust and this wrong must be righted. We request that further attempts to retrieve outstanding debt be halted. We are also requesting a comprehensive briefing by the Department of Defense and the National Guard Bureau, specifically focused on what authorities the Department of Defense currently possesses to waive the repayment of these debts as well as a full accounting as to the scope of this issue nation-wide. We look forward to an immediate response. Thank you for your time and attention to this critical issue. Sincerely, Ed Royce Kevin McCarthy
10.12.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) received the coveted "Manufacturing Legislative Excellence Award" award from the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) for his support of legislation critical to American manufacturers. Rep. Royce's voting record in the current session of Congress has a 96% rating from NAM, one of the highest ratings of any Member of Congress from California. "Southern California's status as a leader in aerospace, aviation, and high-tech manufacturing is threatened by an avalanche of regulations from lawmakers that raises the costs of making products here at home," said Rep. Royce. "As a former small businessman, I'll continue to be part of the solution, and not the problem, when it comes to protecting manufacturing jobs in our community." “Manufacturers in California and throughout the United States are leading an innovation revolution, creating jobs, making more products and making them better than ever before,” said NAM Senior Vice President of Policy and Government Relations Aric Newhouse. “However, manufacturers are often disproportionately and adversely impacted by decisions made by policy and lawmakers. The NAM is proud to stand with lawmakers like Rep. Royce who understands what is at stake and seek to implement policies that will energize the manufacturing economy.” The "Manufacturing Legislative Excellence Award" recognizes members of Congress for their support of manufacturers' public policy priorities, including tax relief for research and development operations and supporting tort reform. Lawmakers who voted with manufacturers on key issues 70 percent or more of the time during the 114th Congress earned the award. The National Association of Manufacturers is the nation’s largest trade association and the voice of the manufacturing economy and its over 12 million workers spanning every industrial sector across all 50 states. It promotes policies that enable manufacturers in the United States to create jobs, compete in the global economy and improve living standards for the millions of those employed by the manufacturing sector. California alone is home to more than 30,000 manufacturers.
10.12.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, convened a round table discussion with local business leaders from the Asian American community. The group spoke about federal issues of concern to small business owners including tax reform, trade agreements, access to capital, regulatory relief, and infrastructure investment. “Asian Americans make up a significant amount of the small business community, therefore I appreciate the feedback from these local leaders. As a former small businessman, I know just how costly Sacramento and Washington make it to run a business in California. That's why I'm focused on simplifying our tax code, cutting burdensome regulations, and ensuring our roadways can support a free movement of goods to market,” said Chairman Royce. In response to his support for pro-business legislative policies, Rep. Royce was recently recognized by the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), National Retail Federation (NRF), and National Association of Manufacturers (NAM). These associations represent tens of thousands of California businesses.
09.29.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, questioned witnesses about the importance of a U.S.-E.U. covered agreement to protect American insurance firms and consumers during a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “The Impact of the U.S.-E.U. Dialogues on U.S. Insurance Markets.” “I agree with the Chairman’s previous statement of support for a narrow covered agreement to be concluded as quickly as possible because I think it serves as the only realistic hope we have of ensuring U.S. companies that they can really compete on a level playing field. A year ago, I sent a letter to the Treasury and the USTR urging them to expeditiously negotiate a covered agreement. My concern, which I stated at the time, was that without action U.S. companies with business in the E.U. would be put at a direct competitive disadvantage and that continued open access of U.S.-based reinsurers would not be assured and U.S. insurers would be exposed to the risk of additional regulatory actions by individual [E.U.] countries. Now one of the reasons we’re here is because sadly the prognostications here have proven correct. To date, we have already seen actions taken by regulators in the U.K., the Netherlands, Austria, Germany, and Poland to place U.S. companies at a disadvantage. In the latter two countries, U.S. reinsurers are now prohibited from conducting cross-border operations without forming and capitalizing a branch or a subsidiary. We could have solved this. I would ask rhetorically when we might expect the 19 jurisdictions that have yet to adopt the NAIC’s model reinsurance law to get on board. But I already suspect I know the answer to that: not soon enough. That's the comeuppance here. Congress predicted this would be the case. I could go back to Kanjorski’s original observations. This was exactly why the concept of a covered agreement was pushed – on a bipartisan basis – by this Committee. The author of the provision, Paul Kanjorski, said at the time, back in 2009, the FIO and USTR would be given the authority to enter into a 'covered agreement' to allow for the preemption of state laws to 'harmonize reinsurance standards across national borders.' With all due respect to everybody here, notice was served 7 years ago about where we were headed if we didn’t get this worked out. Where does that leave us? Director McRaith, I would like to pose that question to you because you know better than most how we got here. You were before us as a Commissioner during discussions on Dodd-Frank, and now you are leading negotiations on the covered agreement. What do you think of the notion of a state-by-state solution on reinsurance collateral at this point?" asked Chairman Royce. "Congressman, you are absolutely right. We are at a moment in time when these concerns are not hypothetical. This is a not some metaphysical dilemma that we can debate until the cows come home. The issue is real for our industry, it's real today. The covered agreement gives us an opportunity to bring closure to issues that have been debated and discussed for decades. It’s not to the exclusion of the states, it supports the state system. I, as you note, was a Director of Insurance in Illinois and strongly believe in the state system and the work that my former colleague Julie McPeak and her current colleagues do to protect consumers every day. The two are not mutually exclusive. The covered agreement preserves our system of regulation and delivers real, meaningful results for our industry operating in the E.U.," replied Mr. Michael McRaith, Director of the Federal Insurance Office (FIO). Watch Chairman Royce's questioning of Director McRaith here or by clicking the image below.
09.29.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, questioned Wells Fargo Chairman and CEO John Stumpf during a hearing entitled “Holding Wall Street Accountable: Investigating Wells Fargo’s Opening of Unauthorized Customer Accounts.” “The idea of a cross-selling target of at least eight products clearly is part of a long-term practice at Wells Fargo going back at least to your predecessor because in 1998 Fortune Magazine quotes 'doubling the average product purchase to eight” as your predecessor’s 'current obsession.' Morphing the goal to a mandate here seems to be a big part of the problem and I say mandate because if people are fired for not hitting that goal it’s a mandate. That seems to be at the center of a toxic sales culture that you’ve overseen. But I’d ask you, was the goal of eight cross-sold products something understood and embraced by management and by your salesforce? In retrospect, do you think that target contributed, in some way, to the negative change in your sales culture?” questioned Rep. Royce. “We never had a target of eight, again, it was aspirational. We had team members who would work with customers on need-based selling and when they did that right the customer won and it was good for us,” said Stumpf. “Did you read the L.A. Times article when it came out in 2013?” asked Rep. Royce. “I don’t... I’m sure I did, I just can’t recall it right now,” responded Stumpf. “Was it something discussed at the Board level?” continued Rep. Royce. “We did discuss the L.A. [Times] article,” said Stumpf. “Did the information in that article give you pause about reporting cross-selling metrics or ratios in your annual reports and your quarterly reports in the analyst conference calls that were clearly inflated here by fake accounts, generated by your sales force?” asked Rep. Royce. “We love cross-sell because it helps define…,” replied Stumpf. “I understand your argument about that, here’s the question – if you know fake accounts are going into that ratio, why would you keep reporting that ratio? I’ve got a copy of what is in your quarterlies. You turned to Mr. Duffy here when he was asking the question and were saying, well it isn’t that material in terms of our bottom line, in terms of the fee income from these fake accounts. But what you’re reporting on your products per household is a constant upswing quarter by quarter by quarter. It certainly is material in terms of the stock price. What you were doing in constantly reporting these ever-increasing numbers was driving your stock price up. The point I’m making is that you have this story in 2013 that shows how much of that was based upon fraudulent behavior – that becomes material, right?” challenged Rep. Royce. “Let me just talk about that specifically. The cross-sell ratio, even if you include all two million accounts in that, and we know we can’t because we are already finding out in credit cards that 25%, or less than 25%, either did not order it or did not remember. We have looked back for all the quarters going back to, I can’t remember if it was 2010 or 2011, and it has one-two hundredths of one product impact. It’s absolutely immaterial,” answered Stumpf. “Look, Mr. Stumpf, this is a California company, you’ve got a lot of California customers, you’ve got people all over the world dependent upon this company, you’ve got your employees and from what I understand 1,000 of them being fired a year connected to this. I believe rebuilding the trust and righting the wrongs are going to take a course of action here that I’ve yet to see you set. Through opening unauthorized accounts or playing the shell game with a person’s money, your employees and your company negatively impacted the credit of many people in this country. I just want you to think for a minute about what that meant in terms of their ability maybe to qualify to get that home, or maybe to qualify to get that car, or maybe in terms of a student loan to send that son or daughter to a university. Not to mention working Americans wrongly terminated by your company for, what? Refusing to break financial laws, refusing to break ethical laws - that’s what we have to come to grips with here,” concluded Rep. Royce. Watch Chairman Royce's questioning of Stumpf here or by clicking the image below.
09.28.2016	Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 6196, the Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act. The bill aims to mitigate the financial resources expended by the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and taxpayers on claims for properties flooded multiple times: “It’s said that insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results, yet when it comes to the NFIP and properties that flood repeatedly, that's what we do. One NFIP-insured home valued at $69,000 flooded 34 times in 32 years and racked up $663,000 in claims; it's time to stop the madness for policyholders and taxpayers who subsidize this cycle," said Rep. Royce. “Repetitive flood loss continues to place communities and families at risk, while shortchanging the federal taxpayer and all those who pay flood insurance premiums,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “The good news is that even as the challenges mount, we know what to do. This legislation focuses on engaging communities in simple, self-help solutions that will make them safer, save them money, and ultimately, lead to the stabilization of the National Flood Insurance Program.” As of January 2016, there were more than 150,000 structures around the country classified as “Repetitive Loss Properties" (RLPs) by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). FEMA estimates that these properties comprise just one percent of those insured by the NFIP, but represent 25 to 30 percent of all flood claims. The NFIP is more than $23 billion in debt to the U.S. Treasury and according to a 2009 report by FEMA’s Inspector General, the number of RLPs increases by nearly 5,000 each year. From 1978 through 2011, RLP losses added up to more than $12 billion— or approximately half of the NFIP’s debt. The Repeatedly Flooded Communities Preparation Act requires communities with a significant number of RLP to: - Map repeatedly flooded properties and public infrastructure to determine the specific areas that should be priorities for voluntary buyouts, drainage improvements, or other mitigation efforts. - Develop and implement plans for mitigating flood risk in these problem areas. - Submit these plans as well as reports on progress to FEMA, an organization that is under the purview of Congressional oversight. A summary of the bill can be viewed here. For more information, contact: Saat Alety (Royce) at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111. Nicole L'Esperance (Blumenauer) at Nicole.LEsperance@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4811.
09.28.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned Chair of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors Janet Yellen about increased community bank consolidation at the House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “Semi-Annual Testimony on the Federal Reserve’s Supervision and Regulation of the Financial System.” “I had a question... about the unprecedented consolidation that we have seen in community financial institutions where there are fewer and fewer of them. Smaller institutions have fewer assets over which to spread their ever-growing compliance costs, so they often seek those economies [of scale] through mergers. That’s what leads to this conundrum where we have fewer banks today than we did during the Great Depression. Are you worried about the consequences of consolidation for communities and for our economy, and eventually for overleverage when you end up with just a few big institutions that hold so much weight?" asked Rep. Royce. "I do think it’s essential that we have a vibrant set of community banks serving America’s communities. They play a very special role in our financial system and it’s important that they remain healthy. Reducing regulatory burden is important and is something that we will seek to foster using every available tool that we have. Community banks face a challenging environment, though, for reasons that go beyond regulation. The low level of interest rates, flat-yield curve, and slow pace of growth in the economy are also factors that are making it difficult for them to thrive. But, they are tremendously important in the role they play for American households and businesses, and we will certainly do everything we can to relieve burdens on them," replied Chair Yellen. “Yes, and, some of that is driven by monetary policy and some of that is driven by fiscal policy, so that is another way in which they are adversely impacted by decisions made in Washington. It seems to me at the heart of the consolidation are these, well it’s really an avalanche, of rules that have forced small institutions to hire extra staff. That’s the situation - the economies of scale for them," concluded Rep. Royce. Watch Chairman Royce's questioning of Chair Yellen here or by clicking the image below.
09.27.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses on two of his legislative proposals to protect and bolster consumer access to credit during a Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee hearing entitled "Examining Legislative Proposals to Address Consumer Access to Mainstream Banking Services." The Subcommittee considered H.R. 347, the Facilitating Access to Credit Act, and H.R. 4211, the Credit Score Competition Act. “I'm in Southern California and we have one of the highest costs of living in the country -- access to credit is really vital in our communities to the well-being of a family. The difference between good credit and bad credit is the ability to purchase a home out in California, or it’s the ability to actually own your car, or pay for a college education. This legislation that we are looking at here, H.R. 347, the Facilitating Access to Credit Act, would ensure that consumers access to credit education services isn't choked off by lumping them in with credit repair scam artists. In the digital age, the American people should have more tools at their disposal, not less. H.R. 4211, the Credit Score Competition Act, my other bill here, opens up the GSEs to alternative credit scoring models. Doing so expands the pool of homebuyers without lowering the bar for qualification and it eliminates a government-backed monopoly in this regard. Both bills are strongly bipartisan with support from many Members of this Committee," said Rep. Royce. “When my constituents hear about this concept of credit repair, the first things they think about are those ‘too good to be true’ emails with subject lines like: 'Credit problems? No problem!' or signs that say: 'We can erase your bad credit – 100% guaranteed.' Clearly, these aren’t legitimate actors. But how do we separate out the good from the bad? People need access to credit counseling and they need education services. They don’t need to get ripped-off. As you know, with H.R. 347, we have tried to get this right by exempting the supervised credit bureaus – given that they want to provide credit education and not credit repair, and they are examined and overseen by the CFPB as opposed to these outfits that put the signs up around town. Dr. Turner, in simple terms, what are the differences between the credit repair scams that CROA was intended to stop and the credit education services that could be offered if H.R. 347 were passed out of this Committee?” asked Rep. Royce. Look at golf. Credit repair would be someone who, after you’ve completed 18 holes of golf, says lets me see your score card. Here, I think you double counted here, and let me shave a few strokes off there. So it’s trying to change your score after the fact. Credit [education] would be a person who coaches you on your technique, your driving ability, your short game, so that moving forward you improve in future rounds. It’s this retrospective versus prospective. It’s a very simple but quite important distinction,” replied Dr. Michael Turner, President and CEO of the Policy and Economic Research Council. “I previously submitted for the record a letter from the Congressional Black Caucus, and Hispanic and Asian Pacific American Caucuses and the Congressional Progressive Caucus, which was sent to FHFA Director Watt in April of last year. In it, they wrote: 'The current FICO score versions designated for use by the GSEs are not the most current innovations in the marketplace… Newer credit scoring models have been introduced and are valuable … [and] the GSEs should update their current FICO model and implement other credit scoring models that provide enhanced benefits to homeowners.' Do you agree that this is exactly what H.R. 4211 is designed to do?” continued Rep. Royce. “I do agree, and we have done research on this topic and we have found that there is no market failure in the credit score market but there is enormous path dependency. For example, FICO is having problems dislodging earlier versions of FICO. There is this dynamic. The other issue is that when this GSE guideline was created in 2004, there wasn’t competition, there was a dominant player, and that guideline now reflects an anachronistic market. There have been lots of versions of FICO, we’re on FICO 9 now, and other scores that have entered that actually have many of these benefits to other communities that just aren’t reflected… We believe that in different credit segments it would make access to credit more inclusive, fairer, and more responsible,” answered Dr. Turner. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking the image below.
09.26.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) recently questioned witnesses on how to increase efficiency and local control in public housing spending during a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “The Future of Housing In America: A Better Way to Increase Efficiencies For Housing Vouchers and Create Upward Economic Mobility." "The cost of the Housing Choice Voucher program consists of two parts: payments to owners to cover the difference between a tenant’s contribution and rent; and administrative fees paid to participating housing authorities. Logic would dictate that reducing the resources expended on one would free up resources for the other. But the pool to draw these resources from is not infinite. The housing authorities in my district are unable to accept applicants to Section 8 waitlists, they tell me because administrative costs are rising. I’d like to ask Ms. Sard - you pointed to housing authority consolidation and also HUD shuttering poorly performing housing authorities as a way to increase efficiency. How will that alleviate the wait for families in need?" asked Rep. Royce. "I want the Committee to be clear, today’s consortia rules don’t create the kinds of efficiencies that they potentially could. That makes them less attractive to PHAs and less useful to families. We need changes. The key thing is to allow the agencies that agree to form consortia to have a single funding contract with HUD. That means instead of each of them doing all the paperwork, and HUD doing all the paperwork on reporting, that saves time. It saves time on maintenance of waiting lists. Right now, each individual housing authority maintains their own waiting list. Families often apply to as many as they can in an area to maximize their chances of getting assistance, as they should. But that’s a waste of resources," answered Ms. Barbara Sard, Vice President of Housing Policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. "Speaking of efficiency, I’m encouraged by HUD’s Moving-to-Work contract renewals and expansion of the pilot program. Through 'local payment standards,' the Housing Authority of San Bernardino County in my district oversaw a reduction in per unit cost from $730 to $652 in addition to a 9% decrease in residents living in the two highest poverty areas. Talk about a win-win: Spending more efficiently there while moving residents closer to better opportunities, which is why the board really likes the program. Ms. Blom, how has the MTW contributed to economic mobility and efficiency in public housing? What characteristics can be replicated in other affordable housing programs so authorities like San Bernardino’s can expand their success? I’ve expressed my feelings about this to Secretary Castro many times, I’m glad to see HUD making progress – albeit slowly," continued Rep. Royce. “The Moving-to-Work demonstration that currently has 39 agencies participating in it, including San Bernardino, have been leading the way on reducing administrative costs and providing more housing choice and self-sufficiency options to families. We use that as one of the pieces of information to help inform the streamlining rule that we published in April. But going forward, with regard to the 100 PHA expansion on MTW, we are going to be rigorously studying the policy areas for that expansion so that we can better utilize that research to be able to make changes, and simplify, and reduce the burden to housing authorities. So I appreciate your support," answered Ms. Dominique Blom, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Office of Public Housing Investments at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. "I think with regard to consortium, the Department believes that this is a vehicle that housing authorities should voluntarily choose to do. We are looking to provide guidance on consortia beyond just the voucher program but also with public housing, we need to look at that in a unified way," continued Ms. Blom when prompted. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking on the image below:
09.26.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, recently launched the Asian Pacific Congressional Advisory Council (APCAC). The working group made up of local leaders of Chinese, Filipino, Indonesian, Korean, Taiwanese, and Vietnamese descent will meet with Chairman Royce on a regular basis to discuss federal issues of concern to the Asian American community in Southern California. “As a representative of a vibrant Asian American community, meeting the needs of my constituents of Asian descent is a top priority. I've taken a leading role in the fight against educational discrimination towards Asian Americans and will further coordinate my efforts with APCAC. As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I will continue to build stronger economic and cultural ties between the United States and Asian nations,” said Chairman Royce. APCAC's inaugural members include: Tony Cartegena of Walnut, CA Dr. Simon Chen of Placentia, CA Stan Kwak of Fullerton, CA Derrick Nguyen of Santa Ana, CA Tam Nguyen of Fountain Valley, CA Ho-El Park of Brea, CA Lucia Tam of San Marino, CA Jane Wibowo of West Covina, CA In recognition of his work fighting against discrimination towards Asian Americans by top universities, Chairman Royce was recently awarded the "Champion of Equal Education Rights Award" by the Asian American Coalition for Education (AACE). The President of the United States also signed legislation first authored by U.S. Representative Grace Meng (D-N.Y.) and Chairman Royce to strike the offensive term "Oriental" from preexisting federal law and replace it with “Asian American.”
09.26.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) recently questioned witnesses on the negative impact of rising corporate governance compliance costs on consumers during a Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee hearing entitled “Corporate Governance: Fostering a System that Promotes Capital Formation and Maximizes Shareholder Value.” "The U.S. has half as many publicly listed companies trading on its exchanges today as it did in 1996. That’s a pretty precipitous drop, and that trend is particularly alarming for a Californian, like myself, because the startup capital of the world is out in our neck of the woods. Firms that would otherwise go public have been deterred, and arguably if you listen to the firms they say they are deterred by unnecessary hurdles on compliance... which are unbalanced. The consequences of that are unrealized economic growth that otherwise might occur in job creation. Governor Engler, the stockholder proposal resubmission thresholds have not been changed since President Eisenhower’s term here. Clearly, they’re outdated. But rule 14A-8 also allows shareholders who have held $2,000 of a company’s stock for one year to submit a proposal to be included in a company’s proxy statement," stated Rep. Royce. "So looking at that in its totality, what are the consequences for companies and everyday shareholders of this seemingly arbitrary and relatively low $2,000 floor? For example, just 20 shares or .000000003% of Apple’s worth, then you have that included in the company’s proxy statement. How will scaling this barrier of entry to a company’s valuation benefit shareholders, how would it benefit public companies, and how would it benefit the economy?" asked Rep. Royce. "I think when there is additional cost, whatever is the reason for it, and this is a set of circumstances that do raise costs - you heard a 90 million dollar amount tossed out earlier - but depending on the company it can be more or less substantial. There is reputation risk also that can be brought into play, that’s hard to put a value on. But it raises costs and I would argue, then, diminishes shareholder value and that shouldn’t be a desirable thing especially when the other side of this argument is that the question or the proposal, in this case, might have been around the track two, three, or more times and has very low likelihood of any success, yet it does distract however much from management time, from legal time, and it adds also, I think, complexity to a proxy statement which ought to be focused, as I testified earlier, on the most material things that could help an investor decide, 'do I want to own this stock, or should I sell it?'" replied Governor John Engler, President of the Business Roundtable. "So I’ll ask you, Governor Engler, also about the no-action letter decisions from the SEC that have been arguably erratic and inconsistent, especially since the Whole Foods case. How has the growing failure to dismiss immaterial proposals impacted shareholders? Is keeping this decision process at the Commission staff level appropriate? What can Congress do here to help?" continued Rep. Royce. “I think the first step is, can we get the SEC back to work on this and can the commission itself address this. They’ve got it within their own rulemaking authority to handle this problem. It was really created, we felt, by the staff initially. We are surprised that it wasn’t addressed. There is a division, clearly, in thinking over at the commission. So they punted on it, but the punt ended up putting a lot more proposals with relatively little merit before shareholders and it was unnecessary," answered Engler. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking on the image below:
09.22.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew at a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled "The Annual Report of the Financial Stability Oversight Council” on tax reform and the influence of the Financial Stability Board (FSB) on the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC). "I know back in 1986, you sat next to Tip O’Neil back when he and Ronald Reagan were working on the ’86 Tax Act and I was wondering what advice you might give maybe the next administration in terms of how the Speaker and how the President could work on the compromises that would get us to a result like that one. I think you are somewhat optimistic about the consequences of the economic growth we saw after the ’86 Act as well. So I wanted to speak for a second about this issue you mentioned about this bipartisan, widespread agreement that our current business tax rate is stifling economic growth and is making us uncompetitive. There is an agreement I think on the need to eliminate loopholes, and I think also some of us who agree we should be taking tax revenue from money parked overseas to pay for infrastructure projects here, there is perhaps that element too that could help move this through. There seems to be some disagreement on whether to include small businesses that file on the individual side, to include the pass-through companies. I have followed your thinking through the years and I know that early on you thought it should all be done at once, and last month I think you mentioned that it needed to be broken up in terms of how it was handled," said Rep. Royce. "You can do business tax reform on the corporate side and provide a lot of benefit to small businesses by letting them deduct everything they spend on investment, by giving them simplified procedure. Real small businesses would benefit from where the emerging consensus for business tax reform is. The businesses that wouldn’t benefit are not small businesses. They are LLCs that organized after the last tax reform to go from being corporations to being pass-throughs. It's interstate pipeline companies, it's large financial firms like hedge funds. I think that if we look at the impact on real small businesses we can get there. And I hope we can break apart where the impact of individual rates really falls. It doesn’t fall on the small neighborhood business. I mean, it’s falling on these very large firms, and I think it would be a shame if that were to be an obstacle to cleaning up a business tax code that is profoundly broken. It’s causing terrible consequences; we see the European Commission now reaching into our tax base with state aid fines, that’s a terrible thing. We need to stop it by fixing our tax code. You put your finger on what I think brings it together so we should be able to get bipartisan consensus which is using the one-time revenue that comes from having a tax applied to overseas income, whether it comes home or not, to fund infrastructure. That’s one-time revenue; it’s a perfect use for one-time revenue," replied Secretary Lew. "I’m concerned that US regulators, at least in part, rely on FSB determinations. Yet FSB is not subject to the procedural due process, so I think we have an interest here in starting with FSOC rather than starting on the other end with European, or Swiss-based FSB where we end up without notice and comment or prohibitions on arbitrary and capricious actions and then we work to accommodate the Europeans rather than the other way around. Given the impact a designation can have on a company, why utilize a process that lacks some basic protections here – why don’t we reverse that process," asked Rep. Royce. "We do it the way you want us to do it. The only designations that we make are based on U.S. procedures. The FSB is a policy-shaping, not action-determining, body. It’s not binding on nations but it does help bring other countries closer to meeting our standards and I think it’s good for us to have other countries have higher regulatory standards," concluded Secretary Lew. Click here or on the image below to watch the exchange:
09.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) received the coveted "Guardian of Small Business" award from the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) for his support of legislation critical to small business owners and employees. Rep. Royce's voting record in the current session of Congress has a perfect rating from the Federation. "California's small businesses face enough red tape as it is, which is why I've made lowering the tax and regulatory burden on them a priority," said Rep. Royce. "Small business owners and the people they employ can always count on my support." “Many elected officials claim that they are champions of small business, but our Guardian Award shows our members and other small business owners who is really fighting for them,” said NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan. “Based on his voting record, Rep. Royce is one of the most reliable advocates for small business in Washington.” The "Guardian of Small Business" award was created by the NFIB to recognize members of Congress for their support of small business owners' public policy priorities. Lawmakers who vote with small business on key issues 70 percent or more of the time during the 114th Congress earned the award. Rep. Royce has a 100 percent rating. NFIB represents 325,000 small businesses in all 50 states and Washington, D.C., and is the leading advocate for small business owners. It's mission is to defend the right of small business owners to run their businesses without undue government interference and to advance public policies that promote their success.
09.08.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, spoke on the House Floor in support of legislation to reduce compliance costs for small firms seeking capital. The Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act (H.R. 4850), cosponsored by Rep. Royce, reduces the barrier for market entry to firms seeking an investment of less than $500,000 from a small group of investors. “California is the innovation capital of the world. From Silicon Valley to Orange County, technology startups are reimagining the way that the world works. These new companies don’t have thousands of people on payroll. They don’t need dozens of floors of office space. They don't need billions of dollars to function. But they do need access to capital to operate. Our current regulatory framework creates impediments to these small businesses tapping into the market. According to the Federal Reserve, the startup rate has fallen sharply over the past 30 years. It was 14% of total companies in a given year but today it's down to 8%. The likelihood of a young firm being a high-growth firm has also declined over the years. These trends are alarming if you think about the consequences. These trends need to be reversed. The Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act turns the tide by lowering compliance burdens for firms seeking low-dollar investments from a small group of investors that they have a relationship with. The legislation appropriately scales the regulatory oversight of capital formation while keeping intact investor protections. The resources that startups would sink into compliance and legal costs could be redirected to what? Redirected to hiring workers. Redirected to creating new products. Uber, Google, and Airbnb were all start-ups. Passage of the Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act ensures that the next success story will be told," said Rep. Royce on the House floor. Watch Rep. Royce's remarks here or by clicking the image below:
09.06.2016	Foothill Transit was awarded a $7.24 million grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) after receiving support for its bid from U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton). Rep. Royce was joined by members of the California delegation in writing a letter to Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Acting Administrator Carolyn Flowers regarding Foothill Transit's request for funds to build a new, eco-friendly transit center on the campus of Mt. SAC Community College. "This grant allows Foothill Transit to cut down on emissions and gridlock on our roadways, while the buses that will utilize the center are built by a company that manufactures in our community. It's a win-win for our local economy and the environment,” said Rep. Royce. Foothill Transit is a joint powers authority of 21 member cities in the San Gabriel and Pomona Valleys. It operates an expansive fixed-route bus public transit service throughout Los Angeles County and serves Mt. SAC Community College. A separate state grant for Foothill Transit will provide the funds for buses made by Proterra, Inc., a company with a manufacturing plant in the City of Industry.
07.14.2016	In recognition of his work on U.S.-Asia relations and advocacy for the Asian American community, House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-Calif.) has been awarded the "Lifetime Achievement Award" by the International Leadership Foundation (ILF). “Our country is a rich tapestry of cultural backgrounds and Asian Americans make up a vibrant part of the American story. As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, establishing strong ties between the United States and Asia has been my focus. This relationship will be the defining partnership of the 21st century. At home, I've lead the fight against alleged discrimination by elite universities towards qualified Asian Americans. I look forward to continuing to work with the ILF as a strong advocate for the Asian-American community," said Chairman Royce. "Every year, ILF recognizes truly remarkable individuals and organizations at the annual ILF Awards Gala. They are selected not only because of their tremendous professional achievements, but also for their dedication to the improvement of the Asian American and Pacific Islander community," said Chiling Tong, Founder and CEO of the ILF. As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Chairman Royce has made improving relations with Asia a priority for the United States Congress. He is a vocal proponent of U.S. economic engagement in Asia in our nation's capital. Last year, Chairman Royce sent a letter to the U.S. Departments of Education and Justice in support of the Asian American Coalition for Education's (AACE) complaint against Harvard University alleging systemic discrimination by the admissions council towards Asian American applicants. Chairman Royce asked both Departments to thoroughly investigate the allegations. AACE, which is made up of over 100 civic groups representing the Asian American community, plans to file a similar joint complaint against Yale University, Brown University, and Dartmouth College with Chairman Royce's support. The President of the United States also signed legislation first authored by U.S. Representative Grace Meng (D-N.Y.) and Chairman Royce to strike the offensive term "Oriental" from preexisting federal law and replace it with “Asian American.”
07.14.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) voted in support of H.R. 5538, the Department of Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY 2017. The legislation includes substantial provisions for California drought relief. "Delivering relief from water shortages to California's families and farms shouldn't be about politics. I've worked to advance constructive solutions to the challenges our state faces while balancing environmental standards with the water needs of local communities. The other side on the negotiating table needs to do the same," said Representative Royce. Specifically, the legislation will: -Require federal agencies to use current and reliable data when making regulatory decisions. -Provide federal regulators with the direction and flexibility they need to capture water during periods of greater precipitation. -Cut red tape holding back major water storage projects that have been authorized for over a decade. Rep. Royce and the 13 other House Republicans from California wrote U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) this week expressing their disappointment that the Senate is not advancing drought relief legislation. Text of the letter can be viewed here or read below: July 12, 2016 The Honorable Dianne Feinstein United States Senate 331 Hart Senate Offfice Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Senator Feinstein, It has come to our attention that the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources plans to hold a business meeting tomorrow, July 13, to markup numerous pieces of legislation related to natural resources and western drought. Unfortunately, no legislation related to California drought relief – neither your legislation, S. 2533, nor the House passed H.R. 2898 – is included on the list to be considered by the committee. We urge you, as our California senator, to work with your Senate counterparts to ensure that legislation related to California drought is included in this markup. As you stated earlier this year, “It’s vital that other Senators understand how harmful this historic drought has been for California.” To allow a western drought bill to move in the Senate, without the inclusion of language related to California, would be irresponsible. As you know, our constituents across the state continue to suffer from this historic drought, made worse by federal and state regulations and unsound environmental laws that artificially reduce water availability. Our communities, cities, farms, and businesses need action now. The House has acted to pass legislation to help our constituents that allows for more water to be captured for human use, while also protecting the environment. Furthermore, the House continues to take advantage of every legislative avenue available to ensure a solution is advanced and ultimately signed into law by the end of the year. It is time for the Senate to take action as well. As we return to California for the August district work period, it is of vital importance to our constituents that you work to secure passage of legislation in the Senate so that we may go to Conference to reconcile the differences. We stand ready and eager to work with you to secure passage of California water legislation in the Senate and to reach an agreement that will deliver desperately needed water to our communities. Sincerely, Kevin McCarthy David Valadao Edward Royce Devin Nunes Ken Calvert Jeff Denham Tom McClintock Doug LaMalfa Paul Cook Stephen Knight Mimi Walters Duncan Hunter Darrell E. Issa Dana Rohrabacher
07.13.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Julián Castro on the Federal Housing Agency's (FHA) forthcoming Property-Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) loan guidelines and HUD's Distressed Asset Stabilization Program (DASP) during a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled "HUD Accountability.” “In August 2015, [FHA] Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary Ed Golding, who I see is with us today, announced anticipated guidance on FHA-insured financing for properties with these qualifying PACE loans. As you may know, the use of PACE ‘super liens’ has grown more in California than anywhere else. I think it does pose additional risks for homebuyers and lenders, who already face some significant hurdles. When is the Department’s actual guidance on PACE loans coming? Will implementation be made through a HUD Mortgagee Letter or via a public notice and comment rulemaking?” asked Rep. Royce. “We anticipate very likely in the next several weeks we will offer that. I believe it’s a Mortgagee Letter, but Ed [Golding] can check me on that. That is something we are currently working on… that’s still being discussed, whether it’s a Mortgagee Letter or public notice and comment. With respect to California, there is a California approach. There are also states that take a different approach. Part of getting to this guidance has been looking at a way we can work with the states to empower them to pursue PACE and also, again, protect the integrity of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund,” replied Secretary Castro. “FHA Acting Commissioner Carol Galante said in 2012 that an important objective of DASP is to ‘save considerable money for the FHA’s insurance fund.’ I think you agree with that assertion. Twice in your written testimony you mention how the proposed changes to the program will ‘maximize returns or recoveries to the Federal government.’ I’m having a tough time understanding how this is possible. If the non-profit DASP buyers are able to purchase loans at reserve prices that are lower than what would be hit under the current open-bidding process, aren’t returns going to be lower, logically?" asked Rep. Royce. “I don’t believe that’s necessarily true. That assumes that the notes that these non-profits are taking on would have been taken on by these private sector investors in a national pool. We believe, and OMB believes, it won’t have a detrimental impact on the Fund,” stated Secretary Castro. “How are you going to gauge success? If the relative rate of return, as compared to the traditional REO process, dips below the current 16 percent… is that then a setback? Or if it dips below 10 percent? At that point, do you have quantitative goals? If the goal is to save considerable money for the FHA Insurance Fund, then we should go back to the old policy. Will you go back and look at the rate?” questioned Rep. Royce. “I think you put your finger on something that is a factor that we will look at as we evaluate how we meet both of these goals, building up the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund and keeping more families in their homes. We will look at that,” said Secretary Castro. “The relative rate of return is either going to go down, or stay the same, or it’s going to go up. Logically, if part of the mission is saving considerable money, that has to be put in the equation to balance the scale here,” asked Rep. Royce. “I think you’d agree with me that if that rate of return were to go down, there could be several reasons for that. It may or may not be the fact that you have more non-profits bidding,” concluded Secretary Castro. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of Secretary Castro here or by clicking below.
07.12.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses on impacts of the proposed Financial CHOICE Act versus those of the Dodd-Frank Act on capital formation, community financial institutions, and international financial regulation during today's House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled "Making a Financial Choice: More Capital or More Government Control?” “I have been struck by a view that I think is rather myopic: The view of some critics of the Financial CHOICE Act who have suggested that the required higher capital levels will result in a sharp contraction in credit availability. Don’t we also have to factor in the sharp reduction in compliance costs that will result from [institutions] being freed from Basel III and Dodd-Frank’s endlessly complex mandates? Wouldn’t [the Financial CHOICE Act] free up these significant resources that would be redirected to lending and job-creating activities?" asked Rep. Royce. "Absolutely. I think today banks are focused on the wrong thing. They are focused on making government bureaucrats happy instead of investing in their business and in their customer base. So technically, ok, we have to raise more capital. But if that capital can be used productively to grow the economy, that’s a good thing. It’s bad for banks to raise capital? That’s a pretty strange argument to me. Today, banks aren’t doing what their supposed to be doing because they are trying to make regulators happy rather than try to make good loans," replied Mr. John Allison, former President and CEO of the Cato Institute. “The Basel III accord was intended to apply only to large, complex and internationally-active institutions. However, the rules released by U.S. regulators would apply certain new capital rules to community banks and to large institutions alike. The NCUA has followed suit with its new risk-based rule. Is one size fits all the right approach here?" continued Rep. Royce. “It never has been the right approach in that we make up a different part of the economy. We want to serve our communities. It isn't just the regulations, it's everything that our customers have to go through being treated like criminals to apply for a loan," said Mr. Jim Purcell, Chairman of the Texas Bankers Association. "As we just heard, community financial institutions are concerned about Basel III, but [Mr. Newell] raised something in [his] testimony that caught my eye. Europe is moving ahead with Basel IV discussions, contemplating yet another change to the regulation of bank capital. From what you know of the proposal so far, what would the impact be on U.S. institutions? Do we have a seat at the table? Should we have a seat at this table?” concluded Rep. Royce, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "I think the impact is very likely to be negative. These are actually a series of 11 separate proposals that are all being hashed out in piecemeal fashion by the Basel committee. We’re still waiting to see the final details, but they seem very likely to raise the amount of capital that has to be held against trading activities. They seem very likely to raise the amount of capital that has to be held against credit card lines, home equity lines, and financing lines to businesses. These are all impactful and important proposals and they are frankly getting no airtime here in the U.S. We don’t really have a clear sense of what position the U.S. regulators are going to take there, notwithstanding the fact that they would have very serious consequences here in the U.S.," replied Mr. Jeremy Newell, Executive Managing Director and General Counsel of The Clearing House Association. Watch Chairman Royce's questioning here or by clicking the image below.
07.12.2016	Legislation authored by U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), the National Securities Exchange Regulatory Parity Act (H.R. 5421), was passed unanimously by the House of Representatives today. The bill amends the Securities Act to clarify that the exemption from state registration should apply to national exchanges. “If you go back to 1996 as part of the National Securities Market Improvement Act, Congress acted to exempt three specific stock exchanges from state-by-state registration. "Why was that exemption so important? You could ask anyone from Massachusetts who tried to invest in a little company called Apple during its December 1980 IPO. State regulators banned Apple stock for sale to the public for... being 'too risky.' "Congress passed a good bill in ’96, but we got one thing wrong… we couldn’t predict the future. Today, only two of the original three exchanges exist, and many more exchanges have joined the fray. The SEC’s interpretation of the law has in fact created a two-tiered legal structure by giving this 'blue sky' exemption to the original three named exchanges. The bill before us today simply gives all national exchanges equal treatment. We give an immediate exemption to securities listed on a national securities exchange registered with the SEC, and whose listing standards have already been approved by the Commission. And we ask the SEC to engage in a rulemaking to establish minimum core quantitative standards for any new exchanges that register with the Commission after the bill's enactment. "With so many regulatory impediments to capital formation, it is important we encourage new exchanges to become listing venues and a source of capital for companies looking to go public, or looking to expand, or looking to hire more workers," said Rep. Royce on the House floor during debate over the legislation. Enactment of the National Securities Exchange Regulatory Parity Act would strike references to particular stock exchanges in the Securities Act. The bill would make it clear that the "blue sky" exemption from state-based registration is extended to all national securities exchanges registered with the SEC with listing standards approved by the Commission. Watch Rep. Royce's remarks here or by clicking the image below:
07.07.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, questioned witnesses on Iran's use of commercial aircraft to support terrorism during a Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee hearing entitled “The Implications of U.S. Aircraft Sales to Iran.” “I’m going to the June 2011 Treasury designation of Iran Air, that it was ‘used by the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps and Iran’s Ministry of Defense… to transport military related equipment…Iran Air has shipped military-related equipment on behalf of the IRGC since 2006, and in 2008, Iran Air shipped aircraft-related raw materials to a Ministry of Defense-associated company, including titanium sheets, which have dual-use military applications and can be used in support of advanced weapons programs.’ It further stated that ‘rockets or missiles have been transported via Iran Air passenger aircraft.’ Mr. Dubowitz, from what you know, has Iran Air continued in its process of engagement here in prohibited activities related to Iran’s support for terrorism to include the transport of conventional weapons and ballistic missiles within the last two years?” asked Chairman Royce. “Chairman Royce, just last month, three Iran Air flights went from the IRGC’s resupply base in Iran to Damascus. That illicit activity continues,” replied Mr. Mark Dubowitz, Executive Director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies. “In terms of the question has Iran provided weapons to the Syrian Government using Iran Air, I take it the answer is probably…," asked Chairman Royce. “It appears to be so, unless they’re ferrying civilians on sightseeing tours from a resupply base for the IRGC," replied Dubowitz. “So has Iran Air engaged in activities within the last 2 years in support of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps?” continued Chairman Royce. “Yes,” stated Dubowitz. "Despite these clearly terrorism-related designations, the Administration removed sanctions on Iran as part of the nuclear deal as we all know. In addition, Iran Air has not been designated as being owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, despite the fact that we have seen little evidence that Iran Air has either been privatized or changed its ownership structure. Mr. Lorber or Mr. Dubowitz, what is Iran Air’s ownership structure? Is it still owned or controlled by the Government of Iran? Are any members of the IRGC, Specially Designated Nationals, “shadow” SDNs, or other politically exposed persons in any of the senior management positions?” questioned Chairman Royce. “Iran Air is still used by the Revolutionary Guards. Iran Air was designated in 2011 because it was being used by the Revolutionary Guards. There is every evidence that it continues to be used by the Revolutionary Guards. There is no reason it was delisted since that was not part of a nuclear agreement. And there is no reason why it should remain unlisted. There are four other airlines being used by the Revolutionary Guards that remain sanctioned. We have no ability to stop Iran Air from transferring, leasing, or reselling those aircraft to four other Revolutionary Guard airlines,” said Dubowitz. “There is a provision of secondary sanctions regulations which are still in force that prohibit foreign companies from doing business not just with Iran Air but also with agents and affiliates of the IRGC. So if Iran Air is transporting goods on behalf of the IRGC, it is an agent or affiliate and therefore entities doing business with it are also subject to U.S. secondary sanctions,” added Mr. Eric Lorber, Senior Associate at the Financial Integrity Network. “Mr. Dubowitz, when was that last flight you referenced… into Damascus,” asked Chairman Royce. “June the 9th, one month ago,” concluded Dubowitz. Watch Chairman Royce's questioning here or by clicking the image below.
07.06.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) voted in support of H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2016, and H.R. 1270, the Restoring Access to Medication Act of 2015. H.R. 2646 calls for the largest comprehensive overhaul of mental health wellness programs in recent history, while H.R. 1270 allows for the purchase of over-the counter medication with Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). “Nearly 10 million Americans have serious mental illnesses, but millions are going without treatment as families struggle to find care for loved ones. Delivering evidence-based treatment is how we will finally conquer the stigma surrounding mental illness and ensure that those who need help receive it," said Rep. Royce about H.R. 2646. H.R. 2646 addresses the shortage of inpatient beds for psychiatric patients, provides for faster intervention for people with schizophrenia, creates a grant program for school services for children with emotional disturbances, reauthorizes a national suicide-prevention program and improves coordination between government agencies that serve the mentally ill. "Californians using HSAs have faced higher costs and more red tape, when we should be encouraging more saving for healthcare. Patients know best what they need for their wellness and should be empowered to pursue these options," said Rep. Royce about H.R. 1270. H.R. 1270 restores the ability of plan participants to use the funds in their Health Savings Accounts, Flexible Spending Accounts, Health Reimbursement Account, or Archer MSA to purchase over-the-counter medications. Rep. Royce cosponsored both bills, which passed the House with large bipartisan majorities.
06.29.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in reaction to the Federal Housing Finance Agency's (FHFA) announcement on credit risk-sharing by the GSEs: "The GSEs should be engaged in significant and increasing risk transfer transactions. An all-of-the-above approach is needed to ensure all types and sizes of mortgage originators can help decrease taxpayer risk. While I applaud the FHFA's move today, Congressional action is ultimately needed to ensure a strong and stable housing market built on private capital." Last November, the President signed legislation by Rep. Royce to cap the salaries of the CEOs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It was the first major standalone legislation enacted that dealt with the GSEs since they were placed into conservatorship after the financial crisis. Representative Royce serves California's 39th Congressional District, which encompasses parts of Los Angeles, Orange, and San Bernardino counties. He is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee.
06.23.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, unveiled the Shark Fin Trade Elimination Act which would make the possession, sale, and purchase of shark fins in the United States illegal acts. “Shark finning, which leaves these animals to die a slow and painful death at the bottom of the ocean, is a cruel practice that needs to be stopped. When the United States leads, others follow. We should set an example by eliminating the shark fin trade rather than providing a market to incentivize this illicit activity,” said Chairman Royce. “To end shark finning, we need to end the demand for shark fins. Today, the United States took an important step towards achieving this. We applaud the leadership of the bill’s co-sponsors today in helping to end the shark fin trade in the United States," said Lora Snyder, Campaign Director at Oceana. Actor and activist Morgan Freeman joined Chairman Royce at the bill unveiling. Oceana, the leading ocean conservation advocacy group, released a new report today demonstrating why Congress should pass a federal ban on the buying and selling of shark fin products. According to the report, the nationwide ban on the trade of shark fins would impede international fin trade, reduce the financial gains made through finning, and improve the enforcement of current finning bans. Key findings from the report include: - Fins from as many as 73 million sharks end up in the global market every year, putting some species at risk of extinction. - Five of the 11 countries that export fins to the United States have no shark finning bans in place, making it likely that fins coming into the United States are from sharks that have been finned. - There are significant discrepancies in the government's estimates of the number of metric tons of shark fins that are actually entering and leaving the United States.
06.22.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, questioned Chair of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors Janet Yellen at the House Financial Services Committee hearing "Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy” today. “I am worried that the Federal Reserve has created a third pillar of monetary policy – that of a stable and rising stock market. I say that because then-Chairman Bernanke when he appeared here stated repeatedly that the goal of QE was to increase asset prices like the stock market to create a wealth effect. It would stand to reason then that in deciding to raise rates and reduce the Fed's QE balance sheet, standing at a still-record $4.5 trillion, one would have to be prepared to accept the opposite result – a declining stock market and a slight deflation of the asset bubble that QE created. Yet, every time in the past three years when there has been a hint of raising rates, and the stock market has declined accordingly, the Fed has cited stock market volatility as one of the reasons to stay the course and hold rates at zero. Indeed the Fed has backed away so many times from rate normalization, that... the market now expects stock market volatility to diminish the odds of a rate increase. Madame Chair, is having a stable and rising stock market a third pillar of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy?" asked Chairman Royce. "It is not a third pillar of monetary policy. We do not target the level of stock prices. That is not an appropriate thing for us to do," replied Chair Yellen. “I thought you would say that. So the question I have as a follow up is does that mean you are prepared to accept stock market volatility, or a slight deflating of the asset bubbles, as the Fed proceeds towards normalization," continued Chairman Royce. “We're going to look at what the trajectory is for the economy. For the goals Congress has assigned us, namely inflation and maximum employment, and take policies we think are appropriate to foster them. As the economy recovers, we've said we anticipate raising rates. What implications that may have for stock prices, one shouldn't assume that it will necessarily be a negative scenario for stock prices. Higher rates, to some extent, are already built into longer term interest rates. Longer term interest rates are anticipating the path of rising short term rates. They do matter to stock market valuations, but so do earnings. And in a strong growth economy... but whatever. We're not targeting equity prices, we're trying to achieve outcomes for the economy," said Chair Yellen. "In September of 2015, you were asked whether you were 'worried that, given the global interconnectedness, the low inflation globally that we were seeing… we may never escape from this zero lower bound situation.' You answered at the time that 'while you couldn’t completely rule it out… that is not the way [you] see the outlook or the way the Committee sees the outlook.' Since that time, Governor Brainard has suggested that 'financial tightening associated with cross-border spillovers may be limiting the extent to which U.S. policy diverges from major economies.' New York Fed President Bill Dudley has said that '[global consequences] can impact the monetary policy transmission mechanism in the U.S. and influence the effectiveness of our monetary policy in achieving our objectives.' My question then is restating the question from last year. Not will we never escape, but will we escape anytime soon? To put it more clearly, does the Fed have the capacity to defy the global pattern of zero or negative rates if that's the global reality?" concluded Chairman Royce. "We do have the capacity to have different rates than the rest of the world. But we have to recognize that differentials in our stance of our policy impact the value of the dollar, and that is a linkage back to the U.S. economy. Those linkages as my colleagues said are important. But the bottom line is what happens in the rest of the world and their stance on policy does matter, but it doesn't mean we can never escape zero interest rates," answered Chair Yellen. Watch Chairman Royce's questioning here or by clicking the image below.
06.21.2016	The U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed legislation cosponsored by U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) to allow Ontario International Airport (ONT) to be returned to local jurisdictional control: “Ontario International Airport is a major economic engine for our region in both trade and tourism, and giving local authorities control of the airport better allows them to meet the growing demand in San Bernardino County,” said Rep. Royce. When both ONT and Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) were operated by Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA), passenger facility charges (PFCs) could be imposed at one LAWA airport and the revenue used at another. PFCs collected at LAX were used to fund the new terminals at ONT in the 1990s. The cities of Los Angeles and Ontario recently executed a Settlement Agreement to transfer control of ONT from LAWA to the Ontario International Airport Authority (OIAA), a local joint powers authority established by and between the County of San Bernardino and the City of Ontario. One element in the Settlement Agreement is that a certain amount of PFCs collected at ONT will be used for projects at LAX. However, this repayment is not possible under current law. Today's legislation, H.R. 4369, allows PFCs collected at ONT to be used for projects at LAX, and therefore fulfill the Settlement Agreement and the transfer control of ONT to local authorities. Representative Royce serves California's 39th Congressional District, which encompasses parts of Los Angeles, Orange, and San Bernardino counties. He is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee.
06.16.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Office of Inspector General (OIG) issued a report on the increased budget for Fannie Mae's office relocation: "It's paradoxical that an organization overseeing a huge chunk of the mortgage market can't get a simple construction project right. Fannie falling asleep at the wheel in this manner is a perfect representation of the GSEs' model of private gains and public losses. It's time to put aside the conversation about releasing this enterprise and instead refocus on how to wind it down." In a Management Alert dated June 9, 2016, OIG formally notified the FHFA Director that, as of March 10, 2016, the projected cost to build-out Fannie Mae’s new headquarters space to its specifications had risen 53.35% from $164.32/sf to $252.81/sf since January 26, 2015. According to Fannie Mae’s proposal, the net present value (cost) of its consolidation and relocation over the term of its lease (15 years) was $770,481,598. Last November, the President signed legislation by Rep. Royce to cap the salaries of the CEOs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It was the first major standalone legislation enacted that dealt with the GSEs since they were placed into conservatorship after the financial crisis.
06.16.2016	Legislation authored by U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), the National Securities Exchange Regulatory Parity Act (H.R. 5421), was advanced by the House Financial Services Committee today on a 47-12 vote. The bill amends the Securities Act to clarify the "blue sky" exemption from state registration for exchanges other than the NYSE and NASDAQ. “Government is often pretty slow to change with the times, but the market is not. Static regulation often does not keep pace with innovation. A lot has changed since 1996, when Congress amended the ’33 Act and exempted three specific stock exchanges by name from state-by-state regulation "The SEC’s interpretation of the law has created a two-tiered playing field by giving this 'blue sky' exemption only to these three exchanges which existed in 1996. "It was not the intention of Congress to create such a carve-out. This bill, the National Securities Exchange Regulatory Parity Act, rights this wrong. "It provides clarity around the exemption, which will now apply to all securities listed on a national exchange regulated by the SEC, with Commission-approved listing standards. "Why is this exemption important? You could ask anyone from Massachusetts who tried to invest in a little company called Apple during its IPO. State regulators banned the stock for being 'too risky.' "Making it clear this exemption applies to more than just three specific exchanges also encourages new exchanges to become listing venues and a source of capital for companies looking to go public, or expand and hire more workers," said Rep. Royce. Enactment of the National Securities Exchange Parity Act would strike references to particular stock exchanges in the Securities Act. The bill would make it clear that the "blue sky" exemption from state-based registration is extended to all national securities exchanges registered with the SEC with listing standards approved by the Commission. Watch Rep. Royce's remarks here or by clicking the image below:
06.16.2016	An amendment authored by U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) was adopted and advanced by the House Financial Services Committee as part of H.R. 5143, the Transparent Insurance Standards Act of 2016. The amendment was adopted by voice vote, and the underlying bill passed 34-25. The amendment directs the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study the involvement of non-governmental designees of state insurance commissioners in international insurance regulation negotiations. "As I said at the hearing we had in February on these issues, I share the stated goals of increasing transparency and accountability in international regulatory discussions, and applaud the work this Committee has done to shine a light on the activities of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department at the IAIS and the Financial Stability Board. In that vein, this amendment seeks to add even more transparency by asking the GAO to report on the activities of outside groups involved in international insurance discussions on behalf of state insurance regulators. It will not surprise you that, with an annual budget of $100 million, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners sends more staff to these international meetings than Treasury and the Federal Reserve combined. In fact, staff members of the NAIC chair subcommittees at the IAIS. This amendment simply asks the GAO to report on the level of involvement of these outside groups, their budgeting process, and the extent to which any of their work product has the effect of establishing national standards. When the Treasury Secretary and Treasury employees are involved in international insurance discussions, we know they must and will be transparent and accountable due to the nature of their jobs. If and when the State insurance commissioners act in the manner contemplated by Mr. Luetkemeyer’s bill, we know that they must and will be transparent and accountable due to the nature of their jobs. We should be concerned, however, when actors that are not transparent and accountable to the political processes are involved – hence the transparency requirements in the underlying bill. This is equally true of the non-governmental, private, outside groups that would be covered by this amendment. Therefore, I think this amendment aligns with the intention of this bill to bring accountability and transparency to all actors involved in international insurance discussions on behalf of the U.S. consumers we represent," said Rep. Royce as he offered the amendment. Watch Rep. Royce's remarks here or by clicking the image below:
06.13.2016	Deputy Secretary of the Interior Michael L. Connor has announced $7.2 million in funding through the Bureau of Reclamation’s Title XVI program for the Lower Chino Dairy Area Desalination project to expand its desalination capabilities. U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) contacted the Department of Interior earlier this year in support of the project's bid. “I’m pleased that the Bureau of Reclamation has chosen to invest in the Lower Chino Dairy Area Desalination and Reclamation Project. As California continues to struggle with the ongoing drought, it’s critical that we cultivate all available water sources for our families and farms. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues from both parties to find constructive solutions to Southern California’s water shortages,” said Rep. Royce. “With California in its fifth year of drought, these investments will build resilience for local communities struggling with limited water supplies – an effort that is more important than ever as the dangers of drought escalate in the face of climate change,” said Deputy Secretary Connor. “Using the best available science and technology to improve the growing disparity between water supplies and demand, this funding will help local water managers stretch dwindling resources.” The Bureau of Reclamation identifies and investigates opportunities to reclaim and reuse wastewaters and naturally impaired ground and surface waters in western states and Hawaii. Title XVI funding is in place for the planning, design, and construction of water recycling and reuse projects, on a project-specific basis. To learn more about the Chino projects, click here. Representative Royce serves California's 39th Congressional District, which encompasses parts of Los Angeles, Orange, and San Bernardino counties. He is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee.
06.06.2016	Today, the Congressional Internet Caucus and the Internet Education Foundation announced the new Congressional Co-Chairs for the 2016 Congressional App Challenge (CAC), U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and Seth Moulton (D-Mass.): “As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a representative from the world’s innovation capital, I know how important a STEM proficient workforce is to the United States remaining an economic powerhouse. I encourage all of my colleagues to participate in the Congressional App Challenge, an excellent opportunity to recognize talented young people learning the skills being used to build the future,” said Rep. Royce. "We are currently on track to reach a million unfilled programming jobs by 2020. These jobs and skills are crucial to the innovation economy," said Rep. Moulton. "I'm excited to serve as co-chair of the Congressional App Challenge with Rep. Ed Royce to encourage students across the country to learn how to code. This challenge is a nationwide effort to open up those opportunities to students in every community, and I look forward to seeing what they create." The 2016 CAC will take place from July 18 - November 2, 2016. Officially in its second year, the Congressional App Challenge is a bipartisan congressional initiative to improve student engagement in coding and computer science. Particular efforts are made to engage those students from groups and regions that are underrepresented in the tech community. Students can create their apps on any platform, working alone or in teams of up to four. Winning apps are selected by local judges, and the student winners will be honored by their Congressional representatives and have their apps put on display in the Capitol Building. In 2015, over 1700 high school students from 32 states signed up to compete. The students submitted nearly 500 original apps, with 116 Congressional districts hosting successful local challenges. CA-39's competition was won by Los Altos High School students that created Drop Saver, a mobile application created to help smartphone users manage their water usage. Representative Royce serves California's 39th Congressional District, which encompasses parts of Los Angeles, Orange, and San Bernardino counties. He is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee.
06.03.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced his 2016 United States service academy appointments from California's 39th Congressional District this week after hosting the students at a Congressional reception in his Brea office. "It was an honor to nominate these students for acceptance to a U.S. service academy. These young people are stellar students, community leaders, and patriots," said Rep. Royce. "I'm excited to see their future accomplishments, and am confident that they will have successful careers in the military and beyond." The following is a list of students from California's 39th Congressional District who received a service academy nomination from Rep. Royce and will be attending a service academy later this year. Student hometowns and high schools or civilian undergraduate institutions are also included: United States Military Academy Joseph Bianchi, Fullerton, Brea Olinda High School Alexander Chung, La Habra, Seoul Foreign School Braden Durian, Yorba Linda, Valencia High School Kevin Mohr, Fullerton, Troy High School Dardrin Qin, Diamond Bar, Walnut High School Galen Quiros, Walnut, Damien High School Claire Sirna, Placentia, Rosary Academy United States Air Force Academy Joseph Rosen Crisostomo, Fullerton, Troy High School Inji Kang, La Habra, Troy High School Timothy Lloyd Jr., Yorba Linda, Servite High School (Presidential Nomination) Connor Loo, Yorba Linda, Yorba Linda High School United States Naval Academy Franklin Lin, Rowland Heights, Troy High School Kathryn MacPherson, Yorba Linda, Rosary Academy United States Merchant Marine Academy Alex Cha, Buena Park, Troy High School Joshua Sappington, Yorba Linda, Yorba Linda High School All U.S. service academy applicants must receive a Congressional or Presidential nomination. The application process is rigorous, based on a candidate's academic achievement, athletic ability, extracurricular activities, and community service.
05.27.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding the recent negotiations between the United States and the European Union on an insurance and reinsurance covered agreement: “I'm pleased to see negotiations progressing as it’s paramount the covered agreement process be allowed to play out and we promptly move forward to put aside the uncertainty, which is bad for business and consumers. The uneven application of insurance regulation is what the covered agreement powers were intended by Congress to remedy. U.S. and E.U leadership should be constructive and ambitious in establishing an agreement, keeping in mind both consumer protection and regulatory fairness." Last September, Chairman Royce sent a letter to the Treasury Department and the United States Trade Representative (USTR) urging them to begin negotiations with the E.U. on a covered agreement. Chairman Royce also questioned Federal Insurance Office (FIO) Director Michael McRaith about the merits of establishing a covered agreement. Rep. Royce is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee.
05.24.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement after U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, cosponsored two of his bipartisan credit union regulatory relief bills (H.R. 1188 and H.R. 1422): “Freeing up our nation’s credit unions to grow their local economies isn’t a partisan cause, and I thank Ranking Member Waters for her support of these proposals that are backed by both Democrats and Republicans. Removing these arbitrary lending restrictions in this manner unlocks capital for small businesses looking to hire, expand, and invest, all the while ensuring the safety and soundness of the credit union system.” H.R. 1188 (Royce-Meeks), the Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act, increases the member business lending (MBL) cap for qualified credit unions from 12.25% to 27.5%. If enacted, the legislation would allow credit unions to lend an additional $13 billion to small businesses, which could create an estimated 140,000 new jobs. To qualify for the higher cap a credit union must be well capitalized, have a history of member business lending experience, be operating near the cap for at least one year, and receive approval by the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). H.R. 1422 (Royce-Huffman), the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act, removes loans made for the purchase of non-owner occupied, 1-4 unit dwellings from the calculation of the member business lending (MBL) cap currently imposed on credit unions. Importantly, the bill maintains the ability of the NCUA to apply stringent underwriting and servicing requirements to these loans, which often depend on rent as a chief contributor towards repayment. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, with membership on both the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee.
05.24.2016	In recognition of his work fighting against discrimination towards Asian Americans by elite universities, House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) has been awarded the "Champion of Equal Education Rights Award" by the Asian American Coalition for Education (AACE). “Being Asian American should not be an obstacle to receiving a top university education. It’s sad I have to make that clear in 2016. An education is the path to success for many Americans, which is why I find these allegations of discrimination so disturbing. Supporting the Coalition’s complaints is a mountain of evidence. Asian American parents are right to be concerned when their hard-working, high-performing children are shut out of top schools. We should be encouraging and inspiring our children to excel, not telling them their academic performance and merits are less important than their ethnicity. Any discrimination by elite universities against Asian American students is wrong and an offense to our Constitution’s 14th Amendment which offers citizens equal protection under the law. I will keep fighting to ensure that the Asian American community is not discriminated against in any way,” said Chairman Ed Royce. "Congressman Ed Royce has been continuously supporting the Asian American community, especially in the field of equal education rights. Last year he took the lead to write a letter in support of our Administrative Complaint against Harvard's discriminatory admission practice against Asian American applicants. Hereby, the Asian American Coalition for Education presents Congressman Ed Royce with the Champion of Equal Education Rights Award," said Mr. YuKong Zhao, President of the Asian American Coalition for Education. Last year, Chairman Royce sent a letter to the U.S. Department of Education and U.S. Department of Justice in support of the AACE's complaint against Harvard University alleging systemic discrimination by the admissions council towards qualified Asian American applicants. Chairman Royce asked both Departments to thoroughly investigate the allegations. AACE, which is made up of over 100 civic groups representing the Asian American community, plans to file a similar joint complaint against Yale University, Brown University, and Dartmouth College. This represents the largest joint legal action ever taken by Asian Americans communities against Ivy League universities. The President of the United States also signed legislation first authored by U.S. Representative Grace Meng (D-N.Y.) and Chairman Ed Royce to strike the offensive term "Oriental" from preexisting federal law and replace it with “Asian American.”
05.23.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) and the Republican Members of California's Congressional Delegation issued the following statement regarding the upcoming consideration of multiple pieces of legislation addressing California's water shortages: "California House Republicans are prepared to lead Congress this week in major steps towards water solutions our state desperately needs. The House of Representatives is scheduled to consider California water legislation on the House amendment to the Senate energy bill AND the House Energy and Water Appropriations bill. House passage on both will send these bills into a House and Senate conference — marking the first time this has happened. While the House has acted multiple times over the years, our Democratic Senate colleagues have neglected the urgency of this crisis. This week’s action will ensure they can no longer ignore sensible solutions." First, the House will vote on the House amendment to S. 2012, the Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2016, which will include H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015. In addition, the House is scheduled to vote on H.R. 5055, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017, which also includes provisions from H.R. 2898. Both pieces of legislation are expected to move to conference with the Senate. Specifically, this language will: -Require federal agencies to use current and reliable data when making regulatory decisions. -Provide federal regulators with the direction and flexibility they need to capture water during periods of greater precipitation. -Cut red tape holding back major water storage projects that have been authorized for over a decade.
05.23.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) has received the “Hero of Main Street” award from the National Retail Federation (NRF) for his support of legislation critical to the retail industry. Rep. Royce is part of a bipartisan group honored for their support of a wide range of issues including international trade, infrastructure investment, tax reform and workforce issues. "California's retailers are an integral part of their communities, and hire workers from all kinds of backgrounds," said Rep. Royce. "I'll continue to support pro-growth policies that are good for Main Street businesses and the employees that rely on them." “Congressman Royce has shown through his support that he cares about retailers big and small, and values the role these businesses play in communities across the country,” said NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay. The Hero of Main Street award was created by NRF in 2013 to recognize members of Congress for support of the retail industry’s public policy priorities. Eligibility is based on NRF’s Retail Opportunity Index, bill sponsorship and advocacy to advance the industry’s priorities. The “heroes” have supported policies and initiatives defined by NRF that recognize the contributions of the retail industry, and have worked to encourage a “vibrant, sustained and healthy” retail sector. NRF is the world’s largest retail trade association, representing discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and Internet retailers. Retail is the nation’s largest private sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs – 42 million working Americans.
05.20.2016	Today, the President of the United States signed legislation first authored by U.S. Representatives Grace Meng (D-N.Y.) and Ed Royce (R-Calif.) to strike the term "Oriental" from preexisting federal law and replace it with “Asian American.” The newly signed bill, H.R. 4238, also removes the terms "Negroes," "Indians," and "Eskimos" from federal law. “Nobody, let alone the federal government, should use a hurtful term like ‘Orientals’ when referring to Americans of Asian descent. Our country is a rich tapestry of cultural backgrounds, and Americans of all backgrounds deserve to be treated with dignity and respect,” said Rep. Royce, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “I was proud to support Congresswoman Meng as she led the charge on this issue, and I applaud her perseverance and success.” “The term ‘Oriental’ has no place in federal law and at long last this insulting and outdated term will be gone for good. No longer will any law of the United States refer to Asian Americans in such an offensive way, and I applaud and thank President Obama for signing my bill to get rid of this antiquated term," said Rep. Meng, author of the bill. "Many Americans may not be aware that the word ‘Oriental’ is derogatory. But it is an insulting term that needed to be removed from the books, and I am extremely pleased that my legislation to do that is now the law of the land.” Last year, the Washington Post named Rep. Royce as one of the "10 Most Effective Lawmakers in the U.S. Congress," based on his effectiveness in advancing bills to the President's desk to become law.
05.19.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) has asked the leadership of the U.S. Senate to consider changes to how Congress funds the U.S. Forest Service and Department of Interior's wildfire fighting operations. In the letter, signed by 57 other members of the U.S. House of Representatives, Royce highlighted the nearly $700 million federal land agencies borrowed from land management and other important activities to fight wildfires during 2015. "As California faces another wildfire season during this historic drought, Congress needs to adjust the federal wildfire budget to better protect our citizens and their property," said Rep. Royce. "In seven of the past 10 years, the costs of fighting wildfires has exceeded the Forest Service’s firefighting budget – clearly an unsustainable operating model. Funds to fight wildfires should instead be treated like those used during hurricanes and floods, which will allow the Interior Department to stop robbing Peter to pay Paul." Text of the letter can be read here or below: Dear Majority Leader McConnell, Minority Leader Reid, Chairwoman Murkowski and Ranking Member Cantwell: Many Members of Congress are concerned about the costly practice of fire borrowing. As we continue to work with our colleagues in the House of Representatives to end this practice, we would like to urge the Senate to take up similar legislation. As you know, most of the American West is still experiencing severe drought conditions which has significantly increased the danger for damaging wildfires. These wildfires cause serious damage to property and threaten lives. In 2015, more than 10 million acres were burned by wildfires. Federal land agencies borrowed nearly $700 million from land management and other important activities to fight these fires. This leaves these agencies with fewer resources to conduct thinning, timber harvests, and controlled burns which can reduce the severity of these wildfires. Before the 2016 fire season begins, we believe it is critical that Congress change the way in which we provide funds to the U.S. Forest Service and Department of Interior to fight catastrophic wildland fires. In seven of the past 10 years, the costs of fighting wildfires has exceeded the Forest Service’s firefighting budget. This forced the agency to borrow funds intended for forest management practices. In addition, the portion of firefighting costs out of the U.S. Forest Service budget has risen steadily over the past 20 years. In 2015, wildland fire suppression costs were more than 50 percent of the Forest Service’s total budget. Redirecting funds to firefighting takes funds away from other important programs that can help land managers more actively manage forests to reduce the risk of future wildland fires. We believe that Congress needs to address this problem through legislation that would treat wildfires like other natural disasters such as floods and hurricanes. This change would eliminate the need for the Forest Service to use funds appropriated for other programs to cover the costs of fighting wildfires. The House has shown strong support to end fire-borrowing and we are committed to addressing this problem during the remaining months of the 114th Congress. We hope that you will do the same and take action to give the Forest Service and the Department of the Interior the ability to fight wildland fires without limiting their ability to carry out the rest of their missions. We stand to ready to work with you to fix this critical problem. Sincerely, Ed Royce Member of Congress
05.19.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses on the impact of eliminating class-action lawsuit waivers on those offering credit monitoring services during a Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee hearing entitled "Examining the CFPB’s Proposed Rulemaking on Arbitration: Is it in the Public Interest and for the Protection of Consumers?” “The Credit Repair Organizations Act, CROA, is a strict liability consumer protection statute that Congress passed to defend consumers against false claims of 'fixing' credit reports. Unfortunately, access to credit monitoring services provided by credit bureaus and others has been threatened by the courts moving away from Congress’ original intent with CROA. Mr. Pincus, what’s the impact of eliminating class-action lawsuit waivers for those under CROA’s jurisdiction that offer credit score monitoring?" asked Rep. Royce. “Unfortunately it will open the door to these very large, very draconian class-actions that can really impose and threaten hundreds of millions, maybe more, in liability. In the real world, we don't know whether it's meritorious or not, but the company can't take the chance. It's either going to have to pay a lot of money in settlement, which is going to change its whole business structure, or it's going to conclude it can't be in that business anymore because the risk is too great,” replied Mr. Andrew Pincus, Partner at Mayer Brown LLP testifying on behalf of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “Without a fix to the CFPB’s rule or a fix to CROA, which I’ve proposed with H.R. 347, the Facilitating Access to Credit Act, my conclusion would be that credit monitoring products and services will be severely limited," concluded Rep. Royce. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking the image below.
05.19.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses on the impact of eliminating class-action lawsuit waivers on credit unions and community banks during a Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee hearing entitled "Examining the CFPB’s Proposed Rulemaking on Arbitration: Is it in the Public Interest and for the Protection of Consumers?” “Community financial institutions, such as credit unions and community banks, have to maintain strong personal relationships with their customers. At a time of unprecedented regulatory burdens, their success depends upon this. To Mr. Hong, how does the arbitration process benefit consumers and contribute to better relationships between consumers and their community financial institutions? What will happen when the CFPB opens up credit unions and community banks to class-action lawsuits?" asked Rep. Royce. “One of the benefits arbitration can provide them, is the fact that they’ve developed these dispute resolution processes that are more informal and convenient for consumers in nature. So if you take away their ability to offer those types of proceedings, you potentially open them up for dramatic increases in class-action litigation risk. In those instances, they will probably have to have a conversation with at least their prudential regulators about how they should take compensatory actions on their side to reserve more capital to deal with that type of risk. I’m sure it just makes prudent business sense to hold on to more capital for defensive litigation purposes,” replied Mr. Dong Hong, Vice President and Regulatory Counsel at the Consumer Bankers Association. "I’d like to ask unanimous consent to submit a letter to the record from the Credit Union National Association that highlights the problems the CFPB’s arbitration rule will create for community financial institutions," concluded Rep. Royce. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking the image below.
05.18.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses on the need for more accountability at the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) and the lack of competition in proxy advising during a Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee hearing entitled "Legislative Proposals to Enhance Capital Formation, Transparency, and Regulatory Accountability." “I had a question for Mr. Quaadman. You note in your written testimony that rule-writing entities such as the PCAOB and Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board are subject to the same requirements and enhancements contained in the SEC Regulatory Accountability Act. Could you please explain why that is beneficial? Also, should the SEC require FASB conduct similar cost-benefit analysis when setting accounting and reporting standards?” asked Rep. Royce. “We propose for any subordinate organization of the SEC, if they are involved in rule writing that has a force of regulation, there should be a cost-benefit analysis. That would include FASB. I believe FINRA has committed to do that. The PCAOB, as an example, their standards have to go through the SEC rulemaking process before they go final, so you should have a cost-benefit analysis there. As one example through the PCAOB, because they could not get standards done over the last several years for a variety of different reasons, had a very aggressive inspections program. Because of that very aggressive inspections program, two years down the line, companies suddenly started to see that their internal control costs were going up by 300%. That shows the dramatic impact that PCAOB could have on companies, but more importantly, why you need to have actions go through a formal process so you can understand what the costs and benefits are rather than through a circular route,” replied Mr. Thomas Quaadman, Senior Vice President at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “Let me go to question Mr. Bartl. I am struck by the inherent conflict-of-interest you describe in your testimony when the ISS consulting arm uses its relationship with ISS ‘research’ to sell business. Is this a common occurrence I’d ask? Do investment advisers take this into account when hiring a proxy advisory firm? And should they?” continued Rep. Royce. “I think the answer is we’ve seen a much more aggressive push by the consulting arm of ISS against the research side. The one email exchange that we included in our testimony was just an example. The irony is that one was repeated to another company using the wrong company’s ticker in rapid fire succession. I think what we’ve seen is that there are certain types of investors, pension funds particularly, that have a tendency to use Glass Lewis because of the lack of consulting arm there even though there are other conflicts inherent in Glass Lewis as we talked about in our testimony. So I think that there is a knowledge in fact when Glass Lewis came on the scene in 2002, that was one of the things that led to that occurrence. But, both proxy advisors suffer from conflicts of interest that certainly deserve greater oversight and scrutiny. I think that’s one of the redeeming factors, one of the best reasons for Congressman Duffy’s bill,” answered Mr. Timothy J. Bartl, CEO and President of the Center on Executive Compensation. “Mr. Gallagher, so you’re saying that it’s that added transparency – or knowing a conflict exists – is part of the solution here. Your thoughts on how Mr. Duffy’s bill helps get at this problem?” asked Rep. Royce. “I think it gets right to the heart of the matter with transparency and disclosure, the basic tenets of the federal securities laws. If there are conflicts, disclose them. If there are conflicts that Congress can’t abide, you might want to prohibit them. That has happened too in other scenarios. Just the basic knowledge and disclosure of these conflicts can help investors and voters make better decisions, and we don’t have that,” replied Mr. Daniel M. Gallagher, President of Patomak Global Partners. “I think there’s more that has to be done here because there should be more competition in the proxy advisory space. But instead what we've created is a government approved duopoly that is not serving investors. If you go back to Mr. Bartl’s testimony, where he said we now have a ‘check-the-box mentality’ with little review of the accuracy of proxy advisory firm reports, what could be done to change this dynamic to really introduce competition given the duopoly?” concluded Rep. Royce. “In addition to the legislation that is being debated here, I think the SEC could rescind the two no-action letters that followed the 2003 rulemaking that basically created that duopoly for the two firms. I’ll tell you Congressman, one positive thing as a lot of this is couched in the negative, since SLB20, we have seen the advisor community pay more attention to these issues. We’ve seen the larger asset managers resource their voting function. We see the message trickling down to medium and small sized advisors that you don’t have to vote every share every vote, and you can do things other than rotely relying,” said Gallagher. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning here.
05.18.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) has announced that the 2016 Congressional App Challenge for students in California's 39th Congressional District will open for submissions on July 18, 2016. The competition is designed to engage students’ creativity and encourage their participation in STEM education fields. It allows students to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet or computer devices on a platform of their choice. "As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I know that a workforce proficient in STEM skills is important if the United States is to remain globally competitive. If we want California to remain the innovation capital of the world, we need to encourage and support young people interested in science, technology, engineering, and math. The Congressional App Challenge is fun for all involved, and I encourage all of our community's students to participate," said Rep. Royce. The past Congressional App Challenge received submissions from students in over 120 congressional districts. For the 2015 competition, Rep. Royce announced Andrew Rojas, Santiago Torres, and Eric Liu of Los Altos High School as the winners. The team created Drop Saver, a mobile application created to help smartphone users manage their water usage. The 2016 Congressional App Challenge submission period will run from July 18 through November 2, culminating in an exhibition and judging event during December. The competition winners will be selected by a panel of local judges and recognized by Rep. Royce and community leaders. Students, teachers, and administrators interested in entering the competition can do so by clicking here, or contacting Stephanie Hu from Rep. Royce's office at (626) 964-5123 or Stephanie.Hu@mail.house.gov. Additional information can be found here.
05.17.2016	U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and Mark Pocan (D-Wisc.), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Cooperative Business Caucus, have written U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker to ask that cooperative businesses be included in the 2017 Economic Census. In their letter, signed by seven other members of the U.S. House of Representatives, Reps. Royce and Pocan note that since 1997, the Economic Census survey forms stopped providing a checkbox for “cooperative” in its Legal Form of Organization question. "Cooperatives deliver critical consumer goods and services, all the while allowing their members to share in their success,” said Rep. Royce. “As a longtime advocate of credit unions, mutual insurers, and rural electric co-ops, I believe policymakers should have a better handle on how these organizations are building a stronger economy." “Cooperatives can be found in virtually every sector of the U.S. economy, create good paying jobs, and offer employees a chance to be directly involved in business decisions,” said Rep. Pocan. “In my district, Dane County has 80 cooperative businesses alone, which makes it the highest per capita of co-ops in any county in the country. But despite their prevalence in the economy and positive consumer attitudes, there is relatively little data available on co-ops. To better advocate on federal policy issues unique to the cooperative community, it is vital we have ample data on this vibrant sector of our economy.” Text of the letter can be read here or below: The Honorable Penny Pritzker Secretary of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Madam Secretary: Given the unique niche that cooperative businesses continue to fill in the U.S. economy, it is unfortunate that so little is known about where and how they operate and the economic impact they make. Unlike the data-reporting agencies of many other countries, the U.S. Census Bureau no longer identifies the cooperative business sector in any of its census or business reporting surveys. As a consequence, there is no readily available federally-reported data on cooperatives in the U.S. After 1997, the Economic Census survey forms stopped providing a checkbox for “cooperative” among the list of options provided in their survey question about Legal Form of Organization. That question was removed because that information became available from the Internal Revenue Service through an interagency data sharing agreement. Unfortunately, this data does not identify cooperatives directly. Cooperatives can be found in U.S. Census Bureau data files, but because they are not identified as such, any summary data produced by Census and reviewed by researchers likely underestimates cooperative economic activity to some degree. Since this change by Census in 1997, federally-supported academic research on the economic impact of cooperatives estimated that in 2007, there were 29,000 cooperatives in the United States that account for more than $3 trillion in assets, over $500 billion in total revenue, $25 billion in wages and benefits, and sustain nearly two million jobs. We believe it’s in the best interest for Census to change data gathering in a way that enables more accurate and comprehensive identification of cooperatives directly. The next Economic Census in 2017 provides the perfect opportunity to again measure their impact nationwide. We support this work and ask that the Census Bureau coordinate with all stakeholders on this issue and work together with them on how to best ensure more data-driven information is readily available on cooperatives. Cooperative businesses are a niche within the overall economy, but they are a well-established niche that account for a significant fraction of economic activity. Until there is a U.S. Census-based cooperative identifier, the identification of cooperatives in the U.S. will continue to have its challenges and the value they provide to the U.S. economy will not be fully quantified, understood, or appreciated. We look forward to working with you on this matter and appreciate your attention. Sincerely, Ed Royce Mark Pocan Ron Kind Reid Ribble Walter B. Jones Barbara Lee Steve Stivers Bruce Westerman Robert A. Brady
05.13.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses on the success of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Moving to Work (MTW) pilot program during a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “The Future of Housing in America: A Comparison of the United Kingdom and United States Models for Affordable Housing." "The success of affordable housing programs should be judged on outcomes and how they are helping Americans get back on their feet, not necessarily by the amount of taxpayer dollars spent. HUD has a program, Moving to Work, that fits the bill of a ‘success’ in this regards. In my district, the Housing Authority of the County of San Bernardino oversaw an annual 24.6% reduction of unemployed household heads and a 52.4% average income jump for those participating in the MTW program. Mr. Gentry, you know the difficulties facing those seeking affordable housing in Southern California. What has the San Diego Housing Commission’s track record with MTW been? How does localized control of funding allocation, as is more commonplace in the United Kingdom, contribute to efficiency?" asked Rep. Royce. "I think the Moving to Work program has been essential to what San Diego’s success has been. We’ve been able to utilize savings from efficiencies in the Moving to Work program to better address homeless services. We’ve been able to focus on our families to increase the level of degree the type of work the families do. One of our successes has been getting more families to work, [MTW] has been absolutely essential. Part of what we need to do is to make sure that our residents as much as possible have the same choices in life as those who are not residents of public housing or in a Section 8 program. That is, they can live where they want to live, work where they want to work, and associate with who they want to associate with. So we think our [MTW] program has been very useful in helping people increase their choices, and increase their economic station in life as well," answered Mr. Richard Gentry, President and Chief Executive Officer of the San Diego Housing Commission. "Mr. Russ, you testified both to the success of the MTW but also how, and I’ll quote here, ‘the current public housing system, including HUD itself, rationalizes structure and process over social outcomes.’ Is the reluctance of HUD to expand MTW an example of this philosophy?" continued Rep. Royce. “I think that is a really good program. I have a bias toward MTW, as we are a MTW agency. There are a couple factors at work. The first is, when you receive a MTW designation, the relationship you have with the Department is fundamentally altered. You have an agreement, and that agreement has value and meaning in the sense of a contract. There is more of a pure relationship with the Department than not. Frankly, that always doesn’t sit well in terms of how the Department’s rules and regulations are promulgated. At times, in my own view, there is a lack of understanding of the MTW agreement itself. It’s a very powerful document. I think that the reluctance is that you have this fear that somehow by giving a locality this designation, it would turn in the wrong direction," answered Mr. Gregory P. Russ, Executive Director of the Cambridge Housing Authority. “I think it’s a win-win. It is decentralized, and there might be some concern with the decentralization. It’s of course flexible. I think at the end of the day, it’s time to advance this from a pilot program. We’ve had 20 years of demonstrations, and we have communities that could obviously really utilize the program. I’ve lent my support to H.R. 5137, which is Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy’s bill called the Moving to Work Reform and Expansion Act. I would hope [HUD] itself could get behind this concept. We would have bipartisan support for it for the reasons I cited earlier," concluded Rep. Royce. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking on the image below:
05.10.2016	The U.S. Senate unanimously passed legislation first authored by U.S. Representatives Grace Meng (D-N.Y.) and Ed Royce (R-Calif.) to strike the term "Oriental" from preexisting federal law and replace it with “Asian American.” H.R. 4238 also removes the terms "Negroes," "Indians," and "Eskimos" from federal law. "Orientals is an offensive and antiquated term, especially so when referring to America's vibrant Asian American community," said Rep. Royce, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "Using this term in federal law lends it a legitimacy it doesn't deserve. I applaud Congresswoman Meng for her leadership on this important issue and look forward to the President completing our mission of striking these terms from the books." “The word ‘Oriental’ is an offensive and derogatory term that should no longer be used by the federal government,” said Rep. Meng, author of the bill. “Nobody in our country, regardless of ethnicity, should be referred to in an insulting manner by the government. It’s well past time to strike the legal use of this outdated term. It no longer has a place in federal law, and I look forward to the day when it’s finally gone for good.” H.R. 4238 now moves to the President's desk, where it is expected he'll sign it into law.
05.05.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) wrote a letter to U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx in support of federal investment in the form of a Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant for the 57/60 confluence project. U.S. Representatives Grace Napolitano (D-El Monte), Judy Chu (D-Monterey Park), and Norma Torres (D-Pomona) cosigned the letter of support. Rep. Royce, who represents the City of Diamond Bar, has been a longtime advocate of fixing the freeways. Both Secretary Foxx and the Chairman Bill Shuster of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee have visited the confluence at Rep. Royce's invitation. Rep. Royce also wrote letters to the DOT in support of the 57/60 being included in the Primary Freight Network (PFN), which assisted Diamond Bar during its first successful TIGER grand bid, as the PFN designation highlighted the economic value of this trade route for our nation. "The congestion at the 57/60 confluence stretches out commutes to work, delays the delivery of goods to market, and is quite frankly a danger to drivers,” said Rep. Royce. “Prioritizing this project for federal investment benefits public safety, the environment, and our economy." Text of the letter can be read here or below: April 28, 2016 The Honorable Anthony R. Foxx Secretary United States Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary Foxx: We are writing to express our support for the City of Diamond Bar’s application for a FY 2016 grant from the Department of Transportation’s Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program. The City is requesting a $35 million investment in the 57/60 Confluence Project, which will relieve congestion and improve safety at the confluence of California State Routes 57 and 60 in the Cities of Diamond Bar and Industry. The California Department of Transportation, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Southern California Association of Governments support this nationally and regionally significant Project. These heavily congested freeways share an alignment for approximately 2 miles. This “Confluence” forces thousands of freight trucks and passenger vehicles to execute dangerous weaving in order to navigate the freeways. The requested funding will support the construction of new Eastbound SR-60 bypass structures at Grand Avenue that are expected to minimize the unsafe lane changing movements. In tandem with Westbound on-ramp improvements already being constructed with the help of previously awarded TIGER funding, this new infrastructure will improve the overall traffic flow at the Confluence and eliminate the current bottleneck effect that the Confluence has on the regional operation of SR-57 and SR-60. Consistent with the TIGER program’s goals, these transformative improvements will improve the quality of life for thousands of commuters and create opportunities for others to access new and better paying jobs in communities that are traversed by one of the Nation’s busiest freight corridors. Both SR-57 and SR-60 are on the National Highway Freight Network, with this segment of the Network moving 43% of freight goods east-west (in-and-out) of the greater Los Angeles basin, a major international trade hub and port of entry. The Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach handle 24% of all U.S. international trade (by container volume) and Los Angeles International Airport is the third busiest air cargo facility in the world. SR-60 is the highest utilized corridor for truck traffic leaving these facilities, ultimately connecting with the rest of the country via I-10 and I-40. In 2013, the Federal Highway Administration identified the 57/60 Confluence as one of the 25 most “Congested Freight-Significant Locations” in the Nation. The American Transportation Research Institute recently ranked the Confluence as the most congested freight bottleneck in California and the ninth most congested in the United States. It was also identified in the Comprehensive Regional Goods Movement Plan and Implementation Strategy study as the second-highest truck accident location in Southern California. Your full and fair consideration of this application is greatly appreciated. Please contact us if you have any questions. Sincerely, Ed Royce (Member of Congress) Judy Chu (Member of Congress) Grace Napolitano (Member of Congress) Norma Torres (Member of Congress)
05.03.2016	The office of U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will host an informational Military Academy Night session this month for young men and women from California's 39th Congressional District interested in attending one of our nation's military academies. Each year, Rep. Royce has the privilege of nominating local high school students of the highest caliber for admission to the United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy, United States Coast Guard Academy, and United States Merchant Marine Academy. The appointment process is rigorous, highly selective, and based on a candidate's academic achievement, athletic ability, extracurricular activities, and community service. The Military Academy Night gives both students and parents the opportunity to hear from official representatives from the academies as well as Rep. Royce's staff on how to best navigate the application process. Event details are as follows: What: 2016 Spring Military Academy Night Location: Buena Park City Hall (Council Chamber) Address: 6650 Beach Boulevard, Buena Park, CA 90621 Date: Tuesday, May 17, 2016 Time: 6:00 P.M. This event is free to attend and open to the public. No RSVP is required. Questions regarding the event or military academy nominations from Rep. Royce can be directed to Alexandria Walker at Alexandria.Walker@mail.house.gov or (714) 255-0101.
05.03.2016	The office of U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will host mobile office hours in Chino Hills on Thursday, May 5. Further details are below: What: Rep. Royce's Mobile Office Hours Date: May 5, 2016 Time: 10 AM - 4 PM Where: Chino Hills City Hall (Red Tailed Hawk Room) Address: 14000 City Center Drive, Chino Hills, CA, 91709 Rep. Royce’s district staff will be present to inform constituents about the services his office can assist with such as ordering American flags, booking tours of Washington, D.C., and dealing with federal agencies (Medicare, Social Security, Veterans Affairs). Please note: Rep. Royce will not be in attendance and staff present are unable to respond to press inquiries.
05.03.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) participated in a panel discussion entitled "How To Restart the Private Market for Mortgage Credit" during the Milken Institute Global Conference. Participants included former Federal Housing Finance Agency Acting Director Edward DeMarco, U.S. Mortgage Insurers President and Executive Director Lindsey Johnson, and PennyMac Financial Services CEO Stanford Kurland. The panel was tasked with assessing the progress to date with the GSEs' credit risk transfers and exploring the conditions necessary for a restoration of a deep and liquid market for mortgage credit risk backed by private capital rather than taxpayers. An excerpt of Rep. Royce's remarks as prepared for delivery is below: "I support an all-of-the-above approach: Congress should encourage an increase in both the amount and the types of risk-transfer transactions to the maximum amount that is economically and commercially viable. This would include both back-end and front-end risk sharing. We also have to figure out how to promote risk-transfer transactions that allow access to all types and sizes of mortgage originators. A role for the Federal Home Loan Banks in facilitating risk sharing transactions involving small lenders should be explored. The goal of Congress should be ensuring the maximum transfer of risk away from taxpayers and the GSEs. "The good news is that we have come a long way, and I think my colleagues on both sides of the aisle have learned from the past. We have agreement that the prior model of private gains and public losses is a failed model. There is disagreement on the role of the federal government as a backstop. Where does that leave us? I have been advocating for a few years that we can move forward even with this disagreement on the end state. Building block reforms are possible. The low-hanging fruit would be moving forward with legislation creating a truly common securitization platform and encouraging more risk-sharing. Both of these ease the path for future comprehensive housing finance reform. I’m focused on seeing these specific initiatives enacted while moving the ball forward on comprehensive reform. Any reform effort needs to both protect the American taxpayer and ensure a robust housing market in order to win my support." Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, with membership on both the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises and Housing and Insurance Subcommittees.
04.28.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) made remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of H.J. Res. 88, a Congressional Resolution disapproving the rule recently submitted by the Department of Labor relating to the definition of the term “fiduciary." "We do know that the negative impact of this rule on consumers is not hypothetical. The reason we know it is because the United Kingdom has already lived through an 'effectually identical' rule. The result in the U.K. was an 'advice gap' that locked out nearly half a million middle- and low- income savers." "Just last week, the head of the SEC’s Division of Economic and Risk Analysis admitted that the Labor Department knew of the disastrous impact of – what he termed – the 'experiment' in the U.K that locked out these middle-income and low-income savers from advice. And yet it moved forward to put us on that same path." "Mr. Speaker, we live in a country that ranks 19th in the world for retirement security. Half of Americans cannot find $400 in savings if hit with an emergency. We should be doing more to encourage Americans to save. This rule obviously does exactly the opposite. I urge my colleagues to support this resolution," said Rep. Royce. The Resolution passed the House floor on a 234-183 vote. Watch Rep. Royce's floor remarks here or by clicking the image below.
04.27.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) voted for the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2016 (H.R. 4923), legislation to facilitate the ability of Congress to extend manufacturing tax relief to American manufacturers: “Southern California remains a manufacturing hub, but our current tax code hinders companies that make their goods here at home and have to face global competition on a daily basis," said Rep. Royce. "Lowering the tax burden on California's manufacturers better enables them to sell their goods, grow their businesses, and hire more workers." The last manufacturing tax breaks passed by Congress expired on December 31, 2012. According to the National Association of Manufacturers, U.S. companies have since experienced a $748 million tax hike each year, undercutting their ability to compete and costing our economy $2 billion annually. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation will create an open and transparent process for Congress to consider tax relief requests through the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB). American businesses will be allowed to petition the independent, non-partisan International Trade Commission to explain their need for a specific tariff reduction or suspension. After the independent panel receives these petitions, it solicits comments from the public and the Administration and issues a public report to Congress with its analysis and recommendations regarding products that meet the MTB's standards. Rep. Royce represents California's 39th Congressional District, which encompasses parts of Los Angeles, Orange, and San Bernardino counties. He is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee.
04.26.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) made remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of H.R. 2901, the Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act: "Since its inception in 1968, the National Flood Insurance Program was never intended to cover policies the private sector was able and willing to underwrite. "In fact, one stated goal for the Program was that, quote, 'the federal government would create an opportunity for private industry to obtain… experience in operating a flood insurance program… and that sometime in the future, the program could become an all-private program,' end quote. "Nearly 50 years have passed and to no one’s surprise, private sector flood insurance risk modeling and analytics have dramatically improved. "While this House may not be ready to take-up complete privatization, it is time to provide a role for the private market to underwrite primary flood insurance policies. "Passage of this bipartisan bill means more consumer choice, more market competition, and it means more product innovation. Consumers for the first time will be able to shop for a flood policy that fits their particular needs. "This bill also has the added benefit of decreasing the aggregate flood insurance exposure to the federal government and decreasing the potential for a future taxpayer backed bailout," said Rep. Royce. The Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act clarifies a provision from the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 allowing private flood policies to meet the mandatory purchase requirement of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Watch Rep. Royce's floor remarks here or by clicking the image below.
04.25.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced that Bianca Gutierrez of Glen A. Wilson High School is the winner of this year's Congressional Art Competition, which received a record 138 entries from high school students across California's 39th Congressional District: "As a strong supporter of an education in the arts, I believe that the Congressional Art Competition is a wonderful opportunity for our talented young people to express themselves," said Rep. Royce. "Congratulations to Bianca for winning over the judges and all of the artists that submitted their work for our community to enjoy." Gutierrez will have her artwork "Doña Agustina" displayed in the United States Capitol alongside winning pieces from each Congressional district. Gutierrez and a guest of her choice will also join Rep. Royce in Washington for a special reception honoring contest winners. Jennifer Jacobson of Yorba Linda High School received second place for her work “Before Dawn,” and Ivy Bi of Glen A. Wilson High School was recognized with third place for her piece "Bear." Rep. Royce also posted photographs of each submission on his Facebook page and asked his fans to vote for their "Fan Favorite," which was awarded to Elena Deng of Diamond Bar High School for her piece "Faces of the Same Nation." 1st Place - Doña Agustina by Bianca Gutierrez:
04.21.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on its communication with the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) regarding the fiduciary rule and whistleblower protections during a Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee hearing entitled “Continued Oversight of the SEC’s Offices and Divisions.” “Experts have deemed the United Kingdom’s Retail Distribution Review as being ‘effectually identical to the Labor Department’s rule.’ In the eyes of not just industry, but the British government itself, implementation of the RDR created an ‘advice gap’ that locked out middle- and lower- income savers from investment advice. I’ve studied the Johnson Report about the Department of Labor’s communications with the SEC during the lead-up to the rule’s release. I share the Senator’s frustration with the Department’s lack of cooperation in releasing all of its communication with the Commission regarding its rule," said Rep. Royce. "I’m going to ask Mr. Flannery, did the DOL and SEC communicate about the impact of Great Britain’s RDR on British consumers? If so, to what extent? And if not, why did the SEC not think it relevant to reference the fact that a developed economy has already implemented a rule similar to the DOL’s rule and this was no longer a hypothetical situation?” continued Rep. Royce. “The Retail Distribution Review, which I think took effect at the beginning of 2013, we viewed that in the SEC as an extraordinarily interesting policy step. We could call it an experiment because it didn’t involve us. I undertook a couple of conference calls with people over in the regulatory agencies there. With me on those conference calls was one of my staff who was involved in dealing with the Department of Labor economist. So we conveyed certainly that information to them. I don’t know in what form, I’m not familiar with the details. But certainly the information was conveyed through that individual,” answered Mr. Mark J. Flannery, Director of the SEC's Division of Economic and Risk Analysis. “But information coming back the other way about the advice gap they were experiencing in Britain with middle-income and lower-income savers from investment advice, that information was being collected or studied?” replied Rep. Royce. “It was certainly conveyed to the Department of Labor. When we are asked to provide technical advice to any organization, we provide technical advice based on our expertise with our institutions and our space. So if we send over comments or suggestions, those people are operating in a different regulatory environment under different legislation. It’s therefore their decision which of our comments is most appropriate to their situation,” concluded Flannery. “I was going to ask Mr. McKessy a question. This goes to the issue of the [Office of the Whistleblower’s] creation under an amendment I offered in this Committee. It came as a result actually of hearing of [Harry] Markopolos’ decade long struggle to bring Bernie Madoff's Ponzi scheme to the attention of the SEC, and, in particular, his frustration year-after-year with the failure of the SEC to take any action against Bernie Madoff. The idea in a nutshell was that by establishing a separate Office within the Commission, the SEC would be better situated to protect whistleblowers and ensure that their concerns are in fact acted on and not handled as that previous situation was,” said Rep. Royce. “Do you think the new structure is working? What could be done to improve it? I am also concerned that not unlike the gaps in coordination we had between regional offices and divisions in the SEC before your office was created, there may be gaps in coordination with other parts of the government. How does your office coordinate with other Federal agencies that allege conduct that is beyond the SEC’s jurisdiction?” concluded Rep. Royce. “The fact that the Whistleblower Office provides three benefits to whistleblowers: confidentiality, anti-retaliation protections, and the ability to be paid, has created real incentives to allow people to come forward if they were otherwise unwilling to or reluctant to. I think we’re seeing the results of that in the fact that we’ve solicited over 16,000 tips since the program went into effect,” replied Mr. Sean McKessy, Chief of the SEC's Office of the Whistleblower. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking on the image below:
04.19.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will host a Congressional Art Competition Exhibit for the students from California's 39th Congressional District that submitted an entry to the contest. Event details are as follows: What: Congressional Art Competition Exhibit Host: U.S. Representative Ed Royce (CA-39) Date: April 23, 2016 Where: Fullerton Museum Center (301 N Pomona Ave, Fullerton, CA 92832) Time: 12 PM - 2 PM "The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity for the talented young people of our community to showcase their creative skills and I was delighted to receive a record number of submissions this year" said Rep. Royce. "An education in the fine arts is important to the development of these students, and I look forward to honoring their achievements and dedication to their craft." The winner of the contest will be announced at the exhibit and his or her artwork will be displayed in the United States Capitol. The winner will also receive two complimentary airline tickets to join Rep. Royce at a reception in the Capitol honoring contest winners from around the country. Rep. Royce is also awarding a "Fan Favorite" award, having asked his Facebook fans to vote online for their favorite contest entry. The art experts volunteering their time to serve as judges include: Matthew Leslie Chief Curator, The Muckenthaler Cultural Center Chris Toovey Co-founder & President, dA Center for the Arts Glenna Avila Wallis Annenberg Director of Youth Programs & Artistic Director of the Community Arts Partnership, CalArts Aimee Aul Museum Educator, Fullerton Museum Center Jeanne Hoel Associate Director of Education, School & Teacher Programs, The Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles Questions regarding the exhibit may be directed to Lauren Pong at (626) 964-5123 or Lauren.Pong@mail.house.gov.
04.18.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) is calling on all youth ages 14-23 from California's 39th Congressional District to participate in this year’s Congressional Award Program, the highest honor Congress bestows upon young people. This bipartisan effort rewards those who have completed up to 100 hours in the areas of public service, physical fitness and personal development through individual goal setting. “The Congressional Award Program not only encourages public service, it fosters a sense of civic duty and good citizenship," said Rep. Royce. "Congressional Award winners often go on to become leaders in our community, and it's an honor to recognize these young people for their accomplishments." Established by Congress in 1979, the award was created to honor young participants who have set, and achieved, personal goals driving service and individual development across the nation. There are no minimum grade point average requirements and the program accommodates youth with special needs and disabilities. Upon successful completion of program requirements, local participants are presented with a Congressional Award certificate or medal by Rep. Royce. More than 3.5 million volunteer hours and more than 49,000 Congressional Awards have been earned over the years. Additional details on the Congressional Award Program are available at http://congressionalaward.org and on Rep. Royce's website here. Additional questions can be directed to Narah Jayasekera in Rep. Royce’s Brea office at Narah.J@mail.house.gov or (714) 255-0101.
04.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned expert witnesses on the barriers start-up businesses face when trying to access capital during a Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee hearing entitled “The JOBS Act at Four: Examining Its Impact and Proposals to Further Enhance Capital Formation." “In California, as you know, we’ve got a world-class network of start-ups from Silicon Valley to Orange County. The issue of access to capital for start-up businesses is critical to our state’s economy but critical also to ensuring our country remains the best place for entrepreneurs to bring products to market. Mr. Keating, you note in your testimony that the Micro Offerings Safe Harbor Act, which I’m an original cosponsor of, ‘appropriately scales federal rules and regulatory compliance for small businesses’ pursuing capital. Mr. Keating, how will this legislation help these start-ups that are looking for the investment to hire, grow, and enter the market?” asked Rep. Royce. "It all comes down to the cost. When we talk about scaling federal rules, look at the data… that shows that regulatory costs certainly fall much more heavily on small businesses. Take the next step and consider the regulatory costs on start-ups, and it becomes even more daunting. When I mentioned before the issue on angel-investing, that’s certainly in the equation here in terms of both on the supply and demand side. Anytime you can open up avenues here through reduced costs for entrepreneurs to gain access to capital, it’s a positive development," replied Mr. Raymond Keating, Chief Economist at the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council. “I’m an advocate for regulatory relief for our nation’s community financial institutions when it comes to their ability to lend. Legislation I’ve authored, HR 1188 or the Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act, would free up smaller lenders when it comes to working with business start-ups. What role do community financial institutions play in capital formation for start-ups? What are the problem areas since the financial crisis, and how could Congress help on that front?” concluded Rep. Royce. “My immediate response is those small financial institutions are crucial for small businesses, that’s the bottom line. When you look at their share of loans to small businesses, they’re it. They’re critical. The regulatory costs of, for example, Dodd-Frank and so on fall more heavily on them, and small businesses get hurt as a result,” replied Mr. Keating. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking on the image below:
04.14.2016	The House of Representatives passed H.R. 3340, the Financial Stability Oversight Council Reform Act, which included an amendment offered by U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) to reform the Office of Financial Research (OFR). "A more open, collaborative, and cyber-secure Office of Financial Research would be better positioned to achieve its stated mission of promoting financial stability," said Rep. Royce on the floor of the House. "This amendment strengthens the OFR’s ability to ensure a transparent, efficient, and stable financial system for the American people, the core objective of the Office." Specifically, Rep. Royce's amendment requires the OFR to release an annual work plan outlining the Office’s priorities, opens OFR reports to public notice and comment, mandates the OFR to consult federal regulatory agencies when preparing public reports, and tasks the OFR with developing and implementing a cybersecurity plan to be reviewed annually by the U.S. Government Accountability Office. Watch debate on Rep. Royce's OFR reform amendment here or by clicking the image below.
04.13.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) will propose an amendment to the Financial Stability Oversight Council Reform Act which adds bipartisan legislation he authored, the Office of Financial Research Accountability Act of 2015, to the underlying bill: "OFR should be required to withstand scrutiny from financial regulators and the public. These changes are integral to FSOC reform as the Council makes designation decisions," said Rep. Royce. "A more open, collaborative, and secure OFR is better positioned to achieve its stated mission of promoting financial stability and a transparent, efficient and stable financial system." The amendment mirrors legislation authored by Rep. Royce which received a bipartisan 35-22 vote of support from the House Financial Services Committee last year. Both the underlying bill and amendment are expected to receive consideration by the full House of Representatives this week. Specifically, Rep. Royce's amendment requires the Office of Financial Research (OFR) to release an annual work plan outlining the Office’s priorities, opens OFR reports to public notice and comment, mandates the OFR to consult federal regulatory agencies when preparing public reports, and tasks the OFR with developing and implementing a cybersecurity plan to be reviewed annually by the U.S. Government Accountability Office. On December 8, 2015, Rep. Royce questioned eight members of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) as to their potential opposition to subjecting OFR reports to public notice and comment. The Council members present did not vocalize any objections. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, with membership on both the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee.
04.12.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), U.S. Representative Judy Chu (D-Monterey Park), and U.S. Representative Grace Napolitano (D-El Monte) have written U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx in support of federal investment in the 57/60 freeway confluence project. Rep. Royce, who represents the Congressional district that encompasses the confluence of the 57 and 60, has been a longtime advocate of fixing the freeways. Both Secretary Foxx and the Chairman Bill Shuster of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee have visited the confluence at Rep. Royce's invitation to observe the gridlock. Rep. Royce also wrote letters to the Department of Transportation in support of the 57/60 being included in the Primary Freight Network, which assisted Diamond Bar during its successful TIGER grant bid. "The 57 and 60 are conduits for the world's trade that generates so much of our region's economic activity, but the congestion created is both a safety hazard and burden for those getting goods to market. Prioritizing the 57/60 confluence for transportation dollars is a win-win for public safety and economic growth. Seeking solutions to our region's traffic gridlock is not a partisan cause, and I'll continue to work with members of both parties to see the job through," said Rep. Royce. Text of the letter can be read here or below: April 12, 2016 The Honorable Anthony R. Foxx Secretary United States Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary Foxx: We are writing in support of the City of Diamond Bar’s application for a FY 2016 grant from the Department of Transportation’s Fostering Advancements in Shipping and Transportation for the Long-term Achievement of National Efficiencies (FASTLANE) program. The City is requesting a $35 million investment in the 57/60 Confluence Project, which will relieve congestion and improve safety at the confluence of California State Routes 57 and 60 in the Cities of Diamond Bar and Industry. The California Department of Transportation, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Southern California Association of Governments support this nationally and regionally significant project. These heavily congested freeways share an alignment for approximately two miles. This confluence forces thousands of freight trucks and passenger vehicles to execute dangerous weaving in order to navigate the freeways. The requested funding will support the construction of new eastbound SR-60 bypass structures at Grand Avenue that are expected to minimize the unsafe lane changing movements. In tandem with westbound on-ramp improvements already being constructed with the help of previously awarded TIGER funding, this new infrastructure will improve the overall traffic flow at the confluence and eliminate the current bottleneck effect that the confluence has on the regional operation of SR-57 and SR-60. Both SR-57 and SR-60 are on the National Highway Freight Network, with this segment of the network moving 43% of freight goods east-west (in-and-out) of the greater Los Angeles basin, a major international trade hub and port of entry. The Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach handle 24% of all U.S. international trade (by container volume) and Los Angeles International Airport is the third busiest air cargo facility in the world. SR-60 is the highest utilized corridor for truck traffic leaving these facilities, ultimately connecting with the rest of the country via I-10 and I-40. In 2013, the Federal Highway Administration identified the 57/60 Confluence as one of the 25 most “Congested Freight-Significant Locations” in the nation. The American Transportation Research Institute recently ranked the confluence as the most congested freight bottleneck in California and the ninth most congested in the United States. It was also identified in the Comprehensive Regional Goods Movement Plan and Implementation Strategy study as the second-highest truck accident location in Southern California. Your full and fair consideration of this application is greatly appreciated. Please contact us if you have any questions. Sincerely, Ed Royce Member of Congress Judy Chu Member of Congress Grace Napolitano Member of Congress
04.12.2016	Today, the House Appropriations Committee released the fiscal year 2017 Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, which will be considered in subcommittee tomorrow. The legislation provides funding for national defense nuclear weapons activities, the Army Corps of Engineers, Department of Energy (DOE) programs, and other related agencies. Also included in the legislation are several new provisions to help Californians who have suffered extreme challenges from years of historic drought, exacerbated by excessive federal regulations. These provisions in the bill will help provide relief for impacted communities and will assist in the capture and delivery of more water to towns and fields. Following the release of the fiscal year 2017 Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, the entire California Republican Congressional Delegation released the following joint statement: “The Western drought has devastated communities throughout California, the consequences of which have spread throughout the country. Congress cannot make it rain but we can enact policies that expand our water infrastructure, allow for more water conveyance, and utilize legitimate science to ensure a reliable water supply for farmers and families. Today’s release of the FY2017 Water and Energy Appropriations bill is an important step to help restore the water California so desperately needs. We appreciate the efforts of both Chairman Rogers and Chairman Simpson and look forward to working in a collaborative way with all those involved to enact meaningful solutions.” Provisions included in the FY17 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill maximize water deliveries by: 1. Increasing pumping at the Delta to deliver water South of the Delta 2. Expanding storage by cutting bureaucratic red-tape holding back major water storage projects 3. Protecting senior and area of origin water rights 4. Protecting species listed under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) 5. Restoring water deliveries to the east side of the San Joaquin Valley by defunding defunct programs The complete text of the subcommittee draft of the FY 2017 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, can be found here.
04.07.2016	The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has awarded U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of his support for pro-jobs, pro-economic growth policies during 2015. "As a former businessman, I pride myself on listening to the concerns of California's business community and supporting policies that promote job creation," said Rep. Royce. “We are pleased to recognize Congressman Royce for engaging in pro-business policymaking that helps strengthen our nation’s spirit of enterprise,” said Tom Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award honors those members of Congress who are committed to ensuring that American businesses can continue to operate and succeed in a free enterprise system.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to Members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber publication, How They Voted. Rep. Royce received a 95% rating and ranks among the top-rated California Members of Congress. During the first session of the 114th Congress, the Chamber scored U.S. House of Representative members on twenty votes, including legislation to pass the first long-term transportation funding law in a decade and make permanent tax relief provisions that would have otherwise expired. Rep. Royce is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee. He serves California's 39th Congressional District, which encompasses parts of Orange, Los Angeles, and San Bernardino Counties. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business organization representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, in addition to state-based and municipal-based Chambers of Commerce.
04.06.2016	The office of U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will host mobile office hours in Chino Hills on Thursday, April 7. Further details are below: What: Rep. Royce's Mobile Office Hours Date: Thursday, April 7, 2016 Time: 10 AM - 4 PM Where: Chino Hills City Hall (Red Tailed Hawk Room) Address: 14000 City Center Drive, Chino Hills, CA, 91709 Rep. Royce’s district staff will be present to inform constituents about the services his office can assist with such as ordering American flags, booking tours of Washington, D.C., and dealing with federal agencies (Medicare, Social Security, Veterans Affairs).
03.21.2016	Over 700 women from Southern California have confirmed their attendance at U.S. Representative Ed Royce's (R-Fullerton) 8th Annual Women's Conference on Saturday, March 26. The event will take place at California State University, Fullerton's Titan Student Union Center (800 N. State College Boulevard, Fullerton, CA 92831) and features keynote speaker former Miss America Nina Davuluri, a leading advocate for girl's STEM education. "This year's Conference speakers will address a variety of issues critical to women throughout Southern California, from personal finances, to healthy lifestyle trends, to protecting a family from identity theft," said Rep. Royce. "I also look forward to Nina discussing an issue we both share a passion for: making sure more women and girls have access to a quality STEM education." Additional breakout session speakers are selected based on feedback from past Conference attendees. Chef Jamie Gwen will present "A Celebrity Chef’s Guide to Healthy Lifestyles," an engaging demonstration on preparing foods that are both tasty and healthy. Representatives from Orange County's credit unions will be on hand to discuss "A Woman's Journey Towards Financial Independence" and how to "Deter, Detect and Defend against Identity Theft." Rep. Royce's Deputy Chief of Staff Sara Catalán and the House Foreign Affairs Committee's Policy Counsel Jessica Kelch will discuss their work to shut down human trafficking and break down barriers to women and girls’ education and empowerment. Rep. Royce's Women's Conference is free to attend, and event details can be viewed here. Same day registration is available for walk-in attendees. Media interested in attending this open press event should contact Saat Alety at saat.alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 714-7882. A factsheet regarding Rep. Royce's Women's Conference can be viewed here.
03.16.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned Mr. Richard Cordray, Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), on the CFPB's authority to tailor rulemaking for community financial institutions during a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “The Semi-Annual Report of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.” "On the question of ‘exemptive authority,’ as it applies to your ability to exempt community banks and credit unions from rulemakings, you argued in a recent speech that it was ‘not plausible’ for you to ‘use such authority to override Congress’s own judgment on such a broad-based policy matter.’ As you know Section 1022 of the Dodd-Frank Act gave the CFPB the authority to adapt regulations by allowing it to exempt ‘any class’ of entity from its rulemakings. Just this week, 329 Members of this House wrote to you, it was Mr. Stiver’s letter actually, to tailor regulations for community banks and credit unions, citing Section 1022 exemptive authority specifically. Do you believe that Section 1022 gives you the ability to tailor regulations for community financial institutions? Does a letter from over three-quarters of Congress change your view of Congressional intent?" asked Rep. Royce. "We have routinely tailored our rules to take account of different circumstances of small lenders as opposed to large lenders. We did that with our mortgage origination rule, we did it with our mortgage servicing rule, we did it with our remittance rule. We will continue to do it where appropriate. Second, I always attempt to be responsive to letters from Members of Congress. I was, in a more humble station, a Member of the State Legislature in Ohio. I have understood the legislative role, and I respect it," replied Director Cordray. "Both of the major credit union trade associations have said publicly that they sought a broad exemption from regulation or oversight of any kind when Dodd-Frank was being debated. In both cases, apparently, it was rejected by the Congress. It wasn't written into law. What was written in was differential treatment of banks under $10 billion and credit unions under $10 billion in assets, as compared to those above. We've gone beyond that, and at times have provided special dispensations or special provisions for smaller creditors, often those of $2 billion in assets or below. We'll continue to do that where we find that to be appropriate on the facts. But in terms of a broad overwriting of what Congress made a judgement about in that statute, which was not to simply exempt all credit unions from everything having to do with consumer protection, I feel that Congress has spoken on that," concluded Director Cordray. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of Director Cordray here or by clicking on the image below:
03.14.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), author of the Pay Back the Taxpayers Act of 2015 to prohibit Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from diverting funds to the Housing Trust Fund while the GSEs are in conservatorship, released the following statement in reaction to the GSEs' transfer of over $180 million to the fund: "We must stop the egregious siphoning of money from the GSEs to this housing slush fund,” said Rep. Royce. "I look forward to working with Chairman Hensarling on advancing the Pay Back the Taxpayers Act, which preempts future payments of this kind and sends them where they belong: to the taxpayers. In the interim, lawmakers should conduct vigorous oversight as to where this money is going, who is using it, and what exactly it is being spent on." Under current law, the FHFA is required to suspend allocations to the funds if such payments would: 1) contribute to the financial instability of the GSEs; 2) cause the GSEs to be undercapitalized; or 3) prevent the GSEs from successfully completing a capital restoration plan. Rep. Royce's Pay Back the Taxpayers Act of 2015 (H.R. 574), introduced on January 27, 2015, removes any ambiguity under the law and states that no funds from Fannie and Freddie can be used to fund the national Housing Trust Fund while the GSEs are in conservatorship or receivership. The bill includes a prohibition on any further transfers from the GSEs to the funds and will require payments that have already been allocated or set aside be instead used to reduce the budget deficit. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, with membership on both the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee.
03.09.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, has nominated U.S. Army Colonel Young Oak Kim for a posthumously awarded Presidential Medal of Freedom. A Los Angeles native of Korean descent, Col. Oak Kim served our nation in the 100th Infantry Battalion during World War II and was the first minority officer to command an Army combat battalion in American history. “It is a privilege to nominate Colonel Young Oak Kim for the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Colonel Oak Kim earned the respect and love of his men with bold battlefield leadership and an unflinching devotion to the cause of freedom," said Chairman Royce. "His long record of service to our nation is representative of the contributions Korean Americans have made to make our country stronger, safer, and more secure." The Presidential Medal of Freedom is an award bestowed by the President of the United States and is the highest civilian award of the United States. It recognizes those individuals who have made "an especially meritorious contribution to the security or national interests of the United States, world peace, cultural or other significant public or private endeavors." Chairman Royce's nomination letter can be viewed here or read below. February 23, 2016 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama, I am writing to nominate the late Colonel Young Oak Kim for the 2016 President Medal of Freedom. As Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I have consistently advocated for greater national recognition of recognition of our Korean War heroes. While Colonel Kim has been awarded the Distinguished Service Cross and two Silver Medals, I believe he is deserving of the President Medal of Freedom. Colonel Kim served with exceptional valor in the European theater during the Second World War, including the liberation of Rome, for which he was awarded the Italian Military Valor Cross. He also received before he died, France’s highest award, the Legion of Honor, for his efforts to liberate French towns during World War II. During the Korean War, Mr. Kim was the first Asian-American to command a regular U.S. combat battalion, leading forces which pushed the enemy back from the thirty-eighth parallel. In recognition of Colonel Kim’s extraordinary service, the Government of the Republic of Korea awarded him the Taeguk Order of Military Merit. After retiring from the military in 1972, Colonel Kim dedicated the remainder of his life to serving the people in his community. He founded numerous non-profit organizations to aid fellow Korean-Americans in Los Angeles, including the Korean American Museum, the Korean American Coalition, and the Korean Health, Education, Information and Research Center. He helped lead many organizations, such as the United Way Asian Center and the Center for Asian Pacific Women, through chairmanship or membership of the board. Colonel Kim’s honorable service has received the highest recognition worldwide, and it would be appropriate to bestow such added recognition here in the United States. I request your full and thorough consideration of awarding Colonel Young Oak the Presidential Medal of Honor. Sincerely, EDWARD R. ROYCE
03.08.2016	Hailey Shi of Diamond Bar High School, the winner of U.S. Representative Ed Royce's (R-Fullerton) 2015 Congressional Art Competition, was recently recognized by Rep. Royce after receiving first place at the Chapman University Annual Holocaust Art and Writing Contest Awards Ceremony. "Hailey's work shows the deep connection she felt with those who suffered during the Holocaust and is a heartwrenching tribute to the victims from this horrific time in history," said Rep. Royce, who is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Shi, a resident of Walnut, currently has her artwork "Flying with Hope" displayed in the United States Capitol after winning last year's Congressional Art Competition. Rep. Royce is now accepting submissions to this year's Congressional Art Competition and encourages all local high school artists to enter the contest.
03.04.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, entered a remembrance in to the official U.S. Congressional Record for local community leader Linda Sarno, who recently passed away. Chairman Royce worked together with Sarno to advocate for the advancement of Southern California's vibrant Filipino American community. The statement can be viewed here, or read below: "Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize the passing of community activist and civic and religious leader, Atty. Linda Sarno, who passed away on February 1, 2016. "Atty. Sarno was a beloved community organizer and leader who supported the development and professionalism of Filipino American businesses and raised awareness and appreciation for Filipino culture and cuisine in Southern California. She started initiatives in the community to promote the advantages of green technology, health, and conservation both in business and everyday life. "She was co-founder and director emeritus of the Filipino American Chamber of Commerce of Orange County where she encouraged young entrepreneurship, and was also actively involved in the Asian Business Association of Orange County. "Atty. Sarno will be deeply missed by her family, friends, and our community."
03.03.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and leading proponent of housing finance reform, released the following statement on today's progress report from the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) indicating future consideration of opening up the GSEs to alternative credit scoring models: “The current practice of using a single credit scoring model hampers the ability of Fannie and Freddie to mitigate their risk, and places the GSEs on a weaker foundation. The FHFA should be commended for seeking a solution to this problem. Breaking up the credit score monopoly at Fannie and Freddie introduces competition into the credit scoring industry and ultimately decreases the potential for another taxpayer bailout," said Rep. Royce. Rep. Royce recently introduced H.R. 4211, the Credit Score Competition Act of 2015, to require the FHFA to develop new underwriting guidelines for Fannie and Freddie and allow consideration of alternative credit scoring models the GSEs currently don't utilize.
03.02.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) spoke in favor of H.R. 4620, the Preserving Access to CRE Capital Act of 2016, at a House Financial Services Committee legislative markup. The legislation tailors risk retention requirements enacted by Dodd-Frank for single asset/single borrower (SASB) commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS). "For us in California, this is a critical industry. The reality is that commercial real estate in the U.S. is a $3.5 trillion market. A drying up of liquidity in Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities (CMBS) market is really going to mean a lot less in terms of expansion. Whether it's malls, movie theaters, restaurants, offices, and hotels. All of that means fewer jobs as that constriction occurs. "As we heard in this Committee just last week, securitization isn’t just needed for the delivery of commercial real estate capital; it’s also integral to the 'broader macro-economic growth' we need in this economy. "The Dodd-Frank Act applied a one size fits all risk retention requirement for single asset/single borrower securities – that simply does not make sense for investments that are easy to understand, underwrite, and evaluate. This risk retention requirement increases the costs of getting projects off the ground while it does nothing to increase safety and soundness. This legislation that Mr. Hill is proposing really strikes the proper balance between risk retention and a robust CMBS market. "This narrow legislative fix does not take away from the goal of restoring responsible securitization. Investing in the building site of a single neighborhood mall is a far cry from the behavior that brought about the financial crisis, and it should not be treated as such. "I commend our friend, Mr. Hill, for his work and urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to please support this bill." Watch Rep. Royce's remarks here or by clicking on the image below:
03.01.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, will speak about the economic benefits of trade for California as he attends the Los Angeles Area Chamber of Commerce's World Trade Week. “From the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach that handle 40% of American imports to the Central Valley farms that feed the world, trade is the foundation of California’s economy,” said Chairman Royce. “World Trade Week is an engaging forum to discuss how policymakers and business leaders can collaborate to ensure our region continues to lead the way in global commerce.” “We are honored that Congressman Royce will join us at this year’s 90th kickoff breakfast. As a representative of Southern California in Congress, he brings to our audience an exceptional background in foreign policy and trade. His experience as one of the nation’s premier representatives to foreign governments around the world will bring extraordinary insight and perspective to the global trade community,” said L.A. Area Chamber Senior Vice President Carlos Valderrama. For 90 years, World Trade Week has been dedicated to educating the public on the importance of global trade and its contribution to our local, state and national economy. Under the guidance of its founding sponsors – the L.A Area Chamber, Los Angeles World Airports, and the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles – the original week-long observance has now grown to more than 30 events held each year throughout the month of May in the counties of Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego and Ventura. Rep. Royce serves California's 39th Congressional District, which includes parts of Los Angeles County, and has led the House Foreign Affairs Committee since January 2013.
02.29.2016	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed legislation first authored by U.S. Representatives Grace Meng (D-N.Y.) and Ed Royce (R-Calif.) to strike the term "Oriental" from preexisting federal law and replace it with “Asian American.” H.R. 4238 also removes the terms "Negroes," "Indians," and "Eskimos" from the same law. Rep. Royce, who is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, entered the statement of support below into the official Congressional record: "Racism and discrimination have no place in America today. We are a nation of immigrants that is proud of its diversity. Despite our society’s progression and growth over the last 100 years, the Federal Code still contains language on ethnicity that is antiquated, and, quite frankly, inappropriate. "For example, the term 'Orientals' is offensive, especially so when referring to the vibrant Asian American community. Using this term in federal law lends it a legitimacy it doesn’t deserve. I strongly believe that when we get the chance, we should correct the mistakes of the past. This bill goes a long way towards correcting our mistakes. "H.R. 4238 eliminates outdated, disrespectful terms from federal law and replaces them with terms, such as 'Asian American,' 'Alaska Natives,' and 'Hispanic,' that are more appropriate for our times and in keeping with our values."
02.25.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses on the merits of the United States reaching a covered agreement with the E.U. during a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “The Impact of International Regulatory Standards on the Competitiveness of U.S. Insurers: Part II.” "I am concerned that Congress may be exporting the state vs. federal ‘turf war’ into the international arena to the detriment of U.S. companies and consumers.The U.S. has much to gain by moving forward with a covered agreement on reinsurance collateral with the EU. Formal negotiations would give the U.S. leverage in discussions about equivalency under the European Solvency II regime. Simply put, without action, U.S. companies lose," Rep. Royce first remarked. "Mr. Torti, I have some questions for you as a reformed insurance commissioner. Much to my chagrin – and I assume yours as well, the NAIC hasn’t prioritized collateral reform. That’s what I wanted to talk to you about. In 2011, the NAIC’s certified reinsurer provisions are still not an accreditation standard. A long time has passed! And a third of states haven’t modernized their laws – including major states like Texas and Illinois. Moreover, states who have modernized their reinsurance laws have not done so in uniform fashion unfortunately. Mr. Torti, in November 2014 you told NAIC’s reinsurance task force that you ‘believed that uniformity is an important consideration, and … 'that this should be taken to the [accreditation] committee for further discussion.’ But then NAIC testified to us last September that it was going to 'in November, start the conversation about accreditation for credit for reinsurance, that’s a hammer we have.’ With the Model passed in 2011, seasoned three years, then referred by you as ‘an important consideration” in 2014, shouldn’t the accreditation conversation have been finished rather than beginning in November 2015? Why didn’t the NAIC listen to you and prioritized this?" asked Rep. Royce. "I just want to clarify, I no longer represent the NAIC. I cannot speak for the NAIC. I can explain the accreditation process and I can give you just a very brief description of why in 2011 it wasn't immediately ratified or considered to be an accreditation standard. Generally the way the accreditation program works is that if a state implements a more stringent requirement than the accreditation requirement, it is in compliance with the accreditation program. Prior to the implementation of the new credit for reinsurance standard, 100% collateral was the standard which was considered to be a higher standard," answered Mr. Joseph Torti, Vice President of Regulatory Affairs at Fairfax (US) Inc., on behalf of the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America. "Given the NAIC’s inability to act in the six years since Congress made this a priority, I assume you now support Treasury negotiating a covered agreement on collateral and using this as leverage in the equivalence discussion?" continued Rep. Royce. "I do support equivalency and mutual recognition being the primary concern in the covered agreement discussions. It is absolutely necessary as an industry that we attain equivalency so we are not disadvantaged," said Torti. "Do you support Treasury negotiating that covered agreement?" pressed Rep. Royce. "I do," concluded Torti. "Ms. Cobb, the purpose of this hearing is to examine whether international regulatory standards might be harmful to U.S. insurers. I’d like to clarify that I do not consider the new covered agreement negotiations to be an imposition of an 'international regulatory standard' – but rather a bilateral discussion about removing barriers or potential barriers on both sides of the Atlantic and an acceptance of each other’s domestic supervision. Indeed, my understanding is that the U.S. insurance industry broadly favors pursuing the agreement because it is aimed at resolving the 'equivalence' issue under Solvency II, to the benefit of US insurers operating in the E.U. Is that a fair statement in your opinion? Does ACLI support the covered agreement negotiations?" concluded Rep. Royce. "Yes, it is a fair statement. We support negotiation of a covered agreement. Our board asked that state insurance regulators be included in those discussions, of course as our prudential supervisors," replied Ms. Carolyn Cobb, Vice President and Chief Counsel for Reinsurance and International Policy at the American Council of Life Insurers. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses by clicking here. Rep. Royce is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee.
02.25.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and former Chairman of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange, released the following statement after cosponsoring and advancing H.R.1475, the Korean War Veterans Memorial Wall of Remembrance Act of 2015: “Almost 40,000 brave Americans perished during the Korean War, many of whom were of Korean descent, in addition to the five million Korean soldiers and citizens who lost their lives. These souls deserve a testament worthy of their bravery. Let us never forget the past, as it holds lessons for the future," said Chairman Royce. This bill would permit a privately funded addition of a "Wall of Remembrance" to the Korean War Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C.. The Wall would list the names of all members of the United States Armed Forces who were killed in action during the Korean War and list the number of all American POWs and MIAs. Chairman Royce cosponsored H.R. 1475 on June 23, 2015, and the bill passed the House of Representatives unanimously this week with his support.
02.24.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses on the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on asset-backed securities (ABS) at a hearing entitled “The Impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III on the Fixed Income Market and Securitizations." "When you suggest that $200 billion of commercial mortgage-backed securities will require refinancing over the next two years, what would happen to borrowers if CMBS lending is insufficient to cover that need or that sum?" asked Rep. Royce. "Basically the borrowers become more in distress. They have to go to a different type of lender. The CMBS lender is a very efficient lender that gives them best price and proceeds. It also provides them with a ten-year fixed loan that is non-recourse in nature. If they have to go to a different lender to refinance their asset when their loan comes due, they are probably going to go to a lender that can only provide them a shorter term, perhaps a floating rate loan, which will require recourse. All those things mean, to cut through the technicalities, that borrowers are not going to be able to borrow as much for their asset. They're going to have to put up more equity, and if they can't do that, they're going to be in default," replied Mr. Stephen Renna, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Commercial Real Estate Finance Council. "What would the economic impact be for pension funds or life insurance? When you look at constituents out there, how would that affect them?" continued Rep. Royce. "The performance of the bonds is what the pension funds and life insurance companies are interested in. If the underlying mortgage is not performing because when they come up to refinance and they have difficulty refinancing, then their investment is going to suffer as a result of that. Going forward, when they want to go and reinvest in those types of CMBS bonds that provide them the risk-adjusted return they're looking for, there's not going to be as much of that in the market place to... provide them with the cash flow they need with respect to beneficiaries," said Renna. "As you know, European regulators are considering a 'high-quality securitization' framework that could differ from the U.S. rules. It appears that in Europe they recognize that the current rules under consideration may be 'too onerous' to support a liquid ABS market. If we don’t have global convergence on these rules, what would that impact be on the U.S.?" asked Rep. Royce, who serves as Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "If Europe just goes it's own way, then you'll see European collateral get the capital relief. European investors get to take that capital relief. So consequently they're incentivized just to invest in Europe, while the U.S. investor base will remain permanently based in U.S. assets. It segments a global market. If you see Basel IOSCO take route, then all investors across the world, except for the U.S. right now, potentially could get this capital relief. Meaning that they now can get a higher rate of return by investing in the same products relative to what a U.S. investor might be. That means you're going to see more non-U.S. investors investing in the U.S economy. I don't think that's a good thing if you expand to what happens if we see another crisis and another bailout mechanism. What we saw last time was when local governments came in and gave money to their local banks, there was a stipulation attached that they could only then relend it within that jurisdiction," replied Mr. Richard Johns, Executive Director of the Structured Finance Industry Group. "So the European Commission created a 'Better Regulations Task Force,' that includes a public call to review financial regulations and to consider ways to recalibrate rules to support market liquidity, lending, and economic expansion. Doesn't it make sense for us to do the same?" asked Rep. Royce. "It makes absolute sense. We've got a lot more to lose considering how liquid our markets are to begin with," concluded Johns. "There definitely needs to be an alignment between the U.S. and Europe and how they are applying these types of standards. Capital markets are global, they are not just American or European, they're global. There needs to be harmonization between the two," added Renna. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking below:
02.22.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced that his office is now accepting submissions to the Congressional Art Competition for California's 39th Congressional District. The Congressional Art Competition is a national contest organized once a year to give high school students the opportunity to showcase their artistic abilities. All high school students within California's 39th Congressional District are encouraged to submit their favorite piece of original art to the competition. “After last year's record number of contest submissions, I look forward to viewing the breathtaking paintings, drawings, and photographs created by our community's talented young artists,” said Rep. Royce. The winner, as determined by a panel of judges from esteemed art institutions, will receive two complimentary airline tickets to Washington, D.C., so they may see their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol and meet with Rep. Royce. Only one winning artist will be chosen from each Congressional District around the country. Hailey Shi of Diamond Bar High School won the Congressional Art Competition last year with her entry “Flying With Hope." Artwork must be submitted to either Rep. Royce’s Brea Office (210 W. Birch Street, Ste. 201, Brea, CA) or Rowland Heights Office (1380 S. Fullerton Road, Rowland Heights, CA) by 5 PM on Friday, April 15, 2016. Further details and important privacy release forms that must accompany every competition entry can be found here. Questions regarding submitting a piece of art to Rep. Royce's Congressional Art Competition may be directed to Lauren Pong at (626) 964-5123 or Lauren.Pong@mail.house.gov.
02.18.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced the opening of his 8th Annual Women's Conference for general RSVPs. The event will take place at California State University, Fullerton's Titan Student Union Center (800 N. State College Boulevard, Fullerton, CA 92831) on Saturday, March 26, 2016, and features keynote speaker 2014 Miss America Nina Davuluri, a leading STEM education advocate. "This year's Conference speakers will address a variety of issues critical to women throughout Southern California, from personal finance to nutrition tips," said Rep. Royce. "I also look forward to Nina discussing an issue we both share a passion for: making sure more women and girls are STEM educated. Breakout session speakers are selected based on feedback from past Conference attendees. Chef Jamie Gwen will present "A Celebrity Chef’s Guide to Healthy Cooking," an engaging demonstration to promote healthy eating habits and a healthy lifestyle. Life coach Tammy Hotsenpiller will exhibit "Creating Women of Influence," a toolkit for creating women that are authentic leaders, inspiring role models, and extraordinary achievers. Additionally, representatives from Orange County's credit unions will be on hand to discuss "A Woman's Journey Towards Financial Independence" and how to ""Deter, Detect and Defend against Identity Theft." Rep. Royce's Women's Conference is open to the public and free to attend. Event registration will start at 8:30 AM and walk-ins are welcome. Attendees may RSVP here.
02.17.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced the winners of this year's Congressional App Challenge, Andrew Rojas, Santiago Torres, and Eric Liu of Los Altos High School, students that created Drop Saver, a mobile application created to help smartphone users manage their water usage. A panel of independent judges determined the winning team of the competition that featured mobile applications created by high school students from California's 39th Congressional District. Rep. Royce announced their decision at the Competition's Exhibit and Awards Ceremony tonight. Hacienda La Puente Unified School District Superintendent Cynthia Parulan-Colfer, Board President Penny Fraumeni, and Assistant Superintendent of Instruction Dr. Judy Fancher were in attendance. Los Altos High School Principal Cheli McReynolds and Los Altos Academy of Engineering Advisor Ed Richter were also present. Los Altos High School and the winning developers will have Drop Saver displayed in the United States Capitol. "I'm continually blown away by the talent of our community's young people. The Congressional App Challenge encourages students to develop critical STEM skills, all while they have fun. Congratulations to Los Altos High School and all of the participating teams. I know all of the competitors have bright futures ahead of them," said Rep. Royce. "The idea of a water-saving app is awesome! We definitely need it in California," said judge Chi Ni, founder of Straight A, Inc., on competition winner Drop Saver. "The Drop Saver app addresses a critical issue that impacts everyone in California. The app has a user-friendly interface including sliding bars for users to input their own water use," said judge Simon Evans of the Los Angeles District U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Drop Saver is an app designed to help California, as well as the rest of the world's people with access to a smartphone, save water. Fresh water, especially in California, is at an all-time low and the app helps by allowing users to keep track of water usage, making it easier to cut waste. Second place was awarded to ePoints, created by Aidan Crowley and Aliana Garcia of Rosary Academy. The app simplifies the process of teachers' keeping track of points awarded to students in class. Thanasi Bakis, Matthew Kuykendall, and Daniel Shirley of Troy High School were awarded third place for their creation, My Chores. The simple and helpful Android application has two goals: keeping users to-do lists organized, and rewarding users for every chore they complete.
02.11.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned Mr. Edward Golding, Acting Commissioner of the Federal Housing Authority (FHA), on whether the FHA is able to withstand a downturn in the housing market at a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee Hearing entitled "The Future of Housing in America: Examining the Health of the Federal Housing Administration.” "The GSEs, under the direction of the FHFA, have engaged in innovative methods of offloading risk to shield the American taxpayers currently holding the bag for Fannie and Freddie losses. I’ve been encouraged by the progress that the GSEs have made in this regard, although I think a lot more could be done. Risk sharing with the private sector is a way to slowly but quite surely remove the federal government’s grip on the housing market and introduce private capital in a way to let us better price risk and avoid a calamity. It’s my belief that the FHA has the authority to do risk share transactions, or at least co-insurance, to reduce the risk. We had a conversation with Secretary Castro here and he told me, 'we can find ways to introduce more private capital into the market.' What are you doing to work with the private sector to reduce taxpayer risk and increase the role of private capital in mortgage finance, with an eye to… avoiding any taxpayer-funded bailout?" asked Rep. Royce. "I am aware of what the GSEs have done, some of their innovative products. On the multi-family side, we do risk sharing. I'd also mention that there is a lot of private capital in the FHA market in terms of the origination, the servicing, and the funding of the mortgages. As it relates to credit risk, it is a difficult one on the single-family side for the FHA to share credit risk. As I'm sure the GSEs would tell you, there's a lot of systems work involved in setting up these programs. The other thing I'd point out is you're also giving up significant income. While you are shedding some of the downside, you are also shedding considerable revenue when you do a risk sharing transaction," replied Golding. “I remember a conversation I had with Mark Zandi after he finished his book. In particular, we were talking about the GSEs. For FHA, the issue of a target capital ratio of 2%...I know you are looking at this. [Zandi] felt that 4.5% was the proper capital ratio; at least 4.5%. I just wanted to get your feedback on that,” concluded Rep. Royce. “Tough question of exactly what the right level is. I will point out that the 2% target has served us well. While we came through the Great Recession… I think FHFA came through, of all the major participants of the mortgage market I know of, this crisis better than any of them did. I do think we have the wherewithal. The way this 2% works, it’s a projection of whether we’re going to run out of cash in year 27. It’s not an immediate cash need. We have lots of cash at hand. But I’d be glad to continue the discussion of what a different target might be,” replied Golding. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witness here or by clicking on the image below:
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen on the possible implementation of negative interest rates in the United States at a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy.” After lengthy questioning by Rep. Royce, Chair Yellen concluded that negative interest rate policy is something that should be examined by the Federal Reserve. “In the spirit of prudent planning, in light of European experience, we will look at, we should look at. It isn’t just a question of legal authority, it’s also a question of could the plumbing of the payments system in the United States handle it? Is our institutional structure of our money markets compatible with it? We have not determined that,” replied Chair Yellen. Rep. Royce then asked if a decrease in government spending could help avoid this outcome. “Do you agree that if we addressed the long-term structural problems with soaring mandatory spending, we would decrease the potential need for monetary policy actions that reversed course on interest rates?” questioned Rep. Royce. “I think it is certainly desirable and important for the long run stability and growth of this country to take the measures that you’ve suggested. Evaluating the stance of fiscal policy, it is something that affects our monetary policy options,” answered Chair Yellen. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of Chair Yellen here or by clicking on the image below:
02.04.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, questioned witnesses on preventing money laundering from financing global terrorism at a Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing hearing entitled “Trading with the Enemy: Trade-Based Money Laundering is the Growth Industry in Terror Finance." “I guess the real surprise here is just how much money we’re talking about in terms of revenues to these governments in the Western hemisphere, across the developing world. You are talking about hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars, in terms of helping us balance our books and helping those governments as well. So I think civil society, if it was really focused on just how much money you're talking about here, would bolt upright in terms of trying to figure out a structure in order to try to capture the revenue flows back to the government's related to this. "So the World Customs Organization, is there -- is that the entity that we should consider the platform for enforcement if we were to work internationally or is it the OECD? Is it is their Financial Action Task force that has that 40 plus IX recommendations, is there a way to maybe incorporate this into that entity with the understanding there of how much were talking about in terms of potential revenue? Therefore that certainly could compensate for taking on that added burden on the part of that institution. Where would you begin and first what would be the practical problems with establishing such a platform? And second what would be the political problems maybe in doing it?" asked Chairman Royce. “The answer to your question is all of the above. GFI and other NGOs are engaged in this. The OECD is focused on that. There are U.N. conventions against transnational organized crime, against terrorism finance, and against corruption, that have relevant provisions that all countries on the planet are bound by. So you have the handles to do all this. What you can do then with the incentive for revenue raising and better governance, and therefore development, foreign investment, and all the good stuff that comes after this, you provide the incentives for integrity. You bring all of the actors together. They contribute their brains and the data. You do the analysis, you feed it back, you turn the lights off. That's why I was saying that the answer is within reach,” answered Dr. Nikos Passas, Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice at Northeastern University. “Since 9/11, either myself or the people that work for me and the group that I managed, visited 40 countries on behalf of the Commissioner who was in charge of customs at the time. And we were trying to extend our borders out with the container security initiative of the countries that we visited. And some of these were former Soviet countries. Every single person we demonstrated the program to, ‘where do we get a copy of this?’ And I had permission to give this to the law enforcement people, OK? And we often made it available. They got the program. We own the program, so we were able to give it to them. We had countries that don't give us anything. The Netherlands wanted to hand us a disc and actually did hand us a disc and said, ‘here's our data’. We couldn't go back to our organization. The programmers wanted the Netherlands to pay for the processing of their data. "When we had funding, we were able to take this data and do it. The United States has a different bookkeeping system than everywhere else in the customs world. It's a blanket statement. Most other countries use a system called ASYCUDA. We don't use that. Their data is in one format, we don't accept it according to our IT people unless they present it in our format. It costs a lot of money to do this. We could just as easily have it done ourselves. And we did while we were funded. Now, when you go out to somebody, they want money to convert the data. These people just want to give it to us, as long as we share with them. And I would be willing to bet, we could extend this thing to 40 countries, probably within very short order if we had money to do it,” said Mr. Louis Bock, former Senior Special Agent, U.S. Customs and Border Protection. “In the international community, the Financial Action Task Force makes things happen regarding anti-money laundering and counterterrorism finance. One of the recommendations I have in the book and in my prepared statement is I believe we should go to our U.S. Department of Treasury, who heads up our U.S. Government Financial Action Task Force delegation, and ask them to study the possibility of having trade based money laundering be the next FATF recommendation,” concluded Mr. John Cassara, former U.S. Intelligence Officer and Treasury Special Agent. Watch Chairman Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking below:
02.03.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced the speakers for this year's Congressional App Challenge Exhibit and Awards Ceremony which will feature mobile applications created by high school students from California's 39th Congressional District. A panel of independent judges will determine the winning team and Rep. Royce will announce their decision at the ceremony. Competition winners will have their work displayed in the United States Capitol. “I look forward to seeing what the talented students of California's 39th Congressional District created for this year's competition," said Rep. Royce. "Thank you to the event speakers and judges, all of whom share a passion for instilling the value of a STEM education in our community's students." Event details are as follows: Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 Time: 7 PM PST Location: Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum Address: 18001 Yorba Linda Blvd., Yorba Linda, CA 92886 Event speakers include: Marc Fischer, CEO and Co-Founder of Dogtown Media Marc Fischer is the founder and CEO of Dogtown Media, a mobile technology studio based in Santa Monica, California with offices in San Francisco and New York City. Marc has over a decade of experience designing, developing, and launching digital products for tech startups and multi-national organizations; including Lexus, Google, CitiBank, and the United Nations. Marc is also a Professor at Santa Monica College where he teaches Mobile App Design to computer science and graphic design students. He is a mentor with the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship as well as a board member of Beauty Earth, a non-profit focused on revitalizing urban areas thru local art initiatives. LTC Dennis Sugrue, Los Angeles District Deputy Commander of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Lieutenant Colonel Dennis P. Sugrue received a Regular Army commission in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers through the United States Military Academy in 1999. His military education includes the Engineer Officers Basic and Advanced Courses, Combined Arms and Services Staff School, the Command and General Staff College, Ranger School, and Airborne School. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Civil Engineering from West Point, and two Master of Science degrees in Geological Engineering and Environmental Engineering from Missouri Science and Technology and Johns Hopkins University, respectively. Tom Ward, CTO of MEDL Mobile Tom Ward is the Chief Technology Officer of MEDL Mobile, a mobile application studio committed to building and promoting next generation mobile apps and games for the iPhone and iPad. MEDL Mobile's iPhone apps have hit #1 in the App Store and been featured in the New York Times, CNN, Washington Post, San Francisco Chronicle, CNBC, Fortune, Fast Company, Orange County Register, Chicago Tribune, and more. Ward is also a former adjunct professor in the computer science department of California State University, Fullerton. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science from Full Sail University. Those interested in attending the event may do so by contacting Stephanie Hu at (714) 255-0101 or Stephanie.Hu@mail.house.gov.
02.03.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) delivered remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives in favor of H.R. 2354, the Streamlining Excessive and Costly Regulations Review Act, included within Title V of H.R. 1675, the Capital Markets Improvement Act: "The reason this legislation is on the floor is because of the anemic economic growth that the United States is facing. We've got less than two percent economic growth. If we're going to get the economic engine running again, we've got to do something to remove barriers to access to capital. "Let's face it, regulators, like lawmakers, aren’t perfect. They're like lawmakers in that sense. Regulators have a certain obligation to examine their record to determine failures and to rectify missteps as needed. "The Streamlining Excessive and Costly Regulations Review Act will give the Securities and Exchange Commission the opportunity to do so and it would set that up on an ongoing basis. "What it does is to require a retrospective Commission review of rules and regulations that have an annual economic impact or cost of $100 million or more, result in a major increase of costs or prices for consumers, or harm the ability of U.S. enterprises to compete against foreign competitors. "Commissioners will be able to reverse ineffective, insufficient, or excessively burdensome regulations with the guidance of public notice and comment under this legislation. "And it ensures that the SEC isn’t simply rolling out the red tape in a vacuum, oblivious to the negative economic impact that their actions have on consumers or investors, and on businesses. "The success of regulation or rulemaking shouldn’t be measured in quantity; instead we need smart guidelines to protect our economy and preserve the world’s strongest capital markets here in the United States," said Rep. Royce. Watch Rep. Royce's deliver his remarks here or by clicking on the image below:
01.25.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced details of this year's Congressional App Challenge Exhibit and Awards Ceremony, which will feature mobile applications created by high school students from California's 39th Congressional District. A panel of independent judges will determine the winning team and Rep. Royce will announce their decision at the ceremony. Competition winners will have their work displayed in the United States Capitol. “I look forward to seeing what the talented students of California's 39th Congressional District created for this year's competition," said Rep. Royce. "Thank you to the event speakers and judges, all of whom share a passion for instilling the value of a STEM education in our community's students." Event details are as follows: Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 Time: 7 PM PST Location: Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum Address: 18001 Yorba Linda Blvd., Yorba Linda, CA 92886 Competition judges include: Nanxi Liu Nanxi Liu is the CEO and co-founder of Enplug, Inc. Enplug’s award-winning software has been used by startups and Fortune 500 companies around the world to manage and display content such as interactive Twitter and Instagram feeds, news, and many other third party apps. Ms. Liu has garnered a sea of approval from entrepreneurial experts with her work with Enplug, earning recognition from: 2014 Silicon Valley Business App Awards #1 Social App Award; 2015 Digital Signage Expo’s APEX Contest Award; Forbes’ 30 Under 30; Fortune’s Top 10 Most Promising Women Entrepreneurs; Inc. Magazine’s 30 Under 30; LA Business Journal’s 20 in their 20’s; and CSQ Magazine’s Top 10 Innovators Under 40 lists. Simon Evans Simon Evans is a professional civil engineer and certified floodplain manager who completed his BS and MS in Civil Engineering at UCLA. He is an expert in hydraulic modeling and floodplain mapping who has designed drainage forecasting systems as part of the Los Angeles District of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE). Dr. Keun-Hang Susan Yang, Ph.D Dr. Keun-Hang Susan Yang is the Director of International Science Programs and Professor of Computational Biology/Neuroscience and Bioscience at Chapman University. She is a specialist in modeling of neuronal disorders, electrophysiology, and chemical impacts of pollution as well as the areas of computational biology and bioinformatics. Laurie Smith Laurie Smith is a program manager at Science@OC, where she works with educators to enhance their middle school science programs. She is experienced with developing educational programs, providing strategic planning and implementation support, conducting research and program evaluation for K-12 STEM programs, and facilitating connections between educators and STEM professionals to support student learning. Chi Ni Chi Ni attended the University of California, San Diego for engineering, but discovered that his passion lies with helping people and teaching others how to innovate. Mr. Ni founded Straight A, Inc., a “leaducation” company, which focuses on intertwining education with leadership. Straight A's mission is to utilize leadership principles to create fun and innovative programs that affect change and make a difference for everyone involved. Those interested in attending the event may do so by contacting Stephanie Hu at (714) 255-0101 or Stephanie.Hu@mail.house.gov.
01.15.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Bakersfield), and the other members of the California House Republican delegation released the following joint statement on the current status of California drought relief legislation in Congress: “Over one month ago, the entire California House Republican delegation stood behind solutions to capture El Niño rain and snow for our constituents. That same day, Senator Feinstein promised that within a week she would produce a legislative package agreed to by the Obama administration and the Brown administration. A month has passed and nothing has been introduced. Despite this abdication of leadership, we eagerly await the introduction and consideration of California water legislation in the Senate. Doing this would finally provide our constituents with a path towards real relief. “If we had been operating under the guidelines of the Valadao legislation since December 1, we would have captured over 62.6 billion gallons of water. That equates to enough water for 1.9 million people for one year – which is enough water for the people of San Diego or San Francisco or Fresno. “The House has shown it will not stop fighting for our communities by passing California drought legislation several times over the past few years. It is time our Senators rise to this challenge with us. We cannot allow 2016 to be remembered as the year of ‘the lost El Niño.'"
01.13.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and U.S. Representative Mark Pocan (D-Wisc.) have announced the founding of the Congressional Cooperative Business Caucus, a bipartisan initiative to promote the cooperative business model as a method of commerce that both stimulates local economies and empowers its members. "Cooperatives not only provide valuable goods and services to consumers around the world, they also offer their members a piece of their success,” said Rep. Royce. “As a longtime advocate of cooperative businesses, from California’s credit unions and mutual insurers to Africa’s rural electric co-ops, I look forward to highlighting the benefits these organizations provide to their communities and customers." “Cooperatives create good paying jobs and offer employees a chance to be directly involved in business decisions,” said Rep. Pocan. “I’m proud that my District is home to thriving cooperatives from the Willie Street Food Co-Op to UW Credit Union. I look forward to working with Rep. Royce to promote greater awareness of the cooperative business model and to advocate on federal policy issues unique to the co-op community.” “We are thrilled by the formation of this historic caucus dedicated to advancing the role of cooperatives in the nation’s economy at the federal level,” said Judy Ziewacz, interim CEO and president of the National Cooperative Business Association (NCBA) CLUSA. “We worked hard on behalf of our members and co-ops across the country to secure this caucus as an outlet for raising awareness of and advancing the cooperative business model.” Cooperatives exist worldwide and inject $3 trillion into the U.S. economy every year. They create millions of jobs; can be found in virtually every sector of the U.S. economy; and offer solutions to meet challenging public policy needs — from affordable housing, to quality sourced food, greater access to electricity, banking and credit needs, and for early childhood learning. To learn more about the Congressional Cooperative Business Caucus, please click here.
01.13.2016	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced that former Miss America Nina Davuluri will deliver the keynote address at his 8th Annual Women's Conference. The event, held in conjunction with the California State University, Fullerton's (CSUF) Philanthropic Foundation, will take place at CSUF's Titan Student Union Center (800 N. State College Boulevard, Fullerton, CA 92831) on Saturday, March 26, 2016. "Nina not only won the Miss America scholarship contest, she also showed a phenomenal amount of poise in the face of adversity after her victory," said Rep. Royce. "I look forward to Nina joining my constituents at this year's Women's Conference to discuss issues we both share a passion for: making sure more girls are STEM educated and celebrating cultural diversity." "It is an honor to be participating as the keynote speaker at Representative Ed Royce's 8th Annual Women's Conference. I am a proud advocate of STEM, particularly engaging young girls in STEM initiatives," said Davuluri. "As Miss America 2014, I am excited to share my experiences and journey to assimilation as a second generation Indian American." Nina Davuluri was one of over 14,000 young women to vie for the coveted title of Miss America 2014 and its $50,000 scholarship award. In September of 2013, Nina, a University of Michigan graduate, gained international acclaim by becoming the first contestant of Indian descent to win the Miss America Competition representing the state of New York. Over the course of the Nina’s year of service as Miss America, she logged approximately 250,000 miles traveling across the country to address an array of audiences on her platform: “Celebrating Diversity through Cultural Competency.” As part of her consciousness-raising efforts on behalf of diversity, Nina also launched a social media campaign, Circles of Unity to encourage constructive and civil dialogue on diversity issues. Through her social media channels, Nina asks people to share “representative thoughts and stories about their experiences on how we as a nation can advance cultural awareness.” Nina is proud to have spoken at almost 35 different universities including Harvard, Princeton, Yale, Duke, and University of Pennsylvania spreading her message of inclusion. Nina’s talk primarily focuses on her experiences growing up as a second generation Asian American. Although born in Syracuse, Nina spent most of her childhood in rural Oklahoma and Michigan. From a young age, Nina realized she was culturally different; she wasn’t part of the stereotypical “American Family.” As the only person of Indian origin in her classes for many years she saw many forms of prejudice and misconceptions about communities of color. She often found herself in conversations with classmates, correcting stereotypes and media images. “Celebrating Diversity through Cultural Competency” is intended to spark a conversation about diversity, inclusion, and assimilation. As Nina has stated, “With each new generation, the face of America changes. Diversity is a rich and endless source of experience, language, custom and tradition that enhances our nation and makes us unique.” In addition to her personal platform, Nina also has a partnership with the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of Education promoting women in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) related fields. She has collaborated with tech companies such as Google, Facebook, Dell and Texas Instruments to advance their STEM initiatives. Furthermore, she has worked with many charities/NGOs in the U.S. and India advocating for equality and education--most notably Pratham, Magic Bus, and Girl Rising. The Women’s Conference, which Rep. Royce has hosted every year since 2009, is a half-day seminar dedicated to giving women the tools and resources necessary to enrich their lives. Past speakers include former U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Hewlett-Packard CEO Meg Whitman, and actress Kristen Bell. In addition to the keynote speech, the conference will include breakout sessions on topics suggested by past conference attendees, such as personal finance, healthy living and career advice. Specific breakout session details will be announced later this month, in addition to the opening of general admissions. For more information about Rep. Royce’s annual Women’s Conference, please click here. NOTE: This event is open to the press, but an RSVP is required. Media RSVPs and inquiries can be directed to Rep. Royce's Communications Director Saat Alety at saat.alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
01.12.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will attend "What Every Investor Needs to Know," a free workshop hosted by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) in Brea next month. The informational session will cover material that will assist attendees in making informed and prudent decisions regarding their retirement savings. "As a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, I am acutely aware of the widespread need for greater retirement security and the tools that get investors on the right path," said Rep. Royce. "I appreciate FINRA dedicating its resources to the critical cause of investor protection and market integrity for the members of our community." "FINRA is committed to providing investors with knowledge and resources to capably navigate markets and make informed investing decisions. Our investor forum program is just one way that FINRA helps to deliver this important information to people in their communities," said FINRA Chairman and CEO Richard Ketchum. Event details are as follows: What: "What Every Investor Needs to Know" Informational Session Host: Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) Location: Embassy Suites Brea Address: 900 E. Birch Street, Brea, CA 92821 Date: Thursday, February 18, 2016 Time: 5:30 PM - 8 PM This event is free to attend and open to the public. Questions regarding the informational session may be directed to Alison Martin in Rep. Royce's office at Alison.Martin@mail.house.gov or (714) 255-0101. Rep. Royce serves California's 39th Congressional district, which encompasses parts of Orange, Los Angeles, and San Bernardino Counties. He is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is the largest independent regulator for all securities firms doing business in the United States. FINRA's mission is to protect investors by making sure the United States securities industry operates fairly and honestly. FINRA oversees about 3,955 brokerage firms and approximately 643,320 registered securities representatives.
01.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses on reducing the risk carried by taxpayers for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) during a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “Opportunities and Challenges Facing the National Flood Insurance Program." "Mr. Ellis, you said that 'masking subsidies with lower rates prevents policyholders from understanding their true level of risk.' Is my understanding correct that, under the current program, policyholders just see the premium payment that they need to make, right?" asked Rep. Royce. "That's my understanding," confirmed Mr. Stephen Ellis, Vice President at Taxpayers for Common Sense. "How difficult would it be to break out the subsidy? How difficult would it be to make transparent the amount the government, or other taxpayers, are covering on behalf of the homeowner?" continued Rep. Royce. "One of the challenges will be for many of the policies that get the grandfathered subsidized rate, the pre-flood insurance rate map subsidies, they don't know the actual elevation of the actual policy. I think it'd be something worth doing, especially considering, as we've recommended, that anything going forward trying to do affordability issues that the subsidy or support be means tested and outside the rate structure. So I think it'd be a valuable effort, Congressman Royce," answered Mr. Ellis. "It seems to me that if you could capture the information, the increased transparency would have a positive impact on future decision-making. It would probably decrease moral hazard and increase mitigation efforts perhaps. But letting the policyholder understand that upfront would be helpful," replied Rep. Royce. "The Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 attempted to address the issue of repetitive loss properties, where multiple claims had been made on the same property. The GAO found that while these properties amount to only 1 percent of policies, they account for nearly 40 percent of all program claim costs. Do you think the 2012 reform bill gave the NFIP the tools necessary to address high-risk repetitive loss properties? What else could be done there?" asked Rep. Royce. “Certainly in Biggert-Waters 2012 they had the provision there for increasing rates for severe, repetitive loss properties. That did not get changed in the subsequent legislation, that is still going on. We think that is a positive step," concluded Mr. Ellis. "Looking at some of the programs FEMA already has, they have the ICC program with the $30,000 cap. You could potentially increase that cap on trying to help people elevate, mitigate, or relocate. As you pointed out Congressman, it is such a drain on the program, that those are... the best investment to try and mitigate or relocate them out of the flood plain." "I agree. I think we need to indicate what the actual rate is, we need to write actuarial rated policies," added Ms. Patty Templeton-Jones, Executive Vice President and Chief Program Advocate of the Wright National Flood Insurance Company. "The challenge is, like Mr. Ellis has said, unless we have the elevation certificate and... [for] your pre-FIRM properties, your older properties, your properties that are in the B, C, and X zones... we don't have elevation data. Without that elevation data, we can get an idea, and come April 2016 FEMA is implementing clear, concise information to the policyholder. But again, not having that elevation is an impediment to it." Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking on the image below:
01.12.2016	Washington, DC – House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s last State of the Union Address: “For seven years, President Obama has focused more on befriending our enemies than helping our allies. And the results have been increasingly dangerous to our nation. ISIS, Iran, and the North Korean regime are on a roll, and this administration is getting rolled. “Tonight the president could have used his address to change course. He could have responded to North Korea’s nuclear threats by strongly supporting my bipartisan bill cracking down on the Kim regime that overwhelmingly passed the House this afternoon. He could have made clear that Iran will not be allowed to cash in on sanctions relief while it tests ballistic missiles, fires rockets at our ships, and seizes more Americans. And he could have finally begun laying out the broad, overarching strategy needed to destroy ISIS. Instead, it appears the president is comfortable running out the clock and pushing these growing threats to the next administration. “As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I hear from our partners and allies around the world every day. They are desperate for us to re-engage and lead in tackling the threats we all face. Rather than spend the next 11 months on misguided priorities like releasing the terrorists held at Guantanamo Bay, the president needs to use his remaining time to keep America and our allies safe. The president already has all the authority he needs to take the fight to radical Islamist terrorists. What we need is for him to outline a plan to win, and execute it."
01.11.2016	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on Human Trafficking Awareness Day (January 11): "Stamping out sex and labor trafficking is one of my priorities, which is why I've advanced legislation to stop this practice and brought together local leaders to discuss victim rehabilitation. Women and children being bought and sold is deplorable, and shockingly this criminal trade is happening right here at home in Orange County. I’ll continue to fight to ensure that federal law enforcement agencies are given the tools they need to keep our communities safe and those who profit from trafficking are punished to the fullest extent of the law.” Chairman Royce voted for passage of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act to protect victims by requiring traffickers to be treated as violent criminals for purposes of pre-trial release, monitoring, and detention. It also recognizes child pornography production as a form of human trafficking and ensures that victims have access to crucial support services. The President later signed this bill into law. As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Chairman Royce also oversaw passage of three pieces of anti-trafficking legislation by the Committee last year. He authored H.R. 400, the Trafficking Prevention in Foreign Affairs Contracting Act, an anti-trafficking measure to ensure U.S. tax dollars do not support human trafficking among the thousands of foreign workers the U.S. government employs overseas. In 2013, Chairman Royce launched a Human Trafficking Congressional Advisory Committee (HTCAC) to address human trafficking concerns, as well as offer policy recommendations. The HTCAC is comprised of victims’ rights groups, local and federal law enforcement agencies, and community advocates, and is actively working to combat human trafficking in Southern California.
01.08.2016	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) voted for the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act of 2015, legislation to protect California's residents and small businesses from the costs of frivolous lawsuits: “Wasteful litigation hurts California's businesses, gums up our courts, and detracts from those who have genuine grievances to file. The Fairness in Class Litigation Act ensures that class action lawsuits can be filed only by those with cause to do so." The Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act (H.R. 1927) aims to reform the current federal class action lawsuit framework by requiring uninjured parties to be part of separate class action suits than those parties experiencing more extensive injuries. According to data from the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, enactment of H.R. 1927 could reduce the number of class action suits without merit filed and the number of plaintiffs in them. This legislation also helps asbestos victims who must look to the bankruptcy process to seek redress for their, or their loved ones’, injuries.
12.17.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and leading proponent of housing finance reform, released the following statement on today's release of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) 2016 Scorecard: “The FHFA should be commended for further laying the 'building blocks' of comprehensive housing finance reform. Ramping up risk sharing with the private sector reduces the burden on taxpayers and opening up the Common Securitization Platform will bring more private sector capital into the system. The Agency alludes to improving its underwriting criteria; an excellent start would be the GSEs evaluating multiple credit scoring models." Rep. Royce recently introduced legislation that requires the FHFA to develop new underwriting guidelines for Fannie and Freddie, allowing consideration of alternative credit scoring models the GSEs currently don't examine. On November 25, the President signed legislation modeled on H.R. 2243, the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015, as introduced by Rep. Royce. The bill, which reversed a FHFA directive and capped the salaries of the CEOs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, was the first major standalone legislation enacted that dealt with the GSEs since they were placed into conservatorship.
12.17.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) voted for the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act, a $629 billion tax relief package: "The more you tax something, the less of it you get. That's why lowering taxes on economic productivity and Americans' take-home pay is so critical. California's businesses and families should be able to keep more of what they earn, it's as simple as that," said Rep. Royce. "Today's legislation makes certain temporary tax breaks permanent, encourages more investments in research and development, and lays the groundwork for comprehensive tax reform.” The PATH Act includes a number of provisions to lower the tax burden on individuals and small businesses. Included in the legislation are: • Research and development (R&D) credits – Allows a company to deduct from their tax liability the amount of their R&D expenditures. • Section 179 - Allows businesses to deduct the full purchase price of qualifying equipment and/or software purchased or financed during the tax year. • Employer wage credit for employees on active duty - Employers receive a tax credit of 20% on wages paid, up to $20,000 for a maximum credit of $4,000, for the time the employee is on active duty. • Deduction for teacher classroom expenses – Allows a teacher to deduct from his or her income tax liability any classroom supplies he or she personally purchased. • 100% exclusion on gains from the sale of small business stock – Money earned from the sale of small business stocks is exempted from federal income taxes. • Food inventory deduction – Allows individuals to deduct the cost of food purchased and donated to food banks. • IRA charitable rollover - Allows individuals to deduct charitable donations from their IRA Program Integrity Requirements. • Section 174 - Imposes a two-year moratorium (through calendar year 2017) of the 2.3% medical device excise tax enacted by the Affordable Care Act. Rep. Royce represents California's 39th Congressional District, which encompasses parts of Los Angeles, Orange, and San Bernardino counties. He is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee.
12.11.2015	House Members of the California Republican delegation, including U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), held a press conference today to address the status of California drought relief legislation negotiations. Rep. Royce's remarks can be read below: “I think the reason why you see such frustration on the part of the Members here from California, is because year after year, for three years, we've faced a drought and we've tried to move legislation to do something about it. "Now we have a window of opportunity that next week is about to close. That window of opportunity is because finally we have El Nino coming through the state. Finally we have the opportunity to pump some of that water into Southern California and to the Central Valley; to the parts of the state that frankly have experienced now half a million acres that have gone fallow. And It will soon be a million if we don't get this relief. "We agreed with Senator Feinstein that we had this last opportunity to do this before we adjourned, and we had been working on this. Now the absolutists, those who say 'no compromise on this', lean in to make certain once again we don't get this done at the end of the year. And the reason this is so different is it's not going to be possible next year after El Nino passes. We can't grab this asset. "From L.A. County and Orange County, yes, we paid for this water, we contracted for this water. We feel that to allow it not to be captured and sent south is foolish; to let it just drain out to the Pacific. "But for the farmers and for the farm workers, this is their livelihood. This is why you see the passion up here from these Members. There is not going to be another opportunity for those farmers if they lose that acreage because they cannot get this relief because we cannot move this legislation. "That is why we're asking our colleagues in the Senate not this time, not to walk away. This time, please allow us in these negotiations to go forward and do something that will provide the relief for those who otherwise will lose their farms and lose their jobs."
12.10.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) and U.S. Representative Terri Sewell (D-AL) introduced H.R. 4211, the Credit Score Competition Act of 2015. The bill enables Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to consider credit scoring models they currently don't evaluate when making mortgage purchasing decisions: “The GSEs' use of a single credit score is an unfair practice that stifles competition and innovation in credit scoring. Breaking up the credit score monopoly at Fannie and Freddie will also assist them in managing their credit risk and decreases the potential for another taxpayer bailout," said Rep. Royce. “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are the largest mortgage purchasers in the nation, but they rely on credit score models that don’t necessarily take into account something as simple as whether borrowers have paid their rent on time. Home ownership is an integral part of the American Dream that shouldn’t be out of the reach for low-income, rural, and minority borrowers who lack access to traditional forms of credit. This legislation takes an important step towards addressing this issue and helps make homeownership a reality for more Americans across the country,” said Rep. Sewell. Allowing Fannie and Freddie to make mortgage purchasing decisions with access to multiple empirically derived, statistically sound credit scoring models (like FICO) mitigates the risk in their portfolios and lowers the chance of systemic risk in our housing market. Additionally, Fannie and Freddie’s 90% share of the secondary mortgage market and reliance on one credit scoring model has created a near monopoly in this field. Opening the GSEs up to other credit scoring models will foster competition and innovation in the credit scoring industry. Potential homebuyers without a FICO score or with one below 620 are ineligible for a mortgage that can be sold to Fannie or Freddie and are often frozen out of the housing market. Lower-to-middle income Americans that are qualified to buy a home but are unable to gain entry to the market due to their FICO score or lack thereof will specifically benefit from the GSEs using other credit scoring models. Reps. Royce and Sewell, both members of the House Financial Services Committee, urge swift action from their colleagues to advance this legislation.
12.10.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) served as an original cosponsor on legislation introduced by U.S. Representative Dana Rohrabacher (R-Huntington Beach) to preserve several rocks, reefs, and small islands along the coast of Orange County: "We live in the most beautiful part of the country and have a duty to keep it that way for future generations. As someone who enjoys hiking and time on the beach, I look forward to advancing this protection of Orange County's coastline." In 1931, Congress temporarily reserved, "pending enactment of appropriate legislation by the Congress,” rocks, reefs, and small islands off the coast of Orange County for “park, scenic, or other public purposes.” However, the offshore rocks from the 1931 Act were never subjected to the jurisdiction of a federal agency despite being federal property. In 2000, President Bill Clinton created the California Coastal National Monument (CCNM) in order to protect and preserve California’s unique coastline. But because the 1931 Act “reserved” Orange County’s offshore rocks, these lands were not absorbed into the CCNM and still remain in a state of limbo. This legislation will place these offshore rocks, reefs, and small islands within the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to be managed as part of the CCNM. If enacted, the proposal would ensure that legitimate existing economic and recreational activities on and around these structures will not be prohibited. The bipartisan legislation was authored by Rep. Rohrabacher and cosponsored by Rep. Royce, U.S. Representative Darrell Issa (R-San Clemente), U.S. Representative Alan Lowenthal (D-Garden Grove) and U.S. Representative Mimi Walters (R-Irvine).
12.10.2015	Today, California Members of the House of Representatives released a timeline outlining water negotiations between the House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate dating back to 2011. In addition, Members issued statements regarding their ongoing, years-long efforts to alleviate the impacts of California’s drought. Negotiation Timeline 2011 • H.R. 1837 the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act is introduced in the House. The bill would roll back government restrictions on the pumping of water for use by California communities and would ease regulations that result in hundreds of billions of gallons of fresh water getting flushed out into the ocean. 2012 • The House passes H.R. 1837. • The Senate, with a Democratic majority, does not consider H.R. 1837 or pass its own water bill. 2014 • The House introduces and passes H.R. 3964, the Sacramento-San Joaquin Emergency Water Delivery Act, another attempt to ease government water regulations that restrict the water supply. • Senator Feinstein introduces S. 2016, the California Emergency Drought Relief Act, which would provide far less water for California families than H.R. 3964. • Senator Feinstein then pushes House Republicans to instruct Senate Republicans to allow passage of a second bill, the Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014, S. 2198, which allowed the two Chambers to enter a negotiating conference. • House members and Senators begin talks on a compromise water bill, but Senator Feinstein walks away from the negotiations shortly before Congress adjourns • The House quickly passes H.R. 5781, the California Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014, that reflects negotiated language with Senator Feinstein. • Senators Boxer and Feinstein block H.R. 5781 from being included in an omnibus spending bill. 2015 • The House introduces and passes H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, which reflects the 2014 negotiations with the Senate. • The Senate introduces a water bill that spends $1.3 billion without an offset, meaning it has no chance of passing either chamber. • House-Senate negotiators meet for several months and make progress toward an agreement. • The House submits language to include in an omnibus spending bill that retains Democrat priorities as well as Republican priorities that the Obama Administration had largely agreed not to oppose. • Senator Feinstein publically rejects the proposal less than 24 hours after the proposal is made privately. Congressman Ed Royce (CA-39) “Republicans and Democrats have been in negotiations for months in an attempt to develop a solution to California's prolonged water shortages. Our proposal strikes the right balance by increasing pumping and water storage without violating the Endangered Species Act and providing funding for desalination and water recycling programs. It's a shame that Democrats have abandoned the negotiating table instead of helping deliver California the relief it so desperately needs.” Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23) “The current drought and water crisis demands a response. The California Republican delegation has put forth a proposal to provide our communities immediate relief as El Nino is likely to bring a wetter than usual winter. Continued opposition from California Democrats in Congress to any solution that is designed to allow more water to flow to central and southern California only exacerbates the current drought and hurts our state. The response from Senator Feinstein and Senator Boxer is disappointing given our proposal’s inclusion of many California Democrat priorities but unfortunately not surprising as they have opposed every legislative effort to find bipartisan agreement. The stakes are too high not to act.” Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) “One of our top priorities throughout these negotiations was to create flexibility in the operation of the pumps in the Delta in order to capture as much water as possible during the upcoming rainy season (El Niño). After many lengthy discussions with the Senate, the Administration, conservation groups, water districts throughout the state, and other interested stakeholders, we arrived at a compromise that would have provided some relief to the drought-stricken communities of California. The language that was proposed did not violate the Endangered Species Act or the biological opinions; a view that was shared by the Administration. We entered into good faith omnibus negotiations at Senator Feinstein’s request. The deal was close to done but unfortunately, Senator Feinstein took umbrage to what was at most a staffer error in a closed-door meeting. Our 14 California Republican members remained hopeful, and quiet, until the 11th hour trying to resolve small differences with a bipartisan coalition to help the state of California. Our good faith negotiations came to naught. It’s unfortunate when the LA Times gets the story wrong, but it is tragic when the Senate gets the policy wrong.” Congressman David G. Valadao (CA-21) "The House of Representatives has repeatedly tried to provide a federal solution to drought conditions impacting our constituents. However, our Senators from California have failed to get a single piece of legislation, even vaguely related to the drought, passed in the Senate this year. To no avail, the House has exhausted all legislative resources. My House-passed bill, H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act remains in the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources pending further action. The House of Representatives looks forward to the Senate passing legislation so that the two Chambers may go to Conference to reconcile differences between the Chambers." Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) "The House has proposed a compromise to ease the California water crisis -- one that satisfies the Senate's demands -- and once again Senate Democrats are rejecting our efforts by prioritizing fish over families. If anyone still wonders why Congress has not approved pumping more water for California communities, they should look at the Senate's inexplicable refusal to take yes for an answer." Congressman Jeff Denham (CA-10) “While Californians suffer through a horrific drought, our senators continue to request secret negotiations only to stall the process. More storage equals jobs. I will settle for nothing less.” Congressman Paul Cook (CA-08) “California is facing the worst drought in a century. California Republicans have been trying for weeks to work with the administration and our California Senators on a drought bill to bring relief to California and capitalize on the upcoming El Niño season. The time to act is now and I urge our California Senators to join us in getting a water deal done.” Congressman Tom McClintock (CA-04) “For many critical months, House Republicans have negotiated in good faith with Congressional Democrats led by Senator Feinstein for a water policy that balanced the desperate needs of the people of California with the demands of the environmental Left. The events of the last week make it obvious that neither she nor the Democratic delegation has been dealing in good faith and that their plan from the outset is to run out the legislative clock. Droughts are nature’s fault, but water shortages are a public policy choice. And regrettably, the Democrats continue to choose scarcity over abundance.” Congressman Doug LaMalfa (CA-01) “Every aspect of this proposal was developed by a working group of California’s Republican and Democratic members of the House and Senate, in cooperation with the Obama administration, Governor Brown’s administration, agricultural and urban water districts, environmental groups, and other stakeholders. Any member who claims that they weren’t included has willfully chosen not to be a part of this process and is choosing not to be part of a workable solution to California’s water crisis. The simple facts are that time has run out, that these proposals have received broad, bipartisan, bicameral support, and that the people of California has been waiting for action for three long years.” Congresswoman Mimi Walters (CA-45) “Finding a solution to California’s drought problem is one of my top priorities and we must seize the opportunity to address this issue immediately. With over 37 million people throughout the state impacted by the drought, it is critical that Congress take action and pass legislation that will provide relief to California’s families, farmers, and businesses. We simply cannot afford to stand by and continue to allow existing policies to mismanage our water resources. I remain committed to working with my colleagues to address this problem.” Congressman Stephen Knight (CA-25) “California’s water issue will require swift, coordinated action between local, state, and federal agencies. By refusing to act on this measure, Congress will miss a critical opportunity to do its part, which will further hurt California’s families and communities.” Congressman Darrell E. Issa (CA-49) “The purpose of this drought relief bill is to expeditiously bring water to California communities, which have been suffering from a devastating drought for more than four years. House Republicans have been diligently working with Senator Feinstein for months, crafting a bill ideal for bipartisan and bicameral support. It is disingenuous for someone who has been a critical participant in these discussions to say that the process was secretive. I am hopeful that the Senator can put our communities first and help us bring drought relief to our state as soon as possible.” Congressman Duncan Hunter (CA-50) “Millions of Californians are suffering from the worst drought conditions in our state’s history. We must take action to address California’s water crisis without further delay, and enact real solutions that will provide relief to citizens across our state.” Congressman Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) “Californians can no longer be treated as second-class citizens by congressional Democrats and radical environmentalists who insist on putting fish first. Democrats must stop interfering with our efforts to make sure that Californians have the water they need.”
12.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned members of the Financial Services Oversight Council (FSOC) regarding regulators creating systemic risk, transparency at the Office of Financial Research (OFR), and the designation of insurers as systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs) during today's House Financial Services Committee hearing "Oversight of the Financial Stability Oversight Council." "Last month, in a hearing before this Committee about due process issues with the FSOC, Professor Jonathan Macey of Yale Law School stated 'that with respect to the actions that the FSOC have already taken, there is a significant danger of increasing, rather than decreasing, systemic risk.' And his point as he explained was this because the FSOC is ignoring certain risk mitigation strategies and herding entities into particular risk strategies, which decreases diversification and then increases the systemic risk," began Rep. Royce. "This could also happen indirectly with companies making choices to merge, sharing in the cost of compliance and creating greater economies of scale; we have seen this in the banking sector. Or more directly with the implied or explicit backing of the government – as in the case with the GSEs. So I was going to ask Mr. Curry, do you view the potential for regulators to create systemic risk as a problem? And what actions have you taken to make sure that... the FSOC’s designations and the enhanced prudential standards of the Fed are not increasing systemic risk per the thesis that the Yale professor puts forward?" asked Rep. Royce. "Congressman, the FSOC actually is looking at, and this is referenced in our annual report, some of the consequences of changes within the marketplace including regulatory changes. There are behaviours that have changed, institutions have either left or entered different types of business, the impact to non-banks. Those are all things that we have identified as emerging, or potential emerging, risks that require further monitoring and potential action down the road," replied Mr. Thomas Curry, Comptroller of the Currency at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). "I think it's certainly something that we need to be constantly keeping in mind with all of our regulations, what impacts they're having, what mitigators we ought to be considering in addition," added Chair Mary Jo White of the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) when prompted. “I'm trying to better understand how the interaction, on another subject here, between the Office of Financial Research and the FSOC members works. After criticism by this Committee and the public on an OFR report regarding the asset management industry, the FSOC sought public views on the industry and later issued a request for notice and comment on Asset Management Products and Activities. Separately, the SEC put out the OFR report for public comment. Can I ask the panel, do any of you see a reason why all OFR public reports should not be open to public notice and comment? Does anyone take exception to that concept?" asked Rep. Royce, author of the Office of Financial Research Accountability Act of 2015 that would open OFR reports to public notice and comment. "For the record Mr. Chairman, I'd like to say that the witnesses for the record saw no reason to continue the practice of the OFR not allowing for public comment on their reports. That's the point I wanted to make, I think it's important that they do so," said Rep. Royce after no witness answered. "The FSOC has not designated any asset managers as SIFIs – which is a step I support as these firms operate with little leverage, if any, and the risks they manage are borne by those whose funds they invest. But the FSOC is now apparently considering the industry under activities-based regulation, the second prong of Section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act, rather than material financial distress, the first prong. My question is not about asset managers – but rather how FSOC came to this decision and why a similar process wasn’t used when designating insurance companies. Mr. Woodall, is it fair for the FSOC to offer different amounts of process to different industries? Why not take the same amount of time and get it right?" concluded Rep. Royce. "The Council is young, it's evolving. I welcome the idea of taking a pause and getting into looking at activities across a segment. I hope that they will do that for the insurance industry too," replied Mr. Roy Woodall, the Independent Member with Insurance Expertise of FSOC. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking on the image below:
12.08.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) highlighted the lack of clarity on data breach liability issues between retailers and financial services providers by offering and withdrawing an amendment during the markup of H.R. 2205, the Data Security Act: "I thank Chairman Neugebauer for his leadership on this important issue of breach notification and data protection. In May, at a Committee hearing, I asked witnesses from both the financial industry and the retail industry: 'When a data breach occurs, how should we allocate financial responsibility for that breach?' Both witnesses agreed that entities negligent in protecting customer financial information should be responsible for any costs associated with that breach. I have drafted an amendment that codifies that question and that answer from that hearing. It would require that in the case of a major data breach – one that harms more than a million consumers – the cost would be borne by the entity at fault when the breach is caused by its failure to implement, develop and maintain a comprehensive information security program, as H.R. 2205 in fact mandates. To be fair, at the earlier hearing, the representative from the retail industry agreed those responsible should pay, but said that they already do and this issue is settled through contracts. Well, I wish that were the case. The fact is that most major breaches have resulted in litigation to settle reimbursement, and even then the rate of repayment does not come close to the cost of the breach, especially for community financial institutions. A recent survey by the American Bankers Association found that, between 2009 and 2014, two-thirds of all banks surveyed did not receive any reimbursement for breaches. For those who did receive reimbursement, over 80% received no more than 10% of their total losses and almost half said they received less than 1%. Credit unions in California have also been hard hit. The Target breach cost the Credit Union of Southern California $35,000. The Home Depot breach cost SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union $700,000, with a 65% increase in card fraud. And CoastHills Credit Union watched $71,000 in fraud, on seven cards, hit their system in the first four minutes of that breach. And that's all the same breach, so you get a sense of how that fans out among all of these issuers. I raise this issue, Mr. Chairman, not to point fingers. But to say we can do better. We must incentivize companies to put in place comprehensive security protections that work. If they fail to do that, they should pay the price of the breach. I will not offer my amendment today in the hope that we can work out the issue of liability as we continue the work on this subject with the many Committees involved," said Rep. Royce. "I also want to raise one concern I have with the Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute. The ambiguity in the notification trigger and the 'standard of harm' is troubling. As we move forward, we need to define what is meant by 'harm'. I think we should only be capturing consumers who are likely to be victims of identity theft. We don’t want to create a situation where we sound like 'the boy who cried wolf," and when a real wolf comes a consumer doesn’t hear us because they threw away the notice or ignored the call or email. We need to get this right," concluded Rep. Royce. Watch Rep. Royce's comments at the markup here or by clicking on the image below:
12.06.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) spoke in support of credit union lending regulatory relief and presented an amendment mirroring his previously introduced legislation, H.R. 1422 or the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act, during a House Financial Services Committee markup: "This amendment mirrors legislation I’ve introduced, H.R. 1422 or the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act. What I'm doing here is drawing attention to the need for credit union regulatory relief and hopefully I'm not belaboring the point. If I could point out again, the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act makes a small but significant change to the MBL cap calculation for credit unions. And that change alone unleashes $11 billion in capital for small businesses, and would do that of course without costing taxpayers a dime. This discussion is especially timely considering the Wall Street Journal’s recent report on the biggest banks in the U.S. making far fewer loans to small businesses and ceding market share to alternative, non-bank lenders that frankly charge significantly higher rates," said Rep. Royce. "Credit unions, if I could wrap up here, have a history of stepping into the small business lending space at times of economic hardship. The SBA finds that 80% of new credit union lending – beyond the current cap – would go to small businesses. We should allow them to do more. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your continued interest in this issue and I look forward to working with you to advance credit union regulatory relief. With that, I ask that the amendment be withdrawn Mr. Chairman and I yield back," concluded Rep. Royce. Rep. Royce and Rep. Jared Huffman (D-Calif.) introduced H.R. 1422, the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act, on March 18, 2015. Specifically, the bill removes loans made for the purchase of non-owner occupied, 1-4 unit dwellings from the calculation of the member business lending (MBL) cap currently imposed on credit unions. Importantly, the bill maintains the ability of the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) to apply stringent underwriting and servicing requirements to these loans, which often depend on rent as a chief contributor towards repayment. Rep. Royce is also the author of H.R. 1188, the Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act. The bill increases the member business lending (MBL) cap for qualified credit unions from 12.25% to 27.5%. To qualify for the higher cap a credit union must be well capitalized, have a history of member business lending experience, be operating near the cap for at least one year, and receive approval by the NCUA. Watch Rep. Royce's remarks during debate on H.R. 2287, or the National Credit Union Administration Budget Transparency Act, at the markup here or by clicking on the image below:
12.04.2015	House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) issued this statement following today’s announcement by the FBI that they are now investigating the shooting in San Bernardino as an act of terrorism: “We now have yet another case of radicalization fueled by the internet and social media – a method that terrorists have exploited for years. When is this administration going to wake up? If we're going to keep the American people safe, the administration must put forward the broad and aggressive strategy needed to defeat Islamist terrorism and protect our country."
12.03.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) voted in favor of H.R. 22, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. The five-year reauthorization bill passed the House by a vote of 359 to 65. Rep. Royce successfully amended the bill to allow California to receive a waiver from federal HOV regulations that would harm the state. “Our ports are the nation’s gateway to world trade, and projects like the 57/60 confluence expansion are critical to the movement of commuters and goods throughout our region. This bill will further enable our state to repair, modernize, and expand California's infrastructure,” said Rep. Royce. "Prior to adoption of my amendment, the bill could have made construction of California's highways more expensive, reduced the incentive to purchase alternative fuel vehicles, and negatively impacted our air quality." Rep. Royce, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, represents parts of Orange, Los Angeles, and San Bernardino Counties.
12.02.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Chino Hills) released the following statement on the shooting in San Bernardino: "As the situation continues to unfold, my thoughts and prayers are with the people of San Bernardino and the first responders at the scene.” Rep. Royce represents California's 39th Congressional District, which includes parts of Chino Hills and Chino in San Bernardino County.
12.02.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and U.S. Representative Grace Meng (D-N.Y.) successfully amended H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act of 2015, to strike the term "Oriental" from preexisting federal law and replace it with “Asian American.” The amendment also removes the terms "Negroes," "Indians," and "Eskimos" from the same law. "Orientals is an offensive and antiquated term, especially so when referring to America's vibrant Asian American community," said Rep. Royce. "Using this term in federal law lends it a legitimacy it doesn't deserve, which is why Congresswoman Meng and I have moved to remove it." “The word ‘Oriental’ is an offensive and derogatory term that should no longer be used by the federal government,” said Rep. Meng. “Nobody in our country, regardless of ethnicity, should be referred to in an insulting manner by the government. It’s well past time to strike the legal use of this outdated term. It no longer has a place in federal law, and I look forward to the day when it’s finally gone for good.” Specifically, the Meng-Royce amendment removes all references to "Orientals," "Negroes," "Indians," and "Eskimos," in Title 42 of the United States Code, and replaces them with "Asian Americans," "African Americans," "Native Americans," and "Alaska Natives."
11.25.2015	Today, President Barack Obama signed legislation modeled on H.R. 2243, the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015, as introduced by U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.). The bill, which caps the salaries of the CEOs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, is the first major standalone legislation enacted that deals with the GSEs since they were placed into conservatorship. "Reaching a similar bipartisan consensus on winding down Fannie and Freddie is critical, as the federal government's dominance of the housing market is unsustainable. We should encourage more private capital in the system to ease the way for future comprehensive housing finance reform," said Rep. Royce. Rep. Royce introduced the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015 on May 8, 2015, and it passed out of the House Financial Services Committee by a 57-1 vote on July 29, 2015. U.S. Senator David Vitter (R-La.) authored the Senate version of the bill that passed the Senate by unanimous consent on September 15, 2015. Both Rep. Royce's bill as amended and Sen. Vitter's legislation suspend the recently announced $4 million a year compensation packages for the CEOs at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and limit their total compensation to the prior level of $600,000 a year each. Earlier this year, Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director Mel Watt authorized the GSEs to propose new executive compensation plans for the position of CEO that may be as high as the 25th percentile of the market, or approximately $7.26 million a year. The GSEs shortly thereafter announced that their CEOs would receive $4 million a year compensation packages, a dramatic raise from their prior annual salaries of $600,000 at a cap set by former FHFA Director Edward DeMarco.
11.20.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in reaction to news that the U.S. Department of Treasury and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will initiate negotiations with the European Union on establishing a covered agreement: “Word that Treasury and USTR are initiating negotiations to establish a covered agreement with the E.U. is welcome relief, considering the negative impact that a delay would have on American companies abroad. As I stressed to Treasury and USTR in September, time is of the essence when it comes to creating an international level playing field for insurers and reinsurers, and now is not the time to take our foot off the pedal.” On September 29, Chairman Royce sent a letter to Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew and USTR Michael Froman urging them to move forward on a covered agreement with the European Union regarding prudential measures related to the business of insurance or reinsurance. In the letter, Chairman Royce wrote: “The time is now for the Department of Treasury and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative to use the statutory authority to begin formal negotiations of a covered agreement with the EU on a number of prudential issues, including reinsurance collateral requirements."
11.18.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned U.S. Securities and Exchange (SEC) Chair Mary Jo White on the SEC's actions related to risk-sharing by the GSEs during a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “Examining the SEC’s Agenda, Operations, and FY 2017 Budget Request." “What we’ve been trying to do, under [Chairman Hensarling’s] leadership, is to take a strong interest in housing finance reform and see how we can move forward the concept of bringing more private sector credit risk-sharing into the GSEs. We’d like to get as many positive things done as we possibly can in this quarter. So Real Estate Investment Trusts are a logical investor in these transactions. We’ve seen the communication from the FHFA that it ‘does not perceive any drawback from greater involvement by REITs in credit risk transfers.’ This is might be an area where sooner rather than later we can move forward additional steps to get more private capital. Could you work with us to clarify that all of these risk transfer deals are viewed as good REIT assets that do not undermine investor protections?” asked Rep. Royce. “Certainly I’d be happy to work with you on that. I think the staff may be working with you on that, but I’ll make sure that they are,” replied Chair White. “I think that’d be helpful. I think it’s very clear, as the Federal Housing Finance Agency says in the end of the day, there’s a clear benefit in getting credit risk transfers to get more private capital back in here for this part of this equation. REITs can do this according to them, according to us, we certainly see the benefit to this. When you’re looking at a significant source of private capital like this, it just doesn’t make sense because of regulatory hurdles to prevent that capital from being deployed. We’d appreciate that assistance,” concluded Rep. Royce. “Absolutely,” said Chair White. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of Chair White here or by clicking on the image below:
11.18.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned U.S. Securities and Exchange (SEC) Chair Mary Jo White regarding the slow progress made on Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) adoption in the United States during a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “Examining the SEC’s Agenda, Operations, and FY 2017 Budget Request." “If we look back to the collapse of Lehman Brothers, one of the lessons was the need to quickly understand the relationship of corporate entities to one another. So out of the ashes of Lehman’s downfall came the Financial Stability Board’s concept, and this was actually at the direction of the G-20, this concept of Legal Entity Identifiers or LEIs as we call them, where each entity has to register that unique 20-digit code. That makes their identity very clear when you’re trying to unravel something in real-time in terms of all their financial transactions," said Rep. Royce. "Last month, this Committee passed out legislation, which I authored, requiring the Office of Financial Research to provide an annual update on the progress of adoption of these LEIs here in the United States. Now the global adoption, I think, is at 400,000 LEIs in 180 countries. So if the OFR were to conduct its report today, I’m afraid the SEC would lag behind its global counterparts in terms of the adoption in other countries. As we move towards more transparency, this is obviously part of our mission. I think the Commission did mandate the use of LEIs in its security-based swap rules; it didn’t require it in other rules. Should we expect the SEC is going to require greater use of this important risk management tool in the future? Is there anything holding you back in that regard?" asked Rep. Royce. “There’s nothing holding us back, obviously if it’s appropriate to the space you want to make sure it fits. I think LEI is an enormously important tool. The SEC has been a very strong proponent in those global efforts that you mentioned. We frankly look for, are looking for, opportunities to use it more, I guess is the way I’d answer your question,” replied Chair White. “To get to that point, you might promulgate more rules in that direction in order to increase the adoption where appropriate?” continued Rep. Royce. “Essentially, as we are adopting whatever rules as we go forward, we would look for that opportunity,” concluded Chair White. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of Chair White here or by clicking on the image below:
11.16.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to cap the salaries of the CEOs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac modeled on H.R. 2243, the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015, as introduced by U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.). The bill is the first major standalone legislation enacted that deals with the GSEs since they were placed into conservatorship should the President sign it into law as expected. "While this is a victory for taxpayers, the real battle of winding down the GSEs and ending the government's domination of the housing market remains,” said Rep. Royce. "My ultimate goal is still comprehensive housing finance reform that brings private capital into the system to eliminate the boom-and-bust cycle that wreaked havoc on the American economy. This task takes on all the more urgency as Fannie and Freddie slip into the red and invite new taxpayer bailouts." Rep. Royce introduced the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015 on May 8, 2015, and it passed out of the House Financial Services Committee by a 57-1 vote on July 29, 2015. U.S. Senator David Vitter (R-La.) authored the Senate version of the bill that passed the Senate by unanimous consent on September 15, 2015. Both Rep. Royce's bill as amended and Sen. Vitter's legislation suspend the recently announced $4 million a year compensation packages for the CEOs at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and limit their total compensation to the prior level of $600,000 a year each. Earlier this year, Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director Mel Wattauthorized the GSEs to propose new executive compensation plans for the position of CEO that may be as high as the 25th percentile of the market, or approximately $7.26 million a year. The GSEs shortly thereafter announced that their CEOs would receive $4 million a year compensation packages, a dramatic raise from their prior annual salaries of $600,000 at a cap set by former FHFA Director Edward DeMarco.
11.09.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) has announced that the second annual Congressional App Challenge for high school students in California's 39th Congressional District will begin today, November 9, 2015. The competition is designed to engage students’ creativity and encourage their participation in STEM education fields. It allows students to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet or computer devices on a platform of their choice. “As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I know that a workforce proficient in STEM skills is important if the United States is to remain globally competitive. Just seeing what the talented students of California's 39th Congressional District created last year has me looking forward to this year's upcoming competition." In its first year, the nationwide competition received submissions from students in 84 congressional districts. 2014's contest winner was “Turtle TV”, an application created by students from Rosary High School of Fullerton, CA. The “Turtle TV” application allows users to access a TV guide that can be customized to their liking, based on favorite shows, actors, networks, and even on the viewer’s mood. The 2016 Congressional App Challenge submission period will run from November 9, 2015, through January 15, 2016, culminating in an exhibition and judging event on February 9, 2016. The 39th District's winners will be selected by a panel of local judges and recognized by Rep. Royce. Students, teachers, and administrators interested in entering the competition can do so by clicking here, or contacting Stephanie Hu from Rep. Royce's office at (626) 964-5123 or Stephanie.Hu@mail.house.gov. Additional information can be found here.
11.09.2015	The office of U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) in conjunction with the office of Orange County District Attorney (OCDA) Tony Rackauckas and the Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force (OCHTTF) invite you to attend an Anti-Human Trafficking Training Seminar this week designed specifically for those who work in the hospitality industry. “Our training seminar will ensure that those who work in Orange County's hospitality industry are immediately able to recognize human trafficking as it occurs and alert authorities who can put a stop to it," said Rep. Royce, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "Local authorities, state and federal government, and the private sector partnering together in this fight is the best way to stamp out this heinous crime. I’ll continue to ensure that federal law enforcement agencies are given the tools they need to work effectively with local authorities and keep our communities safe.” "Unbeknownst to some hotel and motel workers, pimps use these establishments as a ‘cage’ to enslave victims. We need to come together as a community to say that modern-day slavery is not acceptable, and we must work together to stop human trafficking and exploitation,” said Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas. “When I check into a hotel or motel with my family, I look for the Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force logo, which means I’m patronizing establishments that are working to keep these bad actors out and away from their hotels and motels. I wouldn’t want to support establishments that facilitate human trafficking with the risk of having pimps and enslaved victims in the next room over. Kudos to all those that put principles over profits.” Event details are as follows: What: Anti-Human Trafficking Training Seminar Hosts: Rep. Ed Royce, OCDA Tony Rackauckas, and OCHTTF Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 Time: 8 AM Registration, 9 AM - 12 PM Training Location: California State University, Fullerton (Titan Student Union) Address: 800 N. State College Boulevard, Fullerton, CA 92831 General attendees can RSVP here or by calling Rep. Royce's Brea office at (714) 255-0101. Press interested in the media avail from 9:15AM - 10 AM onsite with Rep. Royce and DA Rackauckas should contact Saat Alety at saat.alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 714-7882.
11.04.2015	The Office of Financial Research Accountability Act of 2015 (H.R. 3738), legislation authored by U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and U.S. Representative Patrick Murphy (D-Fla.), received a 35-22 vote of support from the House Financial Services Committee today: “This is a bipartisan bill – offered by Congressman Murphy and myself. The need for this legislation should be clear to Members of this Committee who have heard criticism about the quality of research at the OFR, the lack of substantial coordination with the financial regulators, and the need for robust cyber defenses. The bill would address these issues in a thoughtful way. The bill requires the OFR to submit for public notice and comment an annual work plan that details the Office’s upcoming work. Additionally, the bill would require the OFR to coordinate with financial regulators and agencies, and lastly, it tasks the Office with implementing a cybersecurity plan. We are all familiar by now with the OFR analysis of asset managers, of which the SEC was highly critical. The OFR’s conclusions were described by then-SEC Commissioner Gallagher as 'fundamentally flawed.’ In July, Committee members heard directly from another former SEC Commissioner, Paul Atkins, that the asset management study ‘was a travesty’ in his words. ‘You couldn't even describe it as scholarship, it was riddled with errors.’ Even groups and individuals, such as Better Markets and Barney Frank, who normally advocate for increased government regulation, faulted the way in which the OFR is doing this. Faulted the OFR report. Better Markets castigated the OFR for ‘the inexplicably and indefensibly poor quality of the work presented in the Report.’ In an unprecedented move the SEC, not the OFR, put this study out for public comment,” said Rep. Royce. "So what this bill would do would make this type of public transparency the norm. Mr. Chairman, the Office of Financial Research was set up to... look around corners and identify potential systemic risks, improve standardization of finalization data and it was supposed to fill gaps in data collection and support the FSOC in its work. I think, and my colleague from the other side of the aisle feels, that adding transparency to this, and certainty we have to address the cybersecurity, adding that to the core mission should help achieve these goals. I don’t think this is controversial, and I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3738 and I yield back," continued Rep. Royce. "I would also like to add my support for the work by Mr. Murphy and Mr. Royce on this bill. This office of the OFR is an important one, but it's work so far has been very disappointing. So disappointing that a landmark study is criticized publicly by a member of the FSOC and put out for public comment. I mean, that's unprecedented. You've got a Commissioner referring to their study on asset managers as 'fundamentally flawed.' So I think Mr. Royce's effort to step in front of this... to make sure it's done in the right way with a strategic plan, that OFR consults with experts and gives proper public notice and involvement is essential. Because I don't think we want the FSOC, one of the most important and sensitive creations in Dodd-Frank, relying on shoddy work criticized publicly by institutions across this city and across this country. Further, their data collection requirements and responsibilities, I think bring concern to all of our citizens because many hearings in this room have talked about the importance of cybersecurity and data protection. And many of our federal agencies are the root cause of cyber breach and loss of privacy. So this too I think is an important feature of the Royce-Murphy bill, and with that I want to urge my colleagues to support it," added Rep. French Hill of Arkansas, a fellow Committee member. "Nothing in this bill says that the OFR must amend their work product because of public comments provided to them. Nothing in the bill says that the OFR must even take the advice of financial regulators. The bill simply says those financial regulators get a chance to comment, and it requires the OFR, as I said, to provide an annual work plan that would include target dates for ‘significant actions.' And it requires the OFR to consult with financial regulators and agencies with expertise, and requires them to put in place a cybersecurity protection plan. I think these reforms strengthen the OFR’s ability to accomplish its mission, and I ask for the members’ support,”concluded Rep. Royce. Watch Rep. Royce and Rep. Hill's remarks at yesterday's markup here or by clicking on the image below:
11.03.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in reaction to third quarter losses reported by Freddie Mac earlier today: “Losses like this combined with multimillion dollar CEO salaries at the GSEs are the warning shots of a return to the pre-crisis model of private gains and public losses that wrecked the economy. We can't simply put the blinders on and say that Fannie and Freddie are just like other companies when taxpayers are on the hook if they go in the red." Rep. Royce introduced the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015 on May 8, 2015, and it passed out of the House Financial Services Committee by a 57-1 vote on July 29, 2015. Rep. Royce's bill suspends the recently announced $4 million a year compensation packages for the CEOs at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and limits their total compensation to the prior level of $600,000 a year each. The House is tentatively scheduled to vote on such legislation that has already passed the Senate during the week of November 16, and the President is anticipated to sign the bill into law shortly thereafter.
11.03.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) spoke in support of credit union lending regulatory relief today during a House Financial Services Committee markup of several bills related to regulatory relief: "Mr. Chairman, I support the underlying goals of this legislation which is to provide regulatory relief for community financial institutions. I am, however, like Mr. Sherman, concerned that we are not discussing credit union regulatory relief. Today I was prepared to offer, as an amendment to H.R. 1660, the text of my bill, H.R. 1422, the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act. Just as H.R. 1660 seeks to provide parity between the treatment of thrifts and national banks, H.R. 1422 would ensure that loans to finance the purchase of small apartment buildings are treated as residential real estate loans for credit unions, as they precisely are for banks. This simple step would free up an estimated $11 billion of much needed private sector financing for small businesses and rental housing without costing taxpayers a dime. So I understand Mr. Chairman that this discussion is not germane to the bill before us today, but frankly that is the problem. That is the problem. Credit union regulatory relief should be front in center when we are talking about relief for community financial institutions," said Rep. Royce. "I would like to submit for the record letters from the Credit Union National Association and the National Association of Federal Credit Unions voicing similar concerns about the markup today. Mr. Chairman, I am hopeful that this Committee's agenda will encompass a discussion in the near future on how to provide credit unions greater flexibility to underwrite small business growth, to underwrite job creation. We should be marking up bills that provide regulatory relief for all institutions that are seeking to serve our local communities," Rep. Royce added. "I appreciate your support for that. I also encourage other Members of the Committee to join me in supporting this bill because it would unlock about $11 billion in credit union lending for small business, that's important," said Rep. Royce. Rep. Royce and Rep. Jared Huffman (D-Calif.) introduced H.R. 1422, the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act, on March 18, 2015. Specifically, the bill removes loans made for the purchase of non-owner occupied, 1-4 unit dwellings from the calculation of the member business lending (MBL) cap currently imposed on credit unions. Importantly, the bill maintains the ability of the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) to apply stringent underwriting and servicing requirements to these loans, which often depend on rent as a chief contributor towards repayment. Rep. Royce is also the author of H.R. 1188, the Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act. The bill increases the member business lending (MBL) cap for qualified credit unions from 12.25% to 27.5%. To qualify for the higher cap a credit union must be well capitalized, have a history of member business lending experience, be operating near the cap for at least one year, and receive approval by the NCUA. Watch Rep. Royce's remarks here or by clicking on the image below:
10.27.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) voted in favor of the Retail Investor Protection Act (H.R. 1090) after delivering remarks in support of the legislation on the floor of the House of Representatives: "Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Retail Investor Protection Act. The Department of Labor’s proposal here is going to harm the very working class Americans that the Administration claims it is protecting. This is not hyperbole. This is not a hypothetical. I want to give you the real results of what happened in the United Kingdom when it enacted similar regulation in 2013. Here are the disastrous results. 310,000 clients were dropped. 60,000 new investors were rejected. An estimated 11 million potential savers were priced out of advice. In the face of these facts, the Department of Labor continues to insist on applying the failed philosophy of ‘government knows best’ to retirement savings. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. And I thank the gentlewoman from Missouri for her leadership on this and I yield back the balance of my time," said Rep. Royce of the legislation. Watch Rep. Royce's deliver his remarks here or by clicking on the image below: The Department of Labor’s (DOL) proposed fiduciary rule will raise costs and reduce access to retirement investment advice for Americans with low and moderate incomes as well as employees of small businesses.The Retail Investor Protection Act will stop the DOL's misguided rule by requiring the Department to defer to the expertise of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC’s expertise is necessary to ensure that competition and investor choice prevail and block the DOL from harming low and middle-income savers. H.R. 1090 passed the House Financial Services Committee on September 30, 2015, by a bipartisan vote of support of 34-25 with Rep. Royce's support. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, with membership on both the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee.
10.23.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned Mr. David Grim, Director of the Division of Investment Management at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), on the need for reform at the Office of Financial Research (OFR) and greater accountability at proxy advisory firms. The questioning took place at a Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee hearing entitled "Oversight of the SEC’s Division of Investment Management." “Director Grim, the OFR’s Asset Management Report included a number of factual errors. For example, the report listed an incorrect name for Fidelity’s highest level asset manager entity and misreported the amount of its assets under management. The report improperly described Vanguard’s structure. The report misrepresented the amount of assets under management for PIMCO. Thankfully, the SEC provided stakeholders with an opportunity to point out these mistakes along with substantive concerns that the SEC had about the report. Do you think some of these mistakes could have been avoided if the OFR worked more closely with the financial supervisors and regulators, those after all with the expertise in these areas, and maybe also opened up their work for public comment?” asked Rep. Royce. “With respect to the OFR report… SEC staff provided some comments to the OFR on it. It was the OFR's report, they chose to take some of our comments, they chose not to take some other comments. I think ultimately it was up to OFR to decide how the final report looked,” replied Grim. “Well you may know that Congressman Patrick Murphy and I have introduced a bipartisan bill, the Office of Financial Research Accountability Act, to address these issues. The bill requires the OFR to submit for public notice and comment an annual report that details the Office’s work for the upcoming year. Additionally, this bill requires the OFR to coordinate with financial regulators when they conduct future studies. While the OFR opposes this extra, what I would call, transparency, I am hopeful we will see widespread support for these balanced changes going forward,” stated Rep. Royce. “Following up on the staff legal bulletin on proxy voting that Chairman Garrett and Mr. Huizenga raised earlier: Should proxy advisory firms not be held to the same sort of accountability on corporate reporting and transparency as the SEC requires of the publicly traded companies that they advise on?" continued Rep. Royce. "With respect to proxy advisory firms and the guidance that the staff did issue, I think it was focused on addressing two important issues as a general matter. One is, with respect to the proxy advisory firms themselves, doing what we can to encourage good disclosure of material conflicts of interests by those proxy advisory firms. The second focus of the guidance was on investment advisors and how they use proxy advisory firms, making sure that their oversight of the proxy advisors is robust and appropriate," replied Grim. "I saw the bulletin, one of the things it brought to mind was whether or not we shouldn't instead be having the Commission have a formal rulemaking on this. And I say it for these reasons: when we get to this question of what are the standards of performance, we've got a situation where you've got two entities, and they dominate here clearly over 90% of the market, and on top of it have a situation where their reports, I would think, would be subject to public scrutiny, after those reports are prepared. But we don't have that. So I think taking it higher than a staff legal bulletin and taking it to basically a question of rulemaking on this by the Commission is something I would suggest," continued Rep. Royce. "I think where we are right now is after the staff issued that guidance, we have had a proxy season run and we have my colleagues in the examination unit who are planning to do some exams. So we're trying to gather more feedback on the status and then we'll decide whether further action, including potential rulemaking, is necessary," responded Grim. "The rules of the road seem to change when someone has an interest. And I guarantee you when you have a situation where you have two entities, 90 percent of the market, and the kinds of questions that have been called up over this performance, I think in the end of the day we're going to need rulemaking on it," concluded Rep. Royce. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witness here or by clicking on the image below:
10.22.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), joined by the 13 other California Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives, sent a letter to President Barack Obama and California Governor Jerry Brown urging them to ensure that both federal and state government departments are ready to take advantage of the anticipated surge of El Niño-related precipitation this winter. In the letter, Rep. Royce asked: "What actions are Federal and state agencies taking or have already taken in advance of El Niño to capture and allocate water for human use in agriculture and urban centers?" The House, with the support of Rep. Royce, has passed numerous measures that would assist Californians suffering under historic drought conditions and water shortages, including the California Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014 or H.R. 5781. On July 16, the House passed the Western Water and American Food Security Act, legislation to ensure that state and federal agencies use the best science available to maximize water utilization. A copy of the signed letter is available HERE. The text of the letter follows: October 22, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 The Honorable Jerry Brown Governor of California State Capitol, Suite 1173 Sacramento, California 95814 Dear Mr. President and Governor Brown: As California faces a persistent, catastrophic drought, we write today to request that you direct Federal and state agencies and departments to take all necessary steps to prepare to capture, store, and move water to northern, central, and southern California in the event El Nino-related precipitation materializes this winter. As you know, California is experiencing one of the driest years on record since 1895. This has resulted in communities we represent depleting their existing water supplies or simply running out of water altogether, as we have seen in some Central Valley regions. The extent of the drought has also resulted in unprecedented water rationing orders designed to stretch our already limited supplies into the future and first-of-their-kind groundwater regulations in our state. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) predicts the current El Nino in the Pacific Ocean has a 95% chance of continuing through the 2015-2016 winter. NOAA goes on to state that current atmospheric conditions indicate this could be a strong El Nino, bringing heavy and much-need precipitation to our drought-parched state, in northern, central, and southern California. NOAA Climate Prediction Center (CPC) data shows there is a 66% chance that El Nino could bring normal to above normal precipitation this winter in northern California, where rain and snow feed critical reservoirs that supply water to the rest of our state. CPC data also shows upwards of a 93% chance of normal to above average precipitation for the rest of the state. This precipitation would likely peak in the first quarter of 2016. While El Nino-related precipitation will probably not end the drought we face, this much-needed water would be a crucial lifeline to our struggling constituents. We believe that Federal and state environmental policies and regulations have negatively impacted California’s current situation by denying us the ability to capture water for human use and consumption now and to better prepare ourselves for situations like the current drought. The House of Representatives has passed legislation to help provide more water to all Californians while maintaining protections for the environment. We remain committed to working with you and the Senate in a constructive manner to enact legislation to help our state. However, as the legislative process continues, we are interested in making sure that Federal and state agencies and departments are prepared to maximize the potential benefits of El Nino for California’s families, farms, businesses, and cities. To that end, we have the following questions: • Do Federal government agencies, such as the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the National Marine Fisheries Service, have plans in place to capture El Nino-related precipitation for human use? If so, what are these plans? • Do California government agencies, such as the Department of Water Resources, the California Fish and Wildlife Service, and the State Water Resources Control Board, have plans in place to capture El Nino-related precipitation for human use? If so, what are these plans? • If neither Federal nor state agencies have such plans in place, what is the timeline to develop and implement such plans? • In years past, we have seen various policy and regulatory impediments – including those associated with protecting fish – that limited water exports from the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta. How do Federal and state agencies intend to overcome these obstacles to maximize water exports to central and southern California? • What actions are Federal and state agencies taking or have already taken in advance of El Nino to capture and allocate water for human use in agriculture and urban centers? While it is important to prepare for and respond to mudslides and flooding, it also important to remember that our constituents desperately need the water they are entitled to or have contracted and paid for. If El Nino-related precipitation materializes and we are able to capture it for human use, this could provide some much needed water to our constituents. No one can know for certain how much rain or snow could occur this winter, but it is imperative that we are prepared to maximize the benefit to all Californians that El Nino could bring. We look forward to your response and working together to help our state through this difficult period. Sincerely, Kevin McCarthy, Majority Leader Ed Royce, Member of Congress Ken Calvert, Member of Congress Mimi Walters, Member of Congress David Valadao, Member of Congress Devin Nunes, Member of Congress Paul Cook, Member of Congress Dana Rohrabacher, Member of Congress Doug LaMalfa, Member of Congress Steve Knight, Member of Congress Darrell Issa, Member of Congress Duncan Hunter, Member of Congress Tom McClintock, Member of Congress Jeff Denham, Member of Congress ###
10.22.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned Mr. Orlando Cabrera, former Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing at the U.S. Housing and Urban Development Department (HUD), on the delayed renewal of Moving to Work (MTW) programs during a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled "The Future of Housing in America: 50 Years of HUD and its impact on Federal Housing Policy." "As Chairman Hensarling already mentioned, the Moving to Work program has largely been a success – and also an initiative that the Housing Authority of the County of San Bernardino has pioneered to the benefit of many of my constituents. I think the extension of preexisting MTW contracts at public housing authorities, including San Bernardino which has a rental assistance utilization rate higher than 90%, has been significantly delayed. It still remains undone," said Rep. Royce. "Mr. Cabrera, let me ask you: What ramifications will the delay by HUD have on MTW housing authorities? And how is HUD ‘gutting the original intent’ of the program as you referenced in your testimony?" “I think that the real concern I have about HUD delaying is that eventually those contracts expire and what you have is a housing authority going back to the usual rubric, the Housing Act of 1937, and all of the impacts. San Bernardino County is currently developing in… San Bernardino itself, and they’re redeveloping their own public housing. That’s the kind of thing that will stall that effort,” replied Mr. Cabrera. “It’s important that the flexibility that has been inherent in the MTW agreements that were drafted, frankly from 1999 because it came into being in 1998 through roughly 2008, that it stay that way. If you take away that flexibility you will take away the capacity of these housing authorities to do as much as they can do in respect to their properties and their tenants,” concluded Mr. Cabrera. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witness here or by clicking on the image below:
10.22.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned Mr. Howard Husock, Vice President of Research and Publications at the Manhattan Institute, on the role played by the affordable housing goals of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in precipitating the financial crisis, and the potential for a return of similar misguided policies. The questioning occurred during a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled "The Future of Housing in America: 50 Years of HUD and its impact on Federal Housing Policy." "Mr. Husock, when you think about Fannie Mae & Freddie Mac and the central role they played in the financial crisis, do you ever ask yourself: If only they had listened? As you wrote in the pages of the Wall Street Journal in 2004, ‘federally charted but privately owned Fannie Mae, with a trillion dollars in assets, is not the riskless public service entity it represents itself to be.’ And while you and I, and Federal Reserve Chairman Greenspan, and others cried loudly at that time of systemic risk regulation, as I had a bill to regulate systemic risk there, and called for higher capital and less leveraging, as it was 100-1 leveraging, and scaled back GSEs, sadly those warnings fell on deaf ears here on Capitol Hill," stated Rep. Royce, one of the leading proponents of housing finance reform. "I don’t say this to rehash history, although I think amnesia as my colleague from New York mentioned earlier is suffered on a bipartisan basis, but rather I hope that we might learn from the past. Specifically, I was hoping you could comment briefly on the role the affordable housing goals had in the collapse of the GSEs and the potential impact of reopening the “credit spigot” with FHFA this year calling for the Housing Trust Fund to be capitalized by Fannie and Freddie. Is there not a better way to accomplish the goals of homeownership within a market-based system than replaying this particular angle?" concluded Rep. Royce. “I worry about the affordable housing goals, and worried about them at the time not because I did not think homeownership is a valuable asset for communities. I worry that if lenders are encouraged to make loans to non-creditworthy individuals, their struggling neighbors who are making the payments on their own houses are going to see their values collapse when foreclosure strikes in their neighborhood. We’ve seen in the wake of the financial crisis that’s exactly what happened, and that poor and working-class neighborhoods were the most adversely effected by the affordable housing goals that have always been advanced in their name. That’s my concern, so I think we’d be remiss in continuing those affordable housing goals and directing more funds to similar purposes,” answered Husock. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witness here or by clicking on the image below:
10.21.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Buena Park) will attend "Buena Park Goes to College," a free workshop that will give prospective college students and their parents the opportunity to learn more about how to prepare, apply, and pay for college. Representatives from many of California’s top-notch universities and colleges will also be available to meet with students and their parents to answer their questions regarding the admissions process. "I share the concern of many Southern Californian families over the rising cost of higher education. College tuition rates continue to increase and many students are graduating with overwhelming student loan debt. The good news is that there are financial options that can make college more accessible and affordable, which this event will detail," said Rep. Royce. Event details are as follows: What: Buena Park Goes to College Location: Buena Park Community Center Address: 6688 Beach Blvd., Buena Park, CA 90621 Date: Sunday, November 1, 2015 Time: 12 PM - 4 PM This event is free to attend and open to students of all ages. No RSVP is required. Questions regarding Buena Park Goes to College may be directed to Alison Martin in Rep. Royce's office at Alison.Martin@mail.house.gov or (714) 255-0101.
10.09.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and U.S. Representative Patrick Murphy (D-Fla.), both members of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced the Office of Financial Research Accountability Act of 2015. The bill ensures improved transparency, more efficient interagency coordination, and bolstered cybersecurity protections at the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Financial Research (OFR): “The OFR’s lack of collaboration with the regulatory bodies that govern our financial system has resulted in the Office producing work of questionable accuracy and shoddy quality. The consequences for our country could be disastrous if these reports are subsequently used as the foundation of rules that dictate large parts of the economy. This bill ensures that the OFR works in concert with regulatory bodies while preparing reports and discloses its planned activities ahead of time so the public knows exactly what to expect,” said Rep. Royce. “Cybersecurity breaches are a major threat to our economy and national security, and an agency that holds as much sensitive material as the OFR should have the robust protections outlined in this bill to protect itself." “The OFR was designed to function like the National Transportation Safety Board to figure out what went wrong and how to keep it from happening in the future,” said Rep. Murphy. “Mismanagement and greed caused the most devastating economic crisis of our time and nearly took down America’s middle class with it. The American people deserve to have confidence in the OFR, and that is exactly what this bill will do.” Specifically, the bill requires the OFR to release an annual work plan outlining the Office’s priorities, mandates the OFR to consult federal regulatory agencies when preparing public reports, and tasks the OFR with developing and implementing a cybersecurity plan to be reviewed annually by the U.S. Government Accountability Office. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, with membership on both the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee. For more information, contact: Saat Alety (Royce) at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111 Erin M. Hale (Murphy) at Erin.Hale@mail.house.gov or (561) 253-8433
10.08.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement on the STEM Education Act of 2015 (H.R. 1020) being signed into law after Rep. Royce voted for passage of the bill through the U.S. House of Representatives: “An American workforce proficient in all STEM subjects, which now include computer science, is critical to our ability to compete in a global economy and achieving that goal begins in the classroom. I'm proud to have supported the STEM Education Act, bipartisan legislation that will help prepare future generations to thrive in technology-based workplaces that are becoming more commonplace.” The STEM Education Act of 2015 defines STEM education as education in the subjects of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, including computer science. This legislation also directs the National Science Foundation to continue to award competitive, merit-based grants to support research and development of innovative out-of-school STEM learning. No new or additional spending is authorized in this bill. Rep. Royce also wrote the House and Senate education committee leaders to urge them to to accept Senate provisions that reinforce support for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education in the final House-Senate conference agreement of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. Last year, Rep. Royce hosted a Congressional STEM Competition for local high school students to showcase their skills in STEM fields. Contestants were asked to develop a mobile phone application. Rep. Royce will host a similar competition next January, information on the contest can be found here.
10.07.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement after voting for passage of H.R. 3192, the Homebuyers Assistance Act, which would provide a temporary legal safe harbor for lenders making a good-faith effort to comply with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) recently enacted TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rule: “The CFPB and House Republicans agree that a transitional period for TRID compliance which enables lenders to test their systems and ensures there is no large scale disruption to mortgage lending is necessary. However, declaring an enforcement safe-harbor period without codifying it, as the CFPB has done, is insufficient protection for the housing market and families looking to settle into a new home without delay," said Rep. Royce, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee. On November 20, 2013, the CFPB finalized TRID, which combined certain disclosures that consumers receive in applying for and closing on a residential mortgage loan, including disclosures required under the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA). The effective date for the final rule was originally set for mortgage applications received on or after August 1, 2015, but due to an “administrative error,” the CFPB delayed effective enactment and enforcement of TRID to October 3, 2015. Additionally, CFPB Director Richard Cordray also announced an informal, open-ended TRID enforcement grace period in response to inquiries from Members of Congress. The Homebuyers Assistance Act does not delay implementation of the TRID rule, but rather provides a temporary safe harbor to those who are making a good faith effort to comply until February 1, 2016. The bill passed the House Financial Services Committee by a bipartisan vote of 45-13 on July 29, 2015, with Rep. Royce’s support, and received a 303-181 vote of support from the full House today.
09.29.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, sent a letter to Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew and United States Trade Representative (USTR) Michael Froman urging them to move forward on a covered agreement with the European Union regarding prudential measures related to the business of insurance or reinsurance. In the letter, Chairman Royce wrote: “The time is now for the Department of Treasury and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative to use the statutory authority to begin formal negotiations of a covered agreement with the EU on a number of prudential issues, including reinsurance collateral requirements." Chairman Royce also acknowledged the Federal Insurance Office's (FIO) 2015 Annual Report, released yesterday, that stated the USTR and FIO plan to notify Congress “in the coming weeks” that an agreement is in the works. Today, the House Financial Services Committee Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, of which Chairman Royce is a member, will convene a hearing entitled “The Impact of Domestic Regulatory Standards on the U.S. Insurance Market." Witnesses include Roy Woodall, a voting member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) with insurance expertise, Tom Sullivan, Senior Advisor at the Federal Reserve Board of Governors' Department of Banking Supervision and Regulation, John Huff, Director of Financial Institutions and Professional Registration at the Missouri Department of Insurance, and Michael McRaith, Director of the FIO. A copy of the signed letter is available HERE. The text of the letter follows: September 29, 2015 The Honorable Jacob J. Lew Secretary of the Treasury United States Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20220 The Honorable Michael B. Froman United States Trade Representative Office of the U.S. Trade Representative 600 17th Street NW Washington, DC 20508 Dear Secretary Lew and Ambassador Froman: It has been over five years since passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, but the United States has yet to formally begin negotiations of a covered agreement with any foreign government regarding prudential measures related to the business of insurance or reinsurance. While positive conversations with the European Union (EU) have continued as part of the “EU-U.S. Insurance Dialogue Project,” a formal covered agreement is needed to secure a level-playing field for insurers and reinsurers in the U.S. and Europe. The time is now for the Department of Treasury and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to use the statutory authority to begin formal negotiations of a covered agreement with the EU on a number of prudential issues, including reinsurance collateral requirements. Before the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, successive Administrations identified the lack of strong U.S. leadership on international insurance issues as an impediment to American firms competing in the global market. In 2008, Treasury Secretary Paulson’s report, The Blueprint for a Modernized Financial Regulatory Structure, cited the limits of the current insurance regulatory system in that it “creates increasing tensions in such a global marketplace, both in the ability of U.S.-based firms to compete abroad and in allowing greater participation of foreign firms in U.S. markets” and called for the creation of an authority “to address international regulatory issues, such as reinsurance collateral.” In 2009, Treasury Secretary Geithner’s report, Financial Regulatory Reform, A New Foundation: Rebuilding Financial Supervision and Regulation, noted “in the international context, the lack of a federal entity with responsibility and expertise for insurance has hampered our nation’s effectiveness in engaging internationally with other nations on issues related to insurance.” Based on that conclusion, the report called for the creation of federal entity that would “be empowered to work with other nations, have the authority to enter into international agreements, and increase international cooperation on insurance regulation.” These findings by previous U.S. Treasury Secretaries encouraged Congressional efforts. In both the 110th and 111th Congresses, Rep. Paul Kanjorski (D-PA) introduced the Insurance Information Act, which ultimately resulted in the creation of the Federal Insurance Office (FIO) as enacted in Title V of the Dodd-Frank Act. In December 2009, during markup of his legislation – then renamed the Federal Insurance Office Act – Rep. Kanjorski stated: “The Federal Insurance Office will provide a unified voice on insurance matters for the United States in global deliberations. The Federal Insurance Office and the United States Trade Representative will share the authority to negotiate and enter into agreements with foreign entities.” Specifically, Rep. Kanjorski said that the FIO and USTR would be given the authority to enter into a “covered agreement” to allow for the preemption of state laws to “harmonize reinsurance standards across national borders.” The final Conference Report accompanying the Dodd-Frank Act further highlighted this position: “The Federal Insurance Office Act of 2010 expressly provides the Secretary of the Treasury, jointly with the USTR, the authority to negotiate and enter into international insurance agreements. To assure uniform, national application of prudential measures such as reinsurance collateral requirements, the Federal Insurance Office Act provides the Director with the authority to identify and narrowly preempt state insurance measures inconsistent with a defined category of international insurance agreements.” The groundwork was laid for future action. Perhaps most importantly, in December 2013, the FIO publicly endorsed seeking a covered agreement in the area of reinsurance collateral, stating, “To afford nationally uniform treatment of reinsurers, FIO recommends that Treasury and the United States Trade Representative pursue a covered agreement for reinsurance collateral requirements based on the National Association of Insurance Commissioners [NAIC] Credit for Reinsurance Model Law and Regulation.” As a basis for its recommendation, the FIO forecast the “likelihood” of the “non-uniform application” of model reinsurance law and the “complicating effect of state-by-state inconsistency on economic matters of national interest.” This prediction was prescient: Today, only 32 U.S. jurisdictions have passed provisions whereby reinsurers who meet rigorous financial standards can become certified for reduced collateral requirements. Amongst the one-third of States who have yet to reform their laws are the large markets of Texas and Illinois. According to the leading reinsurance trade association, these gaping holes are inhibiting reinsurers with regional books of business from taking advantage of the new laws at all. The uneven application of regulation is exactly what the covered agreement powers were intended by Congress to remedy. Therefore, it is laudable that the Federal Insurance Office has already helped start the international conversation on these issues. In 2014, as part of the EU-U.S. Insurance Project, U.S. federal and state regulators agreed with EU regulators that they should take steps towards entering into a covered agreement on reinsurance collateral. Furthermore, the parties identified group supervision and the exchange of confidential information as other areas for which a covered agreement should be explored. In April 2015, the European Council directed the European Commission to begin negotiations with the U.S. to “enable us… to recognize each other’s prudential rules and help supervisors exchange information,” while citing reinsurance as an area where an agreement “will greatly facilitate trade.” The stage is set to formalize this process, and it is time for USTR and Treasury to join together to complete this important task. The U.S. has much to gain by moving forward with a covered agreement with the EU. Formal negotiations would give the U.S. leverage in discussions about equivalency under the European Solvency II regime that is scheduled for implementation on January 1, 2016. To date, the U.S. has been given provisional equivalence in the area of solvency assessment, but no similar designation has followed in the areas of reinsurance and group supervision. Without such action, U.S. companies with business in the EU could be forced to, among other things, hold more capital in their EU subsidiaries, putting them at a direct competitive disadvantage. Put simply, given the time pressures, only negotiation of a covered agreement can ensure an acceptable outcome for the U.S. on the Solvency II “equivalence” issue. Without it, the continued open access of U.S.-based reinsurers to markets in EU member states will no longer be assured, and U.S. insurers doing business in the EU will be exposed to the risk of additional regulatory actions by individual EU countries. A successful covered agreement, on the other hand, lays the groundwork for successive negotiations with additional key insurance jurisdictions such as Switzerland, Bermuda and Japan. Additionally, the U.S. and the EU achieving harmony in this area sets an example that strengthens our shared goal of reducing or forestalling barriers to globally active direct insurers and reinsurers which China, Brazil and other rising economies seek to impose. It is a win-win that strengthens the United States’ hand in international insurance supervision. While Congressional approval is not needed for a covered agreement to commence or be concluded, the Financial Services Committee and the Ways and Means Committee in the House of Representatives and the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee and the Finance Committee in the Senate must be consulted before negotiations commence. Yesterday, I was pleased to read in the FIO annual report that the USTR and FIO plan to notify Congress “in the coming weeks” that an agreement is in the works. I urge you to begin this process immediately. With regards, EDWARD R. ROYCE Chairman House Foreign Affairs Committee
09.29.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) President-elect John Huff and Federal Insurance Office (FIO) Director Michael McRaith on U.S.-EU covered agreement and cyberterrorism insurance at a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “The Impact of Domestic Regulatory Standards on the U.S. Insurance Market." “You mentioned that 32 jurisdictions have now passed legislation implementing the NAIC model reinsurance collateral law, but the reality is that four years is a long time and we’re still at a point where major states like Texas and Illinois are not a part of that. I was wondering if you say that we need to avoid the variation between the states by reducing collateral requirements in a consistent matter, it looks to me by your own test we are not close to implementing this and the presumption I would have had is that the pressure that would have been applied by the threat of a covered agreement might have brought everyone to the table. The worry I have is that since 1871 we’ve been trying to get the states to adopt a common framework. Give me your thoughts on why you think this is going to be done in a timely way and stave off the problems that I anticipate here,” said Rep. Royce. “On the topic of credit for reinsurance revisions that have taken place, the process has been deliberate, it’s been very methodical, and it’s very measured and transparent in the way we are reducing collateral for foreign reinsurers. We have had 32 states, that’s about two thirds of the U.S. market, it’s about 66% of the U.S. market in terms of premium. We have five other states that are seriously considering it and are ramping it up for their legislatures to consider, which will take us over 90% to about 93% of the market,” replied Huff. “If you can get there. By way of example, if we went back through testimony in the past in terms of how many times we thought we were a year away from achieving this goal, from 1871 on in terms of reaching unanimity, it hasn’t happened yet. Now four years may not seem like a long time frame by that standard, or certainly by Congressional standards to be fair here, but I’m highly skeptical that you’re going to bring states in to line based upon what I’ve seen in past performance here with respect to getting this unanimity,” stated Rep. Royce. “Director McRaith, as you know I shared this with you today, I sent a letter to the Treasury Secretary and the USTR calling for a covered agreement with the EU. Based on your diligent work on this issue, I assume you agree that such an agreement is a positive tool that the U.S. should use in attempting to tackle reinsurance collateral and make progress on the question of U.S. regulatory equivalency,” continued Rep. Royce. “That’s exactly right Congressman. What we know is effective January 1st, 2016, the European Union, which is the largest consolidated market in the world, will be subjecting U.S. insurers to regulatory standards that differ from those applied to insurers domiciled in some other jurisdictions. A covered agreement will provide clarity, finality, and certainty for U.S insurers that either are now or seek to operate in the European Union market,” replied McRaith. “On January 27th, the Homeland Security Chairman Mike McCaul and I sent an unanswered letter to the President, asking how the Administration classifies and defines different types of cyber attacks. Specifically, we asked whether the use of different terms like cyber warfare, cyber vandalism, cyber terrorism, would impact the Treasury Secretary’s authority to certify a cyber attack as an ‘act of terrorism’ under TRIA. I think a clear statement from Treasury on what is and is not covered under TRIA, as it relates to cyber terrorism, would increase certainty in the market and help encourage additional capacity for cyber insurance. Can you help make that happen?” questioned Rep. Royce. “The statute, as you know, does not specify what are the causes or types of terrorist attacks. In 2007 when I testified as a state regulator in support of renewal of TRIA, nobody talks about cyber. So the fact it’s not specifically listed, does not mean it’s not included. If an event, a cyber event, or any kind of event, satisfies the statutory criteria, then it is eligible for TRIA certification,” answered McRaith. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking on the image below:
09.17.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned C. Boyden Gray, founder of Boyden Gray and Associates, on the Dodd-Frank Act's destruction of the rule of law at a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “The Dodd-Frank Act at Five Years: Are We More Free?" “When we travel overseas as the Foreign Affairs Committee, I often have conversations with foreign leaders about the importance of rule of law, and the role it plays in encouraging foreign investment, and the role it plays in political stability, and how badly these foreign nations need the rule of law. Need the credibility that comes with it,” said Rep. Royce. “So it’s a little bit of a shock to me that on our own shores we have blatant examples of discretionary choice and political influence running afoul of the rule of law,” continued Rep. Royce. “The rule of law in the United States has been sort of a cornerstone. So you get into these areas with fluid law with the SIFI designation process as just one I’d make an example of. I appreciate several of my colleagues raising this issue this morning. I worry that the costs of what economists call the ‘cloud of political risk’ that comes into play, as Professor Zywicki references this, is one of the consequences and one of the mistakes in Dodd-Frank. It’s one of the things we didn’t get right. That effect could be permanent, it could be long lasting.” “Mr. Gray, we’ve seen how the CFPB has strayed well outside of its legal boundaries, expanding its reach now into telecom companies, and seeking information protected by attorney-client privilege, and even indirectly trying to regulate auto dealers, and so forth. Given the agency’s design, are you surprised by any of this behavior?” asked Rep. Royce. “I'm not surprised. Because there’s nothing to constrain [the CFPB], there’s no check or balance, there’s no operation of the separation of powers that would conduct an oversight role to rein them in. The White House can’t do anything about it. The Congress can hold hearings but they are not supposed to review the budget. That’s the statute as I recall, that Congress actually can’t review the budget. I don’t expect anyone will be arrested for doing so but the budget is not in your hands and that’s where your power comes from. The courts are required to defer to whatever the Agency wants to do under the Chevron Doctrine. That’s true even in the case of rulings say on what’s abusive. The Agency has refused to spell out what the law means by notice and comment rulemaking, which is the hallmark of American administrative law, one of the geniuses of postwar development,” replied Gray. “It’s going to be fluid law that’s constantly evolving…constantly causing compliance costs out there. This is one of the reasons why I opposed Dodd-Frank. But there’s another aspect here and I know the Chairman is well aware of this as well. It’s the fact that the prudential regulators have the responsibility for safety and soundness and taking them out of the equation and not allowing them to weigh in on these decisions also has a long-term risk in terms of their first responsibility, which is safety and soundness. If we were smart, what we would have done was put this function underneath the prudential regulators. It might surprise some to know that every former prudential regulator that I talk to, whether Democrat or Republican, felt that this was a profound error in the legislation,” remarked Rep. Royce. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witness here or by clicking on the image below:
09.15.2015	The United States Senate unanimously passed legislation to cap the salaries of the CEOs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac modeled on H.R. 2243, the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015, as introduced by U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.). U.S. Senator David Vitter (R-La.) and U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) are coauthors of the Senate version of the bill, S. 2036, which is also named the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015. "Near universal support in both the House and Senate for capping GSE CEO pay is proof positive that multi-million dollar raises at taxpayer bailed-out and backed organizations are unconscionable,”said Rep. Royce. "I applaud Senator Vitter for his quick work in getting this bill through the Senate and will work to replicate his success in the House.” Rep. Royce introduced the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015 on May 8, 2015, and it passed out of the House Financial Services Committee by a 57-1 vote on July 29, 2015. The legislation was amended during the Committee markup per negotiations with Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-Calif.). Both Rep. Royce's bill as amended and Sen. Vitter's suspend the recently announced $4 million a year compensation packages for the CEOs at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and limit their total compensation to the prior level of $600,000 a year each. Earlier this year, Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director Mel Watt authorized the GSEs to propose new executive compensation plans for the position of CEO that may be as high as the 25th percentile of the market, or approximately $7.26 million a year. The GSEs shortly thereafter announced that their CEOs would receive $4 million a year compensation packages, a dramatic raise from their prior annual salaries of $600,000 at a cap set by former FHFA Director Edward DeMarco. The U.S. Department of the Treasury has stated it "does not support FHFA’s new approach to CEO compensation at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and urged the agency to reject any increase." White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest has also stated "I think it is entirely legitimate for the executives at those institutions to be subject to compensation limits" when asked about the White House's view on executive raises at the GSEs.
09.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses on the U.S. Department of Labor's (DOL) proposed change to the definition of a fiduciary at a joint hearing by the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee entitled “Preserving Retirement Security and Investment Choices for All Americans." Specifically, Rep. Royce referenced his previous questioning of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) CEO Richard Ketchum, in May, when he raised “the negative effects that a 2013 rule enacted by the British government had on low-to-moderate income consumers in the UK” and asked “whether enacting a similar rule, as the DOL has now proposed, would have those impacts here in the United States.” Rep. Royce cited a Europe Economics study which “found that during the first three months of 2014 about 310,000 British clients stopped being served by their brokers because their wealth was too small for the broker to advise profitably and an additional 60,000 investors were not accepted for the same reason.” Ketchum concluded that “the statistics are certainly concerning… moving to an environment where only advisory accounts are the only effective way to operate in the United States is a very bad step and that with respect to middle-class investors the availability of the choice between fee-only and commissions is important.” "Since I spoke with Mr. Ketchum, the British government embarked on an official review of the impacts of its rule, all while the DOL claims that there is little evidence that investment advice has declined in the United Kingdom," said Rep. Royce today. "What caused the U.K. to initiate the review? Are they investigating whether the regulation has created an advice gap, cutting off lower and middle income savers from investment advice? Is that your understanding of what they are looking at there?" continued Rep. Royce. "I would concur and just say that I know advisors who are currently working in the U.K. and many of them had to let go of all of their small accounts in their book of business simply because it wasn't allowed for them to be paid via commission. And quite frankly, the smaller accounts, the smaller retirement savers, without question it is far more cost effective for them to use a commission based model. If they don't have that choice, we will see some significant challenges in continuing to give advice to the very people in my opinion that need our advice the most," answered Juli McNeely, President of the National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors. "Secretary Perez has stated unequivocally that the DOL's proposed rule would not have similar impacts to that of the U.K. rule. Let me ask you if you agree with that," continued Rep. Royce "I do not agree with that," replied McNeely. "I would not agree with it either Congressman," answered Paul Schott Stevens, President and CEO of the Investment Company Institute. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of the witnesses here or by clicking on the image below:
09.08.2015	The office of U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will host an informational Military Academy Night session for young men and women from California's 39th Congressional District interested in attending one of our nation's military academies. Each year, Rep. Royce has the privilege of nominating local high school students of the highest caliber for admission to the United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy, United States Coast Guard Academy, and United States Merchant Marine Academy. The appointment process is rigorous, highly selective, and based on a candidate's academic achievement, athletic ability, extracurricular activities, and community service. The Military Academy Night gives both students and parents the opportunity to hear from official representatives from the academies as well as Rep. Royce's staff on how to best navigate the application process. Event details are as follows: What: 2015 Military Academy Night Location: Buena Park City Hall (Council Chamber) Address: 6650 Beach Boulevard, Buena Park, CA 90621 Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 Time: 6:00 P.M. This event is free to attend and open to the public. No RSVP is required. Questions regarding the event or military academy nominations from Rep. Royce can be directed to Alexandria Walker at Alexandria.Walker@mail.house.gov or (714) 255-0101.
07.30.2015	Today, the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) recognized U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), the sole Californian and one of only 17 lawmakers to earn a perfect score of 100 percent in CCAGW’s 2014 Congressional Ratings, as a “Taxpayer Super Hero” for the fifth time. Rep. Royce has earned a lifetime rating of 95 percent from the CCAGW. The Congressional Ratings, which the CCAGW has issued every year since 1989, scores the voting records of all 535 members of Congress. The 2014 Congressional Ratings used 85 individual votes in the House of Representatives to determine which lawmakers helped protect and save the taxpayers’ money. “The American people work hard for their money and ensuring that their tax dollars are spent prudently is one of my top priorities,” said Rep. Royce. “I look forward to continuing to eliminate government waste, redundancies, and excesses whenever possible.” “We applaud and wholeheartedly thank Rep. Royce for his hard work on behalf of the taxpayers while serving in Congress,” said CCAGW President Tom Schatz. “His courageous votes to cut wasteful spending and make government more accountable should serve as an example to other members, encouraging them to make good on promises to protect the fiscal interests of American taxpayers.” Citizens Against Government Waste (CAGW) is the nation’s largest nonpartisan and nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in government. Rep. Royce represents California's 39th Congressional District which encompasses parts of Orange, Los Angeles, and San Bernardino Counties.
07.29.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) introduced the Veterans Dignified Burial Act, H.R. 3278, legislation spurred by reports of improperly handled veterans’ remains at the Los Angeles County mortuary. "The improper treatment of veterans after their passing is deeply troubling and the result of easily fixable loopholes in VA procedures," said Rep. Royce. "I look forward to advancing this critical bill to ensure our veterans receive the best possible treatment as they are laid to rest." The bill calls for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to follow up on pending burials 30 days after a body has been identified as a veteran, which prevents the extended burial waiting times that have plagued the Los Angeles County mortuary and others throughout the country. It also requires the VA to submit an annual report to Congress on deceased veterans who were interred after the 30 day reporting period in an effort to provide lawmakers with a better understanding of the scope of this problem. Last year, Rep. Royce and House Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller (R-FL) wrote former VA Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs Steve Muro regarding the improperly handled bodies. The letter asked for a review of the process and highlighted the roadblocks at the VA’s National Cemetery Administration (NCA) when it comes to veteran burials. Acting Under Secretary Ronald Walters responded with confirmation that he will institute a 30-day follow up period, though this is not a permanent procedure or codified rule as this legislation would make it. Rep. Royce previously introduced the Veterans Dignified Burial Act on July 31, 2014, legislation that garnered nine bipartisan cosponsors. U.S. Senator Dean Heller (R-NV) also introduced a Senate companion version of the bill last year. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
07.29.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the House Financial Services Committee voted 57-1 today to advance his legislation, the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015, to limit compensation packages for the Chief Executive Officers of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac: “Multi-million dollar paydays for the CEOs of Fannie and Freddie represent a failed grasp of reality on the part of both the GSEs and their regulator,” said Rep. Royce. “At a time when American families are still struggling, members of both parties clearly find it incomprehensible that the FHFA would authorize the taxpayer-backed GSEs to hand out $4 million compensation packages to their CEOs.” Earlier this year, Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director Mel Watt authorized the GSEs to propose new executive compensation plans for the position of CEO that may be as high as the 25th percentile of the market, or approximately $7.26 million a year. This month, the GSEs announced that their CEOs would receive $4 million a year compensation packages, a dramatic raise from their current annual salaries of $600,000 at a cap set by former FHFA Director Edward DeMarco. The U.S. Department of the Treasury recently stated it "does not support FHFA’s new approach to CEO compensation at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and urged the agency to reject any increase." White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest has also stated "I think it is entirely legitimate for the executives at those institutions to be subject to compensation limits" when asked about the White House's view on executive raises at the GSEs. The Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015, introduced by Rep. Royce on May 8, 2015, was amended during the Committee markup yesterday per negotiations with Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-Calif.). As amended, the bill suspends the $4 million a year compensation packages for the CEOs at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and limits their total compensation to the prior level of $600,000 a year each. The House Financial Services Committee voted on similar legislation, the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2011, on November 15, 2011. The bill passed the committee on a bipartisan vote of 52-4, with now-FHFA Director and former Committee member Mel Watt voting against the legislation, and spurred former FHFA Director DeMarco to institute salary limits at the GSEs.
07.27.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on the renewed possibility of the selection of Los Angeles as the United States bid city for the 2024 Summer Olympics: “Los Angeles is a proven host of the Olympics and has the infrastructure necessary to host a successful Games that will put our nation’s best foot forward. With the opening this past week of the Special Olympics World Games, we’ve witnessed the spirit of international unity that our city can bring forth. I'm hopeful that the USOC will reconsider Los Angeles for this future honor," said Rep. Royce. Last year, Rep. Royce was joined in signing a letter of support for Los Angeles' bid by 20 other members of California's Congressional delegation including U.S. Representative Xavier Becerra (D-Los Angeles) and U.S. Representative Judy Chu (D-Monterey Park). The letter, which was sent on Friday, November 14, 2014, can be viewed here. The text of the letter is as follows: November 13, 2014 United States Olympic Committee 1 Olympic Plaza Colorado Springs, CO 80909 Dear Members of the United States Olympic Committee, We write to express our enthusiastic support for bringing the 2024 Summer Olympic Games to Los Angeles. We understand that the United States Olympic Committee intends to select an American bid city in the coming months to compete at the international level to host the 2024 Games. We stand ready to partner with the City of Los Angeles in this endeavor to make it as successful as our efforts to bring the 2015 Special Olympics World Games to Southern California. Los Angeles is a vibrant and diverse city that embodies the highest ideals of the Olympic spirit. From the rich Olympic tradition to the world-class infrastructure, the natural beauty of the region to the hospitality, Los Angeles has the ability to provide a second to none atmosphere for the athletes, coaches, officials, and spectators. We look forward to the opportunity to work with you and the City of Los Angeles as we pursue a winning American bid. Sincerely, Rep. Xavier Becerra Rep. Karen Bass Rep. Julia Brownley Rep. Ken Calvert Rep. Tony Cárdenas Rep. Judy Chu Rep. Janice Hahn Rep. Alan S. Lowenthal Rep. Grace Napolitano Rep. Gloria Negrete McLeod Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard Rep. Edward R. Royce Rep. Linda T. Sánchez Rep. Loretta Sanchez Rep. Adam B. Schiff Rep. Brad Sherman Rep. Mark Takano Rep. Dina Titus Rep. Juan Vargas Rep. Maxine Waters Rep. Henry A. Waxman
07.24.2015	Yesterday, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses on progress made by regulators instituting a cross-border resolution framework during the House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “Ending ‘Too Big to Fail’: What is the Proper Role of Capital and Liquidity?” "The need for cross-border resolution of compromised financial institutions, I think, was made pretty painfully apparent during the ‘08 global financial crisis. Rightfully, cross-border resolution is today at the forefront of the international regulatory reform agenda. During a recent update on the FDIC’s efforts to create a framework for the resolution of SIFIs and G-SIBs, Chairman Martin Gruenberg that ‘there has been no greater or more important regulatory challenge in the aftermath of the financial crisis than developing the capability for the orderly failure of a systemically important financial institution.’ Now I agree with him that this is an issue of paramount importance," began Rep. Royce. "However, I question the comment in describing the work to date in solving this cross-border resolution conundrum as ‘the progress has been impressive.’" In response to the question, “What steps do policymakers around the globe need to take to actually ensure a method of cross-border resolution exists, one that does not place American companies at a competitive disadvantage while still preventing future taxpayer bailouts,” Dr. Charles W. Calomiris, professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Business, answered at Rep. Royce’s request. “I agree with you. If you look at what the problem was in terms of cross-border with the failure of Lehman, it was which regulator is in charge of which assets. That was the major problem, that was the major disruption and confusion. I think that that is something we are really moving to solve and I think it can be solved. That’s different from orderly liquidation, which I think is a pipe dream,” said Dr. Calomiris. “The only way we’re going to solve this problem is with some kind of ring-fencing where there is clear allocation of authority over which assets and which liabilities will be adjudicated and controlled by which regulatory entities. We can’t have a completely fluid international balance sheet, it’s simply not pragmatic. My view is that international financial institutions can have operations that are international but they have to have legal entities that are well-defined within national borders.” Rep. Royce is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, with membership on both the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and Housing and Insurance Subcommittee.
07.23.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) Chairman Debbie Matz on her support of H.R. 1422, the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act, as well as action by Congress on clarifying field of membership rules at a Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee hearing entitled “National Credit Union Administration Operations and Budget." "I want to thank the NCUA for its recent efforts in working to provide regulatory relief to credit unions that are sound, safe, and stable. I think doing so will be beneficial not only to credit union members, but also to the American economy. I also appreciate your testimony today in support of legislation that Mr. Meeks and I have crafted to provide relief to credit unions from the member business lending cap. As you express, particularly for smaller credit unions, the current statutory cap 'makes it very difficult or impossible to successfully… support the small business community,'" began Rep. Royce. "While your testimony specifically cites your support for this bill H.R. 1188, the Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act, I also want to get your thoughts on H.R. 1422, the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act. As you know, this bipartisan bill would correct the disparity – between banks and credit unions – in the treatment of loans made to finance the purchase of 1- to 4-unit, non-owner-occupied residential dwellings. I see this is a simple, straight-forward fix; especially when you consider the potential positive impact in helping finance investment in multifamily and affordable housing. Chair Matz, would the NCUA support this? Do you see a difference between 1-to 4-unit loans and commercial business loans?" asked Rep. Royce. "Thank you, and thank you also for sponsoring the IOLTA parity bill. Yes, we certainly support that legislation and in fact in the risk-based capital rule we treat the 1-to-4 residential units as consumer loans rather than business loans, but that's as far as we can because of the statute. So we would welcome that relief," replied Matz. "I appreciate your support for that. I also encourage other Members of the Committee to join me in supporting this bill because it would unlock about $11 billion in credit union lending for small business, that's important," said Rep. Royce. "On another front, as you indicated in your testimony, improving the field of membership rule is a priority for the NCUA; you have even set up a separate working group to address regulatory relief needs on this front. I know the NCUA has a proposed rule addressing proposed streamlined field-of-membership procedures, and is working to address issues related to community charters, and occupation charters. My question was, while much of this work can be left to the NCUA alone, is there anything Congress should be doing to address field of membership issues in the statute?" continued Rep. Royce. "Thank you for asking that. Yes, there are several things that can be done, but probably the most impact would be if community charters would be allowed to take on underserved areas. That would help keep the federal charter competitive and would provide relief to a number of community charters which would really like to take on underserved but can't do it. It really makes no sense, I can't figure out any reason for it. We hate to say no but we have no choice," answered Matz. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of Chair Matz here or by clicking on the image below:
07.23.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the House Financial Services Committee announced that it will markup his legislation, the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015, to limit salaries at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac: “Congress needs to put a stop to the planned multi-million dollar paydays at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Holding compensation packages at taxpayer-backed organizations to responsible limits is in the interest of the public trust. I thank Chairman Hensarling for advancing this legislation and look forward to building the bipartisan backing it previously garnered.” Earlier this year, Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director Mel Watt authorized the GSEs to propose new executive compensation plans for the position of CEO that may be as high as the 25th percentile of the market, or approximately $7.26 million a year. This month the GSEs announced that their CEOs would receive $4 million a year compensation packages, a dramatic raise from their current annual salaries of $600,000 at a cap set by former FHFA Director Edward DeMarco. The U.S. Department of the Treasury recently stated it "does not support FHFA’s new approach to CEO compensation at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and urged the agency to reject any increase." White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest has also stated "I think it is entirely legitimate for the executives at those institutions to be subject to compensation limits" when asked about the White House's view on executive raises at the GSEs. The Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015, introduced by Rep. Royce on May 8, 2015, suspends the compensation packages for executives at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and limits salaries to the highest level paid at the FHFA, which was estimated at $255,000 a year by the Congressional Budget Office in 2011. The bill also places non-executive GSE employees on the General Schedule (GS) pay scale, the highest rank being $132,122 per year. The House Financial Services Committee voted on similar legislation, the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2011, on January 17, 2012. The bill passed the committee on a bipartisan vote of 52-4, with current FHFA Director and former Committee member Mel Watt voting against the legislation.
07.21.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement on the fifth anniversary of President Barack Obama's signing of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act: “Aside from enshrining too-big-to-fail, the Dodd-Frank Act ignored the root of the financial crisis by failing to address the duopoly of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Five years later, the government dominates an unstable secondary mortgage market with taxpayers at risk of being tapped for a bailout should we see another downturn. The legacy of Dodd-Frank should be judged not just by what was included in it, but also what was left out of it. Policymakers owe it to the American people to wind down the GSEs before recent history repeats itself." Rep. Royce served as one of the conferees assigned to reconcile differences between the House and Senate versions of the Dodd-Frank Act. He voted against both the House version of the bill and the Joint Conference Committee report that passed the House on June 30, 2010. President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law on July 21, 2010. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, with membership on both the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and Housing and Insurance Subcommittee.
07.21.2015	The office of U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) is hosting a Grant Seminar for nonprofit organizations in and around California's 39th Congressional District. This unique event will allow representatives of these organizations the opportunity to learn effective methods for preparing a grant proposal and application. "Local nonprofits educate, house, and feed many of those in need, and I'm glad to be able to assist them in their mission of building stronger communities and families," said Rep. Royce. Presentations at the seminar include: Grant Readiness by Regeanie Corona of Advancing the Seed, Proposal Writing by Cathleen Kiritz of the Grantsmanship Center, and Federal Opportunities for NPO by Greg Ericksen of the Corporation for National and Community Service. Speakers will discuss how nonprofit organizations can increase their chances of successfully obtaining a grant as well as additional resources available to groups seeking funding. The event is open to the public and will be held on Wednesday, August 12, from 1:00 PM - 4:00 PM at California State University, Fullerton, Steven G. Mihaylo Hall, Room 1406 (2550 Nutwood Avenue, Fullerton, CA 92831). General attendees can RSVP by clicking here. Those interested in further details on the event may contact Alison Martin in Rep. Royce's office at (714) 255-0101 or Alison.Martin@mail.house.gov.
07.16.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Janet Yellen on the need for GSE reform, how the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) designates insurance companies, and the debt crisis in Puerto Rico at the House Financial Services Committee hearing “Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy." “In your first appearance as Fed Chair before this Committee, you commented on the need to move forward with housing finance reform. Do you continue to believe the current state of our secondary mortgage market poses a systemic risk and should Congress and the FHFA be taking steps to share that public risk, backed by taxpayers, with the private sector? Secretary Lew suggested such an approach that would have his support,” began Rep. Royce. “I’ve long said, and my predecessors have as well, we think it would be desirable to see Congress address GSE reform to decide, explicitly, self-consciously, what is the appropriate role of the government in the mortgage market and to try to bring private capital back into the mortgage market," answered Chair Yellen. Royce then questioned Chair Yellen on “concerns about FSOC’s lack of a formalized process for reviewing nonbank financial institutions facing designation.” Specifically, he raised concerns about the designation of insurance companies before FSOC has taken the time to “better understand the insurance industry.” Rep. Royce cited FSOC’s “activities based systemic risk review” of the asset management industry as a possible approach to take to ensuring “all non-bank financial institutions face a similar process for review” at FSOC. Chair Yellen confirmed that an activities-based approach has been taken with regards to asset managers. However, on the designation process for insurers, Chair Yellen stated “going from reviews of individual companies to the activities type of approach… is not something that FSOC, to the best of my knowledge, has discussed.” Rep. Royce has previously raised concerns about the need for more insurance expertise at both the FSOC and the Federal Reserve. To questioning from Rep. Royce about the deepening economic crisis in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Yellen said,"I do not have an informed opinion” on whether the best outcome would be creditors working out a deal without any government intervention. She then restated her past comments that the Federal Reserve “can’t and shouldn’t” be directly involved in bailing out Puerto Rico but should continue to “monitor risks being transmitted to the broader municipal debt market.” Yellen concluded that she is “not seeing signs of contagion” from Puerto Rico. Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of Chair Yellen here or by clicking on the image below:
07.16.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement after voting for H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, a comprehensive plan to reevaluate and renew California's current water infrastructure: “This bill is a constructive solution to alleviate the pain that this historic drought is causing and make sure we are not caught unprepared again. It builds up our water storage capabilities, improves how water is transported around the state, and streamlines the process for the approval of water infrastructure projects. The House has acted and it's now time for the Senate and President to do so.” Rep. Royce is an original cosponsor of the Western Water and American Food Security Act, legislation that will alleviate the effects of the drought in California and the Western United States by ensuring that state and federal agencies use the best science available to maximize water utilization. The bill also requires regulators to provide empirical evidence of claimed disruptions in fish populations and mandates that all options are considered before contracted water that has been paid for is diverted in the ocean. Additionally, the legislation will provide federal regulators with direction and flexibility to capture water during periods of heavier precipitation, maximizing California’s ability to build its water reserves. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives on July 16, 2015, in a bipartisan vote of 245-176. Rep. Royce represents California's 39th Congressional District which encompasses parts of Orange, Los Angeles, and San Bernardino Counties.
07.10.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement after cosponsoring and voting for passage of H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act: "This legislation is a significant step forward in finding cures to the diseases that afflict many Americans, including Alzheimer's, muscular dystrophy, ALS, and epilepsy. Streamlining FDA approval of new drugs and therapies will get these live-saving products to patients faster. More investment in the NIH ensures America remains on the cutting edge in the fight against these illnesses. Enactment of the 21st Century Cures Act means that patients and their families will be better equipped to beat these terrible diseases down the road." There are currently 10,000 known diseases and conditions, but cures and treatments exist for only 500 of them. The bill provides an additional $10 billion to the National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) innovation fund, as well as more resources for the FDA. The Cures Initiative modernizes clinical trials to expedite the development of new drugs and devices, removes regulatory uncertainty in the development of new medical apps, and breaks down barriers to facilitate increased research collaboration. The 21st Century Cures Act permanently cuts mandatory spending and uses the savings to provide five years of dedicated funding for medical research. As a result, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projects the legislation will result in a net spending cut of about $500 million over the next decade. The legislation passed the House of Representatives on July 10, 2015, by a bipartisan vote of 344-77.
07.10.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Chino Hills) questioned Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary Lourdes Castro Ramirez of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Office of Public and Indian Housing on an extension of the Housing Authority of the County of San Bernardino's Moving to Work (MTW) program at today's Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled “The Future of Housing in America: Oversight of HUD’s Public and Indian Housing Programs.” "Your predecessor in your position made a public commitment at a February 2014 Moving To Work Summit in support of extending for 10 years all MTW contracts for public housing authorities with rental assistance utilization rates of 90% or higher. Specifically, last March, she wrote the Housing Authority of the County of San Bernardino, and I’ll quote from here letter – 'I am willing to extend your MTW agreement to your fiscal year ending in 2028, provided your HCV utilization level is at or above 90%.' She continued in that letter, 'An amendment to the MTW agreement is being drafted for those agencies that are already demonstrating a high utilization level, and will be provided as soon as possible,'" stated Rep. Royce. "This amendment hasn’t materialized. In fact, rather than offering a contract extension last fall the Department began to push more restrictive provisions for existing MTW agencies. San Bernardino County has implemented a five-year term limit program for tenants which has increased family incomes and helped many find gainful employment. In fact, in April 2013 and September 2014 their MTW initiatives saw a 24.6% reduction of unemployed household heads and a 52.4% average income jump. The current uncertainty created by HUD threatens this success. Many of these five-year contracts now extend beyond the scheduled 2018 MTW expiration date. San Bernardino does not know whether they will keep their program flexibility past 2018 and whether they can fulfill current commitments to their tenant families," he continued. "Deputy Assistant Secretary, can you explain - particularly since HUD committed to doing this 16 months ago - why MTW agencies like San Bernardino’s have not been granted an extension, provided they are well run, their utilization rate exceeds 90%, and HUD is not disputing their funding formula?" questioned Rep. Royce. “I do want to point out, as mentioned earlier by Representative Waters and Representative Velazquez, it is very important that as we continue to both extend or expand the Moving to Work demonstration, we need to ensure that there is strong language about monitoring and evaluation and that MTW agencies are serving families and expanding housing opportunities. The ongoing discussions that are happening with 39 agencies have enabled us to be able to identify four new things that are important in sharing the success of MTW. One is… updating administrative and legal requirements. The second is ensuring there is a strong evaluation component. The third is addressing funding inequities that effect a few of the agencies. And lastly, that there is strong language about how we’re going to ensure that families are being served,” answered Castro Ramirez. “But when could we expect to see an amendment to the current MTW agreement? That’s the question for me because it does not make sense for HUD to let well-run agencies twist in the wind. My hope was that it could be resolved very expeditiously,” pressed Rep. Royce. “Our hope is that it could also be achieved, Representative Royce. In fact, we have provided the draft contract language to all 39 agencies just in the last two weeks,” replied Castro Ramirez. “So maybe in a couple of months? What do you think?” concluded Rep. Royce. “We are hoping that that can be done. We’ve provided the contract language that includes these four principles that I’ve just outlined for you,” finished Castro Ramirez. Click here or on the image below to watch the exchange:
07.09.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement after voting for passage of H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015: "As this historic drought continues, Congress needs to revamp how we respond to wildfires to better protect our citizens and their property. This bipartisan bill streamlines federal efforts to combat wildfires by improving forest management, allowing FEMA to coordinate with the Forest Service when responding to disasters, and fixing the currently broken funding system for fighting fires. The bill also encourages swift reforestation after large wildfires which will help preserve property values for California's homeowners as well as the natural beauty of our state." The Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015 utilizes tools that the United States Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management can implement immediately to reduce the threat of catastrophic wildfire and insect infestations, mitigate damage to municipal watersheds, and swiftly harvest wildfire-killed trees to pay for post-wildfire reforestation. The bill also creates a separate emergency funding account for fire response. This funding structure mirrors existing federal funding mechanisms for responses to other natural disasters, and would prevent borrowing from other agencies such as the U.S. Forest Service or U.S. Department of the Interior. Since 2000, these agencies have run out of money to fight emergency fires eight times. Under this bill, routine wildfire fighting costs, which make up about 70% of the cost of wildfire suppression, would continue to be funded through the normal appropriations process. Larger fires, which account for approximately 1% of all wild land fires, would be treated like similar natural disasters that are funded through emergency disaster funds. The legislation passed the House of Representatives on July 9, 2015, with Rep. Royce's support.
07.09.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned witnesses on the need to reform the Office of Financial Research (OFR) at today's House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “The Dodd-Frank Act Five Years Later: Are We More Stable?” "The Office of Financial Research was set up to 'look around corners' and identify potential systemic risks, improve standardization of finalization data and fill gaps in data collection, and support the FSOC in its work. Mr. Atkins, as you know, the OFR preformed an analysis of the asset management industry at the request of the FSOC in order to determine if asset management firms should be designated as SIFIs and subjected to oversight by the Federal Reserve," began Rep. Royce. "The OFR’s conclusions were described by SEC Commissioner Gallagher as, in his words, 'fundamentally flawed,' and the inevitable results of the OFR not only 'inaccurately defin[ing] and describe[ing] the activities and participants in the asset management business,' but also 'analyzing the purported risks posed by asset managers in a vacuum instead of in the context of the broader financial markets.' Mr. Atkins, do you think this work of the OFR was flawed?" questioned Rep. Royce. "Absolutely. I thought it was a travesty actually. You couldn't even describe it as scholarship, it was riddled with errors," replied Paul S. Atkins, Chief Executive Officer of Patomak Global Partners, LLC, and the former Commissioner of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). "Last year, Congressman Murphy and I put forward a bipartisan bill, the Office of Financial Research Accountability Act. Members of this committee on both sides of the aisle have heard constant criticism about the quality of research at the OFR and lack of real coordination between the Office and federal financial regulators. The bill would address these issues, I think, in a very thoughtful way. The bill as drafted would require the OFR to submit for public notice and comment an annual report that details the Office’s work for the upcoming year. Additionally, the bill would require the OFR to coordinate with financial regulators when they conduct future studies. Would you support these balanced, bipartisan reforms to the Office?" asked Rep. Royce. “Yes, that’s a great start,” replied Atkins. Click here or on the image below to watch the exchange:
07.08.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned Satish Kini, Partner at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, on the federal government's use of a $50 billion threshold when regulating the financial system at today's Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee hearing entitled “Examining the Designation and Regulation of Bank Holding Company SIFIs." "I am increasingly concerned about what Mr. Harris described as the 'diminishing returns' of increased regulation. When a regional bank is spending $200 million on compliance projects and hiring 500 additional non-loan officer staff, it really makes you question who is benefiting. Certainly not the customer looking for a loan to build a home, to start a business, or to pay for a child’s education. A lot has already been said today – from Members on both sides of the aisle - about how the current $50 billion threshold for enhanced prudential standards is the wrong one," began Rep. Royce. "Mr. Kini, in your testimony you describe how this is not the only place that the number has been applied – in fact it has become what you termed 'a systemic risk lodestar for the federal financial regulatory agencies.” Where else has this been applied? And under today’s regulation, what is the difference between being a $49 billion bank and $51 billion bank?" asked Rep. Royce. "I think you're exactly right. The $50 billion dollar threshold is now used in a number of different contexts beyond what is dictated in Section 165. Regulators have dictated that certain enhanced compliance requirements apply in the regulations under the Volcker Rule for $50 billion banking entities. There's no statutory directive to do that but this $50 billion concept is embedded there and it's embedded in certain governance and risk management standards that the comptroller of the currency has adopted," replied Kini. "The regulators are looking at Section 165 and pointing to it and saying that Congress made a choice here on $50 billion so we're going to adopt a $50 billion threshold as well… I think they have in various contexts used $50 billion elsewhere where there's no requirement to do so and in some of those cases like the Volcker Rule there's harder standards than fifty or below,” continued Kini. "Have other countries around the world adopted the bright line $50 billion asset-based threshold? Also, did the Federal Reserve advocate this approach when the Basel Committee was designing its methodology for determining systemic risk regulation?" concluded Rep. Royce. "I'm not aware that the Federal Reserve advocated for the $50 billion, as a matter of fact the Basel Committee uses a much more nuanced indicator-based approach when it looks at globally systemically important banks. When the Federal Reserve has considered mergers under its bank holding company authority and has been directed by Dodd-Frank to look at systemic importance, it too uses a much richer, nuanced analysis which suggests that when the Federal Reserve is not directed to use the $50 billion it too would use a more nuanced approach and much richer analysis to determining systemic importance," answered Kini. Click here or on the image below to watch the exchange:
07.01.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement in reaction to newly announced $4 million annual target compensation packages for the CEOs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac: "Multi-million dollar salaries at Fannie and Freddie are egregious as American taxpayers continue to bear the risk for the GSEs. We appear to be tip-toeing back to a permanent quasi-state for our secondary housing market with private market compensation levels backed by taxpayers. I look forward to working with Chairman Hensarling to legislatively rein in executive salaries at these government-backed monopolies, a proposal that has won bipartisan support in the past." In May, Rep. Royce introduced H.R. 2243, the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015, to suspend the 2015 compensation packages for executives of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in light of Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director Mel Watt directing the GSEs to submit proposed executive compensation plans for the position of CEO that may be as high as the 25th percentile of the market, or approximately $7.26 million a year. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee with membership on both the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee.
06.25.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement after the introduction of H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, a comprehensive plan to reevaluate and renew California's current water infrastructure: “It makes no sense that we Californians flush water down the river when it rains and scratch our heads when we run in to a water shortage. It's time to start thinking and planning ahead of a drought crisis. The bill introduced today provides emergency and long-term water supplies to families and farmers, increases our water storage capacity, and streamlines the permitting process for critical water recycling and reuse project approvals. Our current system of moving water from the North to the South is slow and ineffective; this bill fixes that so more water is pumped to Southern California during wet months for use in dry months. I look forward to working with my House and Senate colleagues to get this bill signed into law.” Rep. Royce is an original cosponsor of the Western Water and American Food Security Act, legislation that will alleviate the effects of the drought in California and the Western United States by ensuring that state and federal agencies use the best science available to maximize water utilization. The bill also requires regulators to provide empirical evidence of claimed disruptions in fish populations and mandates that all options are considered before contracted water that has been paid for is diverted in the ocean. Additionally, the legislation will provide federal regulators with direction and flexibility to capture water during periods of heavier precipitation, maximizing California’s ability to build its water reserves. Rep. Royce represents California's 39th Congressional District which encompasses parts of Orange, Los Angeles, and San Bernardino Counties.
06.24.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) welcomed Hailey Shi of Diamond Bar High School, the winner of California's 39th Congressional District's Congressional Art Competition, to our nation's capital as she was recognized alongside competition winners from across the United States: "The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity for the talented young people of California's 39th Congressional District to showcase their creative skills. Hailey Shi is an incredibly bright young woman that is representative of the excellent students our communities' parents, teachers, and schools help foster," said Rep. Royce. Shi, a resident of Walnut, has her artwork "Flying with Hope" displayed in the United States Capitol with winning pieces from each Congressional district.
06.22.2015	Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Dan Donovan (R-N.Y.), Glenn Grothmann (R-Wisc.), Pete Olson (R-Texas), and Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) sent a letter to the U.S. Department of Education and U.S. Department of Justice concerning the recent complaint filed by over 60 Asian-American groups against Harvard University alleging discrimination against Asian American applicants. "Being Asian American should not be an obstacle to receiving a top university education. It’s sad I have to make that clear in 2015. We should be encouraging and inspiring our children to excel, not telling them their academic performance and merits are less important than their ethnicity," said Rep. Royce. "I look forward to a timely response to my inquiry." Text of the letter can be read here or below: June 22, 2015 Catherine Lhamon Assistant Secretary Office for Civil Rights U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202-1100 Vanita Gupta Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Civil Rights Division U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Assistant Secretary Lhamon and Assistant Attorney General Gupta: We are writing you regarding a recent complaint jointly filed by over sixty Asian-American associations from across the country with the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights and U.S. Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division concerning Harvard University’s continued and systematic discrimination against Asian-Americans during its admissions process. We urge you to review their complaint with full and fair consideration consistent with applicable law, rules, and regulations, and support you taking immediate actions you deem warranted to protect Asian-American college applicants against any infringements on their constitutional rights or equal protection under the law. We believe that a robust and extensive investigation of their complaint is necessary and could reveal that other institutions of higher education in addition to Harvard University exercise admission quotas that unambiguously and systemically limit the admission of Asian-American students, similar to the well-documented admission quotas administered in the 1920s to limit the admission of Jewish students. The discrimination alleged by the complaint is indefensible, improper, and immoral. We must ensure that our nation’s universities are not excluding applicants for admission simply based on their race, behavior that is inconsistent with the ideals of our nation’s founding. Please thoroughly review the material and concerns provided to you in the complaint filed on May 15, 2015, by the Coalition of Asian-American Associations. We have a continuing interest in a resolution of this complaint and look forward to learning about the results of your investigation. Sincerely, Ed Royce Member of Congress Dana Rohrabacher Member of Congress Pete Olson Member of Congress Glenn Grothman Member of Congress Dan Donovan Member of Congress
06.18.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement on passage of the Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2015 (H.R. 160) through the U.S. House of Representatives after voting for the bill: "This tax is an unnecessary barrier to the creation of the high tech, high paying jobs that characterize Orange County’s medical device manufacturing sector. The tax also makes lifesaving medical devices more costly for the patients and families who depend on them." The Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2015, of which Rep. Royce is an original cosponsor, would eliminate the 2.3 percent excise tax imposed on the sale of medical devices that was enacted in 2013 as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The Medical Devices and Diagnostic Equipment manufacturing sector provides over $21 billion in total economic activity to the Southern California economy while supporting over 102,000 jobs that pay in excess of $7.4 billion in salaries, wages, and benefits. In Orange County alone, it is estimated that 22,531 people worked in the Medical Devices and Diagnostic Equipment sector during 2013, contributing $11 billion of economic activity with an average wage of $106,712 per year. Rep. Royce represents California's 39th Congressional District, which includes the municipalities of Fullerton, Brea, Yorba Linda, Placentia, and Buena Park.
06.17.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned United States Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew at the House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled "The Annual Report of the Financial Stability Oversight Council” on the current status of the GSEs and the need to reform them. "The false narrative that is perpetuated is that the taxpayers have been repaid [by the GSEs], it’s time to end conservatorship, and return the GSEs to the control of shareholders," said Rep. Royce. "From your comment earlier, I assume you disagree with this narrative, and agree with the conclusion of the [New York] Fed that failing to work to wind down the GSEs and give space for private capital to come in would be a ‘colossal missed opportunity to put U.S. residential mortgage finance on a more stable long-term footing.’" “I totally agree… the risk is being borne by taxpayers on an ongoing basis and the conservatorship is not over," answered Secretary Lew. "I would only add one additional thing to what I said earlier which is that the damage done to our economy by the housing crisis was far more than the simple amount of money that was put into the GSEs and I think Americans are still healing from the pain of that financial crisis. So I think that the right thing is to do GSE reform and get on to a new restructured system, but it is not the right time to be talking about ending the conservatorship and paying dividends.” "I think we can move forward together on that GSE reform concept. I’ve publicly endorsed reforms that would increase private sector participation in the secondary housing market, that would decrease taxpayer exposure to future losses, and limit disruption to the housing market. But I think if you look at the particulars, more risk sharing is something that could be done to create a lot of space here; a Common securitization platform is something that works for the GSEs and then brings in private capital to use that platform ; and a common residential mortgage backed security that would be a good start for Congress to pass this year if I have your thought on that," continued Rep. Royce. "The items that you’ve just mentioned are the kinds of things we’ve been talking about and thinking about. Obviously there is a Common Securitization Platform being built, it’s something that could be expanded beyond the GSEs and be available more broadly. I think that the more we’re able to lay a foundation that a private securitization market could be built on, the better off we’d be," replied Secretary Lew. The section of the March 2015 Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Report on “The Rescue of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac” cited by Rep. Royce in his oral questioning of Secretary Lew can be found here. Click here or on the image below to watch Rep. Royce’s questioning and Secretary Lew’s answers:
06.16.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, questioned witnesses on our nation's readiness to defend against foreign cyber-attacks at today's House Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hearing entitled “A Global Perspective on Cyber Threats." Rep. Royce began his time by posing a “short but complicated question," asking the witnesses, "What constitutes an act of war in cyberspace?" "If it does affect our national and economic security, and it's driven by a nation state actor, Article 5 could be triggered. For example in a NATO context, if Russia engaged in a computer network attack against Lithuania, that doesn't have to be a military attack, it can also be on civilian infrastructures," responded Mr. Frank J. Cilluffo, director of The George Washington University's Center for Cyber and Homeland Security. "Who in the Administration decides what is an act of cyberwar, or cyberterrorism, or cyber vandalism as the President called that Sony act... who makes that decision in terms of differentiating how we designate one of these assaults?" continued Rep. Royce. "From what I've seen, it's the President's call," answered Mr. Richard Bejtlich, Chief Security Strategist at FireEye, Inc. "Are we at that point where we need to consider this in terms of our national security in the same way during WWII that it dawned on us that we needed a separate branch of the service, the Air Force, in order to handle a new mode of warfare?" concluded Rep. Royce. "It really is about delineating the Title 10 activity within our armed services community. I think some of the intelligence activity trumps some of the Title 10 activity. I see CyberCom being firstly a full combat-and-command, not part of strategic command, and also more in a Title 10 hat than a Title 50 hat coupled with NSA." Click here or on the image below to watch the exchange:
06.11.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro on the need for housing finance reform and the exodus of bank lenders from the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) program at today's House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “The Future of Housing in America: Oversight of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.” Today's hearing follows both Rep. Royce and Secretary Castro keynoting National Journal's "Sustainable Homeownership: The Future of Housing Finance" forum last week during which Rep. Royce endorsed aspects related to housing finance reform of U.S. Senator Richard Shelby's (R-AL) regulatory relief bill, the Financial Regulatory Improvement Act. "I wanted to get your take on... an increase in private sector credit risk sharing by the GSEs... the creation of a truly Common Securitization Platform which allows for issuance of mortgage-backed securities other than the GSEs, and the development of a common residential mortgage-backed security by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. I thought I would just give you the floor to discuss how this might bring private sector capital back into the market and how we might work together to achieve these goals as kind of a building block," said Rep. Royce to Secretary Castro. "Housing finance reform has been a long and winding road I think it's fair to say but the Administration is supportive of housing finance reform. In fact I think there's agreement on some of these issues. The President has made very clear that he does have an interest, as I think all Americans do, in taking taxpayers off the hook in the event that God forbid we did experience the same kind of housing crisis we did go through. Agreed that we can find ways to introduce more private capital into the market. With respect to proposed legislation, I think there's some common principles that are the foundation to build on and we look forward to working with you," said Secretary Castro. "We do have a situation where the FHA market share for large banks has recently been cut in half from 61% to 33% and I know that is a concern. Non-banks have increased now, they were 24% and now [several years later] they are 51%. Is this troubling, and do you think legal uncertainty maybe is part of the problem in terms of getting the traditional lenders more involved here and what about the need for a greater certainty around the rep and warranty framework here and looking at that as a way of bringing capital back in?" continued Rep. Royce. "Yes, we are looking at that. We believe it makes sense to take reasonable steps to create more business certainty for lenders. I know this is something that Director Mel Watt at FHFA has worked on, is working on now, it's something that we're working on that's called Blueprint for Access to Credit [for American Families]. We hear from lenders about the uncertainty that does exist regarding potential liability. We look forward to being able to create greater certainty that will help open up the credit box reasonably for responsible Americans to get access to credit." "Given the percentage of erosion here in market share and especially the fact that it's thinly capitalized non-banks that are coming in, I think that it needs to be addressed," concluded Rep. Royce. Click here or on the image below to watch the full exchange:
06.08.2015	Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) publicly released their letter to the U.S. Department of Education and U.S. Department of Justice concerning the recent complaint filed by over 60 Asian-American groups against Harvard University alleging discrimination against Asian American applicants. Reps. Royce and Rohrabacher have asked every member of the U.S. House of Representatives to sign the letter before sending it on June 22, 2015: "The discrimination by elite American universities against Asian-American students is wrong and an offense to our Constitution’s 14th Amendment which offers citizens equal protection under the law. I argued against SCA-5 which would have directed public universities in California to prioritize race during the application process and I am leading my colleagues in contacting the federal government to urge a swift review of this complaint," said Rep. Royce. "We should be encouraging and inspiring our children to excel, not telling them their academic performance and merits are less important than their ethnicity." "This is not just an issue for Asian-Americans. Those who do the best job should get the best positions and what we have now is an insidious form of discrimination that has caused harm to individuals simply because of their race,” said Rep. Rohrabacher. Text of the letter is below: June 22, 2015 Catherine Lhamon Assistant Secretary Office for Civil Rights U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202-1100 Vanita Gupta Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Civil Rights Division U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Assistant Secretary Lhamon and Assistant Attorney General Gupta: We are writing you regarding a recent complaint jointly filed by over sixty Asian-American associations from across the country with the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights and U.S. Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division concerning Harvard University’s continued and systematic discrimination against Asian-Americans during its admissions process. We urge you to review their complaint with full and fair consideration consistent with applicable law, rules, and regulations, and support you taking immediate actions you deem warranted to protect Asian-American college applicants against any infringements on their constitutional rights or equal protection under the law. We believe that a robust and extensive investigation of their complaint is necessary and could reveal that other institutions of higher education in addition to Harvard University exercise admission quotas that unambiguously and systemically limit the admission of Asian-American students, similar to the well-documented admission quotas administered in the 1920s to limit the admission of Jewish students. The discrimination alleged by the complaint is indefensible, improper, and immoral. We must ensure that our nation’s universities are not excluding applicants for admission simply based on their race, behavior that is inconsistent with the ideals of our nation’s founding. Please thoroughly review the material and concerns provided to you in the complaint filed on May 15, 2015, by the Coalition of Asian-American Associations. We have a continuing interest in a resolution of this complaint and look forward to learning about the results of your investigation. Sincerely, Ed Royce Member of Congress Dana Rohrabacher Member of Congress
06.03.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced his 2015 United States service academy appointments from California's 39th Congressional District today. Later this week, Rep. Royce will host a reception for the students to congratulate them on their anticipated matriculation to some of our nation's most prestigious academic institutions and thank them for their commitment to serving in the armed forces. "It is an honor to nominate these students for acceptance to a U.S. service academy. These young people are stellar students, community leaders, and patriots," said Rep. Royce. "I'm excited to see their future accomplishments, and am confident that they will have successful careers in the military and beyond." The following is a list of students from California's 39th Congressional District who received a service academy nomination from Rep. Royce and will be attending a service academy later this year. Student hometowns and high schools or civilian undergraduate institutions are also included: United States Air Force Academy Esther S. M. Kim, Buena Park, California Virtual Academy Scott H. McDill, Chino Hills, Walnut High School Mathew S. Sheikh, Fullerton, Troy High School Jonathan A. Williams, Placentia, Pacifica High School Kathryn D. Clark, Hacienda Heights, Los Altos High School United States Coast Guard Academy Jason Hao, Hacienda Heights, San Marino High School Adrian Chau, Rowland Heights, John A. Rowland High School Helen Oh, Walnut, John A. Rowland High School Chasse Sodemann, Chino Hills, Ontario Christian High School United States Military Academy Daniel J. Castro, Diamond Bar, Diamond Bar High School Caleb H. Lim, Diamond Bar, Diamond Bar High School Dakota B Millsap, Yorba Linda, Yorba Linda High School, California State University, Fullerton and the Marion Military Institute Samantha N. Polen, Yorba Linda, Esperanza High School and California State University, Fullerton Ashley J. Yoo, Placentia, Yorba Linda High School United States Naval Academy Lysabela M. Amaya, Brea, Brea Olinda High School and Naval Academy Preparatory School Brendan M. Ferrer Green, Fullerton, Troy High School and Kiski School Hannah J. Hirzel, Fullerton, Orange Lutheran High School All U.S. service academy applicants must receive a Congressional nomination. The application process is rigorous, based on a candidate's academic achievement, athletic ability, extracurricular activities, and community service.
05.19.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015, legislation that the President is anticipated to sign into law: "The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act extends protections to the victims of trafficking long after they are freed, and allows law enforcement officers to use new investigative tools to get more offenders off our streets. Today marks a major step in the effort to stamp out human trafficking, and I'll keep up the fight to end this crime both here at home and abroad.” The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act protects victims by requiring traffickers to be treated as violent criminals for purposes of pre-trial release, monitoring, and detention. It also recognizes child pornography production as a form of human trafficking and ensures that victims have access to crucial support services. As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Rep. Royce earlier this year oversaw passage of three pieces of anti-trafficking legislation by the Committee. Rep. Royce also authored H.R. 400, the Trafficking Prevention in Foreign Affairs Contracting Act, an anti-trafficking measure to ensure U.S. tax dollars do not support human trafficking among the thousands of foreign workers the U.S. government employs overseas. In 2013, Rep. Royce launched a Human Trafficking Congressional Advisory Committee (HTCAC) to address human trafficking concerns, as well as offer policy recommendations. The HTCAC is comprised of victims’ rights groups, local and federal law enforcement agencies, and community advocates, and is actively working to combat human trafficking in Southern California.
05.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) questioned representatives from both the financial services and retail industries on consumer data security, data breach notifications, and state sponsored cyber attacks during the House Financial Services Committee hearing “Protecting Consumers: Financial Data Security in the Age of Computer Hackers." "When a data breach occurs, how should we allocate financial responsibility for that breach? For example, if a breach of sensitive customer information occurs at a financial intuition and it is shown that the institution did not protect the customer information as Gramm-Leach-Bliley requires, do you agree that the financial institution should be responsible for the cost of that breach?" questioned Rep. Royce. "We believe that the entity that was negligent, or entities plural, should be responsible for their negligence," replied Tim Pawlenty, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Financial Services Roundtable. "Should the same be true of a merchant? If there is a breach with a high-likelihood of harm being done to the consumer should the merchant be responsible for the costs associated with that breach to the extent that the entity has not met minimum security requirements?" continued Rep. Royce. "Absolutely," replied Pawlenty. "We do agree, because that is what happens today. Today, merchants are obligated if they have a breach, by contracts signed with the card networks, to reimburse the banks for the fees associated with the costs in addition to fees that they pay every day... Those fees are being paid constantly," added Brian Dodge, Executive Vice President of Communications and Strategic Initiatives at the Retail Industry Leaders Association (RILA). "It has been proposed by some that consumers should receive notification of a data breach directly from the company that was breached, even if they have no relationship with that company. Wouldn’t a simpler solution be to allow the notice to come from the company that the consumer gave their financial information to directly – while also allowing the company to identify where the breach occurred if it is known? It is my understanding that there is currently no law, no contractual obligation that would preclude a financial institution from identifying the institution where a data breach occurred when sending out a notification to their customers. Is that your understanding as well?" "Yes... if there is a breach that unfolds in the early hours and days with a great deal of uncertainty and sense of crisis around it, as people think about what they are going to say publicly in sending out notices, particularly if it incriminates another company, you want to make very sure that you are articulating that correctly and accurately for fear of liability. And so I think some companies don't name names in those initial notices over some of those concerns." Rep. Royce, who is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, also raised questions about cyber attacks on American institutions that originate from or are funded by foreign governments. "What can or should be done... to hold these countries accountable in situations like this, and how do we do that?" asked Rep. Royce. "To the extent that this has evolved into an international dynamic... the United States is going to have to respond in kind at a level of country to country discussions and potential consequences. As you may know under current law the only entity that can fire back, if you will, in cyberspace is the U.S. government. Private entities can not 'hack back' so the deterrent or consequences for this potential behavior can only come from the U.S. government," answered Pawlenty. Click here or on the image below to watch the full exchange:
05.08.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) introduced H.R. 2243, the Equity in Government Compensation Act of 2015, to suspend the 2015 compensation packages for executives of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in light of Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director Mel Watt directing the GSEs to submit proposed executive compensation plans for the position of Chief Executive Officer that may be as high as the 25th percentile of the market, or approximately $7.26 million a year: “I'm deeply disappointed with Director Watt's decision to open the door to multi-million dollar salaries at the GSEs, which continue to be propped up by taxpayers. It's imperative that we reform and wind down the failed duopoly of Fannie and Freddie before their model of public losses and private gains once again places taxpayers at risk." Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee with membership on both the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee.
05.06.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced Hailey Shi of Diamond Bar High School the winner of his Congressional Art Competition, which received nearly 100 entries from high school students across California's 39th Congressional District: "The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity for the talented young people of our community to showcase their creative skills and I'm happy to announce Hailey the winner," said Rep. Royce. "Congratulations to all of the artists that submitted their work for the community to enjoy." Michelle Guo of Troy High School received second place for her work “The Places We’ll Go,” and Andres Gonzalez of Los Altos High School was recognized with third place for his piece "Boyhood." Shi, a resident of Walnut, will have her artwork "Flying with Hope" displayed in the United States Capitol alongside winning pieces from each Congressional district across the country. Shi and her family will also join Rep. Royce in Washington for a special reception honoring contest winners. Rep. Royce also posted photographs of each submission on his Congressional Facebook page and asked his fans to choose their favorite submission for the "Fan Favorite" award, which was received by Connie Mach of Diamond Bar High School for her piece "Track."
05.05.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement in reaction to Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director Mel Watt directing Freddie Mac to submit a proposed executive compensation for the position of Chief Executive Officer that may be as high as the 25th percentile of the market, or approximately $7.26 million a year: “At a time when American families are still struggling to find their footing financially, it is absolutely unconscionable that regulators would allow the taxpayer-bailed out Freddie Mac to pay its CEO over $7 million dollars a year. Just last week a stress test of the GSEs showed the possibility of a future taxpayer bailout to the tune of $150 billion, yet FHFA appears to be pursuing the pre-crisis model of private gains and public losses. We can't simply put the blinders on and say the GSEs are just like other companies. We need to move towards a model that allows the private sector to compete on a level-playing field, not one where Fannie and Freddie act like the private corporations with taxpayers on the hook for losses. In the interim, I will be introducing legislation to block this potential hike in CEO pay.” Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee with membership on both the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee.
05.04.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) visited Canyon Hills Junior High School of Chino Hills, where students are participating in the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) Foundation 12th Annual Stock Market Game Capitol Hill Challenge. This 14-week challenge organizes teams of students by congressional district who are investing a hypothetical $100,000 in listed stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and learning the value of saving, investing, and the capital markets as they work together to maximize the return of their portfolios. The national top 10 teams will be recognized at an awards reception in Washington, D.C., this summer. "It's never too early to impart the value of saving for a rainy day or retirement to the next generation, and it's safe to say the students of Canyon Hills Junior High are a step ahead of the game," said Rep. Royce. "Teaching financial literacy in our schools ensures that young people will go on to make responsible borrowing decisions, maximize their earning potential, and be well-prepared for their future." “For over a decade, the Capitol Hill Challenge Stock Market Game has helped students from around the country grow and learn about financial literacy,” said Kenneth E. Bentsen, Jr., SIFMA President & CEO. “Our industry is committed to giving students the necessary tools to build a solid foundation of information regarding investing and saving, so they can one day achieve their financial goals. I’d like to give special thanks to lawmakers like Representative Royce who are making personal visits to engage students on these important issues.” “We thank Congress for its second year of unanimous support of youth financial education through 100% participation in SIFMA Foundation’s Capitol Hill Challenge program, proven to enhance students’ math and economics test scores and students’ and teachers’ personal financial behavior,” said Melanie Mortimer, President of the SIFMA Foundation. “And we commend the personal commitment of Congressman Royce for visiting his Capitol Hill Challenge students and teachers to bring learning to life.” Photographs of Rep. Royce's visit to Canyon Hills Junior High School in Chino Hills can be viewed here.
05.01.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will host a Congressional Art Competition Exhibition for the nearly 100 high school students from the 39th Congressional District of California that submitted an entry to the contest. The winner of the contest will be announced at the exhibition and his or her artwork will be displayed in the United States Capitol alongside winning pieces from every Congressional district across the country: "The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity for the talented young people of our community to showcase their creative skills and I was delighted to receive a record amount of submissions this year" said Rep. Royce. "I look forward to personally congratulating all of the contest entrants and announcing the contest's winner, whose work will be proudly displayed in our nation's capital." The contest and exhibition are a part of a nationwide Congressional Art Competition sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus. The winning submission will be determined by a panel of judges made up of volunteers, including: Veronica Alvarez, Director of School and Teacher Audiences at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art Aimee Aul, Event Coordinator at the Fullerton Museum Center Marsha Judd, Artist and Instructor at California State University, Fullerton Matthew Leslie, Director of Exhibitions at The Muckenthaler Cultural Center Nancy Meyer, Co-curator at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art Event details are as follows: What: Congressional Art Competition Exhibition Location: Fullerton Museum Center Address: 301 N. Pomona Avenue, Fullerton, CA 92832 Date: Tuesday, May 5, 2015 Time: 6:00 P.M. - 8:00 P.M. The exhibition is free to attend and open to both the public and media. Rep. Royce has also posted photographs of each submission on his Congressional Facebook page and has asked his fans to choose their favorite submission. The winning artist of this contest will receive the "Fan Favorite" award.
05.01.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) questioned Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) CEO Richard Ketchum on concerns regarding FINRA’s data collection proposal known as CARDS as well as the recently released fiduciary standard proposed rule from the Department of Labor (DoL) at the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee hearing entitled “Oversight of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority." Rep. Royce voiced his concerns about the CARDS proposal while noting FINRA had since moved back from the proposal and was considering next steps. Ketchum replied that there is now an open question about “a decision on whether we build a new system or not.” Ketchum also concluded that if FINRA does “move forward with a proposal it will go back to our Board, it will be put out as a new notice… with a public comment period before the Board makes a decision to file a rule with the SEC. It will take a considerable amount of time.” While citing the roll-out of a new rule in the United Kingdom to ban commission payments from mutual funds to brokers, Rep. Royce questioned whether a similar negative impact on low and middle income investors would occur in the United States if the DoL’s fiduciary duty proposed rule was implemented. Ketchum agreed that the statistics derived from a study of the British ban “are certainly concerning and should be part of the review of the Labor Department’s rule.” He continued, “I completely agree with your premise that moving to an environment where fee-only advisory accounts are the only effective way to operate in the United States is a very bad step. And that with respect to middle class investors the availability of the choice between fee only and commissions is important. And any steps that are taken should look carefully at ensuring that that type of environment remains in the United States.” Click here or on the image below to watch the exchange between Rep. Royce and Ketchum:
04.16.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) and U.S. Representative Jim Himes (D-CT) introduced H.R. 1849, the Hereditary Hemorrhagic Telangiectasia Diagnosis and Treatment Act of 2015, legislation to improve the diagnosis and treatment of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT): "While a cure does not exist for this terrible disease, early diagnoses and preventative treatment can lessen the suffering of those living with HHT," said Rep. Royce. "The Hereditary Hemorrhagic Telangiectasia Diagnosis and Treatment Act will result in more early detection of HHT, an emphasis on preventative care, lower healthcare costs for families taking care of a patient, and lives saved." “HHT is a serious genetic disorder that can lead to sudden internal bleeding, stroke and disability, and even death. Unfortunately, only nine in ten affected individuals are diagnosed and the only visible warning sign is often a common nosebleed,” said Rep. Himes. “I was pleased to introduce the bipartisan HHT Diagnosis and Treatment Act with Representative Royce to support much-needed federal research and surveillance efforts to improve HHT early diagnoses and interventions. Through the work of the NIH and CDC, we can help reduce suffering for HHT patients, further our nation’s strong commitment to medical research and lower health care costs.” HHT, also known as Osler-Weber-Rendu Syndrome, is a commonly misdiagnosed genetic disorder that afflicts one in 5,000 Americans and over 1.4 million people across the world. A person with HHT may form blood vessels without the capillaries, tiny blood vessels that pass blood from arteries to veins, that are usually present in the body. Those with HHT experience a variety of symptoms, including chronic nosebleeds, disfiguring skin lesions, seizures, and bleeding into major organs such as the lungs and brain. HHT affects individuals of all ages, races and genders and there is currently no cure. The Hereditary Hemorrhagic Telangiectasia Diagnosis and Treatment Act of 2015 creates a federally led and financed initiative for early diagnosis and appropriate treatment of HHT that will prevent the premature deaths of HHT patients and lower health care costs through proven treatment interventions for those who have HHT. Specifically, the bill establishes a HHT resource center within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to provide comprehensive education on, and disseminate information about, HHT to health professionals, patients, and the public. It also directs the CDC to conduct a population study, supplemented by sentinel health care provider or center surveillance, and administrative database analyses, to more accurately identify the prevalence of HHT and hemorrhagic strokes resulting from the disease. Additionally, the legislation requires the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to implement a HHT initiative to assist in coordinating activities to improve early detection, screening, and treatment of people who suffer from HHT. The NIH initiative will focus on advancing research on the causes, diagnosis, and treatment of HHT.
04.14.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on the Department of Labor's (DOL) proposed fiduciary duty rule: “As I review the Administration’s current proposal, I remain concerned that previous iterations of the rule would have limited access to investment advice and education for low-income savers – the very Americans DOL claims it is trying to protect. It’s my hope that the DOL has changed course, but I’m not optimistic. If the Administration insists on applying the failed philosophy of ‘government knows best’ to retirement savings, Congress should intervene to ensure savers can continue to choose how best to plan for their own retirement.” Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and sits on the Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
03.26.2015	Former United States Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will deliver the keynote address at U.S. Representative Ed Royce's (R-Fullerton) 7th Annual Women's Conference on Saturday, March 28, at California State University, Fullerton. Over 1300 women from California's 39th Congressional District and the surrounding areas have confirmed their attendance at the conference. "Secretary Rice is an accomplished diplomat, scholar, and business leader who is often cited as a role model for women around the world. She has lived a life dedicated to public service, and I'm honored that she will keynote the Women's Conference this year," said Rep. Royce. From 2005-2009, Rice served as the 66th Secretary of State, the second woman and first African American woman to hold the post. Rice also served as President George W. Bush’s Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (National Security Advisor) from 2001-2005, the first woman to hold the position. The Women’s Conference, which Rep. Royce has hosted every year since 2009, is a half-day seminar dedicated to giving women the tools and resources necessary to enrich their lives. Past speakers include actress Kristen Bell and former eBay Chief Executive Officer Meg Whitman. In addition to the keynote speech, the conference will include breakout sessions on topics suggested by past conference attendees, such as personal finances, healthy living, infant nutrition, and career advice. Due to overwhelming demand, general RSVPs to the conference are no longer being accepted. Press RSVPs are still being accepted, contact Rep. Royce's Communications Director Saat Alety at saat.alety@mail.house.gov or (714) 255-0101 in order to attend.
03.19.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, recently met with representatives from the 2015 Special Olympics World Games to discuss preparations for this year's event in Los Angeles. Included in the group was Fullerton resident and three-time Special Olympics Gold Medalist Paul Hoffman. "Through the Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities have discovered new strengths, abilities, skills, and successes. I'm looking forward to our community welcoming competitors from around the world and cheering on Team USA at the games this summer," said Rep. Royce. With 7,000 athletes and 3,000 coaches representing 177 countries, along with 30,000 volunteers and an anticipated 500,000 spectators, the 2015 Special Olympics World Games will be the single biggest event in Los Angeles since the 1984 Olympic Games. Many communities in California's 39th Congressional District, including Fullerton, Hacienda Heights, and La Habra, have been designated as official Host Towns for the 2015 Special Olympics World Games. These communities will provide lodging, transportation, food, and practice facilities for athletes and coaches from around the world. “The Host Town program gives each community an opportunity to showcase to the world what makes them special, but more importantly to provide citizens with a better understanding of intellectual disabilities that will lead to acceptance and inclusion for all,” said Patrick McClenahan, President and Chief Executive Officer of the 2015 Special Olympics World Games. Rep. Royce is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and represents California's 39th Congressional District, which encompasses parts of Los Angeles, Orange, and San Bernardino counties.
03.18.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) and U.S. Representative Jared Huffman (D-CA) introduced H.R. 1422, the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act. The bill ensures that loans to finance the purchase of small apartment buildings from both credit unions and banks are considered residential real estate loans: “At a time when the construction sector is still faltering during a tepid economic recovery, policymakers should be doing everything possible to encourage more private sector investment in housing," said Rep. Royce. "The Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act means billions of additional dollars of capital for small businesses and increased competition between lenders, all of which benefits consumers." “Credit unions are critical to local communities across America, and this small fix ensures they will be able to help small businesses access capital, make investments in local economies, and boost the construction and housing sectors," said Rep. Huffman. Specifically, the bill removes loans made for the purchase of non-owner occupied, 1-4 unit dwellings from the calculation of the member business lending (MBL) cap currently imposed on credit unions. If enacted, the Credit Union Residential Loan Parity Act would allow credit unions to lend an additional $11 billion to small businesses, freeing up much needed private sector financing for commercial businesses and rental housing without any costs to taxpayers. Importantly, the bill maintains the ability of the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) to apply stringent underwriting and servicing requirements to these loans, which often depend on rent as a chief contributor towards repayment.
03.17.2015	The office of U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) is hosting a First Responder Federal Grant Supermarket, a unique event that will allow members of local first responder organizations the opportunity to meet personally with federal agencies to discuss their grant needs. "First responders put their lives on the line for us every day and deserve all the support we can offer as they bravely do their jobs," said Rep. Royce. "Fostering stronger partnerships between local first responders and the federal government is integral to ensuring our community remains both safe and secure.” Participating agencies include: the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the U.S. Department of Defense, and the U.S. Department of Justice. The event will be held on Monday, March 30th, from 9:30 AM - 12:30 PM at the Buena Park Community Center (6688 Beach Boulevard., Buena Park, CA 90622). General attendees can RSVP by clicking here. Those interested in further details on the event may contact Alison Martin from Rep. Royce's office at (714) 255-0101 or Alison.Martin@mail.house.gov.
03.10.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement on the addition of Katie Oyama, senior policy counsel at Google and former associate counsel to the Vice President of the United States, to his 7th Annual Women's Conference speaker lineup: "From graduating Berkeley Law with honors to testifying for Congress as an expert on copyright law, Katie had demonstrated excellence every step of her career. I appreciate her joining this year's Conference to share her experiences navigating both the White House and corporate America at a time when women are continuously reaching new heights." The Women’s Conference, which Rep. Royce has hosted every year since 2009, is a half-day seminar dedicated to giving women the tools and resources necessary to enrich their lives. This year's conference will be keynoted by former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and features breakout speakers such as "What to Expect When You’re Expecting" author Heidi Murkoff and celebrity chef Jamie Gwen. A full list of speakers and corresponding biographies can be viewed here. The office of Rep. Royce is currently accepting general admission RSVPs. For more information about the conference and to RSVP, please click here. NOTE: This event is open to the press, but an RSVP is required. Media RSVPs and inquiries can be directed to Rep. Royce's Communications Director Saat Alety at saat.alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
03.02.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) and U.S. Representative Gregory Meeks (D-NY) introduced H.R. 1188, the Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act. The bill increases the member business lending (MBL) cap for qualified credit unions from 12.25% to 27.5%: “Current regulations arbitrarily cap the ability of our nation’s credit unions to lend to small businesses. Main Street businesses looking to expand and hire more workers have suffered as a result,” said Rep. Royce. "The Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act removes this obstacle to lending and ensures that qualified credit unions are better able to support Americans who need loans to start, sustain, or grow their businesses.” “By increasing the business lending cap on credit unions, this bill will create jobs, grow the economy, and help businesses throughout the country,” said Rep. Meeks. “It has long been known that small businesses are the key engine of job growth in this country. But only qualified and responsible credit unions with a history of business lending will be eligible under this bill. This is necessary to ensure the stability and an appropriate balance with our financial institutions.” The Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act increases the MBL cap from 12.25% to 27.5% for certain credit unions. Under the bill, to qualify for the higher cap a credit union must be well capitalized, have a history of member business lending experience, be operating near its current cap for at least one year, and receive approval by the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). Reps. Royce and Meeks, senior members of the House Financial Services Committee, both urge swift action from their colleagues to advance this bipartisan legislation.
02.23.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (CA-39) has announced the start of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for high school students from the 39th Congressional District of California. The winning student's artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol alongside winning pieces from every Congressional district across the country: "The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity for the talented young people of our community to showcase their many creative skills. I encourage all who are interested to make a submission," said Rep. Royce. The contest is a part of a nationwide Congressional Art Competition sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus. All interested high school artists from California's 39th Congressional District may participate in this year's contest by submitting their entries no later than 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, April 29, 2015 to either one of Rep. Royce's district offices: Brea Office (210 W Birch Street, Suite 201, Brea, CA 92821) or the Rowland Heights Office (1380 Fullerton Rd, Suite 205, Rowland Heights, CA 91748). More information on submission guidelines and the contest can be found here. General questions regarding the Congressional Art Competition can be directed to Lauren Pong from Rep. Royce's staff at Lauren.Pong@mail.house.gov or (626) 964-5123.
02.21.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement on the tentative agreement reached between the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) and the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) to end labor negotiations and temporary stoppages at West Coast ports: "The tentative agreement between the shipping companies and the longshoremen is sorely needed by California businesses and workers who have suffered immensely during port slowdowns. I commend the White House on joining the efforts of local leaders to broker a deal and look forward to continuing to advocate for the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach." On January 30, 2015, Rep. Royce was joined by dozens of members of the U.S. House of Representatives in writing a letter to both ILWU President Robert McEllrath and Pacific Maritime Association Chairman and CEO James McKenna that urged both parties to resolve their differences in an effort to avoid a port shutdown. Rep. Royce also contacted both sides of the dispute last December with a bipartisan California Congressional delegation letter that highlighted the economic ramifications that a port shutdown will have on California businesses and workers. Additionally, Rep. Royce kept in contact with both sides of the dispute until an agreement was reached. Rep. Royce represents California's 39th Congressional District, which encompasses parts of Los Angeles, Orange, and San Bernardino counties. He is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee.
02.18.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement on the 7th Annual Women's Conference that his office is hosting in conjunction with the California State University, Fullerton's Philanthropic Foundation: "In addition to Secretary Rice, I look forward to being joined by a wide variety of successful women entrepreneurs, authors, and business leaders during this year's Women's Conference. Speaker topics are selected by past conference attendees and include investment techniques, infant nutrition, and home-buying." The Women’s Conference, which Rep. Royce has hosted every year since 2009, is a half-day seminar dedicated to giving women the tools and resources necessary to enrich their lives. This year's conference will be keynoted by former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and features breakout speakers such as "What to Expect When You’re Expecting" author Heidi Murkoff, celebrity chef Jamie Gwen, and venture capitalist Eva Ho. A full list of speakers and corresponding biographies can be viewed here. The office of Rep. Royce is currently accepting general admission RSVPs. For more information about the conference and to RSVP, please click here. NOTE: This event is open to the press, but an RSVP is required. Media RSVPs and inquiries can be directed to Rep. Royce's Communications Director Saat Alety at saat.alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
02.10.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement on labor negotiations between the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) and the Pacific Maritime Association and the impending shutdown of West Coast ports: “Trade supports over 38 million jobs across America and a shutdown of our nation's West Coast ports will have a devastating ripple effect at a time when our economy is still shaky. Whether it be dairy farms in Chino Hills waiting on feed for their stock or aerospace manufacturers in the City of Industry in need of parts, Southern California businesses depend heavily on the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. These two ports alone handle 40% of U.S. imports and employ thousands of Californians, meaning a shutdown will cause economic harm both locally and nationwide." On January 30, 2015, Rep. Royce was joined by dozens of members of the U.S. House of Representatives in writing a letter to both ILWU President Robert McEllrath and Pacific Maritime Association Chairman and CEO James McKenna that urged both parties to resolve their differences in an effort to avoid a port shutdown. Rep. Royce also contacted both sides of the dispute last December with a bipartisan California Congressional delegation letter that highlighted the economic ramifications that a port shutdown will have on California businesses and workers. Rep. Royce represents California's 39th Congressional District, which encompasses parts of Los Angeles, Orange, and San Bernardino counties. He is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee.
02.03.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement on the Office of Financial Research's (OFR) new website: “While I was impressed by the OFR's nifty new website, I was sad to see a continued lack of reference to its efforts to keep the financial data of millions of Americans secure or any semblance of an annual work plan. Perhaps the OFR should focus more of its resources on improving interagency communication when preparing public reports rather than fancy logos.” Rep. Royce, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced the Office of Financial Research Accountability Act last year alongside U.S. Rep. Patrick Murphy (D-FL), and will advance similar legislation in the 114th Congress. The bill requires the OFR to release an annual work plan outlining the Office’s priorities, mandates the OFR to consult federal regulatory agencies when preparing public reports, and tasks the OFR with developing and implementing a cybersecurity plan, that will be reviewed annually by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO).
01.28.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced that former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will deliver the keynote address at his 7th Annual Women's Conference. The event, held in conjunction with the California State University, Fullerton's (CSUF) Philanthropic Foundation, will take place at CSUF's Titan Student Union Center (800 North State College Boulevard, Fullerton, CA 92831) on Saturday, March 28, 2015. "Secretary Rice is an accomplished diplomat, scholar, and business leader who is often cited as a role model for women around the world. She has lived a life dedicated to public service, and I'm honored that she will keynote the Women's Conference this year," said Rep. Royce. "I look forward to joining many members of our community as we gather to learn from Secretary Rice's unique insights and life experiences." Rice is currently a professor of Political Economy in the Graduate School of Business; the Thomas and Barbara Stephenson Senior Fellow on Public Policy at the Hoover Institution; and a professor of Political Science at Stanford University. From January 2005-2009, Rice served as the 66th Secretary of State of the United States, the second woman and first African American woman to hold the post. Rice also served as President George W. Bush’s Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (National Security Advisor) from January 2001-2005, the first woman to hold the position. Rice served as Stanford University’s Provost from 1993-1999, during which she was the institution's chief budget and academic officer. As Provost, she was responsible for a $1.5 billion annual budget and the academic program involving 1,400 faculty members and 14,000 students. In 1997, she also served on the Federal Advisory Committee on Gender -- Integrated Training in the Military. From 1989 through March 1991, Rice served on President George H.W. Bush’s National Security Council staff. She served as Director; Senior Director of Soviet and East European Affairs; and, Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. In 1986, while an international affairs fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations, Rice also served as Special Assistant to the Director of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The Women’s Conference, which Rep. Royce has hosted every year since 2009, is a half-day seminar dedicated to giving women the tools and resources necessary to enrich their lives. Past speakers include actress Kristen Bell and former eBay Chief Executive Officer Meg Whitman. In addition to the keynote speech, the conference will include breakout sessions on topics suggested by past conference attendees, such as personal finance, healthy living and career advice. Specific breakout session details will be announced in the coming weeks. For more information about Rep. Royce’s annual Women’s Conference, please click here. NOTE: This event is open to the press, but an RSVP is required. Media RSVPs and inquiries can be directed to Rep. Royce's Communications Director Saat Alety at saat.alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
01.27.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) will introduce the Pay Back the Taxpayers Act of 2015, legislation that prohibits Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (GSEs) from diverting funds to the Housing Trust Fund and the Capital Magnet Fund in accordance with the Federal Housing Finance Agency’s (FHFA) interpretation of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (HERA): “We heard directly today from Fannie and Freddie's regulator that while they remain under-capitalized and over-leveraged, it is the right time to start siphoning money away from these taxpayer-backed GSEs to questionable housing groups,” said Rep. Royce. "Anyone who witnessed the financial crisis knows exactly how this will play out. A larger government presence in housing distorts the market and promotes a boom-and-bust cycle that leaves taxpayers holding the bag. Coupled with the recent decision by the FHA to reduce mortgage premiums, it appears that the Administration is taking us in the complete wrong direction when it comes to stabilizing housing markets. The Pay Back the Taxpayers Act will preempt payments from the GSEs to housing advocacy groups and instead reroutes them where they belong: with the taxpayers.” Under current law, the FHFA is required to suspend allocations to the funds if such payments would: 1) contribute to the financial instability of the GSEs; 2) cause the GSES to be undercapitalized; or 3) prevent the GSEs from successfully completing a capital restoration plan. The Pay Back the Taxpayers Act removes any ambiguity under the law and states that no funds from Fannie and Freddie can be used to fund the national Housing Trust Fund while the GSEs are in conservatorship or receivership. In light of FHFA Director Mel Watt’s recent decision to reverse course on the funds’ capitalization, the bill includes a prohibition on any future transfers from the GSEs to the funds and will require any payments that have already been allocated or set aside be instead used to reduce the budget deficit. Rep. Royce questioned FHFA Director Mel Watt at today’s House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “Sustainable Housing Finance: An Update from the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency” as to why he has directed the GSEs to fund these housing groups when the GSEs are over-leveraged and under-capitalized. Click here to watch Rep. Royce’s questioning and Director Watt’s answers. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, with membership on both the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee.
01.22.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) recently received the "Outstanding Friend Award" from the Diamond Bar Friends of the Library: "I am deeply honored to receive this special recognition from the Diamond Bar Friends of the Library, a group of citizens that works tirelessly to better our community and serve its students," said Rep. Royce. "The Friends exemplify what makes Diamond Bar and the surrounding area such a special place, and I will continue to support them however possible." "Over the years, Congressman Royce has championed our mission of promoting literacy in our community and provided unwavering support for our organization. He was instrumental to our hosting of Law Librarian of Congress David Mao, who gave a presentation to over 300 members of the community, leaving a lasting impression on those in attendance," said Ruth Low, President of the Diamond Bar Friends of the Library. "Congressman Royce is truly a champion for the Friends and is most deserving of this very special recognition." The Diamond Bar Friends of the Library is a non-profit, all-volunteer community service group dedicated to supporting the Diamond Bar Library, improving literacy and encouraging the love of reading. Each year, the group gathers to thank and honor individuals who have contributed in an extraordinary way to the library and the cause of literacy in the community. This year the award ceremony will take place on Saturday, January 24, 2015, and Rep. Royce recorded a video message for the event that can be viewed by clicking the image below: Rep. Royce represents California's 39th Congressional District, which encompasses the cities of Diamond Bar, Walnut, and Rowland Heights. He serves as Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee.
01.14.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) and U.S. Representative Rubén Hinojosa (D-TX) introduced H.R. 347, the Facilitating Access to Credit Act of 2015. The bill amends the Credit Repair Organizations Act (CROA) to better allow national credit bureaus to assist consumers trying to improve their credit score, while keeping in place CROA's consumer protections against firms' false claims of credit score manipulation: “The benefits of a good credit score cannot be understated, as anyone who has taken out a mortgage, purchased a car, or signed up for student loans will tell you. The Facilitating Access to Credit Act ensures reputable national credit bureaus can help people who want to turn their credit score around but simply don't know where to start,” said Rep. Royce. “A more financially literate and creditworthy consumer base is good for the economy as hardworking American families save up for those big purchases.” "Having a good credit score can mean the difference between buying a home, a car, or neither," said Rep. Hinojosa. "Credit scores also play an important role in today's economy, but the average consumer sometimes has a difficult time obtaining the information that could help them improve their credit scores. It is my opinion that the national credit reporting agencies are unnecessarily being prevented from providing credit advice to consumers in a timely manner. As a leading advocate for financial literacy on Capitol Hill, I believe that Congress should remove those barriers that hinder consumers from obtaining valuable financial information. I believe that the Facilitating Access to Credit Act does just that while still safeguarding consumers from deceptive practices." CROA has been interpreted broadly by courts to apply to national credit bureaus, even though these organizations were never intended to be included within the statute’s jurisdiction. Signed by President Bill Clinton in 1996, CROA was intended to stop entities who make false claims that they can “fix your credit” by removing negative information from a consumer’s credit history. Credit history information, whether positive or negative, cannot be removed from a consumer’s record so long as it is accurate, therefore making such claims is misleading and dishonest. Because courts have construed the broad definition of a credit repair organization in CROA to include credit bureaus, consumers have to navigate the CROA requirements before a credit bureau can provide individualized feedback about a consumer’s credit score. The most significant barrier is that consumers must currently wait at least three business days from when they sign up for credit education to actually receive any information on how they can improve their credit scores. The consumer cannot waive this waiting period no matter what. A three-day wait makes little sense in the Internet-era and alienates consumers attempting to better their credit scores. The Facilitating Access to Credit Act would exempt well-known and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) supervised organizations such as Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion from CROA limitations that make getting information on improving a credit score needlessly cumbersome. The legislation keeps intact the critical consumer protections of CROA as it opens up the relationship between consumers and trustworthy firms that can assist with credit history repair. Reps. Royce and Hinojosa, both senior members of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced the Facilitating Access to Credit Act of 2015 on January 14, 2015, and urge swift action from their colleagues to advance this legislation.
01.13.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement after cosponsoring H.R. 285, the Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation (SAVE) Act: "Human trafficking is one of the world’s fastest-growing crimes, and sadly it’s happening right here on Orange County streets where young women and children are being bought and sold. I’ll continue to fight to ensure that federal law enforcement agencies are given the tools they need to keep our communities safe and those who profit from trafficking are punished to the fullest extent of the law.” The SAVE Act would make it unlawful to profit from the distribution of advertising that offers a commercial sex act in violation of Section 1591 of the federal criminal code (Section 1591 deals with sex trafficking offenses). The protections included in the SAVE Act apply to two classes of victim: underage children and those who are being forced to engage in commercial sex acts against their will. Furthermore, the offense created by the SAVE Act applies to any form of advertisement; online postings, newspaper classifieds, and billboards would be considered unlawful if the advertiser knows they would lead to sex trafficking. As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Rep. Royce earlier last year applauded passage of eight bipartisan bills through the U.S. House of Representatives to combat international human trafficking, two of which were passed unanimously by the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Rep. Royce also launched a Human Trafficking Congressional Advisory Committee (HTCAC) in 2013 to address human trafficking concerns, as well as offer policy recommendations. The HTCAC is comprised of victims’ rights groups, local and federal law enforcement agencies, and community advocates, and is actively working to combat human trafficking in Southern California. Additionally, Rep. Royce held a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing titled “Local and Private Sector Initiatives to Combat International Human Trafficking” to examine international human trafficking and to assess efforts to combat trafficking at the international, national, state, and local levels. At that hearing, Los Angeles County Supervisor Don Knabe testified for lawmakers that girls as young as ten years old were being trafficked on the streets of Los Angeles County.
01.09.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement after being assigned to the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and Housing and Insurance Subcommittee by Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) of the House Financial Services Committee: "As a longtime advocate of eliminating the failed duopoly that is Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, I look forward to completing the unfinished work of financial reform and passing legislation that returns long-term stability to the housing market. Congress must act to ensure a sustainable housing system that ends taxpayer-funded bailouts and encourages private sector capital, investment and innovation. I'll also aim to reverse Dodd-Frank's failure to harmonize cross-border regulations, bring transparency and accountability to the regulatory bureaucracy, and shore up the financial system's defenses against cyber attacks." The Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee has jurisdiction over U.S. capital markets, the securities industry, and government-sponsored enterprises, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The Housing and Insurance Subcommittee oversees the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and government-sponsored insurance programs such as the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and has been a member since 1995. He also serves as Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
01.07.2015	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement in response to President Obama's announcement of the Federal Housing Administration's (FHA) reduction of annual mortgage insurance premiums by 0.5 percentage points: "The President's decision reflects a race to the bottom between the FHA and the GSEs in which the private sector is crowded out and taxpayers are left holding the bag. The financial crisis is proof positive that an increased government presence in housing distorts the market and promotes the very boom-and-bust cycle we are trying to avoid.” Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and served on the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee during the 113th Congress.
12.18.2014	Today, President Barack Obama signed the Credit Union Share Insurance Fund Parity Act, H.R. 3468, into law. The legislation, originally introduced by U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) last November, passed the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously on May 6, 2014, and the U.S. Senate on December 11, 2014. "The Credit Union Share Insurance Fund Parity Act strengthens national credit unions' commitment to IOLTAs and the legal services they help fund for local communities," said Rep. Royce. "I applaud the President for supporting my efforts to deliver regulatory relief to our nation's credit unions that currently serve over 100 million members.” “I applaud the President for signing this legislation into law because it is critical in ensuring IOLTA's full value in light of any potential credit union failure," ​said U.S. Representative Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), a cosponsor of the legislation. "More importantly, the interest earned on Lawyer Trust Accounts goes to grants improving access to civil justice and legal services for the poor." The Credit Union Share Insurance Fund Parity Act expands federal deposit insurance to include Interest on Lawyer Trust Accounts (IOLTAs) and similar escrow accounts housed within credit unions. Unlike FDIC coverage, the current regulatory opinion of the National Credit Union Administration is that funds held by credit union members on behalf of those who are not federally-insured credit union members will not be insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund. This has created a disparity in coverage when examining IOLTAs. Specifically, the bill amends the Federal Credit Union Act to require that pass-through share insurance coverage be provided when a credit union member holds funds on behalf of a nonmember in an IOLTA or other similar account. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and has served on the committee since 1995.
12.11.2014	Today, the U.S. Senate passed the Credit Union Share Insurance Fund Parity Act, H.R. 3468, by unanimous consent. The legislation, originally introduced by U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) last November, passed the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously on May 6, 2014. "The Credit Union Share Insurance Fund Parity Act strengthens national credit unions' commitment to IOLTAs and the legal services they help fund for local communities," said Rep. Royce. "The universal support for this bill in both chambers of Congress speaks to the merits of establishing parity for the treatment of IOLTAs and other similar accounts regardless of whether they are kept at a bank or a credit union.” "Prior to being elected to Congress, I practiced law for 30 years and in that time I established many Lawyer Trust Accounts for clients. This legislation is critical to ensuring an IOLTA's full value in light of any potential credit union failure," said cosponsor U.S. Representative Ed Perlmutter (D-CO). "More importantly, the interest earned on Lawyer Trust Accounts goes to grants improving access to civil justice and legal services for the poor." The Credit Union Share Insurance Fund Parity Act expands federal deposit insurance to include Interest on Lawyer Trust Accounts (IOLTAs) and similar escrow accounts housed within credit unions. Unlike FDIC coverage, the current regulatory opinion of the National Credit Union Administration is that funds held by credit union members on behalf of those who are not federally-insured credit union members will not be insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund. This has created a disparity in coverage when examining IOLTAs. Specifically, the bill amends the Federal Credit Union Act to require that pass-through share insurance coverage be provided when a credit union member holds funds on behalf of a nonmember in an IOLTA or other similar account. Reps. Royce and Perlmutter, members of the House Financial Services Committee, urge the President to sign this bill into law without delay.
12.11.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement in response to the Federal Housing Finance Agency’s (FHFA) announcement that it will divert money to the Housing Trust Fund and the Capital Magnet Fund pursuant to the Agency’s interpretation of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (HERA): "Contrary to what Fannie and Freddie apologists claim, the GSEs have yet to repay any of the taxpayer-funded bailout funds they received, which makes today's announcement by the FHFA outrageous. Money coming in from the GSEs should go to the taxpayers instead of a slush fund for ideological housing groups to play around with.” Rep. Royce, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, authored the Pay Back the Taxpayers Act of 2014 to specifically prohibit contributions by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the Housing Trust Fund and the Capital Market Fund while the institutions are in conservatorship or receivership. Rep. Royce also joined House Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) in a writing a letter to FHFA Director Mel Watt urging the continuation of the FHFA’s five-year-old policy of suspending contributions to the Housing Trust Fund and the Capital Magnet Fund. Additionally, during consideration of the FY 2015 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, the House unanimously adopted an amendment authored by Rep. Royce which prohibits the GSEs from distributing funds to both the Housing Trust Fund and the Capital Magnet Fund.
12.09.2014	The office of U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will be hosting several events to educate the residents, business owners, and nonprofits of California's 39th Congressional District on pursuing a grant from the federal government. These sessions are open to the public and attendees can RSVP here. Details of the events are as follows: What: Coffee and Grants - informational sessions on pursuing grants from the federal government. Who: The office of U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) Where: Brea Office 210 W. Birch Street, Ste. 201 Brea, CA92821 Rowland Heights Office (Diamond Plaza) 1380 S. Fullerton Road, Ste. 205 Rowland Heights, CA91748 Dates: Monday, January 12th, 2015 (Brea) Tuesday, January 13th, 2015 (Rowland Heights) Wednesday, January 14th, 2015 (Brea) Thursday, January 15th, 2015 (Rowland Heights) Time: 5:30 PM - 6:30 PM Media wishing to attend must ​RSVP to Saat Alety at saat.alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
12.09.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement on passage of the California Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014, H.R. 5781, through the U.S. House of Representatives after voting for the bill: "A radical interpretation of federal law has severely compounded the California drought. By prioritizing the delta smelt to the point of curtailing billions of gallons of water slated to be pumped to local communities, bureaucrats have cost our state thousands of jobs and bankrupted hundreds of Californian farms. The California Emergency Drought Relief Act is a stopgap measure that slows the tragic loss of jobs, crops, and family farms that will fall victim to this drought." The legislation is based on a bill passed by unanimous consent in the Senate and features language developed during negotiations between U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and California House Republicans. The negotiations were intended to resolve the difference between the Senate and House bills passed separately to address California's water shortages. Provisions in the bill, which allow local agencies flexibility when managing water distribution, sunset in eighteen months and set the stage for negotiations towards a permanent solution all the while aiding Californians that are in immediate need.
12.04.2014	Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-CA) and Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) introduced H.R. 5793, the "Cyber Supply Chain Management and Transparency Act of 2014." The legislation will ensure all contractors of software, firmware or products to the federal government provide the procuring agency with a bill of materials of all third party and open source components used, and demonstrate that those component versions have no known vulnerabilities. "As a house is only as strong as its foundation, it's no wonder cyber attacks are on the rise with reports showing 71 percent of software contains components with critical vulnerabilities," said Rep. Royce. "This bill protects our nation's cyber infrastructure by ensuring the building blocks that make it up are secure and uncompromised.” "I have voiced concerns to the government agencies in charge of healthcare.gov that our nation’s cyber infrastructure was vulnerable and not secure,” said Rep. Jenkins. “But the problem is not limited to one website; the entire federal government lacks guidelines for website security. This vital legislation will put the appropriate checks and balances in place to ensure that the government has the tools it needs to create a more sound and secure system for taxpayers.” Additionally, the Cyber Supply Chain Management and Transparency Act of 2014 also takes into account future discoveries of open source components with vulnerabilities, like the Heartbleed vulnerability, and mandates that software applications be patchable, or updatable, when the need arises. For more information, contact: Saat Alety (Royce) at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111 Tom Brandt (Jenkins) at Tom.Brandt@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-6601
12.03.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement in reaction to passage of the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act of 2014 by the U.S. House of Representatives: "Americans with disabilities face incredible challenges every day and saving for the future shouldn’t be one of them. The ABLE Act provides disabled individuals the financial independence to earn a paycheck and save their wages, rights that all Americans deserve.” The ABLE Act would ease the financial burden for individuals with disabilities by creating tax-free accounts that can be used to save for disability-related expenses. These accounts can be created by individuals to support themselves or by families to support their dependents. Expenses would qualify as disability-related if they are for the benefit of an individual with a disability and are related to the disability. They include education, housing, transportation, employment support, health, and wellness costs, as well as costs related to assistive technology and personal support services. Rep. Royce cosponsored the legislation on November 18, 2013, and voted for its passage today. He urges swift action from the Senate on similar pending legislation in order to move this important bill to the President's desk for his signature.
11.20.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) and U.S. Senator Dean Heller (R-NV) issued the following statement after introduction of the Veterans Dignified Burial Act, legislation Rep. Royce advanced in the House of Representatives earlier this year, in the U.S. Senate today: “This legislation will keep the VA accountable for ensuring every veteran receives a proper burial in a timely manner. After all they have sacrificed in service to our nation, the least we can do is make certain they are afforded a dignified burial honoring their commitment to America. I’d like to thank Congressman Royce for taking the lead in the House and hope to see this legislation pass both chambers very soon,” stated Sen. Heller. "Stories of unburied veterans’ bodies are deeply unsettling and these travesties are the result of burial procedure loopholes at the VA. This bill ensures the VA follows up on pending burials 30 days after the deceased has been confirmed as a veteran, so that we know he or she is treated with both dignity and respect," continued Rep. Royce. "While the quality of the healthcare that veterans receive has been in the news lately, our veterans deserve the same attention when it comes to their burials.” The bill calls for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to follow up on pending burials 30 days after a body has been identified as a veteran, which prevents the extended burial waiting times that have plagued the Los Angeles County mortuary. It also requires the VA to submit an annual report to Congress on deceased veterans who were interred after the 30 day reporting period, in an effort to provide lawmakers with a better understanding of the scope of this problem at mortuaries across the country.
11.14.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement after passage of H.R. 5682, a bill to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline, by the U.S. House of Representatives today: "The House has worked in a bipartisan manner to allow construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, and the President should sign this bill when it lands on his desk. The pipeline means thousands of new jobs at a time when our country’s labor participation rate is at a historic low and cheaper energy prices for American families struggling in this tepid economic recovery.” In September of 2008—more than six years ago—Canadian pipeline company TransCanada filed an application with the United States Department of State to construct the Keystone XL pipeline across the U.S.-Canada border. This legislation, authored by Rep. Bill Cassidy (R-LA), authorizes the construction, connection, operation, and maintenance of the Keystone XL pipeline. The bill deems the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement issued by the Secretary of State in January of 2014 on the project sufficient to satisfy all the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA).
11.07.2014	The photo exhibit “Salute to WWII Flying Tigers in China” will be on display in the Capitol Hill Rayburn Foyer on November 13-14, 2014. This exhibition depicts the historical events of the Flying Tigers in some 200 photos in 48 free standing retractable banners. The exhibit is open to the public and media, and is free to attend. U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of House Foreign Affairs Committee, welcomes the exhibition to Capitol Hill and is currently working on a House Resolution honoring the Flying Tigers achievements during WWII. "The outstanding gallantry that the Flying Tigers displayed during WWII is a source of tremendous pride throughout America and is a highlight of U.S.-China relations," said Rep. Royce. "I encourage all to attend this exhibition for the brave pilots and technicians that were willing to sacrifice everything in the name of freedom." "Flying Tigers" is the name for the American Volunteer Groups (AVG), China Air Task Force (CATF) and the Fourteenth Army Air Force (14th AAF), all of which were under the command of United States Army Lieutenant General Claire L. Chennault during the World War II campaign to defend China against invading Japanese forces. The Flying Tigers are notable for their large volunteer presence and distinguished combat record, credited with 296 enemy aircraft destroyed. In 1996, the United States Air Force awarded the Flying Tigers pilots the Distinguished Flying Cross and the ground crew with the Bronze Star Medal. The exhibition is the work of Mr. Pedro Chan, a long-time collector and donor of Flying Tigers items. Mrs. Anna Chennault, widow of LTG Chennault, is an honorary sponsor of the exhibit.
10.24.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement ahead of his participation in the 2nd Annual Keep Calm and Beat H.E.A.T. Rocking & Rally today: “Human trafficking is one of the world’s fastest-growing crimes, and sadly it’s happening right here on Orange County’s streets where young women and children are being bought and sold. I commend OC District Attorney Tony Rackauckas for continuing to raise awareness of both the criminals that commit this heinous crime as well as the innocent victims that need to be returned to their families. As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I’ll continue to ensure that federal law enforcement agencies are given the tools they need to work effectively with local authorities to keep our communities safe.” The event, which is cohosted by the Orange County District Attorney’s office and Chapman University, aims to increase community awareness of the $32 billion a year human exploitation and trafficking industry, the second-largest criminal enterprise in the nation behind narcotics trafficking. The all-day rally will be held at Chapman University today and features food, music, and other entertainment. The rally is open to the public and free to attend. As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Rep. Royce earlier this year applauded passage of eight bipartisan bills through the U.S. House of Representatives to combat international human trafficking, two of which were passed unanimously by the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Rep. Royce also launched a Human Trafficking Congressional Advisory Committee (HTCAC) last year to address human trafficking concerns, as well as offer policy recommendations. The HTCAC is comprised of victims’ rights groups, local and federal law enforcement agencies, and community advocates, and is actively working to combat human trafficking in Southern California. Additionally, Rep. Royce held a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing titled “Local and Private Sector Initiatives to Combat International Human Trafficking” to examine international human trafficking and to assess efforts to combat trafficking at the international, national, state, and local levels. At that hearing, Los Angeles County Supervisor Don Knabe testified for lawmakers that girls as young as ten years old were being trafficked on the streets of Los Angeles County.
10.21.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today convened a meeting of Asian American business owners at his office in Rowland Heights. Topics of discussion during the Asian American Business Owners' Roundtable included the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), increasing small business lending, and construction on the 57/60 confluence: “Asian American business owners have long been a spark for California's economy, and now more than ever Californians need businesses to succeed, grow, and hire,” said Rep. Royce. "The TPP can open up new markets for American goods while sorely needed legislative fixes will free up capital for small business lending. I look forward to pursuing these goals in Washington on behalf of Californian businesses." “I greatly appreciate Congressman Royce's outreach to the business community, and was glad to have the opportunity to discuss with him the challenges that many business owners face in Southern California,” said attendee Harry Leu, Director of the Board at First General Bank. Approximately 20 business leaders attended the meeting from fields as varied as manufacturing, banking, telecommunications, and biotechnology. Specific companies represented included Emerdex Stainless Steel of El Monte, Daisy Tool Corporation of Walnut, and First General Bank of Rowland Heights.
10.09.2014	The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) has awarded U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. The award is based on his voting record in the 113th Congress on issues that are critical to manufacturing in the United States. “Manufacturing has long been the bedrock of a strong American economy as economic opportunity for all is grown through access to the good-paying jobs that manufacturers provide. I’ll continue to ensure our communities in Southern California remain home to innovative manufacturers that create cutting edge products made by American workers,” said Rep. Royce. “Manufacturers in California and throughout the United States are making a comeback, creating jobs, making more products and making them better than ever before,” said NAM Senior Vice President of Policy and Government Relations Aric Newhouse. “However, manufacturers are often disproportionately impacted by decisions made by policymakers in Washington. The NAM is proud to stand with lawmakers like Congressman Royce who understand what is at stake and seek to implement policies that will foster innovation, growth and competitiveness.” The NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence honors members of Congress who demonstrate support for policies that enhance the ability of U.S. manufacturers to succeed in the global economy. In the 113th Congress, 278 lawmakers earned this distinction. Key votes included in NAM’s voting record are selected by executives from small, medium, and large manufactures who serve on the NAM’s Key Vote Advisory Committee. Additional information on the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence can be found here.
09.24.2014	The office of U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) in coordination with the County of Los Angeles Public Library, Diamond Bar Library, and the Diamond Bar Friends of the Library are hosting David S. Mao, 23rd Law Librarian of Congress, for a presentation titled "Serving Digital Natives in Libraries Today." Mao, who manages the world’s largest collection of legal materials, will highlight ways that libraries can grow, adapt, and innovate in order to appeal to a new generation of students that have grown up immersed in modern technology. Rep. Royce will also deliver remarks about the state of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education across our nation's schools and universities. “The digital revolution has touched virtually every part of our lives. Students today have never known life without smart phones and the cloud and access to worlds of information at the touch of a keystroke. While some may suggest this means libraries are less relevant today, I believe this revolution makes libraries and librarianship even more important," said Mao. "I look forward to speaking at Diamond Bar – and am honored to do so on the occasion of its 25th anniversary – about the role of libraries in the 21st century.” “I’m looking forward to hearing Mr. Mao’s presentation on how our libraries can evolve to engage our kids that have grown up with cell phones, iPads, and wireless internet,” said Rep. Royce. “Public libraries that move forward with the technology of the day will continue to attract students who are eager to learn, and Mr. Mao shares my passion for ensuring that the next generation of Americans has the resources it needs to excel academically.” Details of the event are as follows: What: "Serving Digital Natives in Libraries Today” Who: 23rd Law Librarian of Congress David M. Mao U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) Where: AQMD Government Building 21865 Copley Drive Diamond Bar, CA91765 Date: Saturday, October 18, 2014 Time: 2 PM This event is free and open to the public, but general attendees must first make reservations by calling (626) 960-2861. Media wishing to attend must ​​RSVP to Saat Alety at saat.alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
09.18.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement after voting for two large legislative packages aimed at boosting job creation, the Jobs for America Act (H.R. 4) and the American Energy Solutions for Lower Costs and More American Jobs Act (H.R. 2), which both passed the U.S. House of Representatives today: "America is facing a historically low labor participation rate, and many workers who are seeking full-time work are only getting part-time jobs. This tepid economic recovery needs a jump start, which is why I was happy to support the jobs packages that passed the House today to lower energy prices, cut unnecessary regulations for small businesses, and give tax relief to our small business owners who are looking to hire workers. Harry Reid needs to allow a vote on these bills that will ensure better economic opportunities for all Americans." Included in the Jobs for America Act are the Save American Workers Act (H.R. 2575) and the America's Small Business Tax Relief Act (H.R. 4457). The Save American Workers Act re-defines full-time employment under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as 40 hours per week. The 30-hour full-time definition is already resulting in less opportunities, fewer hours and lower incomes for workers. The America's Small Business Tax Relief Act would permanently set small business expensing levels at $500,000, and adjusts them for inflation, which would be predictable and adequate for small businesses’ needs. Expensing helps alleviate two top concerns for small-business owners, reducing tax complexity and improving cash flow, and allows them to hire more freely. Included in the American Energy Solutions for Lower Costs and More American Jobs Act is the Northern Route Approval Act (H.R. 3). The Northern Route Approval Act would allow construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline to move forward immediately, creating thousands of jobs in communities near the construction project and along shipping routes. Additionally, the pipeline would stabilize the cost of energy, which currently eats into business revenues that could otherwise be used to hire workers.
09.17.2014	The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation’s leading small business association, today named U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) a “Guardian of Small Business” for his voting record on behalf of America’s small business owners: “The record shows that Representative Royce is a true champion of small business, supporting the votes that matter in the 113th Congress,” said NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner. “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business. Small-business owners are very politically active – paying close attention to how their lawmakers vote on key business issues and stand by those who stand for them.” “Small businesses are the fuel for America’s economic engine, and I’m proud to be recognized as a fierce advocate for Southern California’s small business owners. When small businesses succeed, our communities and families succeed, as business growth means more high paying jobs for workers,” said Rep. Royce. “I will continue to fight unnecessary regulations and restrictions coming from the federal government that weigh down our small businesses.” NFIB’s “How Congress Voted,” which serves as a report card for members of Congress, was unveiled this week. The report presents key small-business votes and voting percentages for each lawmaker. Those voting favorably on key small-business issues at least 70 percent of the time during the 113th Congress are eligible for the Guardian award. Rep. Royce received a score of 100 percent, indicative of his dedication to ensuring small businesses in California’s 39th Congressional District are able to succeed, grow, and hire. The NFIB is the nation’s leading small business advocacy association, with offices in Washington, D.C. and all 50 state capitals. Founded in 1943 to give small-business owners a voice in public policy-making, NFIB’s policy positions are set by its 350,000 business-owner members. NFIB’s mission is to promote and protect the right of its members to own, operate and grow their businesses.
09.17.2014	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) questioned Treasury Deputy Assistant Secretary Patrick Pinschmidt of the Financial Services Oversight Council (FSOC) at a House Financial Services Committee hearing titled "Oversight of the Financial Stability Oversight Council.” Rep. Royce's questions for Pinschmidt focused on FSOC's work related to the asset management industry, as well as the lack of transparency and public disclosure at FSOC: “While FSOC's step back from rashly designating asset managers as SIFIs was a positive development, it did not address the Council's lack of transparency in the process before and after a vote,” said Rep. Royce. “I was disappointed by Mr. Pinschmidt's non-answers when it comes to some very simple questions about how the Council plans to look at asset managers going forward.” In response to Rep. Royce questions about the lack of public comment on FSOC work related to asset managers and asset management activities Pinschmidt stated, "The Council recognizes the importance of engaging with the public on its work, and that was part of the reason why the Council hosted an asset management conference back in May. We would expect, to the extent that this work moves forward, additional consultation and collaboration." The Dodd-Frank Act empowers FSOC to designate non-bank financial institutions as “systemically important financial institutions,” or SIFIs, which are subject to heightened prudential standards and supervision by the Federal Reserve. Rep. Royce voted against the final version of the legislation in 2010, citing its lack of focus on subprime mortgages that caused the crisis of 2008, failure to eliminate “Too Big To Fail” and future taxpayer bailouts, and restrictions to access to capital for small businesses and consumers. He has been a vocal proponent of increasing transparency, Congressional oversight, and public disclosure at FSOC, and supports legislative efforts to do so.
09.15.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and U.S. Representative Rubén Hinojosa (D-Texas) recently introduced H.R. 5446, the Facilitating Access to Credit Act of 2014. The bill amends the Credit Repair Organizations Act (CROA) to better allow national credit bureaus the ability to assist consumers trying to improve their credit score, while keeping in place CROA's consumer protections against firms' false claims of credit score manipulation: “The benefits of a good credit score cannot be understated, as anyone who has taken out a mortgage, purchased a car, or signed up for student loans will tell you. The Facilitating Access to Credit Act will ensure that reputable national credit bureaus can help people who want to turn their credit score around but simply don't know how,” said Rep. Royce. “A more financially literate and creditworthy consumer base is good for American businesses, the American economy, and hardworking American families saving up for that big purchase.” "Having a good credit score can mean the difference between buying a home, a car, or neither," said Rep. Hinojosa. "Credit scores also play an important role in today's economy, but the average consumer sometimes has a difficult time obtaining the information that could help them improve their credit scores. It is my opinion that the national credit reporting agencies are unnecessarily being prevented from providing credit advice to consumers in a timely manner. As a leading advocate for financial literacy on Capitol Hill, I believe that Congress should remove those barriers that hinder consumers from obtaining valuable financial information." CROA has been interpreted broadly by courts to apply to national credit bureaus, even though these organizations were never intended to be included within the statute’s jurisdiction. Signed by President Bill Clinton in 1996, CROA was intended to stop entities who make false claims that they can “fix your credit” by removing negative information from a consumer’s credit history. Credit history information, whether positive or negative, cannot be removed from a consumer’s record so long as it is accurate, therefore making such claims is misleading and dishonest. Because courts have construed the broad definition of a credit repair organization in CROA to include credit bureaus, consumers have to navigate the CROA requirements before a credit bureau can provide individualized feedback about a consumer’s credit score. The most significant barrier is that consumers must currently wait at least three business days from when they sign up for credit education to actually receive any information on how they can improve their credit scores. The consumer cannot waive this waiting period no matter what. A three-day wait makes little sense in the Internet-era and alienates consumers attempting to better their credit scores. The Facilitating Access to Credit Act of 2014 would exempt well-known and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) supervised organizations such as Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion from CROA limitations that make getting information on improving a credit score needlessly cumbersome. The legislation keeps intact the critical consumer protections of CROA, as it opens up the relationship between consumers and trustworthy firms that can assist with credit history repair. Reps. Royce and Hinojosa, both senior members of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced the Facilitating Access to Credit Act of 2014 on September 10, 2014, and urge swift action from their colleagues to advance this bipartisan legislation.
09.09.2014	Today, U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), and Judy Chu (D-Monterey Park) are pleased to announce the awarding of a $10 million Transportation Infrastructure Generating Economic Recovery Program (TIGER) grant for the 57/60 Confluence Project – Freight Corridor Bottleneck Relief. “From my office in Rowland Heights I can see firsthand the traffic that backs up every day keeping commuters from getting home to their families and bringing trucks delivering trade goods to a halt,” said Rep. Royce. “Prioritizing the 57/60 confluence for transportation dollars is a win-win for public safety and economic growth. I was proud to work with California lawmakers from both parties to alleviate the gridlock on our freeways, and look forward to following this project’s progress closely.” “We are thrilled to welcome these new federal funds which will create local jobs, increase safety, and reduce traffic congestion in our region,” said Rep. Napolitano. “Ensuring the safe transport of goods and people along one of our nation’s busiest corridors is critical, and we thank Secretary Foxx, the County of Los Angeles, and our San Gabriel Valley cities for partnering to continue to fund this effort.” “This grant is great news for San Gabriel Valley residents who rely on the incredibly congested 57/60 corridor,” said Rep. Chu. “Improvements made possible by this grant will alleviate the traffic problems that, in addition to needlessly delaying commuters, create dangerous conditions and contribute to our air pollution. I am glad we will be able to improve our transportation infrastructure to meet the needs of one of the busiest and most used routes in the country.” Royce, Napolitano, and Chu sent a joint letter to Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx following his visit to the region in March, supporting the $10 million TIGER grant funding request submitted by the Cities of Industry and Diamond Bar. The awarded funding will be used for the construction of westbound direction elements of the Project, including the addition of auxiliary lanes before and after the Grand Avenue interchange. These improvements provide independent utility from the eastbound improvements and will increase peak hour speeds and improve safety by reducing weaving movements in the westbound direction. The 57/60 Confluence Project will relieve congestion and improve safety along a regionally and nationally significant goods movement corridor; 340,000 vehicles converge at this interchange every day, weaving through traffic to continue onto their destination. The Project also strongly supports the TIGER Program's goal of investing in transportation projects that better connect communities to centers of employment, education, and services, while stimulating long-term job growth. The TIGER grant will be matched by $4.5 million of local Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority funds, $10.6 million of City of Industry funds, and $9.4 million of Federal Regional Surface Transportation Program funding, for a total of $34.5 million. An additional $2.7 million investment by the City of Industry to finance the engineering design, the total project cost is $37.2 million, and it will generate approximately 5,100 jobs. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
08.21.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) visited the headquarters of X-ray inspection systems manufacturer Astrophysics, Inc., today. Astrophysics is headquartered in the City of Industry, California, where all of its products are assembled exclusively. Rep. Royce toured the company's headquarters, met with Astrophysics' executives and employees, and viewed a live demonstration of the company’s next generation counter-terrorism technology. “Astrophysics is a company making products that keep us all safe, and it's doing it right here in our backyard – growing the economy and creating high paying jobs in Southern California,” said Rep. Royce. “While our country has the best educated and most productive workforce in the world, policies that promote STEM education at our schools and lessen regulatory burdens for American businesses will ensure that success stories like Astrophysics are far more common.” Astrophysics employs over 200 workers in the United States and the company’s systems are used in more than 100 countries at airport checkpoints, courthouses, sporting events and sea ports, making it one of the largest exporters of X-ray technology globally. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
07.31.2014	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) and U.S. Representative Janice Hahn (D-Carson) introduced the Veterans Dignified Burial Act, legislation spurred by recent reports of improperly handled veterans’ remains at the Los Angeles County Mortuary. “Stories of unburied veterans’ bodies at the Los Angeles County Mortuary are deeply unsettling, and the result of loopholes in burial procedures at the VA. This bipartisan bill ensures the VA follows up on pending burials 30 days after the deceased has been confirmed as a veteran, so that we know he or she is treated with both dignity and respect," said Rep. Royce. "While the quality of healthcare that veterans receive has been in the news lately, our veterans deserve the same attention when it comes to their burial.” “Our commitment to our nation’s heroes does not end at the battlefield’s edge. Rather, we must honor our promise to ensure they have the finest care and respect long after they return home. Failing to meet this promise to our veterans by letting them languish unburied is unacceptable,” Rep. Hahn added. “The legislation I have introduced today with Representative Royce will ensure that we never again allow bureaucracy to stand in the way of the dignity these men and women are owed.” The bill calls for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to follow up on pending burials 30 days after a body has been identified as a veteran, which prevents the extended burial waiting times that have plagued the LA County mortuary. It also requires the VA to submit an annual report to Congress on deceased veterans who were interred after the 30 day reporting period, in an effort to provide lawmakers with a better understanding of the scope of this problem at mortuaries across the country. Last month, Rep. Royce wrote VA Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs Steve Muro in regards to the improperly handled bodies, seeking a comprehensive review of the process the VA’s National Cemetery Administration (NCA) implements when it comes to veteran burials. Acting Under Secretary Ronald Walters responded this week confirming that he will institute a 30-day follow up period, though this is not a permanent procedure or codified rule as this legislation would make it. For more information, contact: Saat Alety (Royce) at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111 Breelyn Pete (Hahn) at Breelyn.Pete@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-8220
07.30.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement after voting for the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (H.R. 3230), which passed the U.S. House of Representatives today: "Like many across the country, I was sickened by news of abuses at the VA that have been directly linked to the deaths of veterans. Today's bill allows veterans to see non-VA doctors if they are unable to make an appointment at a VA facility, and gives the VA Secretary the power to fire entrenched senior VA officials for negligence and poor performance. The President should sign this bipartisan bill into law immediately, and Congress needs to explore further VA reforms to ensure veterans get the care they deserve." The Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to allow veterans who are enrolled in the VA health care system as of August 2014, or who are newly discharged combat veterans, to receive non-VA care if they are unable to secure an appointment at a VA medical facility within 30 days or resides more than 40 miles from the nearest VA medical facility. The bill would also authorize the Secretary of the VA to fire or demote currently difficult to remove senior employees for poor performance and misconduct. Rep. Royce cosponsored and voted for the Veteran Access to Care Act of 2014 that passed the House last month, and voted for the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014 in May, both of which were heavily incorporated into the final version of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
07.29.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement in light of the recent spread of forest fires and historic high temperatures throughout California: "As the threat of a major wildfire continues to grow across California, Congress needs to adjust the federal wildfire budget to better protect our citizens and their property. In peak activity years, fire agencies borrow from other non-fire agencies to pay their bills – clearly an unsustainable operating model. Funds to fight wildfires should instead be treated like those used during hurricanes and floods. Congress should pass the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act and make the resources available to local agencies so they can do their jobs safely and effectively." The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act of 2014 would create a separate emergency funding account for fire response. This funding structure mirrors existing federal funding mechanisms for responses to other natural disasters, and would prevent borrowing from other agencies such as the U.S. Forest Service or U.S. Department of the Interior. Since 2000, these agencies have run out of money to fight emergency fires eight times. Under this bill, routine wild land firefighting costs, which make up about 70% of the cost of wildfire suppression, would continue to be funded through the normal appropriations process. Larger fires, which account for approximately 1% of all wild land fires, would be treated like similar natural disasters that are funded through emergency disaster funds. Rep. Royce cosponsored the legislation on May 29, 2014, and is joined by over 120 of his colleagues from both parties. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
07.24.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 4984, the Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act: "As national student loan debt rises, it's imperative that borrowers know exactly what their financial obligation will total so they can make informed decisions about spending for college and paying off loans afterwards. A college education is often the cornerstone of the American Dream, and gaining one in a fiscally responsible manner better places young people on the path to success." The Empowering Students Through Financial Counseling Act ensures borrowers, both students and parents, who are participating in federal student loan programs receive interactive counseling each year that provides awareness about the financial obligations students and parents are accumulating. Borrowers are required to consent each year before receiving federal student loans. Additionally, it calls for informing low-income students about the terms and conditions of the Pell Grant program through annual counseling that will be provided to all grant recipients. And finally, the legislation directs the United States Department of Education to maintain a consumer-tested, online counseling tool that academic institutions can use to provide annual loan, exit, and Pell Grant counseling to students. Rep. Royce, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, served as a cosponsor of the legislation and spoke on the House floor to encourage his colleagues to lend their support for the bill. It passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 405-11, and joins multiple education reform bills passed by the House that await Senate action. Watch Rep. Royce's floor speech on the Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act here or by clicking the image below: For more information, contact: Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
07.22.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement in light of the National Weather Service's declaration that the first six months of 2014 were the hottest on record in the state of California: “As Californians suffer under extreme drought conditions, it's unfathomable that vital water supplies are routed to the ocean instead of farms and homes. Crops are dying, food prices are climbing, and the economic activity that California so desperately needs is being stunted, all the while bureaucrats attempt to protect smelt fish. More outrageous are stories of 'water cops' responsible for doling out fines to Californians as they go about their daily business. The House passed the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Emergency Water Delivery Act earlier this year with my support, and it's a workable and comprehensive fix to California's water shortages. There's no end in sight for this record heat, and it's time for the Senate to pass this legislation for the good of all Californians." Rep. Royce cosponsored the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Emergency Water Delivery Act (H.R. 3964) alongside every GOP member of the California Congressional delegation. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives with bipartisan support on February 5, 2014. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
07.21.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the fourth anniversary of President Barack Obama's signing of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act: “Upon signing the Dodd-Frank Act into law, President Obama remarked that ‘the American people would never again be asked to foot the bill for Wall Street’s mistakes.’ The Dodd-Frank Act not only failed to eliminate ‘Too Big To Fail’, but codified it, all the while ignoring the $10 trillion government mortgage monopolies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Adding to the calamity that is the Dodd-Frank Act are the restrictions on lending that it saddles the American economy with during a time of record low labor participation, anemic small business expansion, and shrinking GDP. The implementation of Dodd-Frank also has led to a lack of harmonized cross-border regulations, a consequence that places American financial institutions at a significant disadvantage when competing against European and Asian companies. Even simple bipartisan fixes to Dodd-Frank, like ensuring that credit-worthy borrowers can buy their first home, can't make it past Harry Reid’s desk. Dodd-Frank as is leaves taxpayers at risk of making future bailouts and severely hinders the American financial system from jump-starting our economy." Rep. Royce served as one of the conferees assigned to reconcile differences between the House and Senate versions of the legislation. He voted against both the House version of the bill and the Joint Conference Committee report that passed the House on June 30, 2010. President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law on July 21, 2010. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
07.21.2014	Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will be appearing at The 2014 San Gabriel Valley Job Fair, an event being hosted by The Global Federation of Chinese Business Women. Details are as follows: What: The 2014 San Gabriel Valley Job Fair Who: Host - The Global Federation of Chinese Business Women Guest speaker - U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) Where: Pacific Palms Resort Hotel, Majestic Ballroom 1 Industry Hills Parkway City of Industry, CA91744 Date: Saturday, August 2nd, 2014 Time: 12:30 PM - 4:30 PM Media wishing to attend must ​​RSVP to Saat Alety at saat.alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
07.15.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement on the passage of the STEM Education Act of 2014 (H.R. 5031) and the Research and Development Efficiency Act (H.R. 5056) in the U.S. House of Representatives: "Despite the growth of industries reliant on workers proficient in STEM fields, our current educational infrastructure is not rising to meet the need. By 2020, there will be an estimated 1.4 million computing jobs, but only about 400,000 computer science graduates to fill those spots. Classifying computer science as a STEM field will better allow educators to address the shortage of talented computer programmers, individuals that are responsible for so much of the innovative technology and economic activity around us. American research universities spend too much time on administrative tasks instead of educating students and creating the next cutting edge technologies, and Congress needs to remove those burdens from the next generation of brilliant thinkers. An American workforce educated in STEM fields will ensure our nation remains the economic leader of the world, and these legislative initiatives are a step in the right direction." The STEM Education Act of 2014, introduced by Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, strengthens ongoing STEM education efforts at our federal science agencies and ensures that the subject of computer science is included in these efforts. Rep. Royce’s support of the STEM Education Act is in addition to his cosponsorship of the Computer Science Education Act (H.R. 2536), legislation that would designate computer science as a "core academic subject.” The Research and Development Efficiency Act establishes a working group to review federal regulations affecting research universities in order to eliminate redundant and duplicative federal regulation, in light of a recent survey from the National Science Board which found that on average, 42 percent of federal research grant awardees’ time is spent on administrative tasks alone. Rep. Royce, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, supported both bills as they passed the U.S. House by voice vote on July 14, 2014. He urges his colleagues in the U.S. Senate to advance these critical pieces of legislation in a timely manner. For more information, contact: Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
07.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) and U.S. Representative Patrick Murphy (D-Fla.) introduced H.R. 5037, the Office of Financial Research Accountability Act. The bill ensures improved transparency, more efficient interagency coordination, and bolstered cybersecurity protections at the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Financial Research (OFR): “The OFR’s lack of collaboration with the regulatory bodies that govern the American financial system has resulted in the Office producing work of questionable accuracy and shoddy quality. If these reports are subsequently used as the foundation of rules that govern large parts of the American economy, the consequences for our country could be disastrous. This bill ensures that the OFR works in concert with regulatory bodies while preparing reports and discloses its planned activities ahead of time so the public knows exactly what to expect,” said Rep. Royce. “Cybersecurity breaches are a major threat to our economy, and an Office that holds as much sensitive material as the OFR should be protected against bad actors attempting to steal information. This bill addresses the need for robust cyber defenses at the OFR.” "After devastating mismanagement of the financial services sector plunged the American middle class into the worst economic crisis of our time, the Office of Financial Research was created to function like the National Transportation Safety Board, finding out what went wrong and how to keep it from happening in the future," said Rep. Murphy. "Instead, the Office has come under heavy criticism after both quality of reporting and quantity of research remained lacking. This bill would restore much needed confidence to the OFR so the American people, their representatives in Congress, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council will have access to improved quality of financial data." The bill requires the OFR to release an annual work plan outlining the Office’s priorities, mandates the OFR to consult federal regulatory agencies when preparing public reports, and tasks the OFR with developing and implementing a cybersecurity plan, that will be reviewed annually by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO). Rep. Royce, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced the Office of Financial Research Accountability Act on July 9, 2014, and urges swift action from his colleagues to advance this bipartisan legislation. For more information, contact: Saat Alety (Royce) at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111 Erin Moffet Hale (Murphy) at Erin.MoffetHale@mail.house.gov or (561) 253-8433
06.27.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Railroad Administration's (FRA) Record of Decision for the 114-mile Fresno to Bakersfield Section of the California High-Speed Train System: “The high-speed rail project is widely unpopular among Californians, a wasteful use of taxpayer resources, and an unnecessary undertaking that diverts resources from other critical infrastructure projects. Local, state, and federal transportation spending should be aimed at decreasing gridlock on our freeways, not a multi-billion dollar boondoggle dreamed up in Sacramento." Earlier this year Rep. Royce cosponsored H.R. 3893, the Responsible Rail and Deterring Deficiency Act, a bill that would block federal funding of any projects related to California high-rail construction. The legislation, introduced by U.S. Representative Jeff Denham (R-Turlock), has unanimous support from Republican members of California's Congressional delegation. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
06.18.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) questioned Consumer Finance Protection Bureau (CFPB) Director Richard Cordray today at "The Semi-Annual Report of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau" hearing held by the House Financial Services Committee. Rep. Royce released the following statement regarding his questions for Director Cordray: "I have heard strong criticism that the CFPB is conducting regulation of financial products and services through enforcement actions and guidance bulletins rather than notice-and-comment rulemakings, which traditionally include input from the public and Congress," said Rep. Royce. "The CFPB promotes the bulletins as statements of law and policy and the enforcement actions as deterrents, yet in both cases the agency appears to be making policy without obtaining public input. This trend is a cause for concern, as the lack of public input during policy formulation often leads to unintended consequences including regulatory confusion and less consumer choice." Rep. Royce questioned Director Cordray on the potential use of advisory opinions to help businesses seeking clarification on specific practices before enforcement action is contemplated. Cordray responded in the positive: “That is something we are looking to do in appropriate cases… I do think that we can probably do more in this area. Yes.” Watch Rep. Royce's questioning of CFPB Director Richard Cordray here or by clicking the image below: For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
06.18.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced his 2014 United States service academy appointments from California's 39th Congressional District today. Earlier this month, Rep. Royce hosted a reception for the students to congratulate them on their matriculation to some of our nation's most prestigious academic institutions and thank them for their commitment to serving in the armed forces. "It was an honor to nominate these students for acceptance to a U.S. service academy. These young people are stellar students, community leaders, and patriots," said Rep. Royce. "I'm excited to see their future accomplishments, and am confident that they will have successful careers in the military and beyond." The following is a list of students from California's 39th Congressional District who received a service academy nomination from Rep. Royce and will be attending a service academy this year. Student hometowns and high schools are also included: United States Air Force Academy Kevin R. Ley, Fullerton, Servite High School Trenton J. Samaha, Brea, Troy High School Joshua R. Warren, Brea, West Springfield High School Josiah L. Williams, Fullerton, Orange County Christian School Jaydevsinh Zala, Chino Hills, Chino Hills High School United States Coast Guard Academy Anthony M. Lee, Fullerton, Sunny Hills High School Spencer S. Smith, Brea, Brea Olinda High School United States Merchant Marine Academy Thomas Neel, Chino Hills, Chino Hills High School United States Military Academy Marcus E. Bernardino, Diamond Bar, United States Military Academy Preparatory School Elijah M. Contreras, Hacienda Heights, New Mexico Military Institute Daniel H. Min, Fullerton, Sunny Hills High School Louis T. Napoles, Chino Hills, United States Military Academy Preparatory School Theodore J. Oh, Fullerton, Troy High School United States Naval Academy Natalie Dzhandzhapanyan, Diamond Bar, Ontario Christian High School Coleman E. Engstrom, Placentia, Valencia High School Eric S. Stoermer, Placentia, International Polytechnic High School Suzanne L. Toms, Brea, Oxford Academy All U.S. service academy applicants must receive a Congressional nomination. The application process is rigorous, based on a candidate's academic achievement, athletic ability, extracurricular activities, and community service. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
06.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement on Majority Leader Eric Cantor: “Eric Cantor is a talented leader and legislator. He has worked tirelessly over the years to advance conservative solutions to the many challenges that face our nation. I especially appreciate his efforts on advancing legislation to combat the unconscionable scourge of human trafficking,” said Rep. Royce. “While Eric’s leadership will be sorely missed by many of us in the House, I wish him and his family the very best moving forward.” For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
06.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement on the U.S. House of Representatives passage of the Veteran Access to Care Act of 2014 (H.R. 4810), a bill which he is an original cosponsor of: “The number of veterans that have received delayed care from VA facilities or were denied appointments despite being qualified for VA care is both shocking and appalling, and the resignation of former VA Secretary Eric Shinseki will not fix these systemic failures,” said Rep. Royce. “This legislation ensures that veterans who cannot get an appointment will still get the care they deserve. It is the least we can do for those who served our country so bravely.” Introduced by House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller (R-Fla.), the Veteran Access to Care Act of 2014 would require VA facilities to offer non-VA care at the department’s expense to any enrolled veteran who cannot get an appointment within VA wait time goals or who lives more than 40 miles from a VA medical facility. Any care provided by a non-Department facility not under an existing VA contract would be reimbursed at the rate set by the VA, Tricare, or Medicare—whichever is greatest. Rep. Royce cosponsored the legislation prior to its introduction, and the bill passed the House 421-0 on June 10, 2014. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
06.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement on his amendment to H.R.4745, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2015, which was agreed to by voice vote today: “This straight forward amendment would prohibit Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from using funds to pay housing advocacy groups through the Housing Trust Fund, at a time when they still owe money to the American people,” said Rep. Royce. “As the housing market has begun to recover, so too have Fannie and Freddie’s profits and housing advocates are pressuring the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) to get a piece of the taxpayer-funded pie. Without passage of this amendment, FHFA Director Mel Watt could turn on that spigot at any moment. Paying back taxpayers for their bailouts should be the utmost priority at this time, not the continuance of failed housing advocacy programs and government-sponsored mortgage monopolies.” Rep. Royce’s amendment would prohibit Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from using funds to pay housing advocacy groups or others through the Housing Trust Fund. Beginning in 2008, the U.S. taxpayers have bailed-out the GSEs to the tune of $189 billion and that number that is expected to grow to over $200 billion by 2015. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
06.09.2014	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Calif.) released the following statement on the successful passage of the Mortgage Choice Act (H.R. 3211) by the U.S. House of Representatives: “Owning a home has long been the cornerstone of the American Dream, but regulations currently restrict consumer access to mortgage credit for low and moderate income homebuyers. The Mortgage Choice Act will ensure that potential homeowners can borrow funds for their home in a responsible manner while keeping intact consumer protections established by Dodd-Frank’s ability to pay provisions,” said Rep. Royce. “I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take action on this bipartisan legislative initiative in order to create an accessible and robust housing market for all Americans.” Introduced by U.S. Representative Bill Huizenga (R-Mich.), the Mortgage Choice Act would amend and clarify the qualified mortgage definition in the Dodd-Frank Act to improve access to credit and qualified mortgages for low and moderate income borrowers. Rep. Royce is an original cosponsor of the bill, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by voice vote on June 9, 2014. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
05.30.2014	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) issued the following statement after the resignation of U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki: “There is no doubt that General Eric Shinseki is a patriot and an individual who has spent much of his life in service to our nation. However, misconduct at the Department of Veterans Affairs that has been directly linked to the preventable deaths of veterans is absolutely unacceptable. These abuses occurred during Secretary Shinseki’s tenure, and his resignation was both necessary and appropriate,” said Rep. Royce. “It is critical that incoming leadership at the Department of Veteran Affairs holds those responsible for these travesties accountable, and works with Congress and the White House to ensure similar incidents never occur again.” Rep. Royce recently voted for the Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014, legislation that will provide the Secretary of Veterans Affairs greater authority to remove senior executives of the department and hold them accountable for negligence, poor performance, and mismanagement. The bill passed the U.S. House with a large bipartisan majority on May 21, 2014. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
05.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) congratulated the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership for Southern California (AMP SoCal) on its successful application for the Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership (IMCP) designation from the U.S. Department of Commerce. AMP SoCal unites a broad-based consortium of 86 dedicated organizations that have come together to transform the Aerospace and Defense (A&D) industry in Southern California. AMP SoCal's priorities include training programs for unemployed workers, infrastructure development to support manufacturing activity in the region, and increasing the volume of exports from Southern Californian manufacturers. AMP SoCal will receive support from eleven federal agencies, such as the U.S. Department of Defense and U.S. Department of Transportation, with up to $1.3 billion available in federal economic development assistance for all 12 designated “Manufacturing Communities," including Southern California. Funds will be used for workforce training, construction projects, and the promotion of access to capital with the ultimate goal of increased manufacturing activity in Southern California. “Manufacturing has long been the bedrock of a strong American economy, and economic opportunity for all is grown through access to the good-paying, stable jobs that manufacturers provide. Southern California leads the world in the field of Aerospace and Defense manufacturing, and the IMCP designation earned by the AMP SoCal will ensure that our communities continue to be home to innovative manufacturers that create cutting edge products produced by Californian workers,” said Rep. Royce. “The region will benefit from the exponential impact of both the creation of more advanced manufacturing jobs and the jobs needed to support that industry. Southern Californians seeking work will also have access to job training programs that prepare them to succeed in today’s economy.” Rep. Royce, alongside 19 members of California’s Congressional delegation, sent a bipartisan letter of support to Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker regarding AMP SoCal’s IMCP application. AMP SoCal’s initiatives will span the counties of Los Angeles, Orange, San Diego, and Ventura, an area that’s home to 22.6 million people and 60% of California’s population. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111. ###
05.21.2014	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement after voting for the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014 (H.R. 4031), which passed the U.S. House of Representatives today: “Revelations of secret waiting lists at Department of Veterans Affairs facilities are deeply disturbing, and recent evidence that senior executives at the VA knew of these abuses since 2010 is absolutely unconscionable. This legislation will provide the Secretary of Veterans Affairs greater authority to remove senior executives of the department and hold them accountable for negligence, poor performance, and mismanagement that has resulted in the deaths of veterans in this case,” said Rep. Royce. “Veteran households in this country deserve quality health care and service from the Department of Veteran Affairs, and this change is a start to better meeting their needs.” The Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014 would give the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs authority to remove employees of the Senior Executive Service, whose performance warrants removal from government service. The ability to remove an employee is modeled after the same authority that Members of Congress have to remove their professional staff members. Rep. Royce urges the U.S. Senate to take action on this legislation. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111. ###
05.20.2014	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement after questioning witnesses at the House Committee on Financial Services hearing “Examining the Dangers of the FSOC’s Designation Process and its Impact on the U.S. Financial System”: “Today’s hearing and witnesses further confirm that FSOC’s designation of non-bank financial institutions as systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs) is a process that lacks transparency, appropriate oversight, and bipartisan input. SIFI designations open the door to future taxpayer bailouts at a time when hardworking Americans have tightened their belts. These labels are distortions of a free and competitive market,” said Rep. Royce. “Increased regulatory burdens for midsize banks and asset managers will result in more costly investing for consumers, many of whom are every day Americans saving for their retirement or their child’s college tuition. I’m discouraged by the Council’s lack of bipartisan voices, and think that FSOC would be well-served by a more inclusionary and collaborative operating model.” Click below to watch video of Rep. Royce’s questions for panel witnesses, and their answers. The Dodd-Frank Act empowers the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) to designate non-bank financial institutions as “systemically important financial institutions,” or SIFIs, which are subject to heightened prudential standards and supervision by the Federal Reserve. Rep. Royce voted against the final version of the legislation in 2010, citing its lack of focus on subprime mortgages that caused the crisis of 2008, failure to eliminate “Too Big To Fail” and future taxpayer bailouts, and restrictions to access to capital for small businesses and consumers. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111.
05.19.2014	Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, and U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), a veteran of the Iraq war and a member of the House Armed Services Committee, introduced the Servicemembers Insurance Relief Act (H.R. 4669). The legislation would allow members of the military and their families to keep their current auto insurance policy when they move from state to state, as their orders often require. It also makes the current state-based insurance regulatory system more accommodating to servicemembers that currently have to change auto insurance policies every time they relocate across state lines. “Members of the military must change auto insurance policies with every move across state lines, and the Servicemembers Insurance Relief Act eliminates that cumbersome requirement for our brave men and women in uniform,” said Rep. Royce. “This bipartisan legislation makes a simple but meaningful change to current law that will lessen the burden on servicemembers and their families during times of transition.” “Members of our military serve around the globe and make enormous sacrifices while doing so. As they move their families around the country, we should be doing everything within our power to allow them to do their jobs to the best of their ability. The Servicemembers Insurance Relief Act is an important step in that direction,” said Rep. Duckworth. Introduction of the bill follows a 2013 report by the Federal Insurance Office of the U.S. Department of the Treasury that declared eliminating the auto insurance change requirement for relocating servicemembers as a way to improve and modernize insurance regulation. The bill was introduced on Monday, May 19, and is expected to be referred to the House Financial Services Committee. Reps. Royce and Duckworth encourage swift action from their colleagues to pass this bill as soon as possible. For more information, contact: Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111 Anton Becker at Anton.Becker@mail.house.gov or (847) 807-5491 ###
05.14.2014	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement in reaction to Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director Mel Watt’s comments on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (GSEs) yesterday: “Director Watt’s comments mark a significant and discouraging departure from what has been the FHFA’s attitude toward Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the past. The current reach of the GSEs into the housing market is unsustainable and hampers a robust market recovery. Allowing them to underprice high risk loans under the guise of increasing affordability continues to put taxpayers on the hook for losses. Policymakers and regulators should be focused on how to encourage more private capital in mortgage lending, not on how to keep government sponsored businesses intact. I do however support the FHFA's continued move to a single security for both GSEs, a step that will help improve market liquidity and end taxpayer-funded payments to lenders. This is an addition I have supported as part of GSE reform efforts in the House." Rep. Royce supported H.R. 2767, or the Protecting American Taxpayers and Homeowners (PATH) Act of 2013, as a member of the House Financial Services Committee. The PATH Act phases out the GSEs over the course of five years in a controlled fashion, takes taxpayers off of the hook for covering losses by the GSEs, and results in more affordable mortgage borrowing for Americans by eliminating the current government monopoly in place and opening up competition between lenders in the market. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111. ###
05.14.2014	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) congratulated entrants to the 2014 California 39th Congressional District STEM Competition and announced a contest winner. The competition was spurred by H. Res. 77, which Rep. Royce was an original cosponsor of, and featured seven competing teams of students from local high schools. The challenge was to develop an application for any electronic device on any platform, a task that requires the extensive use of skills within STEM fields. Rep. Royce has long expressed his strong support for students entering STEM fields. He spoke at the exhibition: “As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I know that STEM education is important if the United States is to remain globally competitive. Just seeing what students in the 39th Congressional District of California created makes me excited to see what students across America are capable of. I want to commend all of the participants for their hard work and efforts, as the applications submitted were innovative and creative.” Applications entered were as follows: Tourist Trap, First Aid Fast, Animal Sounds, The Bathroom Locator, iMergency, Comangraph, and Turtle TV. A panel of independent judges determined the winner of the contest to be “Turtle TV”, an application created by students from Rosary High School of Fullerton, CA. Team members were Madalyn Christensen, Brigitte McColl, Irene Sacendoncillo and Claire Sirna. The “Turtle TV” application allows users to access a TV guide that can be customized to their liking, based on favorite shows, actors, networks, and even on the viewer’s mood. Learn more about the winning application “Turtle TV” from its creators here. For more information, contact Saat Alety at Saat.Alety@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4111. ###
05.09.2014	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), announced he will host an exhibit on Wednesday, May 14 to showcase the 2014 Congressional STEM competition entries. This event will feature the student teams participating in the competition and the 2014 winner will be announced. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), announced he will host an exhibit on Wednesday, May 14 to showcase the 2014 Congressional STEM competition entries. This event will feature the student teams participating in the competition and the 2014 winner will be announced. Keynoting the event is Judy Greenspon, founder and president of NPI Services, Inc., a firm providing support to engineers developing prototypes in the aerospace, medical and telecommunication arenas. This year’s competition challenged high school students in the CA-39th district to develop an Application on any platform for a smart phone device. The Congressional STEM Competition was authorized by H.Res 77. Rep. Royce was an original cosponsor of the legislation, which encourages student participation in STEM fields. Initially, the competition will be in the field of computer science. Participants have the choice of creating a fully-functioning application or designing a detailed mock-up of an application concept. Note: You can also follow #2014RoyceSTEM on Facebook and Twitter for additional updates. Who: Rep. Ed Royce, U.S. Representative CA-39th District Judy Greenspon, Founder and President of NPI Services, Inc. What: 2014 Congressional STEM Competition Exhibition Where: Nixon Library 18001 Yorba Linda, Yorba Linda Blvd. Yorba Linda, CA 92886 When: Wednesday, May 14 6 to 8 pm ***Important planning note for press covering the event: Members of the media must RSVP to Audra McGeorge at audra.mcgeorge@mail.house.gov to attend and cover the event. ###
05.06.2014	Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed the Credit Union Share Insurance Fund Parity Act (H.R. 3468), introduced by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee. share: f t Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed the Credit Union Share Insurance Fund Parity Act (H.R. 3468), introduced by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee. The bipartisan legislation, which passed the House Financial Services Committee unanimously, amends the Federal Credit Union Act to require that pass-through share insurance coverage be provided when a credit union member holds funds on behalf of a nonmember in trust accounts, such as interest on lawyer trust accounts (IOLTAs). Watch Rep. Royce deliver his remarks on the House floor HERE. During today’s floor debate, Rep. Royce delivered the following (as prepared for delivery) remarks: Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise in strong support of the Credit Union Share Insurance Fund Parity Act; a bill which passed out of the Financial Services Committee on a voice vote. This is bipartisan, common-sense legislation. The bill is supported by the Credit Union National Association, the National Association of Federal Credit Unions, the California & Nevada Credit Union Leagues, as well as the American Bar Association. H.R. 3468 will ensure that there is parity in the treatment of trust accounts covered by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The Financial Services Committee has heard the testimony of credit unions from West Virginia to Texas that: “There is no public policy reason for deposit insurance purposes to distinguish credit union IOLTA accounts from those insured by FDIC… it is essential for the NCUA’s share insurance fund to be treated identically in order to maintain parity between the two federal insurance programs.” Specifically, the bill amends the Federal Credit Union Act to require that pass-through share insurance coverage be provided when a credit union member holds funds on behalf of a nonmember in an IOLTA or other similar account. Unlike FDIC coverage, currently the National Credit Union Administration treats funds held by credit union members on behalf of those who are not federally-insured credit union members as not covered by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund. This has created a disparity in coverage – specifically when looking at interest on lawyer trust accounts (IOLTAs) and prepaid debit master accounts. Part of the mission of credit unions, from their very beginning, has been to reach out to the community around them, especially the underserved. Maintaining a strong commitment to the IOLTA community and removing a barrier to greater participation sustains that mission. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. A bill which corrects a technical disparity between the way trust accounts are federally insured at credit unions and banks. ###
04.29.2014	Earlier this year, Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced the kickoff of the 2014 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) Competition: House App Contest. All high school students who live in, or are eligible to enroll in high schools located in, the 39th district can participate in the competition by developing or designing an application on a platform of their choice. All applications are due tomorrow, April 30. share: f t Earlier this year, Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced the kickoff of the 2014 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) Competition: House App Contest. All high school students who live in, or are eligible to enroll in high schools located in, the 39th district can participate in the competition by developing or designing an application on a platform of their choice. All applications are due tomorrow, April 30. “The jobs of the 21st century are jobs in STEM,” said Royce. “Focusing first on developing mobile applications for phones, tablets and other computer devices, this Congressional competition will motivate students to explore and create. I’m excited to see what innovative technologies these students develop; the competition could inspire the next Steve Jobs to discover their true passion.” The Congressional STEM Competition was authorized by H.Res 77 to encourage student participation in STEM fields. Initially, the competition will be in the field of computer science. Participants have the choice of creating a fully-functioning application or designing a detailed mock-up of an application concept. The House App Competition closes on April 30th and will culminate with a celebration in mid-May for the 39th district contest winner. To learn more about the 2014 STEM Competition, including official rules and guidelines, and submission information, please visit www.Royce.House.Gov or contact Cecilia Hong at (714) 255-0101 or Cecilia.hong@mail.house.gov. Follow #2014RoyceSTEM on Twitter for additional updates. ###
04.14.2014	Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) today announced the launch of a free mobile application that will allow constituents to stay up-to-date with breaking news and updates from Rep. Royce's office. share: f t Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) today announced the launch of a free mobile application that will allow constituents to stay up-to-date with breaking news and updates from Rep. Royce's office. “This mobile application is another resource for those in the 39th district to contact my office for assistance with a variety of services and issues,” said Royce. "The app gives constituents an easy way to stay updated in real-time with breaking news, notifications about district events, and information about my work serving the people of the 39th district in Washington." By downloading the free mobile application, constituents will be able to get the latest news from Rep. Royce’s office, request flags, request tours for an upcoming trip to Washington, D.C., and send Rep. Royce an email. Users will also have the opportunity to opt-in for push notifications that will alert them about upcoming events with Rep. Royce in the district. The U.S. Representative Ed Royce app can be downloaded in the iTunes store or in Google Play.
03.28.2014	Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) has added his name as a cosponsor of the Computer Science Education Act (HR 2536), legislation that would designate computer science as a "core academic subject". share: f t Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) has added his name as a cosponsor of the Computer Science Education Act (HR 2536), legislation that would designate computer science as a "core academic subject". This classification provides additional flexibility for schools and states to use federal funding towards computer science education. "Despite the increasing demand, America isn’t producing nearly enough qualified workers in the fields of science, technology, math and science (STEM)," said Royce. "By 2020, there will be an estimated 1.4 million computing jobs, but only about 400,000 computer science graduates to fill those spots. Providing teachers the tools necessary to encourage students to become engaged in the field of computer science is an important step towards inspiring the next generation's Steve Jobs." Currently, schools, districts and states can only use federal dollars towards the 10 core academic subjects: English, Language Arts, Math, Science, Foreign Language, Government, Art, History, Geography, and Economics. The bill amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) definition of a core subject. Funding set aside for core academic subjects may be used for a wide range of educational support, including professional development for educators, curriculum development and the purchasing of new technology. This no-cost legislation provides additional flexibility not currently available when spending ESEA funds. Royce is also hosting the first Congressional STEM Competition - a contest created to encourage interest in STEM fields. High school students in the 39th district can participate in the competition by building or designing a mock-up of their own mobile app. Additionally, Royce recently launched a 2014 STEM Competition mobile app, available for free in the iTunes store (Android version coming soon). The app is designed to provide additional information about this year's Congressional STEM Competition for interested students and schools. Participants will have access to office hours with local digital, marketing, and computer science experts who will also judge the final submissions. For more information, please visit http://royce.house.gov or download the 2014 STEM Competition mobile application. You can also follow #2014RoyceSTEM on Facebook and Twitter for additional updates.
03.21.2014	Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) was joined today by United States Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx on a tour of the 57/60 Confluence in Diamond Bar. share: f t Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) was joined today by United States Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx on a tour of the 57/60 Confluence in Diamond Bar. The tour of the Confluence was the first stop in the Secretary's visit to the area, which also included a tour of the Nogales Project in City of Industry with Reps Royce and Grace Napolitano (D-CA). The intersection of State Routes 60 and 70 creates a traffic bottleneck, causing significant delays on a stretch of freeway traveled by 400,000 vehicles a day. Ten percent of the vehicles that use these freeways come directly from the ports of LA and Long Beach, creating the highest volume of truck traffic in Southern California with the highest rate of predicted future growth. The 57/60 Confluence Project, a cost-effective solution designed through a partnership of local and state officials, will eliminate the multiple weaving of lanes and decrease the resulting congestion and collisions. "We need to focus taxpayer dollars where they will have an exponential impact on economic growth - our roads, railways, and ports are at the top of the list," said Royce. "Secretary Foxx's appearance here today, alongside state, county and city officials, shows that finding an efficient and effective solution here at the 57/60 Confluence is both a local and a federal issue." The 57 and 60 freeways have been included in the preliminary draft of the Department of Transportation’s Primary Freight Network (PFN) — a network of highways established by Congress to help direct road maintenance and improvement resources where they can have the biggest economic impact. Last year, Royce brought Rep. Bill Shuster, Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, to tour the 57/60 Confluence and spoke about the importance of having the freeways included in the PFN. Secretary Foxx, and Reps. Royce and Napolitano were joined by a number of local officials including Diamond Bar Mayor Carol Herrera, City of Industry Mayor Tim Spohn, as well as Industry City Engineer John Ballas and 57/60 Project Manager/Chief Engineer Wei Koo.
03.12.2014	Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) today received the US Chamber of Commerce's Spirit of Enterprise Award in recognition of his support of pro-growth, pro-jobs policies during the first session of the 113th Congress. share: f t Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) today received the US Chamber of Commerce's Spirit of Enterprise Award in recognition of his support of pro-growth, pro-jobs policies during the first session of the 113th Congress. "Real economic growth has always and will always come from the private sector," said Royce. "Washington must get out of the way and make it easier, not harder, for job creators to grow and hire." The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation outlined in the Chamber publication, How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of those votes qualify to receive the award. According to this year’s scorecard, Royce received a 77% rating with the Chamber in 2013 and has a cumulative rating of 84% for his tenure in Congress. “2013 was challenging, but Congressman Royce worked to pass legislation and enact policies that will keep our country moving forward economically,” U.S. Chamber President and CEO Thomas J. Donohue said. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award recognizes legislators like Congressman Royce who have demonstrated their commitment to supporting pro-growth policies in the 113th Congress.”
01.28.2014	In response to President Obama's State of the Union, Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement. share: f t In response to President Obama's State of the Union, Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement. “No child should be condemned to a life of poverty because they lack opportunity. But instead of empty rhetoric and economic experimentation, we need tested policies that create jobs, strengthen our economy, and provide opportunities for all Americans. “We can grow our economy by encouraging energy independence through projects like the Keystone Pipeline; making our tax code fairer and simpler, and increasing take-home pay for many Americans in the process; addressing our out-of-control deficit through entitlement reform; and focusing on education initiatives that prepare our students to compete in a global economy.”
01.08.2014	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced he will hold a "Paying for College" seminar in Los Angeles County. The event will take place on Saturday, January 25th from 12pm – 3pm at the South Coast Air Quality Management District (Room GB, 21865 Copley Dr., Diamond Bar) and is free to attend. share: f t Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced he will hold a "Paying for College" seminar in Los Angeles County. The event will take place on Saturday, January 25th from 12pm – 3pm at the South Coast Air Quality Management District (Room GB, 21865 Copley Dr., Diamond Bar) and is free to attend. “Paying for higher education is a daunting and difficult task for many students and their families,” said Rep. Royce. “This seminar will explore the available financing options so that the opportunity to go to college is available to all students, despite the rising costs.” The event will feature Keynote speaker Rebekah Bell whose opinion piece in the Wall Street Journal on how she graduated from college debt-free offered important advice to students on avoiding crushing student loan debt. Additionally, the seminar will provide information about the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) program, including on-site reviews of FAFSA forms, as well as other federal and private student loans, grants, and alternative financing options. Representatives from local colleges will also be available to speak with students and their families. "With the average student holding over $29,000 in loan debt, graduating from college debt-free is extremely rare," said Rep. Royce. "I believe attendees can benefit from hearing how Rebekah was able to earn her degree without incurring the typical mountain of debt that takes many graduates decades to repay."
12.05.2013	Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement on the death of Nelson Mandela, South Africa’s first democratically elected president. share: f t Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement on the death of Nelson Mandela, South Africa’s first democratically elected president: “The world has lost a humble, courageous and generous man. One of democracy’s strongest champions, Nelson Mandela selflessly served South Africa. His vision and lack of vindictiveness was amazing, and brought South Africans through a very difficult transition, which could have gone in a very different, violent direction. Most impressively, he elected to serve a single presidential term, turning over power he assuredly could have kept. When others remained silent, Mandela spoke out against Mugabe’s tyranny in neighboring Zimbabwe. His message of reconciliation must endure.” Note: From 1997 to 2004 Royce chaired the Subcommittee on Africa, working to promote democracy and the rule of law in Africa. Leading a congressional delegation, he met with President Mandela in 1997 in South Africa.
10.16.2013	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced he will hold a "Paying for College" seminar in conjunction with the City of Buena Park. The event will take place on Sunday, November 3rd from 12pm – 4pm at the Buena Park Community Center (6688 Beach Boulevard, Buena Park) and is free to attend. share: f t Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced he will hold a "Paying for College" seminar in conjunction with the City of Buena Park. The event will take place on Sunday, November 3rd from 12pm – 4pm at the Buena Park Community Center (6688 Beach Boulevard, Buena Park) and is free to attend. “Every student should have the opportunity to go to college, despite the rising costs,” said Rep. Royce. “This seminar will help arm interested students and their families with the information necessary to identify and take advantage of programs that can help address their financial concerns.” The event will feature Keynote speaker Rebekah Bell whose opinion piece in the Wall Street Journal on how she graduated from college debt-free offered important advice to students on avoiding crushing student loan debt. Additionally, the seminar will provide information about the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) program as well as other federal and private student loans, grants, and other financing options. "Education is the great economic equalizer, and going to college is the way for many to further their education," said Buena Park Mayor Elizabeth Swift. "Please take advantage of this first ever citywide opportunity to find out about making college a possibility for you or your children. We appreciate the partnership between Rep. Royce, the Buena Park Rotary, the City of Buena Park, and Buena Park High School for making this event possible."
10.15.2013	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, announced that on Monday, November 4 he will hold the Committee’s first field hearing to examine international human trafficking and to assess efforts to combat trafficking at the international, Federal, State and local levels. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, announced that on Monday, November 4 he will hold the Committee’s first field hearing to examine international human trafficking and to assess efforts to combat trafficking at the international, Federal, State and local levels. The hearing, entitled “Regional Perspectives in the Global Fight Against Human Trafficking,” will begin at 10:00 a.m. PTin the Titan Student Union building on the campus of California State University, Fullerton. Chairman Royce said: “Each year, human trafficking victimizes millions around the world; many are women and girls from our own neighborhoods. This threat is on the rise in communities across southern California. This field hearing will examine efforts to combat this form of modern-day slavery and provide the Committee an opportunity to assess the efforts of the State Department, law enforcement officials and community organizations to fight the spread of this grievous offense against human dignity.” Note: Earlier this year, Chairman Royce launched a Human Trafficking Congressional Advisory Committee (HTCAC), which is comprised of victims’ rights groups, local and federal law enforcement agencies, and community advocates. HTCAC meets on a monthly basis to address human trafficking concerns, as well as offer policy recommendations. In May, Chairman Royce convened a Committee hearing to examine local and private sector initiatives to combat international human trafficking. What: Hearing: “Regional Perspectives in the Global Fight Against Human Trafficking” Where: California State University, Fullerton Titan Student Union 800 N. State College Blvd. Fullerton, CA 92834 For a campus map and parking information click HERE. When: Monday, November 4, 2013 10:00 a.m. PT Witness List: Panel I The Honorable Luis CdeBaca Ambassador-at-Large Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons U.S. Department of State Panel II The Honorable Tony Rackauckas District Attorney Office of the Orange County District Attorney Ms. Kay Buck Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking *Witnesses may be added. ***Important planning note for press covering hearing: The hearing will be webcast at www.foreignaffairs.house.gov. Members of the media must RSVP by Friday, November 1 at 12 p.m. to Audra McGeorge at audra.mcgeorge@mail.house.gov to receive credentials to cover the hearing from the press viewing area. Following the hearing, there will be a media availability to discuss human trafficking.
10.01.2013	My offices, both in California and Washington, D.C., will remain open to provide essential services to constituents of the 39th District. However, many federal government departments and functions will not be available during the shutdown. share: f t Beginning on October 1, 2013, the federal government entered a partial shutdown due to a lapse in funding. This shutdown will continue until a budget compromise is approved by Congress and signed into law by the President. My offices, both in California and Washington, D.C., will remain open to provide essential services to constituents of the 39th District. However, many federal government departments and functions will not be available during the shutdown. Please consult the Frequently Asked Questions below for additional information on affected services: Veterans: How would a shut down affect veterans’ pensions? According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, claims processing and payments in the compensation, pension, education, and vocational rehabilitation programs are anticipated to continue through late October. However, in the event of a prolonged shutdown, claims processing and payments in these programs would be suspended when available funding is exhausted. The House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs is attempting to confirm this with the Administration. How would a shut down affect survivor benefits? Survivor benefits are similar to disability/pension benefits paid to veterans. Thus, according the VA’s assessment, survivors currently in receipt of Dependency and Indemnity Compensation or Survivors’ Pension will continue to receive those payments until funding runs out in late October. The House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs is attempting to confirm this with the Administration. How would a shut down affect veterans’ educational assistance? According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, claims processing and payments in the compensation, pension, education, and vocational rehabilitation programs are anticipated to continue through late October. However, in the event of a prolonged shutdown, claims processing and payments in these programs would be suspended when available funding is exhausted. The House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs is attempting to confirm this with the Administration. How would a shut down affect veterans disability compensation and claims processing? According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, claims processing and payments in the compensation, pension, education, and vocational rehabilitation programs are anticipated to continue through late October. However, in the event of a prolonged shutdown, claims processing and payments in these programs would be suspended when available funding is exhausted. The House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs is attempting to confirm this with the Administration. How would a shut down affect veterans’ Health services through VA hospitals? VA received a full year appropriation to operate its health care system for all of FY 2014. Therefore, veterans’ medical care would not be affected. According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, in the event of a shutdown, all VA medical facilities and clinics would remain fully operational, including, inpatient care, outpatient care, prescriptions, surgeries, dental treatment, extended care, mental health care, nursing home care, special health care services for women veterans and vet centers. What would happen to VA hospitals and clinics? Would they still operate and could veterans receive treatment, including pharmacological? According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, in the event of a shutdown, all VA medical facilities and clinics would remain fully operational, including, inpatient care, outpatient care, prescriptions, surgeries, dental treatment, extended care, mental health care, nursing home care, special health care services for women veterans and vet centers. Military: Would members of the military be paid? The President signed H.R. 3210, the Pay Our Military Act, which ensures that our military personnel on active duty, including reserve component personnel on Federal active duty continue to be paid through a potential shutdown. Would military operations overseas be affected? According to the House Committee on Armed Services, in developing the Department’s shutdown plan, the Secretary of Defense would ensure mission accomplishment of critical activities that are needed to prosecute the war in Afghanistan, including preparation of forces for deployment, and to ensure safety of human life and protection of property including operations for the security of our nation. These activities would be considered “exempt” from shutdown. The Service Secretaries and heads of DoD Components, under the DOD guidance, would also have flexibility to determine what activities should be exempt. How would services and benefits for military families be impacted? According to the House Committee on Armed Services, though the shutdown would have a direct impact on families, according to guidance issued by the Department of Defense, among the exempt activities that would continue are: • Inpatient care in DOD hospitals and acute and emergency outpatient care in DOD hospitals and treatment facilities, but not things like elective surgeries or other procedures. • Department of Defense schools, “to the extent required by law.” • Legal assistance for deploying and deployed service members. • Morale, Welfare and Recreation activities supporting exempt activities. For example, operation of mess halls, physical training, and child care activities required for readiness; and any activity funded solely through non-appropriated funds. Would resources be available to troops? (ammunition, vests, equipment, etc) According to the House Committee on Armed Services, the Department’s guidance does not identify every exempt activity, but makes it clear it would be applied in the context of a Department at war, with decisions guaranteeing robust support for those engaged in war, and with assurance that the lives and property of our nation’s citizens would be protected. What would happen to military installations? Would they be closed? According to the House Committee on Armed Services, the Department of Defense and each of the Service Secretaries would have latitude in determining which operations and activities are exempt from the shutdown. According to DOD guidance, military operations and activities determined necessary for national security, including administrative, logistical, medical, and other activities in direct support of such operations and activities would be exempt. Would defense contract operations continue? According to the House Committee on Armed Services, DOD guidance is that contractors performing under a contract that was fully obligated prior to the expiration of appropriations may continue to provide contract services, whether in support of exempt activities or not. However, new contracts may not be executed unless the contractor is supporting an exempt activity. Benefits: Would Social Security checks still go out? If the checks are stopped, would all monies due be paid eventually? According to the House Committee on Ways and Means, Social Security checks will continue to go out. Disability benefits will also continue to be paid. All Social Security offices will remain open for their usual business hours. Applications and requests for appeals will be processed. Hearings will be held, though services in hearing offices will be limited. State Disability Determination Services (DDS) will be asked to remain open; however since these 100 percent federally-funded agencies are staffed by State employees, each State will make its own decision whether to maintain limited operations. DDSs decide initial disability claims and make reconsideration decisions. Would Medicare payments be made, to doctors, hospitals, including emergency hospitalization and ER visits? According to the House Committee on Ways and Means, in the short-term, Medicare services for current beneficiaries will continue without interruption during a temporary lapse in government funding. This is due primarily to the fact that funds to pay Medicare claims are not dependent on appropriations, but are transferred from the Medicare trust funds. Medicare Parts A/B (doctors and hospitals) fee-for-service claims are processed by independent Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs). MACs also are paid with Medicare trust funds. Additionally, Medicare has up to 30 days to process clean claims, so claims that are paid today were incurred up to 30 days before. However, some Medicare administrative activities are funded through discretionary appropriations and may be suspended during a temporary lapse in government funding. In the past, activities such as enrolling new beneficiaries and providers were suspended during a government shutdown. Fraud programs that receive mandatory funding would continue, however some fraud programs that rely on discretionary funding would be postponed. Appeals and other activities to administer the program also might be suspended during a shutdown. Would Medicaid/SCHIP payments be made? According to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, because Medicaid allotments are paid to states in advance on a quarterly basis, it is likely states will not see an immediate impact from a temporary government shutdown and consequently, nor will providers who serve the Medicaid and SCHIP populations. What would happen with disability benefits (SSDI)? According to the Committee on Ways and Means, disability benefits will also continue to be paid. State Disability Determination Services (DDS) will be asked to remain open; however since these 100 percent federally-funded agencies are staffed by State employees, each State will make its own decision whether to maintain limited operations. DDSs decide initial disability claims and make reconsideration decisions. What would happen with Unemployment Benefits? State and Federal extended benefits are mandatory spending and will not be affected if a shutdown occurs. There is a concern about federally funded state administrative funds, but the Department of Labor just did a significant transfer of remaining state administrative funds in anticipation of the end of the fiscal year. Initial unemployment claims data will continue to be released each Thursday. However, any other data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, such as the monthly jobs report currently scheduled for release on Friday, October 4th, will be delayed. What would happen with Work training programs? According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, workforce training programs are funded through June 2014. Unless there is a protracted shutdown there should be no impact. What would happen with Welfare (TANF)? According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, TANF is shared jurisdiction with Ways and Means. Education and the Workforce has jurisdiction over the work requirements portion and Ways and Means has jurisdiction over the funding. According to staff at the House Ways and Means Committee, TANF is authorized through the end of FY 2013, and quarterly funding for the program would be suspended until the program were reauthorized as part of a CR or stand-alone bill. States continuing to provide TANF services would do so with their existing funds. How would Food stamps be affected? According to the September 27, 2013 contingency plan published by USDA and OMB, “the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) will continue operations and eligible households will still receive monthly benefits for October. The authority to make October benefit payments comes from the Recovery Act, through which Congress provided ‘such sums as are necessary’ to finance the SNAP benefit provided for in the Recovery Act. In addition, about $2 billion in contingency funding will be available and could be used to support State Administrative activities essential to continue the program and issue and process benefits. These contingency funds were provided in the FY 2013 appropriation and do not expire until the end of FY 2014.” What would happen to school lunches? According to the USDA, cited by the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, “Child Nutrition (CN) Programs, including School Lunch, School Breakfast, Child and Adult Care Feeding, Summer Food Service and Special Milk will continue operations into October. Meal providers are paid on a reimbursement basis 30 days after the end of the service month. Limited carryover funding will be available during a lapse to support FY 2014 meal service. Once an appropriation is enacted, we expect additional resources will be available to reimburse October performance. In addition, most State agencies will continue to have fiscal year 2013 funds available for State Administrative Expenses (SAE). SAE funds are awarded to States for a two year grant period and they are permitted to carryover up to 20 percent of their allocation into the second year of the grant period.” How would student Loans/work study be affected? Would funding be released? Would repayment checks be cashed? According to the U.S. Department of Education, cited by the House Committee on Education and the Workforce: “In the event of a government shutdown, we anticipate that there will be limited impact to the federal student aid application (FAFSA) process, to the delivery of federal student aid, or to the federal student loan repayment functions.”More information is available HERE. Would FHA Mortgage loans be affected? According to a document provided by HUD, the FHA’s Office of Single Family Housing will endorse new loans under current multi-year appropriation authority “in order to support the health and stability of the U.S. mortgage market.” The Office of Single Family Housing will maintain the minimum operations necessary to support FHA’s existing portfolio by operating the FHA Call Center and the National Servicing Center’s Call Center. How would the National Flood Insurance Program be affected in terms of mortgage closings and payment of claims? According to the House Financial Services Committee, NFIP would continue to pay claims and sell policies in the event of a shutdown. Responses to day-to-day questions would be curtailed due to only essential personnel being on the job. Federal Services: Would the mail be delivered? Would post offices be open? According to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the U.S. Postal Service would continue mail delivery, retail service, and other operations in the event of a government shutdown. The Postal Service is essentially funded through the sale of postage. Would National Parks and Museums (Smithsonian) be shut down? According to the House Committee on Natural Resources, parks would be closed to public use. “Critical” personnel would be kept in place for resource protection (and to tell people that arrive that they are closed). The National Park Service has informed the Natural Resources Committee that they do not expect to close access to open-entrance park land, but everywhere they can lock a gate, close a road, and shutoff amenities, it will be done. Although the Washington Monument is already closed for repairs, we understand that the NPS will attempt to obstruct public access to other popular monuments on the National Mall with closures and barricades. According to CRS Report RL34680, while not indicative of future behavior, 368 National Park Service sites (loss of 7 million visitors) reportedly occurred in a previous shutdown. Administration What is being done to ensure consistency from agency to agency in the designation of essential personnel? (i.e. what if one agency only deems emergency/first responder type personnel essential where another might take a broader liberal view and consider someone who is conducting research?) According to Congressional Research Service Report RL34680, OMB's Circular No. A-11 requires executive agencies to submit to OMB "plans for an orderly shutdown in the event of the absence of appropriations" when the plans are either first prepared or later revised. OMB has required the development and maintenance of these shutdown plans since 1980. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) provides agencies with annual instructions on how to prepare for and operate during a funding gap in Circular No. A-11. The circular establishes two "policies" regarding the absence of appropriations: (1) a prohibition on incurring obligations unless the obligations are otherwise authorized by law and (2) permission to incur obligations "as necessary for orderly termination of an agency's functions," but prohibition of any disbursement (i.e., payment). According to the CRS report, the circular also directs agency heads to develop and maintain shutdown plans, which are to be submitted to OMB when initially prepared and also when revised. Agency heads are to use the DOJ opinions and the circular to "decide what activities are essential to operate their agencies during an appropriations hiatus." Among other things, a shutdown plan is required to include: -- An estimate of the time to complete the shutdown, to the nearest halfday; -- The number of employees expected to be on-board (i.e., filled positions) before implementation of the plan; -- The total number of employees to be "retained" under the plan (i.e., not subject to furlough), broken out into five categories: (1) who are paid from a resource other than annual appropriations; (2) who are necessary to perform activities expressly authorized by law; (3) who are necessary to perform activities necessarily implied by law; (4) who are necessary to the discharge of the President’s constitutional duties and powers; and (5) who are necessary to protect life and property. Does the President get paid? According to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the President is not subject to furlough. However, he will not receive pay during the shutdown period. What essential agencies would be in operation during the shutdown? According to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, consistent with OMB’s September 17, 2013 memo, agencies will decide what activities are excepted or otherwise legally authorized to continue during a lapse in appropriations. In developing their contingency plans agencies are to ensure only those activities that are “excepted” pursuant to applicable legal requirements would continue. Agencies may allow activities to continue during a lapse in appropriations when: -- A statute or other legal requirement expressly authorizes an agency to obligate funds in advance of appropriations. -- The function addresses emergency circumstances, such that the suspension of the function would imminently threaten the safety of life or protection of property. -- The function is necessary to the discharge of the President’s constitutional duties and powers. -- The function is “necessarily implied” from the authorized continuation of other activities. Does the interest on the debt still get paid? According to the Treasury Department contingency plan, Treasury “would maintain payments, collections, and daily cash management and processing of essential authority/appropriation transactions based on applicable statutes,” which “includes resources to support disbursements of interest on the debt.” Law Enforcement and Federal Assistance: Would FBI agents come off the streets? According to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform –citing the Department of Justice FY2014 Contingency Plan – “all FBI agents and support personnel in the field are considered excepted from furlough. … At FBI headquarters, the excepted personnel will provide direction and investigative support to all field operations and excepted headquarters functions…” Would CIA officers get paid? Using past shutdown experience as a guide, the Committee on House Oversight and Government Reform anticipates that most CIA officers would be considered excepted employees and continue to work during a shutdown. Consistent with OMB’s September 17, 2013 memo, “Without further specific direction or enactment by Congress, all excepted employees are entitled to receive payment for obligations incurred by their agencies for their performance of excepted work during the period of the appropriations lapse. After appropriations are enacted, payroll centers will pay all excepted employees for time worked.” Do computer operated government systems shut down? Would local law enforcement still have access to Federal databases? Would the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) still be available so that firearm purchases would not be interrupted? It is the understanding of the House Committee on Homeland Security that state and local law enforcement would continue to have access to federal law enforcement databases for homeland security oriented issues and access to the government systems that support them. DHS has not yet provided the Committee specific information on these issues. Would FEMA and disaster assistance be affected? Disaster assistance would likely not be affected because the Disaster Relief Fund which funds disaster operations is categorized as “no year money.” Some grants could be impacted as grantees will not be able to draw down funds for Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER), Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG), or Fire Prevention and Safety grants because these rely on manual processes that will not be staffed during a lapse in appropriations. Travel: Would the passport offices still be open to receive applications/process passports since they are a fee for service operation? According to the House Foreign Affairs committee, State Consular functions, both domestically and abroad, are funded by fees-for-service so they will not be immediately impacted by a government work stoppage. However, some passport offices are located in federal buildings that may be forced to shut down during a work stoppage, impacting service. How would this affect our customs and border patrol? Airport screeners? Air Traffic Controllers? What would happen to U.S. Border Patrol agents at the U.S.-Mexican border? It is the understanding of the House Committee on Homeland Security that CBP agents and TSA screeners would be deemed essential personnel and that they would continue to be operational. DHS has not yet provided the Committee specific information on these issues. Though not indicative of future shutdown activities, border and coastal protection and surveillance and the continuance of air traffic control and other transportation safety functions and the protection of transport property was an excepted activity in FY 1996. In FY 1996 cancellation of the hiring of 400 Border Patrol agents occurred during the shutdown according to the report. How would TSA be affected? It is the understanding of the committee that TSA screeners are exempt from the shutdown, due to their security functions. Therefore, TSA does not expect an increase in wait times at airport screening checkpoints. TSA would be impacted at the headquarters level. Would there be disruptions in the aviation system? Would air traffic controllers be affected? According to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Air Traffic Controllers would continue operating as normal. Almost all ATCs air traffic controllers are considered essential/exempt. Federal Projects and Operations: Would federal courts shut down? How would pending cases be treated? Would timelines keep running? According to the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts: “In the event of a government shutdown on October 1, 2013, the federal Judiciary will remain open for business for approximately 10 business days. On or around October 15, 2013, the Judiciary will reassess its situation and provide further guidance. All proceedings and deadlines remain in effect as scheduled, unless otherwise advised. Case Management/Electronic Case Files (CM/ECF) will remain in operation for the electronic filing of documents with courts.” Would prisons be secure? According to the House committee on the Judiciary, care of prisoners and other persons in the custody of the United States is considered an excepted activity, as are personnel, in the event of a shutdown. Everyone who works at a Bureau of Prisons facility is considered a federal corrections officer. Thus, all prison employees are treated as essential. However, there will likely be some furloughs at the administrative offices, but employees working on intelligence and monitoring will likely also be considered essential. The same is likely to be true for pre-trial detainees held in the custody of the U.S. Marshals Service. What would happen with federal contracts? According to the Congressional Research Service, effects of a shutdown on federal contractors “often depend upon the facts and circumstances of individual contracts, such as the funding source(s) for the contract, the type and terms of the contract, and where and how the contract is being performed. However, as a general matter, in the event of a shutdown, the Anti-Deficiency Act would greatly restrict agencies’ ability to enter new contracts, or to allot additional funds to existing contracts. Contractors with contracts that are fully funded are also likely to experience delays in performance and/or payment.” Taxes: Would tax returns get processed and refund checks get issued? According to the House Committee on Ways and Means - citing IRS and Treasury Department contingency plans - IRS would halt non-automated collections and tax processing activities, but would continue activities necessary for the protection of government property. These activities include, but are not limited to, processing tax payment remittances; computer operations necessary to prevent loss of data in process and revenue collections; retaining minimal personnel to maintain safe conditions for essential personnel; maintaining criminal law enforcement and undercover operations; and the protection of statute expiration, bankruptcy, liens and seizure cases. The IRS would halt taxpayer services such as responding to taxpayer questions, including telephone customer service functions. If the government is closed, people with appointments related to examinations (audits), collections, Appeals or Taxpayer Advocate cases should assume their meetings are cancelled. IRS personnel would reschedule those meetings at a later date. International Affairs: Would foreign embassies and Consulates be shut down? According to the House Foreign Affairs Committee, embassies and consulates overseas will continue to provide American citizen services
08.27.2013	Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) today announced the launch of his Human Trafficking Congressional Advisory Committee (HTCAC) which will hold its inaugural meeting at Royce’s Los Angeles County district office. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) today announced the launch of his Human Trafficking Congressional Advisory Committee (HTCAC) which will hold its inaugural meeting at Royce’s Los Angeles County district office. The HTCAC is comprised of victims’ rights groups, local and federal law enforcement agencies, and community advocates who will meet on a monthly basis to address human trafficking concerns, as well as offer ideas that may translate into policy recommendations. “The tragedy of human trafficking is a growing concern in Los Angeles, Orange, and San Bernardino counties, as well as throughout Southern California,” said Rep. Ed Royce. “This form of modern day slavery crushes the lives and hopes of millions of victims, primarily women and girls, around the world. Our Human Trafficking Congressional Advisory Committee provides a unique opportunity to gather all the agencies, non-profits and advocacy groups who are working to fight this problem in one room to share ideas, experiences, and possible solutions.” Members of the HTCAC include the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, Human Exploitation and Trafficking Unit; the Anaheim Police Department; Crittenton Services for Children & Families; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Victims’ Services and Investigative Departments; Salvation Army, Network of Emergency Trafficking Services; Saddleback Church, Justice & Trafficking Initiative; Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force and Community Service Programs, Inc.; Vanguard University Global Center for Women and Justice; iEmpathize; Forgotten Children, Inc.; The Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking; International Princess Project; and Freeing American Children from Exploitation and Sexual Slavery. “At Crittenton, we see all too often the devastating impact human trafficking has on its victims – many of whom are young girls,” said Joyce Capelle, President and CEO of Crittenton Services for Children and Families. “I applaud Rep. Ed Royce for his work on this important issue and am excited to see how the HTCAC will positively benefit victims of human trafficking in California.” In his role as Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Royce held a hearing in May of this year to examine innovative initiatives to combat human trafficking from around the world. At that hearing, Los Angeles County Supervisor Don Knabe testified that girls as young as ten years old were being trafficked on the streets of Los Angeles County. This November, Royce will convene a field hearing in Orange County to address the growing problem of human trafficking in Southern California. ###
07.11.2013	In response to the decision by the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) to grant the request by the City of Chino Hills to underground a segment of Southern California Edison's Tehachapi transmission line, Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), released the following statement. share: f t In response to the decision by the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) to grant the request by the City of Chino Hills to underground a segment of Southern California Edison's Tehachapi transmission line, Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), released the following statement: "I applaud the CPUC’s recommendation for Southern California Edison to remove the Tehachapi Renewable Transmission Project towers and move the power lines underground. We have worked hard for many months to reach this conclusion, including holding congressional hearings to expose the dangers to property values and property rights and express the health and safety concerns at numerous town meetings. "The community of Chino Hills has shown tremendous determination and passion in fighting the 198 foot tall, 500kV towers which were placed too close to homes, schools, and neighborhoods. I especially want to thank everyone we worked with, including Hope for the Hills, Mayor Peter Rogers, and Assemblyman Curt Hagman for their outstanding leadership and commitment to ensuring the voices of Chino Hills residents were heard." Royce has been actively engaged in working towards alternatives to the towers. In 2012, as a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, Rep. Royce along with Rep. Gary Miller held a congressional field hearing in Chino Hills on the federal Housing Administration's guidelines for homes located near overhead high voltage transmission towers and lines. Over one thousand local residents turned out to voice their concerns, and the hearing included representatives from the Federal Housing Administration and the Department of Housing and Urban Development. In the Commission's statement on the ruling, CPUC President Michael Peevey said, "It’s the dawn of a new era in transmission line planning in this state. In urban and suburban areas, we have to look anew at how we site transmission lines, and carefully weigh their role in fulfilling the state’s energy goals against their impact on community values." To read the CPUC's full statement, click here.
05.21.2013	Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will hold a forum open to all Chino Hills residents to discuss the progress of moving the Tehachapi Renewable Transmission Project power lines underground on May 25th from 1:00pm - 3:00pm at Chino Hills City Hall. share: f t Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will hold a forum open to all Chino Hills residents to discuss the progress of moving the Tehachapi Renewable Transmission Project power lines underground on May 25th from 1:00pm - 3:00pm at Chino Hills City Hall. State Assemblyman Curt Hagman and Chino Hills Mayor Peter Rogers will join Rep. Royce to provide updates on current alternatives to the towers and the ongoing legal procedures taking place at the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC). "I'm looking forward to joining Assemblyman Hagman and Mayor Rogers in talking with Chino Hills residents about how they have been affected by the development of the Tehachapi Renewable Transmission towers," said Royce. "While there has been positive movement towards removing the lines, including the approval from the CPUC for Southern California Edison to look at moving the lines underground, there is still more work to be done." Rep. Royce has been actively engaged in working towards alternatives to the towers. In 2012, as a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, Rep. Royce along with Rep. Gary Miller, held a congressional field hearing in Chino Hills on the Federal Housing Administration's guidelines for homes located near overhead high voltage transmission towers and lines. Most recently, Rep. Royce joined Chino Hills City Councilman Ray Marquez, Hope for the Hills President Bob Goodwin, and Joe Como, acting director of the PUC's Division of Ratepayer Advocates, on a tour of power lines. "The building of the Chino Hills transmission towers has had a profoundly negative impact on this community," said Royce. "On average, property values have decreased 17 percent throughout the area. That number is even higher when looking at the homes closest to the towers. This forum will provide residents the opportunity to learn about alternatives to these intrusive structures." A preliminary decision by the CPUC on whether or not to move ahead with alternatives to the Tehachapi Renewable Transmission Project towers is expected in June.
04.23.2013	Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) today joined Reps. Trent Franks (R-AZ) and Jim Costa (D-CA) in introducing a Victims’ Rights Amendment to the U.S. Constitution in order to guarantee crime victims the same constitutional rights already afforded to criminal defendants. Rep. Royce has long been involved in victims’ rights issues during his time in the California legislature and at a federal level. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) today joined Reps. Trent Franks (R-AZ) and Jim Costa (D-CA) in introducing a Victims’ Rights Amendment to the U.S. Constitution in order to guarantee crime victims the same constitutional rights already afforded to criminal defendants. Rep. Royce has long been involved in victims’ rights issues during his time in the California legislature and at a federal level. “I believe constitutionally protecting victims’ rights is absolutely necessary and appropriate,” said Royce. “In the Constitution, criminal defendants have basic rights. With the Crime Victims’ Rights Amendment, we are simply giving the same basic constitutional rights to crime victims. While protections for victims have been passed at both the state and federal level, they have proven ineffective at removing all the obstacles victims encounter.” The proposed amendment would guarantee crime victims the right to be notified of court hearings, to attend those hearings, and to be heard at critical stages. Additionally, under this amendment, the crime victim would receive notice of the release or escape of the accused as well as restitution. Because these would be constitutional rights, they could no longer be overruled by the assertion of a defendant’s constitutional rights. As a state senator in California, Rep. Royce authored Proposition 115, known as the Crime Victims Justice Reform Act, which ensures victims the rights to a speedy trial, reduces the number of times crime victims must testify, and increases sentences and punishment. At the federal level, Rep. Royce was also involved in passage of the Crime Victims’ Rights Act (CRVA), which provided for a more comprehensive federal victims’ rights statute. However, even with the CRVA, the GAO found mixed results regarding the effect and efficacy of the law, citing such factors as victim satisfaction, participation and treatment. “We have made strong progress in securing protections for crime victims in the past two decades but the addition of a Crime Victims’ Rights Amendment will help to ensure victims are not left stymied and frustrated by a system that is meant to protect them,” said Royce. Reps. Royce, Franks and Costa will speak further about the Crime Victims' Rights Amendment at a press conference on Thursday, April 25th at 10am. Following the press conference, the amendment will be discussed at a House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice at 11:30. ###
02.26.2013	Today, Rep. Royce (R-Fullerton), spoke at the Credit Union National Association (CUNA) Government Affairs Conference. Royce highlighted the introduction of the Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act, legislation that will open up an additional $13 billion to small businesses without any added cost to taxpayers. “This effort is not a debate about ‘Credit Unions v. Banks,’ this is about helping small businesses access the capital they need to grow and hire,” said Royce. “I have heard so many stories from businesses in California who have directly benefitted, and been able to create jobs, from capital that a credit union loan made available. Now is not the time to place artificial caps on safe and sound lending.” In his speech, Royce focused on some of the characteristics that make credit unions uniquely qualified to help small business grow in our local communities, including operating in a cooperative manner and their non-profit status. The Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act would raise the current credit union member business lending (MBL) cap from 12.25% to 27.5%. To qualify for the higher cap, a credit union must be well capitalized, have a history of member business lending experience, be operating near the lower cap for at least one year, and receive approval by the National Credit Union Administration.
02.25.2013	Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) released the following statement on the series of spending cuts, known as the sequester, set to take place on March 1st. share: f t Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-Fullerton), released the following statement on the series of spending cuts, known as the sequester, set to take place on March 1st. “With a $16 trillion national debt, there is little question that we must cut our out-of-control spending. But the sequester – proposed and promoted by President Obama – is not the best way to address this problem. This is why the House of Representatives has twice passed bills offering smarter, targeted cuts, and I supported both bills. Now the White House and Senate Democrats are decrying the negative effects of the sequester, but the Senate has yet to pass or even hold a vote on an alternative plan to cut spending. They have, however, proposed even more tax hikes despite the fact Congress already addressed the expiring tax cuts. “I am open to a tax reform plan that spurs economic growth and efficiency, but that isn’t what the President and Senate Democrats are proposing. Instead, they are looking to make it even harder for our nation’s businesses and job creators to grow and hire. If the President and Democrats in the Senate are truly looking to avoid the sequester, then it’s time they provide the American people with a credible plan to cut our national debt and join us in coming up with a viable alternative.” ###
02.14.2013	Today, Reps. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) introduced the Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act (H.R. 688), legislation that will provide much needed financial assistance to America’s small businesses without any additional costs to taxpayers. share: f t Today, Reps. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) introduced the Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act (H.R. 688), legislation that will provide much needed financial assistance to America’s small businesses without any additional costs to taxpayers. "Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and it is critical that Congress look at proposals that help them to grow, thrive and hire," said Royce. "We must support America’s small businesses as we continue to grow our economy. This bipartisan bill will help small businesses grow and hire new workers at zero cost to taxpayers. I urge our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join us in supporting this commonsense legislation," said McCarthy. The Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act would raise the current credit union member business lending (MBL) cap from 12.25% to 27.5%. To qualify for the higher cap, a credit union must be well capitalized, have a history of member business lending experience, be operating near the lower cap for at least one year, and receive approval by the National Credit Union Administration. Reps. Royce and McCarthy were joined by 34 additional co-sponsors on the legislation. "This legislation will not only allow credit unions to lend an additional $13 billion to small businesses, but will create 140,000 new jobs in the process," said Royce. "With a stagnant job market and unemployment rising to 7.9 percent, the Credit Union Small Business Jobs Creation Act is an important step in getting Americans back to work." ###
01.02.2013	Late last night, the House of Representatives sent legislation originally authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) to the President’s desk to bolster the State Department’s rewards program, currently focused mainly on terrorists and drug traffickers. With the President’s signature, the rewards program will expand to also target transnational organized criminals and those wanted for the most serious human rights abuses. share: f t Late last night, the House of Representatives sent legislation originally authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) to the President’s desk to bolster the State Department’s rewards program, currently focused mainly on terrorists and drug traffickers. With the President’s signature, the rewards program will expand to also target transnational organized criminals and those wanted for the most serious human rights abuses. "This bill responds to the need to develop more tools to pursue the world’s worst. Target one is Joseph Kony, the murderous head of the LRA. U.S. military advisors working in Central Africa consider a reward offer on Kony as critical to their effort. This action bolsters the hunt," said Royce, who will Chair the Foreign Affairs Committee in the next Congress. After introducing H.R. 4077 on February 17, 2012, Royce’s legislation garnered significant bipartisan support, and was included in comprehensive State Department legislation (H.R.6018), which passed the House in July. Royce’s Subcommittee held a hearing on the legislation in March. The Senate companion legislation (S. 2318), introduced in April by Senators Kerry and Isakson, passed the Senate on December 20th and was taken up by the House this week. The legislation has been supported by the Departments of State and Defense. The President is expected to sign the legislation. "Critically, this legislation also responds to the growing links between terrorists and transnational criminals. Targeting those who assist terrorists and drug cartels by providing weapons, sophisticated forgeries, and money laundering is just as important as targeting the organizations themselves. A rewards program in this area can help disrupt these transnational organized crime networks," said Royce, who currently chairs the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. Earlier this year, in testimony in front of Royce’s Subcommittee, the senior State Department official dealing with war crimes called this legislation "critical" to the effort to locate Kony. In a letter to Congressman Royce in support of H.R. 4077, the Department of Defense noted that these rewards programs "provide the Combatant Commander and Chief of Mission with relatively low-cost and effective tools to achieve national security objectives." Background: Since the program’s inception in 1984 under President Reagan, the U.S. government has given rewards to over 70 people who provided actionable intelligence, that according to the State Department, prevented international terrorist attacks or helped convict individuals involved in terrorist acts. Royce led Congressional efforts to see that international arms dealer Viktor Bout, arrested in Thailand in 2008, was extradited to the U.S. to stand trial. In 2010, Royce – a former chair of the Africa Subcommittee – was an original sponsor of the Lord’s Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act. The successful legislation made it the policy of the U.S. to "apprehend or remove Joseph Kony and his top commanders from the battlefield." ###
12.19.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), incoming Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, issued the following statement in response to the Accountability Review Board (ARB) report examining the Benghazi terrorist attack on September 11, 2012. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), incoming Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, issued the following statement in response to the Accountability Review Board (ARB) report examining the Benghazi terrorist attack on September 11, 2012. "After meeting with the Accountability Review Board, I’m not surprised at all that these three State Department officials have resigned. I’m only surprised that it took this long. "In this day and age, with radical ideologies and weapons spreading, there is no excuse for a leadership failure like this. It is simply unacceptable. "Looking to the next Congress, the House Foreign Affairs Committee has much work to do to dig deeper and correct the management deficiencies at the State Department to make our diplomats more secure." "Two State Department deputies will fill-in for Secretary Clinton tomorrow. We look forward to her testimony in the new Congress." ###
12.11.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the incoming Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, released the following statement condemning North Korea’s missile launch, the regime’s second rocket launch this year: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the incoming Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, released the following statement condemning North Korea’s missile launch, the regime’s second rocket launch this year: "Today’s launch is the latest alarming chapter in a decades long story. U.S. policy toward North Korea is a long running failure. "This new edition of the Kim dynasty has no intention of giving up its nuclear weapons program. "I’ve been calling for a North Korea policy with energy, creativity and focus. Instead, the Obama Administration’s approach continues to be unimaginative and moribund. We can either take a different approach, or watch as the North Korean threat to the region and the U.S. grows," concluded Royce. Royce has been a leading voice in Congress on North Korea policy. He is the author of legislation to increase radio broadcasting into North Korea and has focused on North Korean human rights abuses. ###
12.05.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), incoming Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, released the following statement in reaction to Egypt’s draft constitution, President Morsi’s consolidation of power, and the protests roiling Cairo. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), incoming Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, released the following statement in reaction to Egypt’s draft constitution, President Morsi’s consolidation of power, and the protests roiling Cairo. "Egypt – at the center of the Arab world – is at a crossroads. It can follow the path of the Muslim Brotherhood and President Morsi’s consolidation of legislative and judicial power in the executive. Or it can choose the path that many Egyptians thought its revolution was leading to. One that respects – and doesn’t attempt to squash - secular and liberal voices, as well as all religions. "That so many are protesting President Morsi’s power grab is an encouraging and inspiring development. Nothing less than Egypt’s strategic partnership with the United States is at stake. "Once seized, presidential powers are rarely yielded back willingly. The notion of ‘temporary’ executive powers give every freedom loving Egyptian great concern." Rep. Ed Royce currently chairs the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. He will chair the full House Foreign Affairs Committee in the 113th Congress when it begins in January. ###
12.03.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the incoming Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, released the following statement in reaction to North Korea’s planned multistage rocket launch in the coming weeks. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the incoming Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, released the following statement in reaction to North Korea’s planned multistage rocket launch in the coming weeks. "The Kim regime, with its long history of proliferation in South Asia and the Middle East, continues to be a grave threat to peace and security in Northeast Asia. "The Kim regime continues to plow millions into its military -- while its people starve," said Royce. The technology used in a satellite rocket is largely similar to that used in a long range missile. North Korea is prohibited by United Nations sanctions from developing long-range missile capability. North Korea last attempted a missile launch eight months ago. Published reports indicate that North Korea’s proliferation world-wide continues unabated. "I’ve been calling for a North Korea policy with ‘energy, creativity and focus.’ Instead, the Obama Administration’s approach continues to be unimaginative and moribund. We can either take a new approach, or sit back and watch the North Korean threat grow. This should be yet another wake-up call," concluded Royce. In April, writing on his Foreign Intrigue blog post entitled, "Launch a Policy Change," Royce wrote: "A policy tackling North Korea's illicit activities and otherwise weakening the regime is the only way to make the Korean Peninsula secure. Until it was dropped in favor of failed diplomacy in 2006, the Treasury Department went after North Korea’s ill-gotten gains parked in a Macau bank, putting the brakes on North Korea’s counterfeiting of U.S. currency and cutting the flow of hard currency to the regime. That and more could be done now. But it would require energy, creativity and focus." North Korea plans to conduct its launch sometime between December 10 to 22. The one year anniversary of Kim Jong-Il is December 17. Democratic South Korea holds a presidential election December 19. ###
11.30.2012	Today, the House of Representatives passed the STEM Jobs Act (H.R. 6429), legislation to establish a new green card program for foreign graduates of U.S. universities with advanced degrees in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math. Speaking in support of the legislation, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) gave the following remarks on the House floor: share: f t Today, the House of Representatives passed the STEM Jobs Act (H.R. 6429), legislation to establish a new green card program for foreign graduates of U.S. universities with advanced degrees in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math. Speaking in support of the legislation, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) gave the following remarks on the House floor: “I rise in support of this STEM Jobs Act. Clearly the focus on this provision is to try to bring people with skills here to the U.S. Graduates of American universities in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics – these STEM fields are behind many of the innovations, many of the new businesses that are part of our present and future economic growth. “If we want to look at jobs this is where those new patents, those new ideas, will come from that help create jobs. We have talented students from around the world that contribute to the graduate STEM programs of our universities. “We are trying to focus on a way to make sure our immigration system puts our interests first as a country. We have the most generous level of legal immigration in the world, but we select only five percent of our immigrants based on the skills and education they bring to America. “Foreign graduates of U.S. universities in the STEM fields are in such great demand here, but many of them end up on years-long green card waiting lists. As a result, many of them give up and go to work for one of our global competitors. This bill alters our current immigration system to encourage job creation by increasing the proportion of new entrants with high levels of education, with high levels of skills. “We know that skilled immigrants contribute mightily to the rising U.S. standard of living - they bring capital, they bring new ideas, they produce new companies. With this bill we can help grow innovation, we can create jobs in this country. We’ve got plenty of examples in California of IT firms that are founded by immigrants from China and India that were educated here in our institutions. “The legislation also contains a family reunification provision which allows graduates’ spouses and children to live in the U.S. while waiting for their green card application to be processed. “Additionally, green cards will be rolled over every year for the next four years to make sure they all are used. We believe that more of them will be used than under the diversity lottery where they’re not rolled over. In fact, we focus on exactly the type of skilled immigration that’s most likely to create jobs here in the U.S. “I urge my colleagues to support this bill in order to help our economy grow.” NOTE: Watch Royce’s speech on the House floor by clicking here. Royce previously voted for the American Competitiveness in the 21st Century Act to increase the number of H-1B visas by 274,000. He also voted for the Fairness for Highly Skilled Immigrants Act to decrease waiting periods for professionals from India and China. ###
11.27.2012	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) was selected today by the Republican Steering Committee to chair the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the 113th Congress. share: f t U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) was selected today by the Republican Steering Committee to chair the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the 113th Congress. Royce will succeed Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, who was term limited. The decision of the Steering Committee, a group of Republican leaders chaired by Speaker John Boehner, is expected to be ratified by the full Republican Conference on Wednesday. "After years of sacrifice, Americans are weary of engagement. But while we can't step away from the many challenges abroad, I'll be working to see that U.S. policy is smart and focused, and that we make the best use of our limited resources." "Right now, the gravest threat facing the U.S. and our allies is Iran. We should be pressuring Tehran as hard as we can to stop its march to nuclear weapons. Checking nuclear proliferation worldwide will be a key Committee priority," said Royce, who served as a conferee to the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010, and has been a leader in advancing U.S.-Israel relations. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has jurisdiction over the activities of the State Department, including embassy security. In his presentation to the Steering Committee, Royce pledged to exercise tough but fair oversight of the Obama Administration. "The story of Benghazi is only just beginning to be recorded. The Committee will do its job to ensure there is a full accounting of all that happened within the Administration. Al-Qaeda and its affiliates have their sights on our diplomatic posts world-wide. This is a key national security issue. "There aren't easy answers. But it only gets harder when the Administration is evasive with Congress and the American people." Royce has focused on economic issues during his time on the Committee. "We are only as strong abroad as we are at home. The Committee will focus on expanding economic opportunities for Americans overseas. That includes reforming our too bureaucratic export control system." In the weeks leading to the Steering Committee vote, Royce won the endorsement of a large majority of Committee Republican members returning to Congress, including Chairman Ros Lehtinen. "I was honored to have the support of so many colleagues on the Committee. I look forward to proving their confidence in me, working with them and all members of the Committee to defend America abroad." Royce has served on the Committee since entering Congress in 1993. Royce has served as chairman or ranking member of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee for the past eight years. Royce chaired the Africa Subcommittee for eight years, and has been active on the Asia and the Pacific Subcommittee. ###
11.15.2012	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) held a bipartisan, bicameral caucus hearing to address the global poaching crisis. Due to high demand in China, the market for ivory is at an unprecedented level. Described as an "epic elephant slaughter," tens of thousands of elephants are killed each year by criminal networks to fund their illegal operations. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), co-chairs of the International Conservation Caucus, held a bipartisan, bicameral caucus hearing to address the global poaching crisis. Due to high demand in China, the market for ivory is at an unprecedented level. Described as an "epic elephant slaughter," tens of thousands of elephants are killed each year by criminal networks to fund their illegal operations. "From al-Shabaab to the brutal Lord’s Resistance Army, we are seeing the worst of the world’s worst poaching elephants to fund their illicit activities," said Rep. Royce. "Park rangers are going to battle every day with these networks, facing AKs and RPGs. The transnational aspect of the illegal wildlife trade and the demand from Asia has elevated this problem from an ‘African problem’ to a global problem. There are dangerous terrorist connections. It is time we target these networks engaged in the illegal wildlife trade." "Congress must work in a bipartisan fashion with the Administration to put an end to the unlawful killing of wildlife," said Whitehouse. "While all responses to this issue are important, investigating and prosecuting wildlife crime is a particular responsibility of governments. The conservation community has played a key role… but they cannot combat militias or take down transnational crime." Testifying today, Dr. Michael Fay, an expert from the National Geographic Society and a Senior Conservationist at the Wildlife Conservation Society, warned that elephants in Central Africa may go extinct very soon. Garamba National Park in Congo once had more than 20,000 elephants, last year that number dwindled to 2,800, Fay noted. In Chad, yet another example of the impact of poaching, in 2005 elephants neared 4,000, but today there are under 500. Joseph Kony, leader of the Lord’s Resistance Army, known for killing, mutilating and abducting children in the thousands, has encouraged his fighters to kill elephants and bring back the tusks to fund weapons. In Sudan, the janjaweed were suspected in one of the largest episodes of elephant slaughter earlier this year in Cameroon. Al-Shabaab, the al-Qaeda affiliate in Somalia, is training terrorists to kill elephants and bring back the ivory. One witness with a background in counterterrorism and anti-poaching operations pointed out that the ivory from just one elephant could pay for a terrorist attack on two U.S. embassies. Senator Whitehouse is a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a former Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa. ###
11.15.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, today issued the following statement as Israel faced a barrage of rocket fire from the Gaza Strip as terrorist group Hamas has stepped up its indiscriminate attacks. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, today issued the following statement as Israel faced a barrage of rocket fire from the Gaza Strip as terrorist group Hamas has stepped up its indiscriminate attacks. One rocket attack reportedly struck close to Tel Aviv, marking a significant escalation of this conflict. "Israel has more than the right to defend itself, it has a duty to protect its citizens, which it is exercising. A wave of missile attacks have been hitting Israeli territory for several days. Hamas’ missiles are designed solely to terrorize and kill. No country would stand for this," said Royce. "Sirens are now sounding in southern Israel, warning citizens that they have seconds to take shelter. Six years ago, I was in northern Israel, as Haifa came under rocket fire from Hezbollah. I heard those same sirens. Now is the time to stand by Israel as its citizens are being terrorized." Yesterday, responding to a wave of Hamas rocket attacks, Israel successfully targeted Ahmed Jabari, commander of Hamas’ armed wing. Jabari has been linked to dozens of terrorist attacks and overseeing the kidnapping and five-year captivity of Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit. Iran is Hamas’ main weapons supplier. The Muslim Brotherhood called on Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi to "review" Egypt’s peace treaty with Israel. Egypt is now controlled by a Muslim Brotherhood-led government which has close ties to Hamas. Egypt abuts Gaza’s southern border. "Egypt’s peace treaty with Israel is a cornerstone of regional stability. President Morsi insists that he rejects violence and is a force for moderation. Now is the time to prove it," concluded Royce. ###
11.15.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee, issued the following statement during today’s Foreign Affairs hearing examining the Benghazi terrorist attack on September 11, 2012 - what went wrong and how to prevent it from happening again. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee, issued the following statement during today’s Foreign Affairs hearing examining the Benghazi terrorist attack on September 11, 2012 - what went wrong and how to prevent it from happening again. "It is two months later and too little is known about what took place. Too little is known about why we didn’t respond to those cables, especially given the fact that the deteriorating situation in Benghazi was no secret," said Royce. "Certainly it was no secret to the United Kingdom, it was no secret to the Red Cross; even the security challenged UN were very, very concerned about what was about to happen. The UK and the Red Cross closed their offices as a result of attacks. You had a bomb targeting our own mission there. Somebody obviously forgot to circle the calendar on 9/11. We do have some experience with attacks on 9/11." "I think we’ll find that the State Department, unfortunately prioritized the ‘normalization’ of the relationship with Libya above all else, including American lives, no matter the facts on the ground." The House Foreign Affairs Committee heard from security experts including the GAO and former CIA personnel. Royce questioned the emphasis put on security needs, arguing that actions taken in Benghazi seemed out of character in terms of the way the U.S. has taught security to others. "We have memos from individuals, now deceased, expressing a concern that went unheeded. We are trying to get our arms around what happened. How is it possible that this video narrative was being pushed day after day in light of facts that seemed to indicate that on 9/11 al-Qaeda planned a hit and took credit for it?" Royce asked. "It is important to learn what happened in Benghazi because at the end of the day it could happen again. Al-Qaeda plans attacks over and over again. One witness here today warns that Al-Qaeda affiliates will have U.S. embassies in their sights now as a consequence for many years to come," Royce concluded. NOTE: To watch Royce’s opening statement, please click here. To watch Royce question security experts before the House Foreign Affairs Committee, please click here. ###
11.14.2012	Today, a large majority of returning Members of the Foreign Affairs Committee wrote the Steering Committee backing Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) to become chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee for the 113th Congress. share: f t Today, a large majority of returning Members of the Foreign Affairs Committee wrote the Steering Committee backing Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) to become chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee for the 113th Congress. "I am honored to have earned the support of my colleagues, and that they recognize my leadership and hard work on the Foreign Affairs Committee. Next, I look forward to making my case before the Steering Committee," said Royce. Urging the Steering Committee to consider their strong endorsement of Rep. Royce, the Members wrote: "Ed’s commendable performance as chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade gives us great confidence in making this recommendation to you." Of the 14 currently serving Committee members who are returning to the 113th Congress and are not contesting the chairmanship, ten endorsed Royce in the letter. Term-limited current Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen had previously endorsed Royce to succeed her as Chairman, bringing the number of supporters to 11. Last week, Ros-Lehtinen wrote that Royce is, "a proven leader who has provided valuable input during critical debates of our Committee…Ed would make an excellent Chairman and I strongly support his candidacy to lead the Committee in the next Congress." Discussing Royce’s leadership, the Members wrote: "As chairman, he would continue to effectively challenge harmful Obama Administration foreign policies, especially concerning terrorism, and weapons of mass destruction proliferation." They added, "Ed has helped secure loose shoulder-fired missiles from terrorists, bolster relations with allies, and bring to justice international terrorists and war criminals." "Having seen Ed’s work up close, we believe that he would work hard and effectively as chairman to understand and represent our interests, and those of the Caucus. He has won our trust by being a team player over many years," the letter concluded. The letter was signed by: Rep. Jeff Duncan (SC-03), Rep. Steve Chabot (OH-01), Rep. Renee Ellmers (NC-02), Rep. Tim Griffin (AR-02), Rep. Michael McCaul (TX-10), Rep. Gus Bilirakis (FL-09), Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02), Rep. Tom Marino (PA-10), Rep. Bill Johnson (OH-06), Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02). Royce has served on the Committee since entering Congress in 1993. He chaired the Africa Subcommittee for eight years, and has served as chairman or ranking member of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee for eight years. ###
11.12.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, issued the following statement after reports surfaced this weekend that the U.S. Justice Department has refused a request from Russia that convicted arms dealer Viktor Bout serve his 25-year prison term in Russia. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, issued the following statement after reports surfaced this weekend that the U.S. Justice Department has refused a request from Russia that convicted arms dealer Viktor Bout serve his 25-year prison term in Russia. "Convicted terrorist Viktor Bout is where he belongs - behind bars on U.S. soil. Transferring him back to Russia isn’t an option. I am pleased to learn that the U.S. Justice Department has sent that message to Moscow," said Royce. Earlier this year, after learning of Russian efforts to seek Bout’s transfer to Russia, Royce wrote in an April 9, 2012 letter to Secretary of State Clinton and Attorney General Holder: "I know you agree with me that any such arrangement would be completely unacceptable. The United States did not invest considerable resources in Bout’s arrest and extradition from Thailand, only to see him returned to Russia, where he would surely reengage in his deadly trade. Thank you in advance for standing firm for justice and our nation’s security interests." After Bout’s arrest in Thailand in 2008, Royce spearheaded congressional efforts to see that Viktor Bout was extradited to the United States. In August 2010, on the eve of a crucial court hearing, Royce led a congressional letter to the Thai government, pressing for Bout’s extradition. In addition, Royce authored an op-ed which appeared in the Washington Post, calling for stepped-up U.S. engagement to see that Bout was not set free. Last November, a jury in New York found Bout guilty of all four charges against him, which included conspiring to kill United States citizens and attempting to arm the Colombian terrorist organization know as the FARC. Prior to his arrest, Bout fueled many brutal civil wars on the African continent and elsewhere through the illicit sale of arms, breaking international arms embargos. In Afghanistan, Bout simultaneously armed the Taliban and the Northern Alliance and is linked to international terrorist organizations, including Hezbollah and al-Shabaab. The full text of Royce’s letter can be found below: April 9, 2012 The Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20520 The Honorable Eric Holder Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Secretary of State Clinton and Attorney General Holder: I am writing in regard to the recent sentencing of international arms trafficker Viktor Bout in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. As one who has followed this case for several years, and who assisted in securing Bout’s extradition from Thailand, it is satisfying to see this case coming to a close. As the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York said, Viktor Bout’s sentencing last week "is a fitting coda for this career arms trafficker of the most dangerous order." Like you, I was disappointed that the presiding judge imposed only the minimum mandatory sentence of 25 years, denying the life sentence that prosecutors sought. But a man whose actions undermined the security of many countries and regions, and destroyed the lives of thousands of innocents, is now sentenced to many years behind bars. That is an accomplishment. This lighter sentence seems to have emboldened the Russians, however. Press reports indicate that the Russian Foreign Minister will soon raise the case with Secretary Clinton, even seeking to have Bout serve his sentence in Russia. I know you agree with me that any such arrangement would be completely unacceptable. The United States did not invest considerable resources in Bout's arrest and extradition from Thailand, only to see him returned to Russia, where he would surely reengage in his deadly trade. Thank you in advance for standing firm for justice and our nation's security interests. Sincerely, EDWARD R. ROYCE Chairman, Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade ###
11.09.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, today commended new U.S. sanctions targeting Iranian regime officials engaged in censorship activities. The new sanctions, announced by the U.S. State Department and Treasury, follow recent legislation in Congress and a push from Royce. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, today commended new U.S. sanctions targeting Iranian regime officials engaged in censorship activities. The new sanctions, announced by the U.S. State Department and Treasury, follow recent legislation in Congress and a push from Royce. "The Iranian regime is engaged in an aggressive information battle – doing everything it can to keep news away from its own people. These latest sanctions need to be just a first step towards hitting back at the regime and standing with Iranians," said Royce. Four Iranian regime officials and five entities found to be limiting access to print and broadcast media, including by jamming international satellite broadcasts into Iran, were targeted with asset freezes and travel bans. The sanctions were included in the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, signed into law in August. Royce first brought attention to the issue on his Foreign Intrigue blog in a posting entitled, "Information Battle." The Iranian regime has been involved in heavy jamming of international broadcasts, which had been broadcasting reports into Iran on the devaluation of its currency and related street protests. This jamming is prohibited under the rules of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), to which Iran belongs. In February, the ITU called for countries to take "necessary actions" to stop intentional interference with satellite transmissions. In a letter to Secretary Clinton and Geithner last month, Royce wrote: "Inclusion of individuals who have been involved with [Iran’s] jamming efforts would be…a morale boost to U.S. international broadcasters. Most importantly, it would be a show of solidarity with Iranians who are thirsting for unfiltered news and information. I urge you to make this inclusion." Those designated include the Minister of Communication and Information Technology, who has ordered the jamming of satellite television broadcasts and restriction of internet access. Royce’s full letter can be found below. October 25, 2012 The Honorable Tim Geithner Secretary of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20220 The Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton Secretary of State 2201 C Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Geithner and Secretary Clinton: I am writing regarding the recent laudable decision by Eutelsat, the French satellite provider, to terminate its contract with the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting (IRIB) company. By implementing new Iran human rights sanctions passed by Congress, the United States can take steps to bolster this development, adding to the Iranian regime’s isolation. Eutelsat’s October 15th decision removed 19 of Iran’s state-owned television and radio channels from the company’s "Hotbird" satellite – affecting viewers in Europe, the Middle East, and Iran. This followed Iranian efforts to jam this same satellite, also used by the BBC and Voice of America’s Persian services, which had been broadcasting reports into Iran on the devaluation of its currency and related street protests. Eutelsat has cited European Union human rights sanctions as driving its decision. Ezzatollah Zarghami, the head of IRIB, who is directly appointed by Iran’s supreme leader, was put on an EU list in March, related to the broadcast of forced confessions and show trials in August 2009 and December 2011. An Iranian human rights group has applauded this move as recognition that "IRIB is an integral arm of the Iranian intelligence and security service." As you may be aware, since Eutelsat’s decision last week, its satellite has faced significant electronic interference, impacting not just the channels beaming information into Iran, but other Eutelsat customers – affecting millions in a swath from Europe to Russia, Central Asia and the Middle East. Demonstrating the close links between Tehran and Damascus, Eutelsat has confirmed that the disruptive signals originate from Syria. This jamming is prohibited under the rules of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), to which Iran belongs. In February, the ITU called for countries to take "necessary actions" to stop intentional interference with satellite transmissions. Major broadcasters in Europe and the United States, including the U.S.-Broadcasting Board of Governors, have vigorously protested this jamming and assault on the free flow of information. The Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (P.L. 111-195, Sec. 105), which was recently augmented by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (P.L.112-158, Sec. 403), directs the President to submit a list of persons to Congress that have been determined to have engaged in censorship and other activities against Iranian citizens. Executive Order 13628 places the responsibility for this list with the Secretary of the Treasury and Secretary of State. The law notes that this list is to include those that have facilitated or supported the "international frequency manipulation by the Government of Iran or an entity owned or controlled by that Government that would jam or restrict an international signal." Those identified on this list would be subject to visa sanctions and asset freezes. The first submission of this list to Congress is due shortly. Inclusion of individuals who have been involved with IRIB’s jamming efforts would be an important signal of support to our allies in Europe and a morale boost to U.S. international broadcasters. Most importantly, it would be a show of solidarity with Iranians who are thirsting for unfiltered news and information. I urge you to make this inclusion. Thank you for your consideration of my views. Sincerely, EDWARD R. ROYCE Chairman, Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade ###
11.07.2012	Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) officially announced his intention to seek the chairmanship of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the 113th Congress. Current Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, who is backing Royce for the position, is stepping down due to Conference term limits. share: f t Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) officially announced his intention to seek the chairmanship of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the 113th Congress. Current Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, who is backing Royce for the position, is stepping down due to Conference term limits. Royce currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. "I look forward to presenting my case to my colleagues later this month, and sharing my vision for the Foreign Affairs Committee," said Royce. "Foreign policy didn't decide this presidential election, but it critically impacts our national security. If selected as chairman, I will work against the Administration's most harmful foreign policies, and exercise strong oversight over the State Department and other agencies. The Administration's behavior in the Benghazi incident still demands a credible accounting." "Right now, the gravest threat facing the U.S. and our allies is Iran. We need to be doing all we can to pressure its regime to stop its march to nuclear weapons," said Royce, who served as a conferee to the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 and has been a leader in defending Israel. "I am honored to have Chairman Ros-Lehtinen's support. She has seen my work over many years and has confidence in my ability to lead the Committee going forward." In a letter to the Steering Committee today, Chairman Ros-Lehtinen wrote that Royce is, "a proven leader who has provided valuable input during critical debates of our Committee." She concluded, "Ed would make an excellent Chairman and I strongly support his candidacy to lead the Committee in the next Congress." Royce has focused his Committee work on counterterrorism, nonproliferation and trade policy. He has long chaired the interparliamentary exchange with ally South Korea and has strongly focused on Asia, especially China, Taiwan, India, the Philippines and Vietnam. Royce has often pushed to strengthen human rights, including co-chairing the International Parliamentarians Coalition for North Korean Refugees and Human Rights, while working to protect the sanctity of life. "I have helped secure loose shoulder-fired missiles, bolster relations with traditional and new allies, and bring to justice international terrorists and war criminals," Royce wrote in a letter today that went to senior Republican members who will oversee the selection of committee chairmen. "We are only as strong abroad as we are at home. We need to be expanding economic opportunities for American companies overseas. Economic diplomacy is a set of issues that Committee members could do more on," said Royce, emphasizing the role the Committee can play to improve America's economic competitiveness. Pledging strong stewardship of U.S. taxpayer dollars should he be selected as Committee chair, Royce noted, "Too often, we put faith in the type of social engineering abroad that we know fails at home." Royce has served on the Committee since entering Congress in 1993. He chaired the Africa Subcommittee for eight years, and has served as chairman or ranking member of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee for eight years. ###
09.13.2012	Today, the House of Representative passed by unanimous consent H.Res.775, legislation condemning the shooting that killed six innocent people at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin on August 5. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, praised the bill’s passage. Royce, an original cosponsor, had pledged to work to quickly bring the bill to the floor for a vote. share: f t Today, the House of Representative passed by unanimous consent H.Res.775, legislation condemning the shooting that killed six innocent people at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin on August 5. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, praised the bill’s passage. Royce, an original cosponsor, had pledged to work to quickly bring the bill to the floor for a vote. "In the days following this horrific attack, I vowed to pass a resolution condemning it the week Congress reconvened. I applaud Rep. Ryan for drafting it and working to see that it came to the floor. With its passage, the U.S. House of Representatives has now made an important statement. "I was horrified by the shootings, which unfolded in a place of worship – women, children, elderly – all present. Over the years, I’ve had the opportunity to work closely with the Sikh community, which has made countless contributions to our country. "While this resolution might not ease the pain of those affected by this tragedy, it does display our commitment to religious tolerance, to show that we denounce hate-inspired violence. "Every American should be treated with respect and dignity, and safe in their place of worship. This resolution reaffirms that there is no tolerance in our country for such terroristic acts of bigotry." ###
09.12.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade reacted to the news that the U.S. Ambassador to Libya, Christopher Stevens, and three other Americans were killed in an attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade reacted to the news that the U.S. Ambassador to Libya, Christopher Stevens, and three other Americans were killed in an attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya: "I’m saddened and angered by this news. U.S. diplomats are working around the world to protect and promote U.S. interests. In the case of Ambassador Stevens, he played a critical role in helping Libyans rid themselves of a tyrant," said Royce. The exact circumstances of the deaths of these Americans have not been confirmed. Their deaths came as an angry mob set the U.S. consulate in Libya on fire. This protest was in connection to a similar incident in Egypt, where the walls of the U.S. embassy in Cairo were breached, the U.S. flag torn down and replaced with the flag of al-Qaeda. The protests were over a film deemed offensive to Islam. "Nothing can ever justify such violence. Those responsible for these deaths, and those who have incited this violence, must pay a price." In recent weeks, Libya has seen a wave of extremist violence, including the destruction of two major shrines related to Sufi Islam; destroyed by Salafist militants. "These attacks show yet again how dangerous and volatile many areas of the world are. Libya hasn't been in the news much since Gaddafi's fall, but it is struggling with militant forces that also threaten the United States. Unfortunately U.S. Embassy's are easy targets for anti-American militants, requiring an impressive measure of dedication and courage from U.S. officials serving overseas," concluded Royce. Ambassador Stevens was born and raised in California, and has practiced international trade law before he joined the State Department in 1991. Fluent in Arabic, he had held other diplomatic posts in the region, and had has worked closely with Libyans throughout their transition. ###
09.11.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, issued the following statement on the eleven-year anniversary of the terrorist attacks launched by al-Qaeda, which killed over 3,000 innocent citizens: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, issued the following statement on the eleven-year anniversary of the terrorist attacks launched by al-Qaeda, which killed over 3,000 innocent citizens: "Today, we remember thousands of fallen Americans, many who were brave heroes who selflessly gave their own lives to save others. On the eleven-year anniversary, we come together as a nation to say they will never be forgotten. This was a modern day Pearl Harbor. "The individuals that have worked tirelessly to protect our nation since that horrific day deserve great credit. We haven’t had a large scale attack on our homeland, but that’s not for a lack of trying. Plots have been foiled and Osama bin Laden and other senior leaders have been killed. "However, as my Subcommittee has heard, terrorism continues to present a grave threat to the United States. A growing number of al-Qaeda affiliates and individuals are looking to fulfill bin Laden’s vision. We must continue our efforts to combat al-Qaeda’s ideological appeal." ###
09.10.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, became an original cosponsor of legislation introduced today to condemn the shooting that killed six innocent people at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, on August 5, 2012. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, became an original cosponsor of legislation introduced today to condemn the shooting that killed six innocent people at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, on August 5, 2012. Congress has been out of session since August 3, making today the first day this resolution could be introduced. Royce issued the following statement: "I'm proud to join Rep. Paul Ryan as an original cosponsor of bipartisan legislation denouncing this act of terror against the Sikh community in Wisconsin. "Since the tragic events that unfolded in early August, I have had a number of opportunities to visit Sikh temples across Orange County. This attack shook the Sikh community throughout the United States. "We must educate the public, letting them know of the commitment to service, equality, and tolerance embedded in Sikhism. "The resolution might not offer consolation to those haunted by that violent attack, but it does display our commitment to religious tolerance. "Because the attack took place while Congress was out of session, today is the first opportunity to introduce this resolution. I will press to quickly bring the bill to the floor for a vote." ###
09.04.2012	Rep. Ed Royce reacts to the announcement that the national debt surpassed $16 trillion: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding today’s announcement from the U.S. Treasury Department that the national debt surpassed $16 trillion: "Today, our national debt surpassed an alarming $16 trillion, the highest in U.S. history. Under the President’s leadership, budget deficits have exceeded $1 trillion for four straight years and over $5 trillion has been added to the nation’s debt. "This amount of debt is unsustainable and it threatens job creation and economic growth in this country. It’s simple; we need to stop spending money we don’t have. Unfortunately, the President continues to recycle failed policies – spend more, tax more and borrow more."
08.02.2012	Today, the House and Senate passed bipartisan legislation to extend the "third country fabric" provision of the African Growth and Opportunity Act. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, made the following statement in support of this critical legislation and urged the President to act: share: f t Today, the House and Senate passed bipartisan legislation to extend the "third country fabric" provision of the African Growth and Opportunity Act. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, made the following statement in support of this critical legislation and urged the President to act: "Expiring in September, we got it done at the wire. Each day we failed to take action, meant more apparel orders shifted from Africa to Asia. "We saved AGOA. We saved a policy that moved our relationship from aid to trade. "I'm glad to say the House and Senate have done their job, we got it to the President's desk." ###
07.20.2012	Congressman Frank Pallone Jr. (NJ-06) and Congressman Ed Royce (CA-40) today congratulated the people of Nagorno Karabakh on the peaceful exercise of democracy through the regular presidential elections which occurred on July 19, 2012. The elections represented another step in the bolstering of the democratic process that has been established in Nagrono Karabakh: Rep. Royce, Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues, said, "I commend the people of Nagorno-Karabakh for holding peaceful and honest elections. Throughout the years we have seen a trend of its electoral system working in proper fashion and the most recent election maintains that precedent. Voting embodies a functioning democracy, I applaud all in Nagorno-Karabakh for putting democracy into action." Rep. Pallone said, "As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues, I wish to extend our congratulations to the Nagorno Karabakh Republic on their exercise of democratic presidential elections. The presidential elections held on July 19, 2012 are another important day in the history of independence and democratic freedom for the people of Artskh. It is heartening to see their continued dedication to peaceful democracy." "On September 2, 1991 the Nagorno Karabakh Republic declared the formation of an independent, democratic republic. On December 10, 1991 a referendum on the independence of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic took place and was overwhelmingly approved. I am pleased the Republic continues to hold regular parliamentary and presidential elections that have previously been viewed as free and fair by international observers. "These elections represent the strength of the democratic process in the Nagorno Karabakh Republic and are a testament to the commitment of the people in Artsakh to the Republic’s sovereignty. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Armenian Issues Caucus I am committed to promoting the democratic independence of Nagorno Karabakh and will continue to support the rightful exercise of self-determination which contributes to regional stability and development." ###
07.18.2012	Rep. Ed Royce, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade will hold a hearing, tomorrow, July 19 at 2:00 pm, examining the challenges posed by collapsing states that possess weapons of mass destruction or dangerous conventional weapons. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade will hold a hearing, tomorrow, July 19 at 2:00 pm, examining the challenges posed by collapsing states that possess weapons of mass destruction or dangerous conventional weapons. One of the less-examined aspects of the Arab Spring is the impact of the domestic turmoil in various Middle Eastern and North African countries on the security of weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons. Libya and Syria highlight the challenge of insuring that these weapons don't fall into terrorist hands. Some have looked to Libya for lessons learned in dealing with Syria’s chemical weapons stockpile. Conventional weapons leaking out of Libya have contributed to instability in Sub-Saharan Africa. Recent reports indicate that the Assad regime in Syria has begun to move its chemical weapons, and this week, a high-ranking defector said he was "convinced" Assad would use chemical weapons on the Syrian people. What options do the United States have in dealing with such threats? Who: Rep. Ed Royce, Chairman, Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade What: Subcommittee hearing: "When Regimes Fall: The Challenge of Securing Lethal Weapons" Witnesses: The Honorable Lincoln P. Bloomfield, Jr. Chairman Henry L. Stimson Center (Former Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs) Steven P. Bucci, Ph.D. Senior Research Fellow for Defense and Homeland Security The Heritage Foundation Mr. Leonard S. Spector Deputy Director James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies Monterey Institute of International Studies Where: 2172 Rayburn House Office Building When: Thursday, July 19, 2012 2:00 pm ###
07.17.2012	Rep. Ed Royce's legislation passes the House; bill revises and updates the State Department’s rewards program, currently focused mainly on terrorists and drug traffickers. share: f t This evening, the House of Representatives passed legislation (H.R. 6018) authorizing the basic functions of the Department of State. Included in the legislation are provisions authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) in H.R. 4077 to revise and update the State Department’s rewards program, currently focused mainly on terrorists and drug traffickers. When Royce's provision is signed into law, the rewards program will expand to also target transnational organized criminals and those wanted for the most serious human rights abuses. "This bill responds to the need to develop more tools to pursue the world’s worst. "Target one is Joseph Kony, the sadistic head of the LRA. U.S. military advisors working in Central Africa consider a reward offer on Kony as critical to their effort. They need this tool in the field now. The Senate should pass this legislation as quickly as possible. "Critically, this legislation also responds to the growing links between terrorists and transnational criminals. Targeting those who assist terrorists and drug cartels by providing weapons, sophisticated forgeries, and money laundering is just as important as targeting the organizations themselves. A rewards program in this area can help disrupt these transnational organized crime networks," said Royce, who chairs the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. Earlier this year, in testimony in front of Royce’s Subcommittee, the senior State Department official dealing with war crimes called this legislation "critical" to the effort to locate Kony. Last month, in a letter in support of H.R. 4077, the Department of Defense noted that these rewards programs "provide the Combatant Commander and Chief of Mission with relatively low-cost and effective tools to achieve national security objectives." Background: Since the program’s inception in 1984 under President Reagan, the U.S. government has given rewards to over 70 people who provided actionable intelligence, that according to the State Department, prevented international terrorist attacks or helped convict individuals involved in terrorist acts. Royce led Congressional efforts to see that international arms dealer Viktor Bout, arrested in Thailand in 2008, was extradited to the U.S. to stand trial. In 2010, Royce – a former chair of the Africa Subcommittee – was an original sponsor of the Lord’s Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act. The successful legislation made it the policy of the U.S. to "apprehend or remove Joseph Kony and his top commanders from the battlefield." Royce introduced H.R. 4077 on February 17, 2012. The legislation has garnered significant bipartisan support. Senate companion legislation (S. 2318) was introduced in April. The legislation is supported by the Departments of State and Defense. ###
07.12.2012	In a letter sent to the Director of the Federal Insurance Office (FIO), Rep. Ed Royce, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, requested a review of the operations and structure of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), which currently labels itself the "home of U.S. insurance regulation." This review, Royce argues, is necessary prior to having a comprehensive discussion on the future U.S. insurance regulation. share: f t Today, in a letter sent to the Director of the Federal Insurance Office (FIO), Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, requested a review of the operations and structure of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), which currently labels itself the "home of U.S. insurance regulation." This review, Royce argues, is necessary prior to having a comprehensive discussion on the future U.S. insurance regulation. Rep. Royce issued the following statement regarding the letter: "I have said for many years that the insurance regulatory regime in this country is out of date and inefficient. At the heart of that system is a non-profit 501(c)(3), the NAIC. "Despite not having general Congressionally-authorized regulatory power, its recent actions would suggest it and its members believe it does, in fact, have said authority. And despite claims that most policy discussions are held in a public forum, meeting records suggests otherwise. These practices are problematic from a legal perspective as well as a good governance perspective. If they were a federal regulatory agency, there would be checks on their budget and their operations. Unfortunately, very few checks exist today on the NAIC. "My ‘ask’ to Director McRaith in this letter is simple: take a look at NAIC’s structure, the actions it is taking, and its budgetary process. Does it have the necessary accountability? And as appropriate, highlight areas that are in need of improvement. "It is my hope that Director McRaith’s pending report on insurance modernization will kick off a debate on the future of insurance regulation in the U.S; however, I don’t believe we can have that discussion without first conducting an analysis of one of the key players in the existing system." NOTE: The final letter can be found here. ###
06.29.2012	Today, Rep. Ed Royce joined members of the Formosa Foundation’s Ambassador Program to highlight the need to expand U.S.-Taiwan trade relations. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce joined members of the Formosa Foundation’s Ambassador Program to highlight the need to expand U.S.-Taiwan trade relations. The Ambassador Program brings students to Washington, D.C. to help develop the expertise and contacts needed to promote the U.S. relationship with Taiwan. This year over 20 students participated in the program, meeting with members of Congress and their staffs. "These students have shown a keen interest in learning about our political system, and are thoroughly engaged in helping promote issues of importance to the U.S. and Taiwan. These future leaders are an important bridge between the two nations," said Royce. One focus of the student’s meetings was U.S.-Taiwan trade ties. While ties remain strong, there is concern for the future. Taipei has launched trade talks with Singapore. Taiwan and Japan are expected to sign a trade pact this year. Six other economic agreements with various trading partners are under negotiation, and negotiations on an economic cooperation agreement with the EU are ongoing. "Taiwan is moving ahead quickly with its trade agenda, with or without us. Not being party to agreements, of course means that U.S. businesses are made less competitive, hurting our economy." While a Trade and Investment Framework Agreement - the main forum for Taiwan and the U.S. to discuss major economic issues – was signed in 1994, there have been no negotiations since 2007. Royce and Rep. Gerald Connolly (VA) are circulating a letter for signature calling for the renewal of TIFA talks between the U.S. and Taiwan. "We can't wait any longer to restart these talks needed to strengthen our economic and strategic partnership. That is why my colleagues and I will be writing President Obama, urging him to reinvigorate the TIFA. Letting it flounder will unnecessarily harm the U.S.-Taiwan relationship," said Royce. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific and is a member of the Congressional Caucus on Taiwan. ###
06.28.2012	Today, Rep. Ed Royce issued the following statement in reaction to the Supreme Court's ruling on the President’s health care law: share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in reaction to the Supreme Court's ruling on the President’s health care law: "I am extremely disappointed in today's ruling. "The President’s health care bill, one of the most intrusive bills this nation has ever seen, was a huge step toward a Washington-controlled health care system that rations care, limits choice, and reduces quality, innovation, and competition. "Today’s disappointing ruling means it is now on Congress to reform the most egregious aspects of this law. In its current form the President’s health care law is bad news for patients, doctors and small businesses. "This law fails to deliver the reforms needed to fix the health care system, while creating a massive new entitlement program. The $2 trillion price tag (and rising) is "paid for" by taxpayers (who will see more than half a trillion in new taxes) and seniors (who will see $500 billion in cuts from Medicare), as well as by adding to the deficit. "The Administration’s approach – reckless spending and government takeovers – is driving up health care costs and making it harder for small businesses to hire. "This health care law has already broken a number of promises. Nonpartisan researchers have found that millions of Americans will lose their insurance coverage; so if you like your coverage, you can’t keep it. Premiums continue to rise, despite promises to reduce them by up to $2,500 per family, per year. The 4 million jobs promised by Pelosi have failed to come to fruition. In fact, the law’s enactment has contributed to our sluggish economy and high unemployment rate. "Americans want the freedom and opportunity to make health care choices for their family. I am committed to working with my colleagues to achieve this objective by repealing this flawed law and beginning work on common sense solutions to lower health care costs." ###
06.27.2012	The Foreign Affairs Committee passed Rep. Royce's legislation that focuses on international criminals and the worst human rights abusers; LRA’s Joseph Kony is a key target with this new authority share: f t Today, the House Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously passed legislation (H.R. 6018) related to the basic functions of the Department of State. Included in the legislation are provisions authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) in H.R. 4077 to revise and update the rewards programs run by the State Department. Currently, the State Department offers reward money for information related to terrorists, narcotics traffickers, and specific international war criminals. When signed into law, the rewards program would be expanded to also target transnational organized crime and those wanted for the most serious human rights abuses. "Targeting those who assist terrorists and drug cartels with weapons, sophisticated forgeries, and money laundering is just as important as targeting the organizations themselves. A rewards program in this area can help disrupt these transnational organized crime networks," said Royce, who chairs the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. "Critically, the language included allows the rewards program to target those who are wanted for genocide, war crimes or crimes against humanity -- the world’s worst human rights abusers. "Target one is Joseph Kony, the sadistic head of the LRA. U.S. military advisors working in Central Africa consider a reward offer on Kony as critical to their effort. They need this tool in the field now," said Royce. Earlier this year, in testimony in front of Royce’s Subcommittee, the senior State Department official dealing with war crimes called this legislation "critical" to the effort to locate Kony. Earlier this month, in a letter in support of H.R. 4077, the Department of Defense noted that these rewards programs "provide the Combatant Commander and Chief of Mission with relatively low-cost and effective tools to achieve national security objectives." Background: Since the program’s inception in 1984 under President Reagan, the U.S. government has given rewards to over 70 people who provided actionable intelligence that according to the State Department, prevented international terrorist attacks or helped convict individuals involved in terrorist acts. Royce led Congressional efforts to see that international arms dealer Viktor Bout, arrested in Thailand in 2008, was extradited to the U.S. to stand trial. In 2010, Royce – a former chair of the Africa Subcommittee – was an original sponsor of the Lord’s Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act. The successful legislation made it the policy of the U.S. to "apprehend or remove Joseph Kony and his top commanders from the battlefield." Royce introduced H.R. 4077 on February 17, 2012. The legislation has garnered significant bipartisan support. Senate companion legislation (S. 2318) was introduced in April. The legislation is supported by the Departments of State and Defense. ###
06.21.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, became an original co-sponsor of Ways & Means Committee legislation introduced today to extend the "third country fabric" provision of the African Growth and Opportunity Act until 2015. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, became an original co-sponsor of Ways & Means Committee legislation introduced today to extend the "third country fabric" provision of the African Growth and Opportunity Act until 2015. Yesterday, Royce chaired a joint hearing profiling the need to take this action. Royce made the following statement upon introduction: "Action on third country fabric is needed now if the hundreds of thousands of African jobs AGOA made possible aren't shifted to Asia. We have a widely supported bill. But legislation should have gone to the President’s desk yesterday. "At stake is a decade of development efforts in Africa and the great good will that AGOA has won for the U.S. "It's great to see bipartisan support for this bill. It brings back the spirit of cooperation that existed when AGOA was passed twelve years ago." Royce chaired the Subcommittee on Africa for eight years and was a key member of the bipartisan coalition that passed AGOA in 2000. The legislation also includes technical corrections to the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement and an extension of sanctions on Burma. ###
06.12.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, issued the following statement previewing the third U.S.-India Strategic Dialogue. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, issued the following statement previewing the third U.S.-India Strategic Dialogue, an annual meeting to discuss important bilateral issues: "This third Strategic Dialogue reminds us of the deep ties that bind the U.S. and India. There is much work to be done to ensure that the U.S. and India are moving forward together. We can't take progress for granted. "We should build on success, particularly on counterterrorism cooperation and cyber security, and set aggressive goals. Let’s challenge each other to see how much progress can be made, because we share common and very serious threats. "As the current chair of the House India Caucus - active since its beginning - I have worked to strengthen the relationship between Washington and Delhi for years. This Dialogue should keep the momentum going. "With any relationship, there are challenges. How quick you can bounce back and stay on course proves the strength of the relationship. Market access issues and regulatory hurdles are too common. We need to tackle these commercial challenges before they become a serious distraction. "This high-level attention given to India solidifies its place in the upper tier of U.S. partnerships." ###
06.11.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced his 2012 United States service academy appointments. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced his 2012 United States service academy appointments. Royce congratulated the students and their families during a reception he hosted to celebrate their outstanding achievement. "The appointment process is highly selective, these young men and women should be extremely proud of their accomplishment. I have full confidence that these exceptional students will represent our community well," Royce said. All U.S. service academy applicants must receive a Congressional nomination. The application process is very detailed, based on a candidate's academic achievement, athletic ability, extra-curricular activities and community service. The following is a list of Royce’s 2012 academy appointees: West Point Khodadod Kia from Anaheim – Arnold O. Beckman High School Brian Kim from Cypress – Oxford Academy Zoe Kreitenberg from Los Alamitos – Sage Hill High School Andrew Yoon from Orange – Villa Park High School Navy Wyatt Bradbury from Fullerton – Fullerton Union High School Alexander Huang from Cypress – Pacifica High School Clarissa Thatcher from Orange – Villa Park High School Merchant Marine Llorenc Aguiar from Garden Grove – Los Alamitos High School Alexandra Figueroa from Anaheim – Oxford Academy Air Force Derek Fitle from Cypress – Calvary Chapel Downey Keith Garlow from Garden Grove – La Quinta High School Patrick Gilwee from Fullerton – Servite High School Kathy Kim from Fullerton – Whitney High School Johanees Weinberg from Garden Grove – Pacifica High School NOTE: Patty Shay, Rep. Royce’s Constituent Services Director, was recently named an "Everyday Hero" for her work on hundreds of U.S. service academy appointments. To learn more about the U.S. service academy application process, please contact Patty Shay in Rep. Royce’s District Office at 714-744-4130. ###
06.07.2012	Today, the House Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously passed H. Res. 583, a resolution expressing support for U.S. efforts to assist African forces in the hunt for Joseph Kony, the sadistic leader of the Lord’s Resistance Army. share: f t Today, the House Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously passed H. Res. 583, a resolution expressing support for U.S. efforts to assist African forces in the hunt for Joseph Kony, the sadistic leader of the Lord’s Resistance Army. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a co-author of the bipartisan resolution and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement: "The LRA continues its reign of terror in central Africa – abducting, killing and mutilating. It is long past time that Joseph Kony and his commanders be stopped once and for all. "Working in a bipartisan way, Congress had led on the LRA, passing legislation in 2010 setting the stage for the small teams of U.S. troops now assisting Africans in the hunt for Kony. This resolution strongly backs this important mission. "This is a mission led by Africans for Africans. But some small, targeted U.S. assistance can go a long way. "Months ago, many did not know the name Joseph Kony – now millions do. A large spotlight has been cast on his evil. He will be found. He will get justice," said Royce. Throughout the group’s history, the LRA has forcibly conscripted some 66,000 youths. Kony has rejected several attempts to negotiate an end to the conflict. Their campaign of killing civilians and mutilating, abducting, and forcing individuals into sexual servitude sadly continues. In 2010, Royce co-authored the "Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act," which made it the policy of the United States "to apprehend or remove Joseph Kony and his top commanders from the battlefield." The Obama Administration last fall sent a small team of U.S. troops to Uganda to advise and assist local forces in the hunt for Kony. Additionally, Royce recently introduced "Rewards for Justice" legislation (H.R. 4077) that would allow the State Department to offer a reward for the apprehension of Kony, something the Department already does for terrorists and major drug traffickers. ###
06.07.2012	Today, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs convened a markup of H.Res. 506, which calls upon the Government of Turkey to reopen the Ecumenical Patriarchate's Theological School of Halki without condition or further delay. share: f t Today, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs convened a markup of H.Res. 506, which calls upon the Government of Turkey to reopen the Ecumenical Patriarchate's Theological School of Halki without condition or further delay. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), an active member of the Hellenic Caucus, issued the following statement in support of the successful resolution: "Turkey is the only country not to recognize the Ecumenical Patriarch. Unless Turkey reverses course, the Patriarch will disappear in the foreseeable future. As the spiritual beacon to millions of Orthodox Christians, this is something we cannot accept. "Turkey is trying to freeze out the church. Without this seminary, the church can’t train new priests, potential new patriarchs. As some have said, it’s as if Rome shut down the College of Cardinals. "For the sake of 300 million Orthodox Christian’s around the world who look to the Ecumenical Patriarch for spiritual guidance, we cannot let the Turkish government destroy this vital institution." ###
06.07.2012	Today, the House Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously backed H.R. 4405, legislation designed to hold the worst Russian human rights abusers accountable. The legislation, opposed by the Obama Administration, would deny visas and freeze assets of Russian officials responsible for corruption and human rights abuses. share: f t Today, the House Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously backed H.R. 4405, legislation designed to hold the worst Russian human rights abusers accountable. The legislation, opposed by the Obama Administration, would deny visas and freeze assets of Russian officials responsible for corruption and human rights abuses. Rep. Ed Royce, an original cosponsor of the legislation, made the following statement: "This legislation stands with the Russian people. As one opposition leader recently said, this legislation is ‘pro-Russian. It helps defend us from the criminals who kill our citizens, steal our money, and hide it abroad.’" "The Russian justice system is unwilling to hold abusive and corrupt officials accountable. U.S. territory and financial institutions should be off limits to these officials and their ill-gotten gains. "Shame on the White House for vigorously opposing such straightforward legislation. The human rights situation isn't getting any better in Russia." said Royce. Meanwhile, the White House is seeking the repeal of the 1974"Jackson-Vanik" amendment, which links trade preferences for Russia to free emigration. Jackson-Vanik played a key role in the human rights agenda during the Cold War. While seeking its repeal, the Obama Administration has argued that no human rights legislation should replace it. A significant group of bipartisan lawmakers disagrees. "Congress should soon pass legislation that allows U.S. companies to take full advantage of Russia’s accession to the WTO – together with this human rights bill," concluded Royce. ###
05.30.2012	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in reaction to today's announced sentencing of former Liberian President Charles Taylor. share: f t U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in reaction to today's announced sentencing of former Liberian President Charles Taylor at the Special Court for Sierra Leone. Last month, Taylor was found guilty of war crimes in the brutal death and destruction inflicted upon the West African nation of Sierra Leone since November, 1996. A sentence of 50 years, effectively a life sentence, was announced this morning. "Justice was delayed but done. Taylor ruined the lives of tens of thousands, killed and maimed. This sentence will put him away for life, the least that should be done. "Today’s sentencing is a victory for the people of Sierra Leone and Liberia. They can now be assured that this horrific individual will never return. The relative peace and stability in the region since Taylor has left is much safer. "Many hope that this sentence sends a message to the next would-be warlord. Unleash havoc and you'll pay a step price," said Royce. The court described Taylor’s crimes as "amongst the most brutal and heinous recorded in human history." The trial opened in June 2007. The Special Court for Sierra Leone is prohibited from imposing capital sentences. Royce chaired the House Subcommittee on Africa from 1997-2006. Under his chairmanship, the Subcommittee held several hearings focused on Liberia, Sierra Leone, Charles Taylor and the Special Court for Sierra Leone. Royce was a vocal opponent of a deal brokered by Nigeria and the United States. This gave Taylor asylum in Nigeria, keeping him beyond the reach of justice. In 2005, Royce authored a congressional resolution that overwhelmingly passed the House of Representatives, calling on Nigeria to send Taylor to the Special Court for Sierra Leone. He also authored a well-timed oped in the New York Times, "Bring Charles Taylor to Justice." ###
05.15.2012	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4240, The North Korea Human Rights Reauthorization Act of 2012. As an original cosponsor of the bill, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) praised the legislation: "Perhaps nowhere else is a focus on human rights more needed than North Korea," said Royce. "This legislation not only brings much needed attention to the plight of the North Korean people, but it continues to emphasize broadcasting into North Korea as a way to shatter the illusion of a worker’s paradise propagated by the state- controlled media." Motivated by the plight of North Koreans both inside North Korea and as refugees, the Foreign Affairs Committee has taken a leading role in the cause of North Korean human rights. The Committee has held numerous hearings and briefings on the subject. "Frankly, not enough attention can be given to horrific suffering of the North Korean people. North Koreans are the most politically repressed in the world. Worse, 200,000 are doomed in gulags where, plain and simple, they're treated like animals. I only wish the Administration shared this concern. Congress’ push on human rights in North Korea has helped spur some Administration actions – but we must push even harder. "Peace and stability will come only with a new North Korean government. Yes, the Kim family dynasty has survived over 70 years, two successions. But it's losing its information monopoly, defectors report. Control over North Korean minds is weakening. A human rights push would help this along," said Royce. Royce was an original cosponsor of H.R. 4011, The North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004. The legislation passed by the House Foreign Affairs Committee continues the focus of this important bill. Its provisions include efforts to bolster radio broadcasting, support for human rights and democracy programs, and a reappointment of the Special Envoy on North Korean Human Rights. Ed Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific. He is co-chair of the Congressional Korea Caucus and chairman of the International Parliamentarians Coalition for North Korean Refugees and Human Rights. ###
05.09.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, highlighted the costs of rising regulations during today’s hearing to examine the impact that growing federal regulations have on smaller institutions and the overall economy. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, highlighted the costs of rising regulations during today’s hearing to examine the impact that growing federal regulations have on smaller institutions and the overall economy. "The Dodd-Frank Act’s 2300 pages of government micro-management ushered in hundreds of costly regulations. The cost to comply with these mandates has disproportionately affected smaller institutions," Royce said. "Instead of focusing on investing and lending to the communities they serve, these smaller institutions are forced to divert their resources, both in time and money, to comply with these excessive regulations," Royce said. A recent article, "Community Bankers Face a Choice: Sell Out, Fold, or Change," warned that the number of banks may be half of what it is today in under a decade. Only a quarter of the way through Dodd-Frank’s required rulemakings and smaller institutions already face exponentially higher compliance costs. As seen in today’s testimony, regulatory burden is becoming the rule rather than the exception. In fact, one community banker recently noted, for every employee he has focused on traditional banking activities, he has 1.2 employees focused solely on compliance. "Regulation layered on top of regulation isn’t a solution. Bottom line, while smaller institutions struggle to cut through rising red tape, consumers suffer. Another unintended consequence of Dodd-Frank’s 2300 pages," Royce said. NOTE: Recently, the Financial Services Committee launched the Dodd-Frank Burden Tracker, an online resource to view the costs of complying with federal regulations. View the Dodd-Frank Burden Tracker here. ###
05.07.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R- CA) announced the winners of his 9th Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Royce unveiled the winners at his recent art exhibition, held at the Fullerton Museum Center. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced the winners of his 9th Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Royce unveiled the winners at his recent art exhibition, held at the Fullerton Museum Center. "This year’s collection of artwork was outstanding and I applaud the 2012 participants for their hard work and creativity. These talented high school students should be very proud of their accomplishments. It will be an honor to take this year’s winning artwork to Washington, D.C.," said Royce. First Place Yao (Ally) Xiao, El Dorado High School Color pencil/water color entitled "My Buddy" Second Place Jeong Harrison, Sunny Hills High School Acrylic untitled Third Place Maura Toohey, Rosary High School Photo entitled "Desert Light" Facebook Fan Favorite Jeong Harrison, Sunny Hills High School Acrylic untitled Rep. Royce held a local art exhibition to showcase the pieces submitted by 40th district high school students for the 2012 Congressional High School Art Competition. In addition to the exhibition, this year Rep. Royce invited his Facebook fans to select this year’s "Fan Favorite" Award, which went to Jeong Harrison from Sunny Hills High School for his acrylic piece. This year’s winning artwork, "My Buddy," by Ally Xiao, will join winning pieces from around the country to be displayed in the United States Capitol Building complex. NOTE: View all artwork submitted for Royce’s 9th Annual Congressional High School Art Competition here. ###
04.26.2012	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in reaction to today's announced verdict in the Special Court for Sierra Leone trial of former Liberian President Charles Taylor. share: f t U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in reaction to today's announced verdict in the Special Court for Sierra Leone trial of former Liberian President Charles Taylor. Taylor was found guilty of war crimes. The Special Court is charged with prosecuting persons who bear the greatest responsibility for the brutal death and destruction inflicted upon the West African nation of Sierra Leone since November, 1996. This is the first time an international tribunal has reached judgment on a former head of state. "At long last, Taylor has been held accountable for the death and suffering he inflicted on Sierra Leoneans. Since Taylor left, there has been peace in the region. He must never return. "What's needed for justice to prevail for the people of West Africa is for Taylor to be sentenced to life in prison. Taylor must not be given the smallest chance to resume his reign of terror. Taylor’s destruction of innumerable lives means that he must never again walk free." The Taylor trial opened in June 2007. It has been characterized by delays and dilatory defense tactics. Sentencing is expected in six weeks or so, and may be followed by a months-long appeals process. The Special Court for Sierra Leone is prohibited from imposing capital sentences. Royce chaired the House Subcommittee on Africa from 1997-2006. Under his chairmanship, the Subcommittee held several hearings focused on Liberia, Sierra Leone, Charles Taylor and the Special Court for Sierra Leone. Royce was a vocal opponent of a deal brokered by Nigeria and the United States, which gave Taylor asylum in Nigeria, keeping him beyond the reach of justice. In 2005, Royce authored a congressional resolution that overwhelmingly passed the House of Representatives, calling on Nigeria to send Taylor to the Special Court for Sierra Leone. He also authored a well-timed oped in the New York Times, "Bring Charles Taylor to Justice." ###
04.19.2012	Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) welcomed reports that the Chinese government has halted its practice of repatriating North Korean refugees. For years, China had disregarded its international treaty obligations and sent home North Korean refugees who fled severe persecution. share: f t Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) welcomed reports that the Chinese government has halted its practice of repatriating North Korean refugees. For years, China had disregarded its international treaty obligations and sent home North Korean refugees who fled severe persecution. "Given the horrendous conditions in North Korea, hundreds of thousands of North Koreans have fled to northeastern China. Yet despite its international obligations, China has forcibly repatriated them, where they face brutal imprisonment in concentration camps or even death," said Royce. Reports in Asian publications indicate that China has halted its practice of repatriating North Korean refugees following international pressure. "I welcome China’s decision because every North Korean not sent back is a life saved, but I fear it’s only temporary. China needs to make accepting North Korean refugees for resettlement elsewhere a permanent policy," said Royce. The plight of North Korean refugees was the subject of a letter Royce recently sent to Chinese President Hu Jintao, who was days away from repatriating dozens of North Koreans. Royce reminded President Hu of China’s obligations under international treaties to respect the human rights of North Koreans. Royce was also the lead cosponsor of a resolution that calls on China to honor its obligations under the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol by: halting the forced repatriation of North Korean refugees; terminating the practice of automatically classifying all North Korean border crossers as illegal economic migrants; and granting the UN High Commissioner for Refugees unfettered access to such refugees. Ed Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific. He is co-chair of the Congressional Korea Caucus and chairman of the International Parliamentarians Coalition for North Korean Refugees and Human Rights. ###
04.12.2012	Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) made the following comments in light of Thursday's rocket launch by North Korea: "Reports of failure are good news. Three stage rockets, a nuclear program and the North Korean regime's hostility are a very dangerous combination. I have no doubt that North Korea will be back at it though, determined to build its rocket capacity. "Failure or not, this launch underscores the desperate need for the U.S. and our friends to develop a new, comprehensive North Korea policy focused on ending its illicit activities, human rights, sanctions, and promoting the free flow of information into North Korea. "North Korea's determination to press ahead with the launch, success or failure, reaffirms the importance of sending news and information into North Korea to break its regime's monopoly." Royce is an author of legislation to increase radio broadcasting into North Korea. ###
04.04.2012	Today, the National Taxpayers Union (NTU) honored Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) with the "Taxpayers' Friend Award" for his outstanding pro-taxpayer voting record last year. Royce earned the second highest score in the House of Representatives for his efforts to defend overburdened taxpayers. share: f t Today, the National Taxpayers Union (NTU) honored Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) with the "Taxpayers' Friend Award" for his outstanding pro-taxpayer voting record last year. Royce earned the second highest score in the House of Representatives for his efforts to defend overburdened taxpayers. "Thanks to his solid pro-taxpayer voting record, Representative Ed Royce has finished at or near the top of NTU Rates Congress for many years throughout his career," NTU President Duane Parde said. "If more lawmakers had voted as carefully as Royce, current and future generations of taxpayers would be able to reap the benefits of a limited, efficient, and effective government. While others in Congress have stood idly by as Washington bungles the nation's finances, Royce has shown the everyday leadership to secure the prosperity taxpayers deserve." The award is given to Representatives and Senators who achieve an “A” grade in NTU’s annual Rating of Congress. The Rating, which is based on every roll call vote affecting fiscal policy, assigns a “Taxpayer Score” to each Member of Congress that indicates his or her support for reducing or controlling federal spending, taxes, debt, and regulation. "We are drowning in red-ink and our debt now exceeds the size of our economy. The solution isn't more spending and more borrowing. I will continue to work to reign in out-of-control government spending to get our economy on solid footing," Royce said. “Royce's pro-taxpayer score of 92 percent was one of the best in the entire Congress,” Parde continued. “By casting principled votes for limited government time and again, Royce has led by example in the fight to defend overburdened taxpayers across the country.” ###
03.29.2012	During today’s hearing on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) semi-annual report to Congress, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, highlighted the lack of coordination between the CFPB and prudential regulators. "We have expressed our concern about this agency time and time again – it will likely add to the regulatory costs that are growing at a rapid clip, it has few checks and balances but broad, largely undefined authority. "My primary concern is that the CFPB separates safety and soundness regulation from consumer protection regulation. Prior to her departure, Sheila Bair said: ‘Placing consumer protection policy-setting activities in a separate organization, apart from existing expertise and examination infrastructure, could ultimately result in less effective protections for consumers.’ "If we are not able to mandate coordination between the CFPB and the prudential regulators through changes in law, I hope this semi-annual hearing before Congress can serve as a platform for that discussion." NOTE: Watch Royce’s opening statement here. To watch Royce question CFPB Director Cordray, click here. ###
03.29.2012	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), in conjunction with Cal State Fullerton’s Women and Philanthropy Network, will host his 4th Annual Women’s Conference this Saturday, March 31 at 9:00 a.m. Emmy nominated Mindy Burbano-Stearns will provide this year’s Keynote address. share: f t U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), in conjunction with Cal State Fullerton’s Women and Philanthropy Network, will host his 4th Annual Women’s Conference this Saturday, March 31 at 9:00 a.m. Emmy nominated Mindy Burbano-Stearns will provide this year’s Keynote address. The Women’s Conference, a half-day seminar dedicated to addressing a wide range of issues facing women today, will be held at California State University Fullerton’s Titan Student Union. Discovered by Oprah Winfrey, Burbano has made a successful career covering the world of entertainment. Mindy’s earned the prestigious Golden Mike Award, two Emmy nominations and a nomination for "Entertainment Reporter of the Year" by the Publicists Guild. Along with a busy career as a mother, stepmother, grandmother (yes grandmother), narrator, television personality and host, Mindy and her husband Glenn stay active in philanthropy and founded the Stearns Family Charitable Foundation. Mindy was recently named the 70th Assembly District’s 2012 "Woman of the Year." Who: U.S. Representative Ed Royce Mindy Burbano-Stearns What: A half-day seminar dedicated to addressing a wide range of issues facing women today. Where: California State University, Fullerton Titan Student Union 800 North State College Blvd. Fullerton, CA 92834 When: 9:00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Saturday, March 31, 2012 ###
03.28.2012	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced his 2012 Congressional High School Art Competition. This year’s competition will include a "Fan Favorite" Award, which artists, families and friends can vote for through Facebook. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced his 2012 Congressional High School Art Competition. This year’s competition will include a "Fan Favorite" Award, which artists, families and friends can vote for through Facebook. "I am proud to announce this year’s art competition and the unique ‘Fan Favorite’ Award. This annual competition allows us to recognize the creativity and talent of our high school students. I encourage all eligible students to participate and I look forward to seeing this year’s submissions," said Rep. Royce. Royce’s annual art contest is part of a nationwide competition sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus. The winning piece of art from Royce's district joins winners from around the country and is displayed in the United States Capitol complex. This year all submissions will be displayed on Royce’s official Facebook page. The artwork with the most "likes" on Facebook will win the "Fan Favorite" Award. The 2012 Art Competition winner will be selected by the District Office staff. All interested high school artists in the 40th Congressional district may participate by submitting their entries no later than 5pm on Wednesday, April 25 to Royce's office in Orange, located at 1110 E. Chapman Ave., Suite 207. NOTE: For more information about the 2012 Congressional High School Art Competition, including rules, guidelines and student release forms, please click here. ###
03.20.2012	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement after House Republicans introduced their budget proposal: share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement after House Republicans introduced their budget proposal: "House Republicans have put forth a serious budget, one that offers real solutions for our nation’s long-term economic growth. The President’s budget, in stark contrast, continues to recycle failed policies. It adds nearly $6 trillion to our nation’s already bloated debt and never balances. While Senate Democrats, for over 1,000 days, have failed to pass a budget. "Earlier this month, I asked the Federal Reserve Chairman if our current government spending trajectory is sustainable. His response: "No, I don't think it is." "We are drowning in red-ink and our debt now exceeds the size of our economy. The solution isn’t more spending and more borrowing. With $5 trillion in spending cuts and $3 trillion in deficit reductions, the House Republican proposal puts us on a path towards balancing our budget and gives us a strategy to pay off our debt. "My colleagues and I are committed to putting Americans back to work and providing our nation’s job creators with the opportunity to grow and succeed. The House Republican budget is a serious proposal to ensure that future generations aren’t burdened by debt." ###
03.16.2012	Representatives from Invisible Children, creators of the "Kony 2012" video, joined Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) at his district office this morning to discuss legislation Royce recently introduced which spotlights the atrocities of Joseph Kony, leader of the Lord’s Resistance Army. Royce was joined by Invisible Children's Akiyu Stella Mistica, who lost multiple family members to LRA violence and was nearly abducted herself. share: f t Representatives from Invisible Children, creators of the "Kony 2012" video, joined Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) at his district office this morning to discuss legislation Royce recently introduced which spotlights the atrocities of Joseph Kony and puts a price on Kony's head. Royce was joined by Invisible Children's Akiyu Stella Mistica, who lost multiple family members to LRA violence and was nearly abducted herself. "In recent days, unprecedented attention has been brought to Joseph Kony and the LRA. In the coming weeks, activists will be asking their local congressmen to cosponsor the legislation I have introduced, to ensure that these atrocities stay front and center until Joseph Kony is stopped." said Royce. Throughout the group’s history, the LRA has forcibly conscripted some 66,000 youths. Kony has walked away from several attempts to negotiate an end to the conflict. Their campaign of killing children and mutilating, abducting, and forcing individuals into sexual servitude sadly continues. In 2010, Royce co-authored the Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act, which made it the policy of the United States "to apprehend or remove Joseph Kony and his top commanders from the battlefield." The Department of Defense last fall sent a small team of U.S. troops to Uganda to advise and assist local forces in the hunt for Kony. "This is a mission led by Africans for Africans. But some small, targeted U.S. assistance can go a long way," said Royce. Additionally, Royce recently introduced "Rewards for Justice" legislation (H.R. 4077) that would allow the State Department to offer a reward for the apprehension of Kony, something the Department already does for terrorists and major drug traffickers. "We should put a price on Kony’s head, as we have with other terrorists. I have legislation in Congress to do that. Our troops believe a rewards program aimed at Kony could bolster their efforts – generating intelligence and boosting defections. Let’s get this passed now," said Royce. Royce chaired the Foreign Affairs Committee's Subcommittee on Africa from 1997-2005. He currently chairs the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. ###
03.15.2012	Invisible Children, creators of the "Kony 2012" video, and Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) will host a press conference tomorrow to discuss legislation Royce recently introduced which spotlights the atrocities of Joseph Kony, leader of the Lord’s Resistance Army. share: f t Invisible Children, creators of the "Kony 2012" video, and Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) will host a press conference tomorrow to discuss legislation Royce recently introduced which spotlights the atrocities of Joseph Kony, leader of the Lord’s Resistance Army. Royce will be joined by Invisible Children's Akiyu Stella Mistica, Stella lost multiple family members to the LRA violence and was nearly abducted herself. The press conference will take place tomorrow, Friday, March 16, 9:30 am at Rep. Royce’s district office, located at 1110 E. Chapman Ave., Suite 207 in Orange, California. As the former Chairman of the Africa Subcommittee, Rep. Royce has been working to end Kony’s reign of terror for years. Royce co-authored legislation that was signed into law in 2010, which made it the policy of the United States "to apprehend or remove Joseph Kony and his top commanders from the battlefield." More recently, Royce introduced legislation (H.R. 4077) that would allow the State Department to offer up a reward for information on the location of Kony and his top commanders. The State Department’s Ambassador for war crimes called Royce’s legislation critical to Kony’s arrest. Who: U.S. Representative Ed Royce Invisible Children What: A press conference to spotlight the atrocities of Joseph Kony and the Lord’s Resistance Army and support U.S. efforts to counter the LRA. Where: Rep. Royce’s District Office 1110 E. Chapman Ave., Suite 207 Orange, CA 92866 When: 9:30 a.m. Friday, March 16 ###
03.13.2012	Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) today introduced a Congressional resolution (H.Res. 583) spotlighting the atrocities of Joseph Kony and the Lord’s Resistance Army and supporting U.S. efforts to counter the LRA. share: f t Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) today introduced a Congressional resolution (H.Res. 583) spotlighting the atrocities of Joseph Kony and the Lord’s Resistance Army and supporting U.S. efforts to counter the LRA. "There is increased attention on the terror inflicted upon innocent people by the LRA – and that’s a good thing. I am hopeful that we can use this momentum as a force for change. We must do all that we can to protect innocent civilians -- especially children -- and end LRA violence once and for all. We made important strides with our legislation in the last Congress, but our work must continue," said Rep. Jim McGovern. "Last week, an unprecedented Internet campaign brought the attention of tens of millions of Americans to the atrocities the LRA is committing. This resolution builds on past legislation and the current campaign by giving an added focus to these atrocities on children and efforts to stop them," said Royce. Last Congress, Reps. McGovern and Royce introduced the House version of the Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act, which passed the House with wide support and was signed into law. This legislation, which made it the policy of the United States "to apprehend or remove Joseph Kony and his top commanders from the battlefield," resulted in unprecedented actions, including the deployment of a small team of U.S. military advisors. Despite these stepped-up efforts, Joseph Kony and his top commanders remain at large. The LRA’s mutilating, abducting, and forcing individuals into sexual servitude continues. Throughout the group’s history, it is estimated to have forcibly conscripted 66,000 youths. The McGovern-Royce resolution condemns the LRA’s atrocities and welcomes the steps taken to date. Importantly, it calls for stepped-up efforts to expand the number of regional forces deployed to protect civilians and pursue LRA commanders, while increasing cross-border coordination among regional governments. The resolution also calls for increased efforts to enhance the mobility and logistical capabilities of partner forces, while expanding access to telecommunications infrastructure to aid early warning efforts. The full text of the resolution can be found here. Rep. Jim McGovern is the Co-Chairman of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a former Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa. ###
03.06.2012	Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) expressed his condolences upon learning of the death of Representative Don Payne (D-NJ) from colon cancer: share: f t Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) expressed his condolences upon learning of the death of Representative Don Payne (D-NJ) from colon cancer: "My thoughts and prayers go out to Don Payne's family. "I worked with Don Payne on the Africa Subcommittee for many years on many issues. Don's effort on behalf of Africans was second to none. He was tireless and showed courage and great knowledge and a really big heart. "Don Payne will be deeply missed, by his constituents, and especially by those working to improve African lives. He was a pillar of the community focused on the African continent. His death leaves a huge void." From 1997-2005, Royce chaired the Subcommittee on Africa, on which Rep. Payne served. They served as observers to Nigeria's historic 1999 election. ###
03.01.2012	Today, the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, chaired by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), unanimously approved legislation to counter Iran's threatening activities in the Western Hemisphere. H.R. 3783, "The Countering Iran in the Western Hemisphere Act of 2012," requires the State Department to devise a strategy to counter Iran’s growing presence in Latin America. share: f t Today, the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, chaired by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), unanimously approved legislation to counter Iran's threatening activities in the Western Hemisphere. H.R. 3783, "The Countering Iran in the Western Hemisphere Act of 2012," requires the State Department to devise a strategy to counter Iran’s growing presence in Latin America. "The Administration has not adequately examined, or sought to counter, Iran’s growing and hostile diplomatic and intelligence presence in our Hemisphere. This legislation should help kick the bureaucracy into gear," said Royce. Recently testifying before Congress, the Director of National Intelligence stated that Iranian officials "have changed their calculus and are now willing to conduct an attack in the United States." The DNI went on to say that the Iranians are "trying to penetrate and engage in this hemisphere." Royce added, "The Iranian threat isn’t just thousands of miles away. Hezbollah operatives have penetrated our borders. The Iranian attempt to assassinate the Saudi Ambassador on U.S. soil using a Mexican drug cartel is the latest demonstration of this threat." H.R. 3783 is authored by Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC) and has over 60 cosponsors. ###
02.29.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, released the following statement, following reports that North Korea has agreed to suspend uranium enrichment and to a moratorium on nuclear and long-range missile tests. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, released the following statement, following reports that North Korea has agreed to suspend uranium enrichment and to a moratorium on nuclear and long-range missile tests. The announcement comes as the Obama Administration is finalizing details for a proposed package of 240,000 metric tons of food aid to North Korea: "Years of getting duped by North Korea should tell us that verification on their turf is extremely difficult, if not impossible. That applies to food aid distribution, where the military has stolen food aid, or nuclear disarmament. "Last year, I passed legislation prohibiting food aid to any country that may divert it for unauthorized use. Congress must ensure that the Administration is not skirting this law. "I was hoping that the death of Kim Jong-Il would prompt a rethink of our North Korea policy. Well, Kim Jong-Il is dead, but the Administration is following the failed course of its predecessor." In 2011, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), successfully offered an amendment in the House to prohibit food aid to North Korea. The final text of the Agriculture Appropriations conference report prohibits international food aid to countries that do not provide adequate monitoring and which divert food for inappropriate purposes. The U.S. has provided about $800 million in food aid to North Korea since 1996. ###
02.17.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, today introduced the "Department of State Rewards Program Update and Technical Corrections Act of 2012," legislation that updates the program to include those involved in transnational organized crime and others wanted for the most serious human rights abuses. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, today introduced the "Department of State Rewards Program Update and Technical Corrections Act of 2012," legislation that updates the program to include those involved in transnational organized crime and others wanted for the most serious human rights abuses. Currently, the State Department offers rewards for information related to terrorists, narcotics traffickers and specific international war criminals. "Put simply, this is another tool to target the world’s worst. "Expanding this program to include global organized crime responds to the growing evidence that terrorists and insurgents are increasingly turning to criminal networks for funding and support, a topic my subcommittee has explored. "Targeting those who assist terrorists and drug cartels with weapons, sophisticated forgeries, and money laundering is just as important as targeting the organizations themselves. This legislation provides another tool to do so," said Royce. The legislation would also allow the use of the rewards program to target those indicted by international, hybrid or mixed tribunals for genocide, war crimes, or crimes against humanity. "One priority is Joseph Kony, leader of the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA), which has terrorized northern Uganda and central Africa for over two decades. An aggressive rewards program seeking information on Kony and top LRA commanders could help generate intelligence on their location and promote defections – both goals of U.S. policy. It is time to end Kony’s reign of terror," concluded Royce. Background: Since the program’s inception in 1984, the U.S. government has paid rewards to over 70 people who provided actionable intelligence that, according to the State Department, prevented international terrorist attacks or helped convict individuals involved in terrorist acts. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, Royce led Congressional efforts to see that international arms dealer Viktor Bout, arrested in Thailand in 2008, was extradited to the United States to stand trial. In 2010, Royce – a former chair of the Africa Subcommittee – was an original sponsor of the Lord’s Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act. The successful legislation made it the policy of the United States to "apprehend or remove Joseph Kony and his top commanders from the battlefield." ###
02.13.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2013 budget request: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2013 budget request: "For the fourth straight year this nation will have a $1 trillion-plus deficit. The President’s response? Spend more, tax more and borrow more. In fact, under this budget request the President will add nearly $6 trillion to our nation’s bloated debt (more than any other president). "The President’s budget does nothing to address our nation’s most pressing issue – our massive deficits. Instead of putting forth a serious budget, one that offers solutions for long-term economic growth, the President continues to recycle failed policies. "I will continue to fight to cut spending. It’s critical for job creation and economic revitalization." ###
02.09.2012	Rep. Ed Royce made the following comments today in support of the "Energizing America Through Employment Act," which provides congressional approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) made the following comments today in support of the "Energizing America Through Employment Act," which provides congressional approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline: "Talk about a self-inflicted wound. With U.S. high unemployment, with the U.S. sending hundreds of billions of petrodollars every year to hostile regimes, and with our growing economic rivalry with China, the Obama administration's rejection of the Keystone XL Pipeline Project is simply maddening. "It bothers me greatly that China is playing in our North American back yard, and the Administration doesn't seem to care. Where is our sense of rivalry? Where is our urgency? If we don't renew the American spirit of enterprise, if we kibosh critical projects like this pipeline, our economic future is dim. "China is our economic challenge of the century. With this Keystone decision, the Obama Administration is giving it a big leg-up. Why?" ###
02.07.2012	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced that Nancy Pfotenhauer, an economist and successful businesswoman, will provide the keynote address at his Fourth Annual Women's Conference. This year’s conference, to be held on Saturday, March 31, 2012 at Cal State Fullerton, will include seminars ranging from nutrition and health, to savvy financial planning, to networking and job searching tips. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced that Nancy Pfotenhauer, an economist and successful businesswoman, will provide the keynote address at his Fourth Annual Women's Conference. This year’s conference, to be held on Saturday, March 31, 2012 at Cal State Fullerton, will include seminars ranging from nutrition and health, to savvy financial planning, to networking and job searching tips. "I’ve been privileged to have a number of strong, accomplished women keynote our previous conferences; most recently actress Kristen Bell, active in Invisible Children, and special correspondent Lisa Ling, known for her reporting to expose the growing problem of human trafficking all over the world. Today, I am honored to add Nancy’s name to this distinguished list," Royce said. As a mother, wife, businesswoman and more, Nancy Pfotenhauer exemplifies the many ways women are leading in our society today. In total, Nancy has served as a cabinet‐level advisor for four separate Executive branch departments. She’s also served as a delegate to the United Nations’ Commission on the Status of Women. Today, she is the president of MediaSpeak Strategies, a Washington DC-based communications firm, which has made her a frequent commentator for ABC, NBC, CNN, MSNBC, FOX and PBS. The Women's Conference will include the following breakout seminars: "A Celebrity Chef's Guide to Healthy Cooking" Jamie Gwen, celebrity chef, certified sommelier, lifestyle expert and four-time cookbook author will host this session on health cooking. Eating well is one of the best ways you can take care of yourself and those who depend on you. Jamie will teach attendees how to stir up something delicious and healthy. "Conquering the Work-Life Balance: Discover, Define & Develop Your Life Plan" What's holding you back from achieving your best? Get the tools from Tammy Hotsenpiller, President and founder of Total Life Coach, to overcome the obstacles tripping you up in personal and business relationships. Tammy will help you achieve personal reinvention and establish a work-life balance. "Financially Fit and Savvy: Home Buying, Investing, Saving, Retiring" Secure your financial future by becoming a financially fit and savvy woman. Whether your life’s next financial objective is to purchase your first home, plan for retirement, invest your money wisely or get easy tips on ways to save more, this panel of financial experts will help you achieve it. "5 Health Facts Every Woman Must Know" Step away from your hurried life and for one day take time to focus on just yourself. Take charge of your health and learn what questions you should be asking your doctor. St. Jude's Dr. Ynolde Smith will debunk common health myths and discuss the five health facts every woman must know. "Tips for Job Seekers: Master the Search and Beat the Competition" Can’t figure out what’s holding you back in your job search? Get an insider's tips - master the unemployment search and beat the competition. Learn from experienced recruiters to get the tools you’ll need to land your next job: master a first impression, stand out from the crowd and hook your interviewer. RSVP for the Women's Conference at www.royce.house.gov/womensconference. NOTE: If you are a member of the press interested in attending the event please contact Royce's Communications Director, Audra McGeorge, in Washington, D.C. for more details at (202) 225-4111 or audra.mcgeorge@mail.house.gov. ###
02.07.2012	Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) will join credit unions and small business owners at a press conference to discuss legislation he authored, the Small business Lending Enhancement Act (H.R. 1418). This unique jobs proposal would free up capital, currently sitting on the sidelines, for small businesses without saddling the U.S. taxpayers with more debt. share: f t Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) will join credit unions and small business owners at a press conference on Wednesday, February 8, 11:00 am in 2200 Rayburn House Office Building to discuss legislation authored by Rep. Royce, the Small business Lending Enhancement Act (H.R. 1418). This unique jobs proposal would free up capital, currently sitting on the sidelines, for small businesses without saddling the U.S. taxpayers with more debt. The Small Business Lending Enhancement Act, which has 114 bipartisan co-sponsors, would provide much needed financing for small businesses without spending a single tax dollar. The legislation raises the current credit union member business lending (MBL) cap from 12.25% to 27.5%. Economists say it will allow up to $13 billion to be lent to small businesses, which in turn could create 140,000 jobs. Who: Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), author of The Small Business Lending Enhancement Act Members of the Credit Union National Association Small Businesses across the U.S. that have received loans from credit unions What: Press conference to discuss the Small Business Lending Enhancement Act which will expand access to capital for small businesses without spending a single tax dollar Where: 2200 Rayburn House Office Building When: 11:00 am Wednesday, February 8, 2012 ###
02.06.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade will hold a hearing examining the expanding U.S.-Philippines security and trade relationship on Tuesday, February 7, at 2:00 pm in 2172 Rayburn Building. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade will hold a hearing examining the expanding U.S.-Philippines security and trade relationship on Tuesday, February 7, at 2:00 pm in 2172 Rayburn Building. The United States and the Republic of the Philippines maintain close ties based upon the U.S.-Philippines Mutual Defense Treaty, common strategic and economic interests, and shared democratic values. Since 9/11, the U.S. has actively worked with the Armed Forces of the Philippines on counterterrorism cooperation. Security cooperation is being intensified, focusing on maritime security. Economic cooperation is also on the agenda. Legislation to assist the Philippine apparel industry is currently under consideration in Congress. Secretary of State Clinton and Secretary of Defense Panetta will conduct a significant bilateral meeting with their counterparts from the Philippines next month. President Aquino is scheduled to visit Washington later this year. What are the challenges and opportunities for this important relationship? Who: Rep. Ed Royce, Chairman, Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade What: Subcommittee hearing: "The U.S.-Philippines Alliance: Deepening the Security and Trade Partnership" Witnesses: The Honorable Kurt Campbell Assistant Secretary Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs U.S. Department of State The Honorable Peter Lavoy, Ph.D. Acting Assistant Secretary of Defense Asian and Pacific Security Affairs U.S. Department of Defense Where: 2172 Rabyurn House Office Building When: 2:00pm Tuesday, February 7, 2012 ###
02.01.2012	Rep. Ed Royce announced that he will host a small business workshop on Wednesday, February 8. The workshop will provide small business owners and entrepreneurs with the tools and resources they need to start or expand their business. The event will take place from 9am to 12pm at the Walter D. Ehlers Community Recreation Center, located at 8150 Knott Avenue in Buena Park. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced that he will host a small business workshop on Wednesday, February 8. The workshop will provide small business owners and entrepreneurs with the tools and resources they need to start or expand their business. The event will take place from 9am to 12pm at the Walter D. Ehlers Community Recreation Center, located at 8150 Knott Avenue in Buena Park. "I am excited to provide the small businesses in Orange County with valuable information to help them revive and grow," Royce said. "I am committed to ensuring that small businesses in this country are encouraged to expand and I am hopeful that this workshop will allow them to do just that." Royce’s small business workshop will offer informational sessions on federal loan opportunities, how to contract with the government and how to raise capital. Top business development specialists, experts on small business lending, finance, marketing and more will be on hand to answer questions and offer their expertise. J. Adalberto Quijada, the District Director of the U.S. Small Business Association’s Santa Ana office, said the following about Royce’s upcoming workshop: "Participants will learn about certification programs to help small businesses get federal government contracts and will be provided with an update on access to capital from local lenders. Both increasing the availability of capital and providing a chance for small businesses to get federal contracts is vital to business growth and success." "Whether you’re a small business owner seeking new opportunities for growth or an entrepreneur hoping to get your company off the ground, this free workshop is designed to provide you with tips and tools that can help you take your business to the next level," Royce said. NOTE: Please contact Ryan Holmes in Royce’s District Office at ryan.holmes@mail.house.gov or at 714-744-4130 to RSVP. Visit Royce’s website here for more details about the event. ###
01.24.2012	Today Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) criticized the human rights abuses of the communist government in Hanoi, ridiculed its censorship, and called for the immediate release of Viet Kang, the noted Vietnamese songwriter imprisoned for expressing his political views. share: f t Today Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) criticized the human rights abuses of the communist government in Hanoi, ridiculed its censorship, and called for the immediate release of Viet Kang, the noted Vietnamese songwriter imprisoned for expressing his political views. Royce said of Khang, "Today, he sits in a Vietnamese jail for simply writing songs and posting them on the Internet. He – like all political prisoners in Vietnam – should be free today." "This hearing continues to shine a needed spotlight on these abuses. I hope the Obama Administration is listening," Royce said. Dramatizing communist government censorship with a visual display, Royce cited the case of a recent Wall Street Journal Asia editorial that criticized Vietnam's human rights record. His photo showed how the censored editorial looked to readers in Saigon. "The communist government fears the truth. Each paper that was flown into Vietnam had the editorial blacked-out with magic marker. They must have gone through a lot of markers!" said Royce. "To me, this image of the editorial page says it all – the communist government can’t take the heat. That tells me that our speaking out helps and needs to be louder. The many brave Vietnamese men and women fighting for freedom deserve our support." Royce mentioned his Vietnam legislation. "I have legislation that calls for Vietnam to be placed back on the Country of Particular Concern list for its atrocious religious freedom record. I also have legislation – that Joseph Cao and I worked on – that would identify and sanction Vietnamese government officials committing human rights abuses. We should move these bills. That's the least we should do," Royce stated. Today's Subcommittee heard from the following witnesses: "Joseph" Cao, Former Member of Congress; Nguyen Dinh Thang, Boat People SOS; Mr. Rong Nay, Montagnard Human Rights Organization; Ms. Phuong-Anh Vu, Victim of human trafficking; and John Sifton, Human Rights Watch. ###
01.24.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address:" share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: "I think the president lacked leadership in confronting our nation’s most pressing issue – our debt. Every day the U.S. takes in roughly $6 billion but spends roughly $10 billion. That’s a $4 billion shortfall every day. Unfortunately, that means the U.S. borrows forty cents, most of it overseas, for every dollar the government spends. With an imbalance that large we simply cannot succeed. "We need the president to come to the table, not after the elections, not in 2013, but now to address this crisis. Instead, his call for increased spending will compound the problem. Today marks the 1000th day since the Senate Democrats last passed a budget. It is time to make the tough decisions to reduce the deficit and accumulated debt, not pile on with more borrowing and spending." ###
01.18.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, made the following statement in reaction to reports that the Obama Administration will reject the Keystone pipeline later today: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, made the following statement in reaction to reports that the Obama Administration will reject the Keystone pipeline later today: "No wonder Americans are fed up with Washington. Here we have a perfectly good project, which would provide energy from a friendly neighbor and create tens of thousands of American jobs. "But after years of study and beyond all common sense, the Obama Administration rejects it. "The Obama Administration sat on this project for three years plus, not making a decision. Now forced by Congress, it took less than a month to show its colors against American jobs and energy security. "The Canadians aren’t waiting around. They are working to develop ways in which this resource can be shipped to China. "Bottom-line from today’s White House decision is that Americans lose and China wins. Unbelievable." Rep. Royce, the Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, held a hearing on "Changing Energy Markets and U.S. National Security," in December which examined the national security implications of the Keystone pipeline. ###
01.18.2012	During today’s House Financial Services Committee hearing to examine the Volcker Rule’s impact on the economy and jobs, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) a senior member of the committee, gave the following statement regarding the rule. "Since the passage of Dodd-Frank, it has become clear that neither Asia nor Europe are on board with the Volcker Rule and we are nowhere near a regime that former Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin once said would work worldwide. Instead we go it alone, with the hope that this approach will protect our markets from another crisis," Royce said. "Unfortunately, better protecting our capital markets doesn’t come from micromanaging financial institutions, but rather it comes from ensuring no institution is Too Big to Fail and enforcing heightened capital and liquidity standards," Royce said. Dodd-Frank passed almost 18 months ago, yet almost 90 percent of the rules have yet to be finalized – a clear source of uncertainty for the economy, jobs, businesses and investors. "Until our capital markets operate effectively and allow for failure, the best policy response is to make the rules so simple that everyone can understand and enforce them – thus preventing carve outs and special favors. Volcker takes us in the opposite direction," Royce said. ###
01.12.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined several members of Congress, including the Chairman and top Democrat of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, in writing to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton urging the State Department to substantially improve its annual human rights reporting on Vietnam. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined several members of Congress, including the Chairman and top Democrat of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, in writing to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton urging the State Department to substantially improve its annual human rights reporting on Vietnam. The four-page, detailed letter notes, "Vietnamese authorities continue to monitor, systematically harass, and sometimes violently crack down on religious groups that remain outside of official, government-registered and controlled religious institutions." Royce noted the letter's significance, "When you get the top two members of the Foreign Affairs Committee agreeing that the Administration is underreporting Vietnam's human rights abuses, that's significant. This begins greater congressional attention to the Administration's mishandling of the horrible human rights abuses occurring there." The State Department's "Country Reports on Human Rights Practices" documents human rights conditions worldwide. It is typically released in early spring. "The brave men and women fighting for their freedom and human rights in Vietnam deserve a thorough and accurate report of their struggles. It's important that the Administration gets this report right," said Royce. Royce has introduced legislation (H. Res. 16) calling on the Obama Administration's State Department to designate Vietnam as a "country of particular concern." "Yes, I want to see a more accurate report, but more importantly, I want to see Vietnam designated a 'country of particular concern,'" Royce stated today. Royce is a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the Congressional Vietnam Caucus. NOTE: A signed copy of the letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton can be found here. ###
01.12.2012	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and active Congressional Taiwan Caucus member, today issued remarks on the eve of Taiwan’s presidential election: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and active Congressional Taiwan Caucus member, today issued remarks on the eve of Taiwan’s presidential election: "On Saturday, millions of Taiwanese will head to the polls to vote in the fifth democratic election in the island’s history. The world will be watching with great interest, including many Americans with Taiwanese roots. "The democratic values that anchor the U.S.-Taiwan relationship will be on full display, as Taiwan serves as a ‘beacon of democracy’ to Asia. "I look forward to close coordination and communication with Taiwan’s elected leaders to improve substantially all aspects of the U.S.-Taiwan relationship: bettering security, economic, political and cultural ties. "The U.S. relationship with Taiwan, regardless of who wins this election, needs to be actively promoted, not 'managed.'" Rep. Ed Royce is an original cosponsor of H.R. 2918, the "Taiwan Policy Act of 2011." The legislation stresses political, economic, and security rejuvenation between the United States and Taiwan. Royce recently authored an oped, "The Folly of 'Managed' Taiwan Ties," that was featured on The Diplomat, a website focused on Asia policy. ###
12.19.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement in reaction to the death of North Korean dictator, Kim Jong-il: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement in reaction to the death of North Korean dictator, Kim Jong-il: "Kim Jong-il was a brutal and cruel tyrant. "The transition is less stable than may appear. The North Korean people are starting to question this corrupt dynasty. "Now is not the time for talk of new beginnings and food aid. We should be doing what we can to delegitimize this succession with the suffering North Korean people." ###
12.19.2011	In a letter to President Obama, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined his colleagues to urge the President to maintain the current National Guard troop presence along the U.S.-Mexico border. share: f t In a letter to President Obama, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined his colleagues to urge the President to maintain the current National Guard troop presence along the U.S.-Mexico border. "The National Guard troops have been an effective force -- vital in securing our border and enhancing border infrastructure. Drug cartel violence continues to spill over the border affecting U.S. citizens and communities. These essential resources are still needed to help provide border security," Royce said. National Guard troops were deployed in 2006 under Operation Jump Start in an effort to meet border security needs. The Obama Administration recently announced plans to reduce the number of National Guard troops deployed at the U.S.-Mexico border. Royce and his colleagues have urged President Obama to maintain the current National Guard troop presence. Royce and his colleagues wrote to the President, "The drug cartels, which increasingly operate on both sides of our southern border, are growing bolder and more aggressive every day. These criminals show no hesitation in using violence to intimidate law enforcement in Mexico or the United States. Now is not the time to decrease our presence on our southern border." Earlier this year, Rep. Royce traveled to the U.S.-Mexico border to see the challenges facing our Customs personnel and the Border Patrol. He learned first-hand what resources and tools are necessary to improve operational control of the border. Following his trip to New Mexico, Arizona and Texas, Royce introduced the Keeping the Pledge on Immigration Act, legislation that calls for establishing operational control of the border, encourages state and local law enforcement to assist with immigration laws, and strengthens visa security. NOTE: A signed copy of the letter to President Obama can be found here. ###
12.15.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, will host a hearing on Friday, December 16 titled, "Changing Energy Markets and U.S. National Security." It will be held at 10:00 am in 2200 Rayburn House Office Building. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, will host a hearing on Friday, December 16 titled, "Changing Energy Markets and U.S. National Security." It will be held at 10:00 am in 2200 Rayburn House Office Building. The hearing will examine developing trends in the global oil market, which has seen focus shift away from the Middle East and toward resources in the West. No longer are large energy production companies focused almost exclusively on unstable locations such as the Persian Gulf, North Africa, and the Niger Delta. Today, many are now searching for supplies in the U.S. and other developed countries. Hydrocarbons previously thought too difficult and expensive to extract are now being exploited from Australia to Canada. What are the geopolitical implications and impacts on U.S. national and economic security? "Maximizing the energy potential closer to home – including initiatives like the Keystone XL pipeline – could add resiliency to the oil markets and help secure our energy supply. The economic benefits for the U.S. are tremendous. But only if we are willing to put in place policies to let it happen," said Rep. Ed Royce, the Subcommittee Chairman. Appearing before the Subcommittee will be: •Mr. Martin Durbin, Executive Vice President of Government Affairs, American Petroleum Institute •Mr. Robert McNally, President, The Rapidan Group •Dr. Gal Luft, Executive Director, Institute for the Analysis of Global Security •Mr. Neelesh Nerurkar, Specialist in Energy Policy, Congressional Research Service ###
12.15.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) highlighted the role Sarbanes-Oxley played in the deterioration of the U.S. capital market during today’s House Financial Services Committee hearing. Yesterday, Royce introduced legislation to provide some relief on this front – H.R. 3655, the Small Business Access to Capital Act. "Over the last 15 years we’ve seen our capital markets deteriorate. If we take a hard look at what’s discouraging capital from coming to our markets, Exhibit A continues to be Sarbanes-Oxley. Sarbanes-Oxley compliance is the most often cited reason why companies chose to list elsewhere," Royce said. Royce pointed out that in the early 1990s, American exchanges played host to half of the world's new public companies. Last year, it was just 11 percent. In an effort to reverse this trend, Rep. Royce introduced H.R. 3655, the Small Business Access to Capital Act. Royce’s legislation permanently exempts companies with a market capitalization of less than $1 billion from Sarbanes-Oxley, Section 404(b) - something recommended by the president’s Jobs Council. Royce’s legislation would also address a key component of the SEC’s study which shows the long-term burden on small companies is more than seven times that imposed on large firms relative to their assets. "The costs of this legislation far outweigh its benefits to the investing public and we need to remedy this situation before the capital markets walk off from the United States and go overseas," Royce concluded. NOTE: To watch Royce’s opening statement in its entirety, please click here. ###
12.14.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced H.R. 3655, the Small Business Access to Capital Act. Royce’s legislation helps increase job growth and eases the regulatory burden facing small businesses by permanently exempting companies with a market capitalization of less than $1 billion from Sarbanes-Oxley, Section 404(b). share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced H.R. 3655, the Small Business Access to Capital Act. Royce’s legislation helps increase job growth and eases the regulatory burden facing small businesses by permanently exempting companies with a market capitalization of less than $1 billion from Sarbanes-Oxley, Section 404(b). "With unemployment still well over 8 percent and the economy sputtering, we need a fresh look at an old problem. Regulatory compliance has inundated many American businesses and has discouraged capital from our markets. Providing some relief to smaller institutions from Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley will make it easier for businesses to access our capital markets which will help bring more jobs to our country. The SEC originally estimated that compliance costs for Section 404 would cost less than $100,000 per year. The SEC’s 2009 study found businesses are spending $2.3 million annually just to adhere to Section 404(b). Additionally, it found that "Section 404 compliance places a disproportionally larger burden on smaller companies" versus larger companies. Currently, exemptions apply to companies with a market capitalization of $75 million or less. Rep. Royce’s legislation matches the recommended level put forward by President Obama’s Jobs Council, which highlighted the "unintended consequences" of Sarbanes-Oxley regulations in its recent report. "It has become clear over the last decade that the costs of Section 404 far outweigh the benefits. If the U.S. is to remain competitive in the coming years, Congress must provide some relief to those smaller institutions that bear the heaviest burden. This bill would go a long way in that regard." ###
12.13.2011	Today, the House of Representatives passed, with support from Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), H.R. 3630, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act. The legislation extends the current payroll tax extension, delays the "Doc Fix," reforms unemployment insurance and provides new incentives for job creation, including taking action on the bipartisan Keystone XL energy project. share: f t Today, the House of Representatives passed, with support from Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), H.R. 3630, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act. The legislation extends the current payroll tax extension, delays the "Doc Fix," reforms unemployment insurance and provides new incentives for job creation, including taking action on the bipartisan Keystone XL energy project. "With 25 jobs-related bills still awaiting action in the Democratic-led Senate, House Republicans continued their efforts to create a better environment for job creation by passing the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act," Royce said. "Instead of continuing the Administration’s failed fiscal policies and spending money we don’t have, this legislation provides assistance without borrowing from future generations. Additionally, it protects all American workers and job creators from the impending tax increases." While speaking on the House floor in support of the legislation’s job creation incentives, specifically the Keystone XL energy project, Rep. Royce said: "This is really a question of whether we're serious about an economic recovery, and frankly, our national security. "We have a shovel-ready jobs project: The Keystone XL pipeline. "This project will create jobs. Some 200,000 by one estimate. Maybe it's not quite that, but with unemployment where it is --12 percent in my state of California-- you'd think this Administration would jump to approve this project. These are good jobs: men and women manufacturing pipe and earth movers. "Instead, it has delayed, and delayed, now waiting until late next year. It has delayed, despite detailed government environmental studies giving the green light. And despite the economic misery that so many Americans are suffering through." NOTE: To watch Royce’s House floor speech in its entirety, please click here. ###
12.13.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, issued the following statement in support of H.R. 1905, the Iran Threat Reduction Act. Royce is an original cosponsor of the legislation, which is expected to pass the House overwhelmingly. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, issued the following statement in support of H.R. 1905, the Iran Threat Reduction Act. Royce is an original cosponsor of the legislation, which is expected to pass the House overwhelmingly. "Last week, Vice President Biden boasted that sanctions on Iran have ‘caused significant discussion internally’ in Tehran. That’s comforting rhetoric, but the ominous reality is that Iran’s nuclear program is more advanced, more capable and closer than ever to achieving nuclear weapons. The only discussion among the mullahs seems to be – ‘how fast do we move forward?’" said Royce in comments on the House floor. "If fully implemented – this legislation gives us a better chance of avoiding a nuclear Iran, by tightening the sanctions regime. The bill further targets Iran’s energy sector, which fuels its nuclear program, and targets the Revolutionary Guard Corps. The bill also assists Iranians struggling against the regime in the streets." Royce, who last year served as a conferee on the "Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability and Divestment Act," (CISADA) also pressed for quick Senate action. "We don’t have time to wait for the Senate to act on this legislation. We can’t afford for these sanctions to be scaled back, as the Obama Administration wants. We don’t have time for delay." Royce has been a leading voice in Congress on the threat posed by a nuclear Iran. He writes frequently on Iran and other national security issues on his blog, "Foreign Intrigue." ###
12.13.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, spoke this evening on the House floor in support of H.R. 2105, the Iran, North Korea, and Syria Nonproliferation Reform and Modernization Act, of which he is a cosponsor. "Last week’s headline underscores the importance of this legislation. It read: ‘North Korea making missile able to hit U.S.’ North Korea is moving ahead to build its first road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile. Of course, mobile missiles are easier to hide, and tougher to locate. Indeed, North Korea is a direct threat to the United States. "No one who has closely watched North Korea is surprised by these developments. Especially when you consider that each North Korean provocation over the years has essentially been met with capitulation. Pyongyang builds a nuclear reactor in Syria – no real consequences. North Korea unveils an advanced uranium enrichment plant – no real consequences. Kim Jong-Il torpedoes a South Korean ship – no real consequences." In 2006, Royce carried successful legislation in the House that added North Korea to the then-Iran and Syria Nonproliferation Act, which targets those assisting these countries nuclear and missile programs. The legislation considered in the House this evening further strengthens this sanctions regime. Royce has been a leading voice in Congress on North Korea policy. He chairs the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange and writes frequently on North Korea, Asia and other national security issues on his blog, "Foreign Intrigue." ###
12.13.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific, issued the following statement on the House floor in support of H.Res.376, legislation that calls for the repatriation of POW/MIAs and abductees from the Korean War: I rise in strong support of this resolution, of which I am a cosponsor. Several of our colleagues, Sam Johnson, Howard Coble, John Conyers, and its author, Charlie Rangel, bravely fought in this war and deserve our recognition. Mr. Speaker, the Korean War is often referred to as the ‘forgotten war.’ But those who fought in it - and our South Korean allies – haven’t forgotten this War. And by moving this legislation forward, we are signaling that the House has not forgotten either. As much as anything, I believe this resolution demonstrates the shared commitment and sacrifice that serves as the foundation of the U.S.-South Korea alliance. Much has changed in six decades. With U.S. support, South Korea has transformed into a modern, leading economy. Yet north of the 38th parallel, North Korea still lives – literally – in darkness. It’s been more than 60 years since the start of the Korean War. Still, after all that time, our Department of Defense lists more than 8,000 American servicemen as POWs or missing in action. The number of South Koreans is estimated to be many times that. And as many as 100,000 South Koreans were forcibly conscripted into the North Korean army. In closing, our veterans and their families, along with our South Korean allies, deserve an accounting on the status of their family members. While North Korea’s atrocities occurred decades ago, many hold out hope for reunion. Indeed, as this resolution states, there are still ‘South Korean prisoners of war and civilian abductees from the Korean War who are still alive in North Korea and want to be repatriated.’ For the sake of those impacted, I urge passage of this resolution. ###
12.13.2011	Tonight, the House of Representatives passed H.Res.306, bipartisan legislation authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), which calls upon the government of Turkey to end religious discrimination, allow religious prayer and education, and return stolen church property. share: f t Tonight, the House of Representatives passed H.Res.306, bipartisan legislation authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), which calls upon the government of Turkey to end religious discrimination, allow religious prayer and education, and return stolen church property. "Religious freedom has been a long standing problem for Turkey," Royce said. "Turkey has failed to meet its obligations as a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Its religious minorities continue to face acts of violence and harassment." For three straight years, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom has condemned Turkey’s "serious religious freedom violations" for "imposing suffocating regulations" and "denying full legal status to religious institutions." Over the years, due to persecution, religious minorities have dwindled to less than one percent of the population, leaving them in an extremely vulnerable position. In August, Turkey’s Prime Minister Erodgan declared progress on religious freedom and signed a decree to return property confiscated from religious minorities after 1936 as well as provide compensation for property that was seized and later sold. Yet, a majority of confiscated property was taken, sold or destroyed prior to 1936. "Despite Prime Minister Erdogan’s recent claims of progress on religious freedom, Turkey’s Christian communities continue to face severe discrimination," Royce said. "Religious freedom is a fundamental human right. I applaud the passage of H.Res.306 which urges the Republic of Turkey to safeguard its Christian heritage and return confiscated church properties." Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and serves as co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Armenia. ###
12.07.2011	Today, the House of Representatives, with support from Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), passed the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act. The legislation requires Congressional approval of any new regulations that could have an annual economic impact of $100 million or more. share: f t Today, the House of Representatives, with support from Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), passed the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act. The legislation requires Congressional approval of any new regulations that could have an annual economic impact of $100 million or more. "I voted for the REINS Act to improve the regulatory process that America’s job-creating small businesses face every day. According to the Small Business Administration, the U.S. spent $1.75 trillion in regulatory compliance costs in 2008. The time and money small businesses are forced to divert towards regulations should instead be used to create and innovate. "Common sense regulation is necessary but there has to be a balance. This legislation gives Congress the tools to review the regulations that may have a significant economic impact before they are implemented. If we can remove regulatory burdens that are unnecessary and duplicative or streamline them, I believe we can get Americans working." NOTE: Earlier this year, Rep. Royce launched American Job Creators to give California’s job creators the opportunity to detail how government regulations are holding them back. For more information on American Job Creators, please click here. ###
12.06.2011	Today the House Financial Services Committee held a hearing on H.R. 1148 Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge (STOCK) Act. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a cosponsor of H.R. 3550 Restoring Ethical Standards, Transparency and Responsibility in Congressional Trading (RESTRICT) Act, urged the Committee to move forward on strengthening the laws regarding insider trading. share: f t Today the House Financial Services Committee held a hearing on H.R. 1148 Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge (STOCK) Act. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a cosponsor of H.R. 3550 Restoring Ethical Standards, Transparency and Responsibility in Congressional Trading (RESTRICT) Act, urged the Committee to move forward on strengthening the laws regarding insider trading. "I want to see us strengthen the law as it applies to insider trading," Royce said. "I think that many people look at the government today and see that it’s entered into every facet of the economy. We have massive federal spending now. We have taxation policy that’s not uniform. We have the government intervening on behalf of some firms and not others. With that increased sized and increased influence there is a heightened sense that political pull and insider knowledge are enriching a select few." Both the STOCK Act and RESTRICT Act were introduced in an effort to strengthen accountability and transparency among Members of Congress as well as senior officials in the Executive and Judicial branches. Under the RESTRICT Act, should a public official choose not to cede control of their daily trading activities to a blind trust, they would be subject to immediate and exhaustive disclosure of all trades. "It is that perception of crony capitalism which threatens our free enterprise system and our republic and it is that perception which we have to address here in Congress -- Washington must be held to a higher standard," Royce said. "Whether this is achieved through the STOCK Act or Mr. Duffy’s legislation -- of which I am a cosponsor -- I believe now is the time to act. I look forward to continued progress on this front," Royce concluded. ###
12.02.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in reaction to the U.S. Department of Labor’s announcement that the November unemployment rate was 8.6 percent and 120,000 jobs were created: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in reaction to the U.S. Department of Labor’s announcement that the November unemployment rate was 8.6 percent and 120,000 jobs were created: "Washington’s creation of an unprecedented level of uncertainty continues to stifle businesses. While job creation in any amount is welcome news, let’s keep in mind that the Labor Department’s net job creation number is just above the 100,000 per month needed to keep up with population growth. Additionally, the share of the U.S. population that is currently employed is near its lowest mark in three decades. For 34 consecutive months the unemployment rate has remained above eight percent; Americans deserve better, Washington must do better." ###
12.01.2011	At today’s House Financial Services Committee hearing to evaluate the financial health of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and one of the few members to oppose every bailout, pressed Secretary Donovan on the need to prevent a taxpayer bailout of the FHA. share: f t At today’s House Financial Services Committee hearing to evaluate the financial health of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and one of the few members to oppose every bailout, pressed Secretary Donovan on the need to prevent a taxpayer bailout of the FHA. "In 2008 and 2009, some of us were warning about the potential risk of this government agency heading toward their statutorily mandated 2% capital reserve ratio. Yet time and time again we were reassured that the FHA was fine and the reforms being made were going to prevent a bailout," Royce said. The House Financial Services Committee hearing comes only days after an independent auditor’s report found the FHA, which insured one third of new mortgages last year, may need a taxpayer funded bailout next year. Royce went on to argue during his opening statement: "Even as late as October of 2009, then FHA Director Stevens said to this Committee ‘we will not need a bailout’. "In reviewing Secretary Donovan’s prepared remarks it appears he will be singing a less optimistic tune today. Given the troubling FY2011 Actuarial Report, I can see why. "The MMIF’s capital reserve ratio is now at .24 percent -- a fraction of the statutorily mandated 2 percent -- and it’s running a leverage ratio that would give every regulator pause at 244-to-1. "The obvious question I hope we get answered is -- what’s next? What is the solution for preventing a taxpayer bailout of the FHA – which is staring us in the face? I think it is clear that banking on a strong housing rebound isn’t the answer." ###
12.01.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, gave remarks at today’s Formosa Foundation conference entitled, "Ensuring Free and Fair Elections: Taiwan 2012." share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, gave remarks at today’s Formosa Foundation conference entitled, "Ensuring Free and Fair Elections: Taiwan 2012." "Elections – as fiercely competitive as they can be – are reasons to celebrate. Democracy is a fantastic thing," Royce said. "And when you consider that Taiwan, which has gone from poverty to prosperity and autocracy to democracy in mere decades, it is even more reason to celebrate. These core democratic values are the foundation of a strong, prosperous U.S.-Taiwan relationship." "Taiwan must show that it continues to be a ‘beacon of democracy’ to Asia and the rest of the world," Royce said. "Letting Taiwan’s light shine also means letting the Taiwanese people steer their democracy. No one – whether in Washington or Beijing – should be interfering. This election is for the Taiwanese people." The Formosa Foundation’s conference comes weeks before Taiwan’s presidential and parliamentary elections, scheduled for January 14, 2012. "Taiwan’s democratic transformation is a legacy to be proud of. But like anywhere, it's one that needs constant protection. We have to safeguard our gains in democracy and human rights, taking nothing for granted. Congress has very high standards for Taiwan. "I have faith in the Taiwanese people that they will determine the best course for their future." Rep. Ed Royce is an active member of the Friends of Taiwan Caucus and an original co-sponsor of the "Taiwan Policy Act of 2011." ###
12.01.2011	Tonight, the Indian Embassy, in conjunction with the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, hosted an event to welcome India’s new ambassador to the United States, Nirupama Rao, to the U.S. House of Representatives. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), co-Chairman of the Caucus and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following remarks during the event: share: f t Tonight, the Indian Embassy, in conjunction with the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, hosted an event to welcome India’s new ambassador to the United States, Nirupama Rao, to the U.S. House of Representatives. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), co-Chairman of the Caucus and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following remarks during the event: "I can proudly say that this is the largest country specific caucus in the House of Representatives today. The Caucus started with 7 members 15 years ago. Today, it is over 150. That's impressive. "But what's really impressive are the great strides that the Indian American community has made at all levels of government: state legislators, members of Congress, and now two sitting governors. "We can stand here today and toast the very significant progress in U.S. - India relations the past decade. But it's important not to be complacent. The potential for much more is there. Both nations need to work towards raising the bar. "Two obvious areas of greater cooperation are economic and security cooperation. We have seen economic cooperation rise to unprecedented levels, with two-way trade reaching a record high of $50 billion last year. Yet India's Commerce Minister describes the situation between the two countries as 'way below their potential.' I agree. "What's more frustrating is knowing that trade is being limited by impediments which both nations could correct. These are self-inflicted wounds. Examples that come to mind - the U.S. could chop agricultural subsidy programs; while India could provide better access for U.S. exports. "Our governments, business sectors, and community leaders of both nations, should work together to unlock our full potential. "No better area for partnership exists than security cooperation. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, I am following this particularly aspect of our relationship carefully. "This fall, my Subcommittee held a hearing U.S.-India counterterrorism cooperation. I’d like to get to a point where our counterterrorism exchanges are just as high-profile, numerous and unprecedented as our combined military exercises. "Thank you for joining this evening. The impressive turnout reassures me the willpower to help grow the U.S. - India relationship is there." ###
11.29.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, today released a letter to Ray Mabus, Secretary of the U.S. Navy, calling for increased U.S.-Filipino maritime security cooperation, specifically through transfer of additional decommissioned U.S. military vessels. The letter comes as China’s first aircraft carrier began its second sea trial. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, today released a letter to Ray Mabus, Secretary of the U.S. Navy, calling for increased U.S.-Filipino maritime security cooperation, specifically through transfer of additional decommissioned U.S. military vessels. The letter comes as China’s first aircraft carrier began its second sea trial. "Earlier this year, the U.S. transferred an older U.S. Coast Guard Cutter to the Filipino Navy. This saved the U.S. taxpayer money, while substantially bolstering the naval capabilities of the Philippines. This U.S. ship – originally commissioned in 1967 – immediately became the Philippine Navy’s flagship vessel." "This assistance comes at an important time, as China continues its naval modernization, and its aggressive claims to the South China Sea. Conversely, the U.S. and the Philippines are committed to the freedom of navigation in these waters. As additional U.S. vessels are decommissioned, they should go to the Philippines – a treaty ally," said Royce. In part, Royce’s letter to the Secretary of the Navy reads: "As U.S. military vessels are decommissioned, I ask that you give the utmost consideration to transferring them to the Philippines…I believe that the Philippines, through virtue of its treaty alliance with the U.S. and its major non-NATO ally status - as well as the U.S. interest in seeing the freedom of navigation upheld in the South China Sea - should be given top priority as material becomes available." Background: The Philippines abuts the South China Sea, where more than one-third of the world’s seaborne trade passes. Major energy deposits are believed to lie below its seabed. This year marks the 60th anniversary of the U.S.-Philippines Mutual Defense Treaty. Since 2001, the U.S. and the Philippines have worked closely together on counterterrorism. U.S. officials have expressed a desire to expand security cooperation with the Philippines beyond counterterrorism, to include efforts to bolster Filipino maritime security capability. The U.S. designated the Philippines a "major non-NATO ally" in 2003. Note: A PDF of the final letter can be found here. Full text of the letter can be found below: November 29, 2011 The Honorable Ray Mabus Secretary of the Navy 2000 Navy Pentagon Washington, DC 20350-2000 Dear Secretary Mabus: I am writing in support of increased U.S.-Filipino maritime security cooperation. As you know, China has been aggressively asserting "indisputable" sovereignty over as much as 90 percent of the South China Sea, one of the world’s most important trade routes. The United States has rightfully called for the peaceful resolution of these disputes, and has stood by its allies in the region to uphold a commitment to the freedom of navigation in these waters. Chinese aggression has resulted in frequent maritime clashes between fishing and other vessels. On at least nine separate occasions this year alone, Chinese ships have fired live rounds at Filipino fishermen, severed Philippine oil survey cables, or harassed Philippine ships, sometimes merely miles from their coastline. Growing Chinese assertiveness in the South China Sea has led Manila to seek Washington’s assistance in bolstering its maritime capabilities, including in training and combined exercises. The transfer of U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Hamilton (WHEC-715) to the Philippines earlier this year has been the most tangible aspect of U.S.-Filipino maritime security cooperation. One of the largest Excess Defense Article transfers ever, the U.S. government saved approximately $10 million in disposal costs for this ship, originally commissioned in 1967. This transfer represents the U.S. commitment to stability in the waters surrounding the Philippines. Now renamed the Gregorio del Pilar, the ship immediately became the Philippine Navy’s flagship vessel, replacing another former U.S. vessel, which was commissioned in 1943 and used during World War II. Even at over four decades old, the Gregorio del Pilar is now the most modern ship in the Filipino Navy. With an aging and badly-equipped fleet, this changeover in flagships illustrates the Philippines’ urgent need for maritime defense capability. Meanwhile, as you know, China continues to aggressively modernize its naval forces. U.S. officials have indicated that the transfer of the Hamilton represents a shift from U.S. security assistance that was singularly focused on counterterrorism, to assistance that should increasingly bolster Filipino maritime security capability. Indeed, on a recent trip to the Philippines to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the U.S.-Philippines Mutual Defense Treaty, Secretary of State Clinton said that the U.S was focused on strengthening the Philippines’ defense "to have a credible deterrent, to be able to protect what is ours and to be able to pursue lawful activities, whether it’s for fishing or exploration for gas and oil." As U.S. military vessels are decommissioned, I ask that you give the utmost consideration to transferring them to the Philippines, which has expressed strong interest in acquiring additional surplus vessels. While I am aware that there is high demand for these excess defense articles, I believe that the Philippines, through virtue of its treaty alliance with the U.S. and its major non-NATO ally status - as well as the U.S. interest in seeing the freedom of navigation upheld in the South China Sea - should be given top priority as material becomes available. As a member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, I look forward to working with you to ensure that the Filipino Navy’s capabilities are bolstered. Sincerely, EDWARD R. ROYCE
11.21.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement today regarding the announcement that the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction failed to reach an agreement to address our nation’s fiscal crisis: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement today regarding the announcement that the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction failed to reach an agreement to address our nation’s fiscal crisis: "Last week our debt surpassed $15 trillion. Currently, it is higher than at any point in U.S. history. According to the Treasury Department, for 36 straight months the U.S. has spent more money than it’s taken in. We are well on our way to becoming the next Greece. "Given these alarming numbers, the failure to reach an agreement to cut $1.2 trillion in spending is egregious. This was an opportunity to go big, rein in our national debt and put our country back on a path toward solvency. The Super Committee failed. "This is what the American people are tired of seeing from Washington - failure to act. Having seen our credit rating already downgraded, Washington cannot simply sit idly by. "It is without question that now is the time to get to work, to make the hard choices necessary to get our country back on track. I am committed to continuing efforts to cut spending and to create an environment that encourages private-sector job creation." ###
11.18.2011	As part of an effort to tackle our nation’s $15 trillion debt, House Republicans brought to the floor a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution (H.J.Res.2). Unfortunately, due to pressure from the Democrat Leadership the measure failed. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) voted for the balanced budget amendment. share: f t As part of an effort to tackle our nation’s $15 trillion debt, House Republicans brought to the floor a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution (H.J.Res.2). Unfortunately, due to pressure from the Democrat Leadership the measure failed. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) voted for the balanced budget amendment. "This week our nation’s debt surpassed $15 trillion totaling more than 95 percent of GDP, which is currently higher than at any point in our history. Spending more, taxing more and borrowing more are not solutions for job creation or economic growth," Royce said. Royce added, "It is time Washington broke its habit of out-of-control spending and this balanced budget amendment would’ve forced the hand of Congress to do just that. Unfortunately, the Democrat leadership made it clear this week they would rally their members to oppose this measure." In 1995, the same version of a balanced budget amendment received support from Republicans and Democrats – some Democrats that are currently serving in Congress. In fact, Democrat Whip Steny Hoyer told reporters this week, "As someone who supported the 1995 balanced budget amendment, let me say that at this point in time I would not support it." Since Mr. Hoyer cast his vote for the balanced budget amendment sixteen years ago, $10 trillion has been added to the nation’s debt. "America’s future generations deserve more than debt and bloated bureaucracies. I will continue to make hard choices and fight to cut spending," Royce said. NOTE: "I wish it were possible to obtain a single amendment to our Constitution. I would be willing to depend on that alone for the reduction of the administration of our government; I mean an additional article taking from the Federal Government the power of borrowing." – Thomas Jefferson, 1798 ###
11.15.2011	Earlier today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined Rep. Tim Griffin (R-AK) and other members to express his support for the Keystone XL Pipeline, a project that would transfer up to 550,000 barrels of oil daily from Canada to the U.S. Additionally, the Keystone pipeline would create thousands of jobs and enhance our long-term energy security. share: f t Earlier today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined Rep. Tim Griffin (R-AK) and other members to express his support for the Keystone XL Pipeline, a project that would transfer up to 550,000 barrels of oil daily from Canada to the U.S. Additionally, the Keystone pipeline would create thousands of jobs and enhance our long-term energy security. Royce made the following statement at this morning’s press conference: "Canada isn’t waiting around. This weekend – while the White House was trying to explain why this decision had to undergo another year of review after the previous three years of scrutiny – Canadian Prime Minister Harper was meeting with Chinese President Hu Jintao. "The Canadian Prime Minister stressed the need for Canada to be able to access Asian markets for its energy products. That means China. "Let’s be clear – Canadian oil will come out of the ground. Where will it go? "If this Administration kills this pipeline – Canada can go west – fueling Beijing’s rise. The Administration talks about us being an Asian power, competing with China, but China is building its energy network worldwide, while we’re playing politics. "I’m sorry, but doesn’t China moving to trump us in our own backyard bother the White House? Where’s the sense of urgency? "The Obama Administration used to tout shovel ready projects. They say they want to get us off Middle East oil. So what happens when we have a chance to put Americans back to work, developing North American energy? As one labor leader succinctly put it, ‘job-killers win, American workers lose.’ The Administration has turned its back on a reliable energy supplier. Whatever happened to the notion of energy security being national security? "We can cede Canadian oil to China, which wants to ship it from Vancouver to Shanghai or we could approve this project – gaining thousands of jobs and enhancing our long-term energy security. The choice is pretty clear to us here today." ###
11.04.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, slammed Fannie and Freddie’s $12 million in bonuses and announced his support for H.R. 1221, the Equity in Government Compensation Act. This week, Freddie Mac reported $4.4 billion in loss and announced their request for $6 billion from the Treasury Department. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, slammed Fannie and Freddie’s $12 million in bonuses and announced his support for H.R. 1221, the Equity in Government Compensation Act. This week, Freddie Mac reported $4.4 billion in loss and announced their request for $6 billion from the Treasury Department. "It appears the era of heads we win, tails the taxpayers lose isn't over at Fannie and Freddie," said Royce, who for years has criticized the quasi-governmental status of these firms and the failures of their management. "At a time when all Americans are tightening their belts, it is disturbing that these bonuses were approved for what are now government run agencies." "The American taxpayers have shelled out over 150 billion for what will be the most costly bailout, ever. Yet the bonuses keep on coming," Royce said. Fannie and Freddie are the two entities most responsible for the housing bubble and the economic downturn that has followed. The Equity in Government Compensation Act, HR 1221, immediately suspends the compensation packages approved for 2011 for the executive officers at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. "Only in Washington can you be a major driver of the financial crisis, be run by the government, and still find it within the realm of acceptable to pay out these bonuses," Royce said. "These executives are effectively government employees and they should be compensated as such. Now is the time for the Senate and the Administration to embrace HR 1221." ###
11.02.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, issued the following statement upon learning of today’s guilty verdict in the trial of Viktor Bout: "This man has done irreparable damage across the world – arming insurgents, militias and terrorists. Sadly, his ‘Merchant of Death’ moniker was well-earned." "Hats off to the gutsy DEA agents who pulled-off the sting to arrest Bout and the U.S. attorneys who oversaw the case. The Thai government did the right thing handing over this menace." "Today’s guilty verdict is even more gratifying given the battle to get Bout into a U.S. courtroom," said Royce, referring to the more than two-year up and down legal struggle to see Bout extradited from Thailand to the United States. After Bout’s arrest in Thailand in 2008, Royce spearheaded congressional efforts to see that Viktor Bout was extradited. In August 2010, on the eve of a crucial court hearing, Royce led a congressional letter to the Thai government, pressing for Bout’s extradition. In addition, Royce authored an op-ed which appeared in the Washington Post, calling for stepped-up U.S. engagement to see that Bout was not set free. A jury in New York found Bout guilty of all four charges against him, which included conspiring to kill United States citizens and attempting to arm a Colombian terrorist organization know as the FARC. Bout could face life in prison at his sentencing, scheduled for February 8, 2012. Prior to his arrest, Bout fueled many brutal civil wars on the African continent and elsewhere through the illicit sale of arms, breaking international arms embargos. Former Liberian president Charles Taylor relied on Bout to arm his reign of terror in West Africa, violently suppressing opposition to his corrupt rule in Liberia and arming allies in neighboring countries. In Afghanistan, Bout simultaneously armed the Taliban and the Northern Alliance and is linked to international terrorist organizations, including Hezbollah and al-Shabaab. ###
11.01.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced that Nancy Pfotenhauer will provide the keynote address at his Fourth Annual Women's Conference. This event will be held in conjunction with Cal State Fullerton's Women and Philanthropy Network at CSUF's Titan Student Union Center on Saturday, March 31, 2012. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced that Nancy Pfotenhauer will provide the keynote address at his Fourth Annual Women's Conference. This event will be held in conjunction with Cal State Fullerton's Women and Philanthropy Network at CSUF's Titan Student Union Center on Saturday, March 31, 2012. "This year’s keynote speaker exemplifies the many ways women are leading our society today. As a mother, wife, economist, national political spokesperson and successful businesswoman, Nancy Pfotenhauer is a highly accomplished woman," Royce said. Nancy Pfotenhauer is the president of MediaSpeak Strategies, a Washington DC-based communications firm. Prior to launching MediaSpeak Strategies, Nancy was a Senior Policy Advisor and National Spokesperson with the McCain for President campaign and a frequent political commentator on FOX, CNN and MSNBC. She was President and C.E.O. of the Independent Women’s Forum from 2000-2005. In 2002, Nancy was nominated by President George W. Bush to serve as a delegate to the United Nations’ Commission on the Status of Women. She was also appointed to the National Advisory Committee on Violence Against Women. (To read Nancy’s bio in its entirety, please click here.) "I have been privileged to have a number of strong, accomplished women keynote our previous conferences: actress Kristen Bell, special correspondent Lisa Ling, and eBay CEO Meg Whitman. Today, I am honored to add Nancy’s name to this distinguished list," Royce said. In 2008, Rep. Royce hosted his first women’s conference. Three years later, with hundreds having attended each year, this event has become a valuable resource for women of all ages and backgrounds. The conference is a half-day seminar dedicated to giving women the tools and resources necessary to enrich their lives. In addition to Nancy’s keynote address, conference attendees will start the day with two one-hour breakout sessions that cover a wide range of issues. (Additional breakout session details are coming soon.) For more information about Rep. Royce’s annual women’s conference please visit: /womensconference/ ###
10.27.2011	Under questioning from Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton today refused to take an aggressive stance against the Pakistani government for its support of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist group during testimony before the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Royce serves as the Chairman of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. share: f t Under questioning from Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton today refused to take an aggressive stance against the Pakistani government for its support of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist group during testimony before the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Royce serves as the Chairman of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. Specifically, Royce asked that security assistance to Pakistan be based upon its efforts to crackdown on LeT, the group responsible for the days-long rampage in Mumbai, India in 2008. Royce pointed to reports that the U.S. was conditioning security assistance to Pakistan based upon a set of U.S. objectives, and asked that Pakistan’s dismantling of LeT be a part of that priority list. To underscore the severity of the point, Royce noted that if left unchecked, the LeT could spark conflict between the India and Pakistan, two nuclear-armed rivals. This recommendation came out of a recent hearing held by Royce on U.S.-India counterterrorism cooperation. Secretary Clinton responded that she did "not want to commit at this time to taking such a path," citing unspecified "implications," and instead simply stated that the Administration continues to "raise" LeT with Pakistani officials. Speaking after the hearing, Royce lamented the lackluster response: "LeT has evolved from a group focused on Kashmir into one with global ambitions. It has been described as the ‘Hezbollah of South Asia,’ and with nearly 2,000 facilities in Pakistan, it has been closely linked to the Pakistani government. There have been several LeT members charged in the United States. "We don’t have the time to just continue ‘raising’ the issue. The Mumbai attacks were nearly three years ago. The time for tough action is now. Security in South Asia – and the security of the United States-- demand it." NOTE: Last month, Chairman Royce wrote to Secretary Clinton urging this action. The full text of the letter is below. September 22, 2011 The Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton Secretary of State 2201 C Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20520 Dear Madam Secretary: We are writing to express our belief that the United States must condition security assistance to Pakistan based upon its actions with respect to Lashkar-e-Taiba, the group responsible for the days-long Mumbai rampage in 2008. At a recent Subcommittee hearing on U.S.-India counterterrorism cooperation, this policy change was strongly recommended by experts. Last month, the Wall Street Journal reported that the U.S. has begun to condition the award of security assistance to Pakistan on a "secret scorecard" of U.S. objectives. If accurate, this is a welcomed change from past policies, which granted Pakistan with billions of dollars in U.S. aid, no matter which path the government pursued. Our policy toward Pakistan over the past decade has not diminished the terrorism threat emanating from that troubled country. According to the Journal’s reporting, Washington has told Islamabad that future security assistance hinges on progress in four areas: Pakistani cooperation in exploiting the bin Laden compound; Pakistani cooperation with the war in Afghanistan; Pakistani cooperation with the U.S. in conducting joint counterterrorism operations; and cooperation in improving the overall tone in bilateral relations. Although specific details of each area are classified, it does not seem from this reporting that the U.S. has placed emphasis on Pakistan making further progress on fully investigating and prosecuting the Mumbai attackers or dismantling LeT in this "scorecard." We believe that this is a strategic mistake, especially with the threat from LeT continuing to grow. Lashkar-e-Taiba has evolved from a group focused on Kashmir into one with global ambitions. At a May hearing of our Subcommittee, one prominent terrorism expert noted the "possibility of another major Pakistani jihadi attack in India." This witness went on to describe LeT as the "Hezbollah of South Asia," and noted it had "almost a state-sponsored relationship with the government" of Pakistan. This expert noted that LeT employed up to 2,000 facilities in Pakistan and has a "presence throughout the world that…al-Qaeda could only dream of." Indeed, last year the Director of National Intelligence testified to Congress that LeT is "becoming more of a direct threat" and is "placing Western targets in Europe in its sights." Reportedly, a captured LeT laptop contained a list of 320 potential targets, many believed to be outside India. Several individuals have been charged in the United States for connections to the terrorist group. We agree with you that the steps Pakistan has taken with respect to LeT have been woefully inadequate. On a recent trip to India, you rightfully called on Pakistan to prosecute the perpetrators of these attacks "transparently, fully and urgently." Regrettably, Pakistan has been ignoring these calls, and without a change in our aid policy, this step appears to be very unlikely. Further, not placing Pakistan’s handling of LeT on this "scorecard" will only reinforce the perception in New Delhi that the U.S. views jihadist groups targeting India as less consequential than al-Qaeda. This hampers counterterrorism cooperation with India, which serves to protect the United States. As one witnessed testified before our Subcommittee, "the U.S. cannot allow its national security to be held hostage by nearly two decades of unfulfilled expectations in Pakistan." Imposing this condition on Pakistan is all the more important given the risk of another LeT attack on India leading to armed conflict with grave consequences. We strongly urge you to make U.S. security assistance to Pakistan conditioned upon its efforts to dismantle the Lashkar-e-Taiba militant network. Sincerely, EDWARD R. ROYCE Chairman Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade BRAD SHERMAN Ranking Member Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade
10.20.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs' Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee, commented on the death of former Libyan strongman Muammar Gaddafi and highlighted the threat of unaccounted for weapons in Libya. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs' Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee, commented on the death of former Libyan strongman Muammar Gaddafi and highlighted the threat of unaccounted for weapons in Libya. "Gaddafi murdered Americans and many Libyans. Good riddance," Royce commented. Libya faces very difficult challenges, however, overcoming Gaddafi's legacy of iron-fist rule, as well as tribal divides: Royce noted, "Eliminating Gaddafi, while necessary for Libya to move ahead, doesn't guarantee progress. Libyans must battle through Gaddafi's legacy of repression and discord. Radical elements are looking to take advantage here. Big challenges are ahead." "It's best that he was handled by Libyans themselves. He didn't surrender or go into exile and paid with his life," Royce stated. Royce has long focused attention on loose shoulder fired missiles and their threat to civilian aviation. He has held hearings on the problem, introduced legislation, and written the Obama Administration on unaccounted for weapons in Libya. "The US must be fully focused on securing the shoulder-fired missiles that escaped Gaddafi's arsenal. They pose a grave threat to us," said Royce. ###
10.06.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) was recognized as a "Taxpayer Hero" by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) for his willingness to stand up for the American taxpayer. Royce earned a score of 96 percent, the highest score for the Orange County delegation. Compared to the House average score of 40 percent it is clear that Royce has consistently voted to rein in deficit spending and make government more accountable to taxpayers. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) was recognized as a "Taxpayer Hero" by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) for his willingness to stand up for the American taxpayer. Royce earned a score of 96 percent, the highest score for the Orange County delegation. Compared to the House average score of 40 percent it is clear that Royce has consistently voted to rein in deficit spending and make government more accountable to taxpayers. "On behalf of taxpayers, we thank and applaud Rep. Ed Royce for his votes to cut wasteful spending, reduce taxes, and make government more accountable to taxpayers," said CCAGW President Tom Schatz. For the 111th Congress, second session, CCAGW scored 46 votes in the House and 62 votes in the Senate. Rep. Royce helped to pass legislation that repeals several burdensome tax provisions, including the heavy paperwork burden placed on small businesses, included in the Democrat’s healthcare law passed last year. Since 1989, the CCAGW has examined roll call votes to help identify which members of Congress stand up for the taxpayers’ interests and which fail to deliver on campaign promises of fiscal responsibility. CCAGW’s Taxpayer Heroes include members who stood by taxpayers and championed fiscal responsibility throughout the most spendthrift Congress in history. "I am honored to receive this award," Royce said. "I am committed to the fight to cut spending until we balance our budget and eliminate our national debt. If we are serious about addressing this budgetary crisis and getting our economy on solid footing, now is the time to make the hard choices." Note: Visit www.ccagwratings.org for the complete 2010 Congressional Ratings. ###
10.05.2011	During today’s House Foreign Affairs Committee markup reauthorizing the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), an active participant in the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, successfully offered a bipartisan amendment calling for the Kingdom of Cambodia to be designated as a Tier 3 country for its egregious human trafficking record. share: f t During today’s House Foreign Affairs Committee markup reauthorizing the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), an active participant in the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, successfully offered a bipartisan amendment calling for the Kingdom of Cambodia to be designated as a Tier 3 country for its egregious human trafficking record. "The government of Cambodia insufficiently addressed their human trafficking problem and rampant corruption has exacerbated this form of modern day slavery," Royce said. According to the State Department’s 2011 Trafficking in Persons report, Cambodia has made no improvements to identify or protect trafficking victims. News sources describe Cambodia as a "magnet" for those who sexually prey on the young. Additionally, Human Rights Watch describes Cambodia as being "plagued not only by widespread abuses committed by officials, but impunity for perpetrators." Countries placed in Tier 3, the worst category, "do not fully comply with the Trafficking Victims Protection Act’s minimum standards and are not making significant efforts to do so." Tier 3 countries are subject to a U.S. aid cutoff. Cambodia is currently designated as a Tier 2 country. "The 2011 report cities that Cambodian ‘entertainment establishments’ may exploit up to 200 women and children on a single night. Cambodian police have been unwilling to pursue certain trafficking investigations because they were thought to involve high-ranking officials," Royce said. "By cataloging these vile practices, the State Department’s report allows us to spotlight human trafficking. But when we don't follow the facts to a Tier 3 designation for countries like Cambodia, we do a disservice to the victims of these gross human rights abuses," Royce said. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and is a member of the Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific. ###
09.20.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a California State University, Fullerton alumnus, issued the following statement in response to President Milton A. Gordon’s recent retirement announcement: share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a California State University, Fullerton alumnus, issued the following statement in response to President Milton A. Gordon’s recent retirement announcement: "I would like to honor Dr. Milton A. Gordon for his distinguished career in serving as President of California State University, Fullerton. President Gordon has had a great lifelong career in education, in which he served over two decades at CSUF. "I applaud President Gordon for his exceptional service to the community of Orange County. His staunch support of education and his commitment to the students at CSUF is admirable, and deserving of appreciation. "Among his many accomplishments at the university, President Gordon led the campus into prominence as one of our nation’s largest and most inclusive institutions of higher education. He has been committed to broadening access to a college education, particularly among underrepresented communities, as well as extending CSUF’s outreach across the globe. "Over the years, I have been pleased to work with President Gordon, on many issues affecting CSUF, and I know that he has earned the respect and gratitude of the people that have come to know him. "I extend my best wishes to President Gordon and wish him future success in all his efforts." ###
09.14.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) became an original co-sponsor of Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen's legislation, introduced today, to strengthen the Taiwan Relations Act and enhance commercial and cultural relations between the United States and Taiwan. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) became an original co-sponsor of Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen's legislation, introduced today, to strengthen the Taiwan Relations Act and enhance commercial and cultural relations between the United States and Taiwan. As the first democratic republic in Asia, Taiwan has proven to be a cornerstone of U.S. foreign policy in the region, and continues to share many common values with the United States. "Our friends in Taiwan face many challenges. China’s continued belligerent actions in the South China Sea are a serious cause for concern to Taiwan, and America. That is why this legislation is so timely. We need to bolster our support for Taiwan to promote peace and security in the region," said Royce. This legislation takes important steps to bolster U.S.-Taiwan diplomatic relations and Taiwan’s status in international organizations. Specifically, the bill calls for the Secretary of State to endorse meaningful participation for Taiwan at the International Civil Aviation Organization. It also calls on cabinet-level officials to engage in people-to-people exchanges, something that has not occurred since 2000. "For too long, Taiwan has been left out of international organizations. Despite being home to the world’s 18th busiest airport, Taiwan has been kept out of an organization that aims to keep passengers safe. The 35 million passengers that travel to and from Taiwan each year are done a great disservice by Taiwan’s exclusion," said Royce. Trade relations between the U.S. and Taiwan are also a key part of the introduced bill. Significantly, the bill calls for the United States Trade Representative to "resume" Trade and Investment Framework Agreement negotiations with Taiwan and states that a free trade agreement with Taiwan should be the ultimate goal of trade negotiations. "Both of our countries have built their economies, and their trade relationship, on economic freedom," said Royce. "We should begin negotiations for an FTA with Taiwan as soon as possible. It’s a win for the U.S. and a win for Taiwan." "This legislation puts pressure on the administration to honor our commitments to Taiwan, and will help ensure that Taiwan has the defense capabilities it needs to defend itself," said Royce. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and is an active member of the Friends of Taiwan Caucus. ###
09.13.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) slammed the U.S. Department of State as it released its Annual Report on International Religious Freedom. The State Department failed to list Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern" (CPC) for violations of religious freedom, a recommendation that was made by the congressionally-mandated U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) slammed the U.S. Department of State as it released its Annual Report on International Religious Freedom. The State Department failed to list Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern" (CPC) for violations of religious freedom, a recommendation that was made by the congressionally-mandated U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom. "The State Department’s failure to list Vietnam as a CPC is a grave mistake," said Royce. "The fact remains that no religious group is immune from government coercion and harassment. Buddhists, Catholics, and Evangelicals alike face the heavy hand of Vietnamese government tyranny if they step outside its tight restrictions." "This report is even more disappointing given Secretary Clinton’s remarks in Hanoi last year, where she said human rights concerns are raised at all levels, both in Vietnam and Washington. When given the opportunity for concrete action, however, the State Department fell flat," said Royce. Although the State Department’s report gives credit to Vietnam for improving in some areas, it notes that religious groups like Protestants and Buddhists still face government sanctioned violence. "As the current state of human rights and religious freedom in Vietnam is deplorable, the State Department’s decision not to relist Vietnam as a CPC is extraordinarily short-sighted. Secretary Clinton’s call for Vietnam to value the rights of its citizens look like empty words," said Royce. Since 1999, the U.S. State Department has designated countries that "engage in or tolerate particularly severe violations of religious freedom," as "Countries of Particular Concern." Due to Vietnam's egregious human rights violations, the State Department had listed it as a CPC from 2004-2006. This subjected Vietnam to sanction, according to law. In 2006, however, the State Department removed Vietnam from this annual list. "When Vietnam was placed on the CPC list, we saw some positive changes. Unfortunately, when it was released in 2006, Vietnam ramped up its persecution. The State Department’s failure to relist Vietnam does its people a great disservice," said Royce. Furthermore, the State Department failed to follow the prescription of a House of Representatives Royce-passed resolution that calls for Vietnam to be relisted as a CPC. Ed Royce is the author of H.Res.16, a resolution calling on the State Department to relist Vietnam as a CPC. Royce is also a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Subcommittee on Asia, as well as the co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam.
09.12.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined over 60 colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama to oppose his recent amnesty announcement and urged him to enforce our immigration laws. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined over 60 colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama to oppose his recent amnesty announcement and urged him to enforce our immigration laws. "Not only does this White House want to ignore our current immigration laws but it further encourages illegal immigration," Royce said. "This Administration can’t cherry pick the laws they’d like to enforce. At a time of nine percent unemployment we shouldn’t allow more illegal workers to compete with Americans for jobs, we should remove the incentives that encourage illegal immigration." The letter, signed by members of the bipartisan Immigration Reform Caucus, opposes President Obama’s August 18, 2011 announcement that the White House will stop enforcing immigration laws for certain illegal immigrants. The letter asks, "If we don’t take our own laws seriously enough to enforce, why should we expect anyone to follow them?" "Our fear is that this policy will irreparably harm the prospects of true immigration reform for many years to come. Mr. President, our request is simple: enforce our immigration laws evenly without passion, prejudice or preference," the letter concludes. Note: A PDF of the final letter can be found here. Full text of the letter can be found below. September 12, 2011 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: Members of the bipartisan Immigration Reform Caucus along with members of the House vehemently oppose your August 18, 2011 announcement to bypass Congress and use prosecutorial discretion to achieve amnesty for individuals who are illegally residing in the U.S. The manner with which your administration has introduced this policy not only robs the public of a thorough vetting, but it also fails to appreciate the negative consequences of this policy shift. Over the last several years, with the support of the American public, Congress has consistently defeated amnesty proposals for illegal aliens. This recent effort appears to be nothing more than an attempt to avoid public review and unilaterally impose amnesty by picking and choosing which laws to enforce; or in this case, not to enforce, thereby enabling illegal aliens to remain in the country. In addition, we are convinced the consequences of implementing this policy will include, but certainly not be limited to, the loss of public confidence and the encouragement of future illegal immigration. Even prior to this, the American public’s confidence in the Administration to address illegal immigration was tenuous at best. This is evidenced by the number of states that have initiated and passed their own immigration enforcement laws. This shift in policy confirms the general public’s suspicion that Administration is not serious about controlling illegal immigration. Also, this policy has the added affect of further encouraging illegal immigration. Frankly put, if we don’t take our own laws seriously enough to enforce, why should we expect anyone to follow them? This policy will introduce a new wave of illegal immigrants emboldened with the knowledge that not only is it okay to break the law, but they will likely be rewarded for it with de facto amnesty status; thereby exacerbating an already vicious cycle we as a nation have been trying to address for over two decades. This attempt to satisfy the narrow interests of the pro-amnesty lobby has ultimately earned the distrust of the greater American public. Our fear is that this policy will irreparably harm the prospects of true immigration reform for many years to come. Mr. President, our request is simple: enforce our immigration laws evenly without passion, prejudice or preference. ###
09.08.2011	In response to President Obama’s jobs speech, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement: share: f t In response to President Obama’s jobs speech, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement: "To grow this economy and put Americans back to work we need to put an end to failed government spending bills and remove the regulatory barriers damaging our entrepreneurs and innovators. "The current unemployment rates and deficit numbers are proof enough - stimulus spending has been a gross failure. With 2.3 million jobs lost and over $4 trillion added to the national debt, this nation doesn’t need another failed stimulus bill. "Not only are job creators facing an unprecedented level of uncertainty created by the $825 billion stimulus, they are subject to excessive and duplicative government regulations. "We’ve heard from this Administration that government agencies have sole discretion when it comes to implementing regulations, regardless of their economic impacts, making it clear that job creators have been ignored. In fact, the Administration disclosed 212 regulations that will cost our economy $100 million or more, some of which have an estimated economic cost of more than $1 billion. "It is time to reverse this trend of crippling regulations and excessive government spending. Doing so will create an environment that encourages businesses to invest and create jobs." ###
09.07.2011	In a letter sent to President Obama today, Reps. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) encourage the President to include the Small Business Lending Enhancement Act (H.R. 1418) in his soon to be released jobs package. The legislation, introduced earlier this year by Royce and McCarthy, provides much needed financing for small businesses without spending a single tax dollar. share: f t In a letter sent to President Obama today, Reps. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) encourage the President to include the Small Business Lending Enhancement Act (H.R. 1418) in his soon to be released jobs package. The legislation, introduced earlier this year by Royce and McCarthy, provides much needed financing for small businesses without spending a single tax dollar. "At no cost to the taxpayer, raising the member business lending cap will provide America’s small businesses with the capital they need to stay afloat, remain competitive, and ramp-up hiring," said Royce. "This legislation takes an important step in shifting our current economic path and putting Americans back to work." The Small Business Lending Enhancement Act (H.R. 1418) raises the member business lending cap for credit unions from 12.25% to 27.5%. If enacted, the legislation would allow credit unions to lend an additional $13 billion to small businesses, which could create 140,000 new jobs. "With this year’s budget deficit expected to reach $1.3 trillion, now is the time to think outside the box when it comes to spurring job creation. We believe this bipartisan, bicameral proposal should be a part of any comprehensive strategy to promote economic growth," the letter concludes. Note: A PDF of the final letter can be found here. Full text of the letter can be found below: September 7, 2011 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you prepare to release a proposal intended to spur economic growth and job creation, we encourage you to include an increase in the member business lending (MBL) cap on our nation’s credit unions. During this difficult period in our economy, many small businesses require capital to stay afloat, remain competitive, and ramp-up hiring. By increasing the credit union cap we can help fill this void and stimulate job creation without spending additional tax dollars. Currently credit unions are restricted from lending beyond 12.25% of their assets to member businesses. As a result, they are prevented from extending loans to many of the small businesses looking for affordable, reliable access to credit. According to economists, by increasing the MBL cap to 27.5% credit unions would be able to lend an additional $13 billion to small businesses, which could create 140,000 new jobs within a year. We have introduced this proposal in the House and Senators Mark Udall (CO) and Olympia Snowe (ME) have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. In total, 85 members of Congress have signed onto these bills. The Small Business Lending Enhancement Act (H.R. 1418/S. 509) would lift the current cap from 12.25% to 27.5% for those credit unions that meet the following requirements: be well capitalized, have a history of MBL experience, be operating near the lower cap for at least one year, and receive approval by their regulator, the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). With this year’s budget deficit expected to reach $1.3 trillion, now is the time to think outside the box when it comes to spurring job creation. We believe this bipartisan, bicameral proposal should be a part of any comprehensive strategy to promote economic growth. Again, we urge you to include it in your proposal intended to spur job creation. Sincerely, Representative Ed Royce (CA-40) Representative Carolyn McCarthy (NY-04) ###
08.30.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), author of legislation that calls upon Turkey to end religious discrimination and return stolen church property, commended the Turkish Prime Minister’s recent announcement that the government of Turkey will return hundreds of confiscated religious properties. "As a signatory of the Declaration of Human Rights, Turkey has an international obligation to ensure that all Turks have the freedom to practice their faith," said Royce. "I commend the Turkish government for taking initial steps to improve religious freedom within their country." According to news reports, over the weekend Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan signed a decree that would return property confiscated from religious minorities as well as provide compensation for property that was seized and later sold. The properties returned will include schools, churches, stores, houses, apartment buildings, cemeteries, and factories. Currently, Turkey does not provide full legal status to any religious minority groups. Since 2009, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom has identified Turkey as a country among the world’s top violators of religious freedom. "This latest announcement from Turkey is a welcomed improvement but certainly long overdue," said Royce. "I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to monitor these reforms, to ensure that Turkey's unjust policies truly end. This is a good beginning, but just a beginning." NOTE: During markup for H.R. 2583, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, the House Foreign Affairs adopted an amendment that includes text taken from H.Res.306, legislation introduced by Rep. Ed Royce and Rep. Howard Berman, which calls upon the government of Turkey to end religious discrimination, allow religious prayer and education, and return stolen church property. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and serves as co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Armenia. ###
08.24.2011	Over 700 job seekers participated in today's job fair hosted by Rep. Ed Royce at the Walter D. Ehlers Community Center in Buena Park. share: f t Over 700 job seekers participated in today's job fair hosted by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) at the Walter D. Ehlers Community Center in Buena Park. Dozens of local businesses, offering hundreds of job openings, had an opportunity to meet one-on-one with job seekers. "Our goal with this event was to connect job seekers with local employers. Today, I know we achieved that," said Royce. "The employment experts and businesses that came out were terrific, I'd like to thank all of them for their hard work and participation." Attendees met with local businesses and received resume critiquing from employment experts. Royce's job fair offered employment opportunities in a variety of fields including healthcare, banking, retail, and public safety. A representative from Verizon Wireless applauded Royce's job fair and said, "Compared to other job fairs I have been to, I truly felt this one went very well. Potential applicants were professional and courteous and definitely interested in opportunities." Below are comments and feedback from job seekers: "It was very helpful to talk to potential employers and be able to hand out resumes in person." -Erin Suttle from Buena Park "The job fair was well organized with an excellent variety of employers." -Willette Gipson from Orange "This was my first job fair and the experience was very positive, I'm hopeful." -Terry Kitt from Anaheim "This job fair gave me options for other career fields, thank you." -Eric Lievanos from Santa Ana "Great opportunity to get information. Loved it." -Moni van Leerdam from La Habra Note: To view photos from today's job fair, please click here. ###
08.19.2011	Rep. Ed Royce announced that his job fair will feature dozens of local employers offering hundreds of job openings. For a list of participating employers, please click here. Royce's job fair will be held on Wednesday, August 24, 2011 at the Walter D. Ehlers Community Center in Buena Park. The job fair is free and open to all constituents who are interested in learning about available jobs. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced that his job fair will feature dozens of local employers offering hundreds of job openings. For a list of participating employers, please click here. Royce's job fair will be held on Wednesday, August 24, 2011 at the Walter D. Ehlers Community Center in Buena Park. The job fair is free and open to all constituents who are interested in learning about available jobs. Attendees will have an opportunity to meet with area businesses, employment experts and receive one-on-one resume critiquing. Jobs will be available in a variety of fields including healthcare, banking, retail, and public safety. "This event is designed to connect job seekers and employers and it is my hope that we will provide constituents with the resources they need to land their next job," said Rep. Royce. WHO: Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) City of Buena Park OC Workforce Investment Board Local Businesses Interested constituents WHAT: A job fair to provide employment opportunities. WHEN: Wednesday, August 24, 2011 9:00 am - 12:00 pm WHERE: Walter D. Ehlers Community Center Heritage Hall 8150 Knott Ave. Buena Park, CA 90620 Attendees may register online at www.royce.house.gov/jobfair by clicking on the 'job seeker' button or by calling Rep. Royce’s District Office at (714) 744-4130. Attendees should be prepared to bring their resumes and letters of reference. Employers who are interested in obtaining a booth at the job fair must register with Rep. Royce’s office by visiting www.royce.house.gov/jobfair and clicking on the 'employer registration' button. For more information on employer registration, please contact Royce’s District Office at (714) 744-4130 or roycejobfair@mail.house.gov. ###
08.10.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce, joined by 10 colleagues, sent a letter to President Obama urging him to identify an additional $2 trillion in specific spending cuts following Standard & Poor’s (S&P) downgrade of the nation’s ‘AAA’ credit rating. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, joined by 10 colleagues, sent a letter to President Obama urging him to identify an additional $2 trillion in specific spending cuts following Standard & Poor’s (S&P) downgrade of the nation’s ‘AAA’ credit rating. "Now is the time to present the American people with real spending cuts that will get our fiscal house in order and restore our nation’s ‘AAA’ credit rating," said Royce’s letter. "By redoubling our efforts and truly solving this debt crisis, we can provide the certainty necessary to spur economic growth." The U.S. government has maintained a ‘AAA’ credit rating for seventy years. S&P’s downgrade came after the passage of the Budget Control Act and suggests that more must be done. The letter urges President Obama to come forward with a plan for an additional $2 trillion in spending cuts in order to restore the nation’s ‘AAA’ credit rating. "The House has and will continue to push for such spending cuts that appease the rating agencies and restore the U.S.’s pristine credit rating, but leadership on both sides of Pennsylvania Avenue is needed if we are going to solve this crisis. Again, we urge you to immediately put forward your plan for at least an additional $2 trillion in specific spending cuts that will lead to the restoration of our ‘AAA’ credit rating," Royce’s letter concluded. Note: A PDF of the final letter can be found here. Full text of the letter can be found below: August 10, 2011 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you know, the credit rating agency Standard & Poor’s (S&P) recently took the unprecedented step of downgrading the U.S. government’s long-term sovereign credit rating from ‘AAA’ to ‘AA+.’ This decision to overturn our top credit rating, which we have maintained for 70 years, means our credit rating is now lower than that of Liechtenstein and on par with Belgium and New Zealand. Americans deserve better than that. That is why the undersigned are asking that you come forward with your plan for an additional $2 trillion in specific spending cuts in order to restore our ‘AAA’ credit rating. The American people gave Washington a mandate in November of 2010; reduce the size and scope of the federal government and put our nation back on a path toward prosperity. Instead of seizing on this historic opportunity, your Administration has continued to kick the can down the road. The recent credit rating downgrade was proof that the can is now kicking back. Simply waiting for future administrations to take up this cause is not an option. Following the passage of the Budget Control Act, media reports noted that your Administration "pivoted" to focus on additional spending measures to spur job creation. Instead of taking this opportunity to advocate for more stimulus spending, which will fail again as it has in the past, now is the time to finish the task at hand. By redoubling our efforts and truly solving this debt crisis, we can provide the certainty necessary to spur economic growth. As recent economic studies have shown, at its current level our national debt reduces economic growth by 1-2 percentage points every year, which translates into one million fewer jobs annually. Mr. President, real economic growth will not occur until we address our out of control deficits. Earlier this year you presented Congress with a budget that calls for budget deficits indefinitely and adds $9.1 trillion to the national debt over the next decade. As was demonstrated when the Senate rejected this proposal by a vote of 97-0, this is not acceptable. The recent step taken by S&P, however, has afforded you another opportunity. Now is the time to present the American people with real spending cuts that will get our fiscal house in order and restore our nation’s ‘AAA’ credit rating. The House has and will continue to push for such spending cuts that appease the rating agencies and restore the U.S.’s pristine credit rating, but leadership on both sides of Pennsylvania Avenue is needed if we are going to solve this crisis. Again, we urge you to immediately put forward your plan for at least an additional $2 trillion in specific spending cuts that will lead to the restoration of our ‘AAA’ credit rating. Sincerely, Representative Ed Royce (CA-40) Representative Joe Heck (NV-03) Representative Trent Franks (AZ-02) Representative Tim Griffin (AR-02) Representative Brian Bilbray (CA-50) Representative Tom Reed (NY-29) Representative Ken Calvert (CA-44) Representative Alan Nunnelee (MS-01) Representative Mike Pompeo (KS-04) Representative Tom McClintock (CA-04) Representative Dan Burton (IN-05) ###
08.02.2011	Rep. Ed Royce will host a job fair on Wednesday, August 24, 2011 at the Walter D. Ehlers Community Center in Buena Park. The job fair is free and open to all constituents who are interested in learning about available jobs. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced that he will host a job fair on Wednesday, August 24, 2011 at the Walter D. Ehlers Community Center in Buena Park. The job fair is free and open to all constituents who are interested in learning about available jobs. Attendees will have an opportunity to meet with area businesses, employment experts and receive one-on-one resume critiquing. Rep. Royce said the following about his upcoming job fair: "This event is designed to give job seekers the opportunity to connect directly with area businesses that are currently hiring as we continue to work to foster a climate that encourages job creation." Who: Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) City of Buena Park OC Workforce Investment Board Area businesses Interested constituents What: A job fair to provide information on employment. When: Wednesday, August 24, 2011 9:00 am - 12:00 pm Where: Walter D. Ehlers Community, Recreation Center, Heritage Hall, 8150 Knott Ave., Buena Park, CA 90620 Attendees may register online at www.royce.house.gov/jobfair by clicking on the 'job seeker' button or by calling Rep. Royce’s District Office at (714) 744-4130. Attendees should be prepared to bring their resumes and letters of reference. Employers who are interested in obtaining a booth at the job fair must register with Rep. Royce’s office by visiting www.royce.house.gov/jobfair and clicking on the 'employer registration' button. For more information on employer registration, please contact Royce’s District Office at (714) 744-4130 or roycejobfair@mail.house.gov. ###
08.02.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee, sent a letter to Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA), Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee, urging the Chairman to ensure that the final Agriculture Appropriations bill (negotiated with the Senate) includes language that prohibits sending food aid to the North Korea regime. The restrictive language was included in a Royce amendment to the Agriculture Appropriations bill which passed the House on June 16, 2011. "The Obama Administration is actively considering the resumption of food aid to North Korea. I believe that doing so would be a costly mistake. Any aid sent to North Korea would certainly subsidize Kim Jong-il’s cruel regime, whose nuclear weapons program and proliferation activities represent a serious threat to our national security. Moreover, food aid rarely reaches the hungry and suffering," wrote Royce. Over 78 percent of all North Korean defectors say they never saw foreign food aid. The aid that’s coming into the country goes to feed the military. Other dissidents tell of seeing foreign aid bags being sold on the black market by North Korean elites for a tidy profit. Many of these bags, according to a dissident from Chongjin city, have U.S. flags on them. Additionally, Royce’s letter calls attention to the monetization of food aid for the benefit of the regime. Recent reports have also found that Kim Jong-il imported $10 million of high quality liquor, cigarettes, and other luxury items for the privileged class last year. Reportedly, $2.4 million was spent exclusively to buy Chivas Regal, Hennessy X.O., and similar brands of high-end liquor. "American taxpayers should not have their humanitarian concern and generosity abused so that Kim Jong-il and his inner circle can live in luxury, undermining our national security," Royce’s letter concluded. Note: A PDF of the final letter can be found here. Full text of the letter can be found below: August 2, 2011 The Honorable Jack Kingston Chairman Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 2362-A Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Kingston: As you know, I successfully offered an amendment to H.R. 2112, the Agriculture Appropriations Act for FY2012, which prohibits food assistance to North Korea. As a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee who has long followed U.S. policy toward North Korea, I strongly believe that this is the right policy. I greatly appreciate your support. Despite this legislation passing the House, the Obama Administration is actively considering the resumption of food aid to North Korea. I believe that doing so would be a costly mistake. Any aid sent to North Korea would certainly subsidize Kim Jong-il’s cruel regime, whose nuclear weapons program and proliferation activities represent a serious threat to our national security. Moreover, food aid rarely reaches the hungry and suffering. While some have argued that better monitoring is sufficient, numerous North Korean dissidents have written and testified that no amount of monitoring can prevent the North Korean regime from diverting and otherwise misusing our aid. At a recent Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission hearing, one refugee testified that North Korean government officials returned to the homes that received food aid after monitors had departed to confiscate the distributed food aid. Predictably, seized food aid is often monetized for the benefit of the regime. A recent article found that Kim Jong-il imported $10 million of high quality liquor, cigarettes, and other luxury items for the privileged class last year. Reportedly, $2.4 million was spent exclusively to buy Chivas Regal, Hennessy X.O., and similar brands of high-end liquor. American taxpayers should not have their humanitarian concern and generosity abused so that Kim Jong-il and his inner circle can live in luxury, undermining our national security. I am willing and eager to work with you to maintain this restrictive language in the final version of H.R. 2112. Thank you for considering my views. Sincerely, EDWARD R. ROYCE Chairman Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade
07.28.2011	Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) participated in the Korean Church Coalition’s North Korean Freedom Rally where he discussed the abysmal state of human rights in North Korea and the need to pass H.R. 1464, the North Korean Refugee Adoption Act of 2011, a bill he recently introduced. "The humanitarian challenge that we face in North Korea is unlike anywhere else in the world. In this totalitarian state, even the most basic human rights are denied its citizens. So it's not surprising that hundreds of thousands have fled into neighboring China. Sadly, many perish, often times leaving behind infant children," said Royce. To help address this issue, Mr. Royce’s bill instructs the Secretary of State to propose solutions to help North Korean refugee children who live in precarious conditions outside of North Korea by developing a strategy to enable U.S. citizens to adopt them. The bill also seeks recommendations for working with South Korea on a pilot program to assist in the international adoption of orphaned North Korean children living in South Korea. The bill further instructs the Secretary of State to consult with adoption agencies and aid organizations familiar with the international adoption process when drafting a comprehensive strategy for adoption of North Korean orphans living outside of North Korea. A similar bill was introduced in 2010 and garnered many cosponsors. "I am encouraged by the tremendous support and interest in this legislation by human rights activists and concerned citizens who see this as an opportunity to help stateless North Korean children who are refugees," Royce stated. "Without the hard work of the Korean-American community, we wouldn’t be where we are today," said Royce at the rally. "I know your hard work will continue to pay off. And we need to continue to work hard because the situation in North Korea, and for the numerous stateless children abroad, is so dire." An estimated 200,000 prisoners are currently enslaved in North Korea. Prisoners are starved, worked to death, tortured, raped, and executed for supposed crimes such as whistling tunes to Korean pop songs, or escaping to neighboring China for food, medicine and work. Representative Ed Royce is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. He is also a Senior Member on the Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific. ###
07.26.2011	Rep. Ed Royce condemned the Communist government of Vietnam’s decision to send the Rev. Thadeus Nguyen Van Ly back to prison. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) condemned the Communist government of Vietnam’s decision to send the Rev. Thadeus Nguyen Van Ly back to prison. After being allowed to return home under house arrest due to his rapidly deteriorating health, Father Ly was once again returned to jail, escorted from his home at a church in Hue city to Ba Sao prison, just outside of Hanoi. "The Vietnamese Government has once again shown that its inhumanity knows no bounds. After being severely mistreated in a Vietnamese prison, Father Ly suffered three strokes and developed a brain tumor. Only after his final stroke was Father Ly sent to a hospital for treatment," said Royce. "Now that Father Ly’s conditioned has slightly improved, the Vietnamese government will once again lock this 64 year-old man away. I fear he will suffer the same mistreatment that almost cost him his life. It is unconscionable that the Vietnamese government would send Father Ly back to jail. If Vietnam wants to improve relations with the U.S., it cannot continue to mistreat its own people. The government can start by releasing Father Ly," said Royce. NOTE: In 2007, Father Ly was sentenced to eight years in prison on charges of distributing anti-government propaganda. In a sham trial that lasted mere hours, Father Ly recited anti-communist slogans and condemned the Vietnamese justice system. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific. He is also a member of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission. ###
07.20.2011	Today, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs convened a markup for H.R. 2583, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, at which Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) spoke in favor of a successful amendment offered by Rep. Howard Berman (D-CA) that calls upon the government of Turkey to end religious discrimination, allow religious prayer and education, and return stolen church property. The amendment text was taken from H. Res. 306, legislation Royce introduced with Rep. Berman on June 15, 2011. "Religious minorities are under grave threat in today's Turkey. Turkey is 99 percent Muslim. But rather than enjoying protection, very vulnerable religious minority groups including the Ecumenical Patriarchate of the Greek Orthodox Church are denied full legal status," said Royce. Royce added, "This amendment calls on Turkey to allow all Turks to practice their faiths, return stolen church properties, and allow property owners to repair their churches. In Turkey, it is illegal for religious minority groups to study, practice, or teach one’s own faith. If religious needs cannot be met, religious minority groups will decline, as they have, and in some cases—cease to exist. Turkey has an international obligation to see that this doesn't happen." The amendment was accepted by the Committee. The next stop for H.R. 2583 is consideration on the floor of the House of Representatives. Royce's H. Res. 306 --opposed by the Turkish government-- has 35 co-sponsors. Royce noted, "Today we had a win. I'm going to push for a bigger win though, and that's passage of H. Res. 306, the Royce-Berman bill." Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and serves as co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Armenia. ###
07.19.2011	Today, Representative Ed Royce voted for the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act. The legislation cuts current spending, caps future spending, and establishes a Constitutional balanced budget amendment to keep Washington’s spending in line. share: f t Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) voted for H.R. 2560, the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011. This legislation cuts current spending, caps future spending, and establishes a Constitutional balanced budget amendment to keep Washington’s spending in line. Following the vote, Royce issued the following statement: "The Cut, Cap and Balance Act requires the federal government to spend within its means – cutting and capping spending and requiring Congress to balance its budget. Last week President Obama said, ‘We don’t need a constitutional amendment to do our jobs.’ Apparently, he does. Under this Administration the debt has increased by $3.7 trillion. "By the end of this year our national debt will outgrow our entire economy. This kind of spending and borrowing is irresponsible. More importantly, it is unsustainable. "We can’t continue to spend money we don’t have. Borrowing 40 percent of every dollar we spend from countries like China threatens our economic growth and it threatens our job creators’ ability to succeed and grow. "Washington should follow the lead of families and businesses across America - sit down, create a budget and follow it! NOTE: Based on the Congressional Budget Office’s March baseline, the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act saves $111 billion in 2012 and nearly $6 trillion over ten years. ###
07.18.2011	Rep. Ed Royce issued the following statement in response to the announcement that former Ohio Attorney General, Richard Cordray, will be nominated to be the first director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB): share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to the announcement that former Ohio Attorney General, Richard Cordray, will be nominated to be the first director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB): "If confirmed, Mr. Cordray will serve a set term, have sole authority over the agency and its actions, and have access to hundreds of millions of dollars outside of the appropriations process. This is a first. Beyond setting a bad precedent, this would fundamentally weaken our regulatory structure by moving safety and soundness regulation to the back seat. "When it was first concocted by Elizabeth Warren, the CFPB was to be run by a commission, not a director, with prudential regulators playing a part. Senate Republicans should ensure the model Elizabeth Warren and Tim Geithner had in mind comes to fruition by continuing to block any nominee until there are structural changes to this agency." ###
07.13.2011	Representatives Ed Royce (R-CA) and Joe Crowley (D-NY), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans, issued the following statement condemning today’s attacks on innocent civilians in Mumbai: share: f t Representatives Ed Royce (R-CA) and Joe Crowley (D-NY), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans, issued the following statement condemning today’s attacks on innocent civilians in Mumbai: "We strongly condemn today’s attacks on innocent civilians in Mumbai. There can be no justification for what took place, and the targeting of civilians on their commute home from work is deplorable. "We send our heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and we wish those injured a speedy recovery. Our thoughts and prayers are also with the people of India, as well as Indian-Americans around the globe, as they attempt to make sense of these horrific acts. "With the U.S. - India strategic dialogue planned for next week in Delhi, these senseless attacks underscore that counter terrorism cooperation between the two nations must be a top priority." Representatives Royce and Crowley are co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans for the 112th Congress. A bi-partisan group formed in 1993, the Caucus is an influential voice on issues pertaining to relations between the U.S. and India, as well as the growing Indian-American community in the U.S. ###
07.12.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce released a new video, launching www.AmericanJobCreators.com, to allow California’s job creators to detail how government regulations are holding them back. share: f t CLICK HERE to Watch "Is Government Holding Back Your CA Business?" Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) released a new video, launching www.AmericanJobCreators.com, to allow California’s job creators to detail how government regulations are holding them back. "For years, Washington has been busy tying the hands of businesses across this nation with regulations and backward fiscal policies that have slowed entrepreneurship and destroyed jobs. It is time to reverse that trend," Royce said. By visiting AmericanJobCreators.com, California’s job creators and innovators can describe how government impacts businesses, detailing where they think Washington helps or hurts. Their stories and examples of government impediments to the growth and success of their business will help Royce’s work to foster a climate that encourages job creation. "I believe American job creators deserve the opportunity to succeed and grow here in the United States but they can’t do it under mounting debt and crushing regulations," said Royce. "To get it right we need help from our country's proven job creation experts. We’re listening." ###
07.12.2011	Today, the House Financial Services Committee approved legislation introduced by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the "Housing Trust Fund Elimination Act." Royce’s legislation eliminates the Affordable Housing Trust Fund established in 2008 as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act. "Most concerning is this fund’s likelihood for fraud and abuse," said Royce. "According to HUD, the Housing Trust Fund and the HOME program are nearly identical. A recent Washington Post investigation exposed the HOME program’s gross mismanagement, highlighting years of squandering hundreds of millions of tax dollars and a terrible track record of delayed or abandoned projects." Originally slated to receive funds from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the Affordable Housing Trust Fund was never capitalized due to the GSE’s losses and subsequent bailout. However, the Administration requested $1 billion to capitalize the fund in its FY12 budget. "Given our current fiscal situation and the fact that we are funding 86 other programs to address housing and rental affordability, this fund is unnecessary and duplicative," said Royce. "Additionally, money is fungible, so while these federal funds may be intended for rental and housing assistance, it may also subsidize the lobbying and campaign related activities of activist organizations. We should eliminate this fund once and for all," Royce said. NOTE: Rep. Royce’s legislation is one of several bills put forth by the House Financial Services Committee Republicans to end the bailouts, protect taxpayers and get private capital off the sidelines by reforming the Government Sponsored Enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. ###
07.08.2011	Rep. Ed Royce issued the following statement after the Department of Labor released the latest report on jobs. The unemployment rate reached its highest level in 2011, hitting 9.2 percent for the month of June. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement after the Department of Labor released the latest report on jobs. The unemployment rate reached its highest level in 2011, hitting 9.2 percent for the month of June. "The latest jobs report is a reflection of the President’s policies - taxing more, spending more, borrowing more and regulating more has failed. We can’t spend and regulate our way to job creation and economic growth. "This week we read reports that the growing federal deficit is causing many small businesses across the country to delay hiring. In order to revitalize the private sector, our true job creators, we must reign in spending and reduce the unprecedented level of uncertainty that is stifling businesses. "Additionally, businesses are struggling under duplicative and excessive regulations. A recent Forbes article highlighted the cost of these regulations stating, ‘the Federal Register shows over 430 rules costing over $65 billion so far this year alone...’ "Job creators deserve the opportunity to succeed and grow here in the United States but they can’t do it under mounting debt and crushing regulations." ###
07.01.2011	Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) today met with Tran Khai Thanh Thuy, the Vietnamese democracy activist and writer recently released from imprisonment by the communist government in Vietnam. Ms. Thuy, in Orange County, expressed her appreciation to Royce and others who have worked for her release. "Tran Khai Thanh Thuy has been leading the fight for democracy and human rights in Vietnam. She has paid a great price, including physical assault by communist government thugs. Her release is great news for Vietnamese-Americans and all committed to freedom," Royce said. Ms. Thuy met Royce, a senior member of the House Foreign Relations Committee, in his Orange, California office. "We discussed strategies for advancing this struggle and she expressed her appreciation for all the support she has received from Orange County," Royce said. Royce has long supported Tran Khai Thanh Thuy and other Vietnamese dissidents. Royce invited Ms. Thuy to testify via satellite before his Asian Pacific Congressional Advisory Council in 2009. In March, he wrote a letter to Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung expressing concern over the continued detention of Ms. Thuy and other individuals imprisoned for their democracy advocacy, calling for their immediate release. Royce said today, "We can't stop confronting the communist government over its human rights abuses. Pressure works. Tran Khai Thanh Thuy has been released. Many, many other brave Vietnamese men and women are in jail for believing in freedom. Let's double Orange County's commitment to their struggle." Royce is the author of H.Res. 16, which calls on the State Department to list Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern" with respect to religious freedom, and H.R. 156, which would impose sanctions on individuals who are complicit in human rights abuses in Vietnam. ###
06.22.2011	Rep. Ed Royce introduced H.R. 2271, a bill to prohibit China-based companies from receiving U.S. government contracts until the People’s Republic of China signs the World Trade Organization Agreement on Government Procurement. share: f t Today, Reps. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA) introduced H.R. 2271, a bill to prohibit China-based companies from receiving U.S. government contracts until the People’s Republic of China signs the World Trade Organization Agreement on Government Procurement. "For over 10 years, China has failed to put together a serious bid to join the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA). All the while, China has been eligible for U.S. government contracts, while U.S. companies lose out on job opportunities and face market discrimination in China," said Royce. In 1996, the WTO’s Government Procurement Agreement went into force, granting its now 41 signatory countries access to certain foreign government procurement projects. This agreement has helped open up many foreign markets for U.S. businesses. Following its 2001 accession to the World Trade Organization, China announced its intention to join the GPA, a commitment to open sizeable government procurement market to the U.S. and other foreign competition. Despite its promise to submit a bid to join the GPA that is acceptable, the Chinese have so far failed to submit a revised offer to join the WTO’s GPA. To address this disparity, Royce and Connolly’s legislation would prohibit Chinese-based companies from receiving U.S. government contracts until China joins the GPA, a measure that would prod China into formulating an acceptable proposal. "It is time to level the playing field for American companies that want to do business with the Chinese government," Connolly said. "If Chinese companies want access to lucrative U.S. contracts, then U.S. companies must have reciprocal access to Chinese contracts as well." At a recent House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee hearing on "China’s Indigenous Innovation Trade and Investment Policies: How Great a Threat?," Karen Laney, Acting Director of Operations for the U.S. International Trade Commission echoed Royce and Connolly’s concern saying "Chinese government procurement policies… were one of the areas of greatest concern to U.S. firms." Rep. Royce is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade; Rep. Connolly is a Senior Member of the Subcommittee. ###
06.15.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Rep. Howard Berman (D-CA) introduced a resolution "Urging the Republic of Turkey to Safeguard its Christian Heritage and to Return Confiscated Church Properties". This bipartisan legislation, with 32 original cosponsors, calls upon the government of Turkey to end religious discrimination, allow religious prayer and education, and return stolen church property. "The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom has identified Turkey as among the world’s top violators of religious freedom. Unfortunately, conditions have deteriorated. Violent hate crimes linked to religion are on the rise, and Turkey continually fails to provide full legal status to any of its religious minority groups," Royce said. The Royce/Berman resolution urges Turkey to protect its religious minority groups and allow them to freely worship, study and practice without fear of discrimination or violence. Additionally, it urges Turkey to return expropriated property to rightful owners and allow Christian churches to be restored, reconstructed and maintained. Turkey’s religious make up is less than one percent non-Muslim, placing Christians in an especially vulnerable position. Although Turkey considers itself a secular country, regulations imposed on minority religious groups, in particular Christianity, deny religious equality. "By expropriating properties, committing acts of violence and harassment, and refusing to provide Christian groups with any legal status, the Republic of Turkey has failed to fulfill its duties as a signatory to the Declaration of Human Rights to provide religious equality," Royce said. Additionally, Rep. Royce became an original cosponsor of the Armenian Genocide Resolution introduced yesterday. The resolution sets the record straight and recognizes the 1.5 million Armenians that were murdered and the 500,000 that were removed from their homeland during 1915 to 1923. Passing this resolution will be a victory for human rights. Rep. Ed Royce is also co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Armenia. ###
06.15.2011	Rep. Ed Royce became an original cosponsor of H.R.2164, the Legal Workforce Act. This bill, introduced by House Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) requires the use of E-Verify nationwide. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) became an original cosponsor of H.R.2164, the Legal Workforce Act. This bill, introduced by House Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) requires the use of E-Verify nationwide. It makes the E-Verify program permanent and reinstates a program to help identify illegal immigrants who are currently employed in the U.S. "I support E-Verify and know that it can be an effective tool to combat illegal immigration. There are almost 7 million unemployed Americans who are primarily looking for jobs in manufacturing, service and construction, but can't find one. We currently have 6 million illegal immigrants in this country who are holding down these types of jobs. Instead of allowing more foreign workers to compete with Americans for jobs, we should be removing the incentives that bring more people here," said Royce. E-Verify currently is a voluntary system that allows employers to validate new employees. Under E-Verify, employers check names and Social Security numbers to confirm employment eligibility. It helps employers ensure that they are hiring a legal workforce. Currently over 200,000 employers use this program. H.R. 2164 implements mandatory work authorization verification over three years. It closes the existing loopholes in E-Verify to stop multiple people using the same Social Security number and it allows for better detection against people using stolen identities. "This program helps ensure jobs are reserved for U.S. citizens and legal workers. It turns off the jobs magnet that draws illegal immigrants here to work illegitimately," Royce said. ###
06.15.2011	Rep. Ed Royce's amendment to the Agriculture appropriations bill that would prevent sending food aid to North Korea passed the House. share: f t Tonight, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, offered an amendment to the Agriculture appropriations bill that would prevent sending food aid to North Korea. Royce’s amendment passed by voice vote. "Let’s be clear, the aid we provide would prop-up Kim Jong-il’s regime, a brutal and dangerous dictatorship," said Royce. "One North Korean defector, Kim Duk-hong, recently said, "We must not give food aid to North Korea." Doing so, he continued, "is the same as providing funding for North Korea’s nuclear program," because it allows Kim Jong-il to divert resources." The Obama Administration is actively considering resuming food aid to North Korea. Yet, this week there are reports that Pyongyang is making miniaturized versions of its nuclear weapons – ones that could fit atop ICBM’s – make this policy all the more dire. Over 78 percent of all North Korean defectors say they never saw foreign food aid. The aid that’s coming into the country goes to feed the military. Other dissidents and NGOs tell of seeing foreign aid bags being sold on the black market by North Korean elites for a tidy profit. Doctors Without Borders further testified that none of the North Korean children they had met had ever seen food aid. "North Korea will always cheat. Providing food aid not only allows Kim Jong-il’s oppressive regime to divert scarce resources towards its military program – one that has grown increasingly threatening over the past several years – but it delays the day when real, structural reform will come to North Korea," Royce said. ###
06.14.2011	Rep. Ed Royce made the following statement at today's hearing entitled, "Does the Dodd Frank Act End 'Too Big To Fail'?" share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, made the following statement at today's hearing entitled, "Does the Dodd Frank Act End 'Too Big To Fail'?" "Today, the top ten financial firms in size account for 64 percent of total assets, up from 25 percent in 1990. Because of their implicit government backstop, many of these firms benefit from lower borrowing costs, which according to various studies range from 78 to 100 basis points. "By definition this implicit subsidy has and will continue to erode market discipline, thus further weakening our financial system. "Yet – according to the authors of Dodd-Frank – we are now in a much better position to resolve these Too Big to Fail firms when the next crisis hits. Under the new Orderly Liquidation Authority we can have our cake and eat it too. Regulators will be able to stabilize the financial system without bailing out creditors or counterparties. "The truth of the matter is – in times of crises – regulators have always and will always err on the side of more intervention and more bailouts. Orderly Liquidation Authority does little more than facilitate this process. "As a result, Too Big to Fail not only lives on, it’s further compounded. I hope we take steps to correct this failure in the coming months and reinstate market discipline." ###
06.03.2011	Rep. Ed Royce issued the following statement in response to the Department of Labor’s May jobs report: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to the Department of Labor’s May jobs report: "Today’s unemployment numbers demonstrate that this Administration has created an unprecedented level of uncertainty that is stifling businesses. After years of Washington overpromising and underfunding we are left with a bloated government, unsustainable debt levels and anemic economic growth. While this is new for the US, Japan’s history proves that sky-high debt levels burden – rather than accelerate – economic growth. "Because of a spike in government spending, throughout Japan’s lost decade their debt to GDP skyrocketed (well over 200 percent) and the economy stagnated (averaging less than 2 percent since 1992). "We are well on our way down this path. Our debt held by the public is at 98 percent of GDP, which (according to economists) means we are losing at least 1 percent of GDP and 1 million jobs every year. "We can continue down the road of Japan or we can reverse course and take this issue head on. I hope this Administration joins us in choosing the latter. "Real economic growth and job creation will not come until we get our fiscal house in order." ###
06.01.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) offered an amendment to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill that would reallocate $1 million from the DHS Office of the Secretary and Executive Management account and direct it to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), in order to facilitate new agreements under the 287(g) program. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) offered an amendment to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill that would reallocate $1 million from the DHS Office of the Secretary and Executive Management account and direct it to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), in order to facilitate new agreements under the 287(g) program. Royce’s amendment passed with bipartisan support by a vote of 268 to 151. "The 287(g) program is a great force multiplier. It provides tens of thousands of local law enforcement with the ability to help enforce our immigration laws. There are now over 70 jurisdictions across the U.S. with 287(g) agreements, but many more communities want help," Royce said. Enacted in 1996, Congress implemented the 287(g) program to give local communities the option to help enforce our immigration laws. It is a highly successful program that allows state and local law enforcement agencies to cooperate with DHS. "The 287(g) program provides training to state and local police, which provides additional tools they can use to prosecute crimes committed by aliens - especially gang violence and document fraud, while reducing the impact of illegal immigration on local communities," Royce said. "Since its enactment, 287(g) has helped state and local law enforcement fight crime, get gang leaders and other serious criminals off of the streets and enforce our immigration laws. Instead of curtailing the program we should be promoting the expansion of it," Royce said. ###
05.31.2011	Today, Representative Ed Royce voted against H.R. 1954, legislation to implement the President’s request to increase the debt limit without including significant spending cuts. share: f t Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) voted against H.R. 1954, legislation to implement the President’s request to increase the debt limit without including significant spending cuts. Following the vote, Royce issued the following statement: "Today, I voted against legislation requested by the president to raise the debt ceiling without any spending cuts or budget reforms. Mr. President, simply kicking the can down the road is not an option. "Under the president’s plan Washington will spend 27 percent of our nation’s GDP in the coming years, far above the historical average of 19.8 percent. This level of spending is unsustainable. It will lead to an economic crisis that will lower living standards and burden future generations. "Knowing of this looming crisis, it would be irresponsible to honor the president’s request and issue yet another blank check without substantive spending cuts and budget reforms. The era of reckless spending must be behind us. "Until the Administration comes to the table with a real plan to rein in our debt and balance the federal budget, I will continue to oppose a debt limit increase and I encourage my colleagues to do the same." ###
05.27.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce released a Memorial Day tribute video, filmed at the World War II Memorial, to honor and remember our fallen men and women in uniform. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) released a Memorial Day tribute video, filmed at the World War II Memorial, to honor and remember our fallen men and women in uniform. Located on the National Mall, the WWII Memorial honors the 16 million who served, and the more than 400,000 who gave the ultimate sacrifice to protect our nation’s freedoms. Watch Royce’s video here.
05.26.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce became an original cosponsor of H.R. 2000, the Secure America through Verification and Enforcement (SAVE) Act. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) became an original cosponsor of H.R. 2000, the Secure America through Verification and Enforcement (SAVE) Act. The SAVE Act has been reintroduced for the 112th Congress by Rep. Heath Shuler (D-NC). It is a bipartisan solution to address our nation’s immigration problems. "Instead of allowing more foreign workers to come into this country to compete with Americans for jobs, we should be removing the incentives that bring people here in the first place. This legislation will help us do just that," said Royce. "It will help secure America's borders, implement mandatory work authorization verification, and reduce illegal immigration through interior enforcement." Recently, President Barack Obama claimed that the border is secure enough; now he’s pushing an amnesty proposal. However, according to a recent Government Accountability Office study, only 15 percent of the border is under actual control and only 44 percent is under operational control. In 2010, there were more than 1,000 violent attacks against Border Patrol agents. The SAVE Act will increase the number of Border Patrol agents and it will utilize new technology to secure the border. It closes the existing loopholes in E-Verify to stop multiple people from using the same Social Security number and it detects people using stolen identities. It also provides state and local law enforcement the tools they need to enforce immigration laws and expedites the removal of illegal aliens. NOTE: Rep. Royce is the author of H.R. 1274, the Keeping the Pledge on Immigration Act, which calls for establishing operational control of the border, working with state and local officials to enforce immigration laws, and strengthening visa security. For a fact sheet on the SAVE Act, please click here. ###
05.23.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce announced his appointments from the 40th Congressional District to the United States Service Academies. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced his appointments from the 40th Congressional District to the United States Service Academies. Appointments require a Congressional nomination and are based on a candidate's academic achievement, athletic ability, extra-curricular activities and community service. "The service academies offer an excellent education and a great opportunity for qualified students. The appointment process is highly selective and I am very proud of all of our students," Royce said. The four academies are the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. The following is a list of Royce’s 2011 Academy Appointments: West Point Rebecca Choi from Cypress - Cypress High School Michael L. Grajera from Buena Park - Kennedy High School Scott A. Horras from Fullerton - El Dorado High School Hana Lee Hur from Fullerton - Sunny Hills High School Navy Manuel De La Cruz from Anaheim - Valencia High School Viktor A. Greve from Orange - Loyola High School Tina Kieu from Garden Grove - Rancho Alamitos High School Douglas F. Wubbena Jr. from Fullerton - Sonora High School Air Force Neil Meach from La Palma - Cypress High School Stefan Baron von Vietinghoff-Scheel from Buena Park - Servite High School NOTE: To learn more about the military service academy application process please contact Patty Shay in Rep. Royce’s Orange office at 714-744-4130. ###
05.04.2011	Tonight, Rep. Ed Royce (R- CA) announced that Heather Choi’s acrylic painting “Bright America” is the winner of his 8th Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. share: f t Tonight, Rep. Ed Royce (R- CA) announced that Heather Choi’s acrylic painting "Bright America" is the winner of his 8th Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. The winner was unveiled at Royce’s art exhibition, held at the Fullerton Museum Center, to recognize all the high school students that submitted pieces for Royce’s art competition. "I congratulate Heather on her accomplishment. We have some very talented young students in our area, Heather should be very proud of her work. It will be an honor to take her painting to Washington, D.C.," said Royce. Royce’s Art Exhibition began two years ago in an effort to recognize the creative spirit of American high school students. Exhibition attendees had an opportunity to view dozens of pieces submitted by 40th district high school students, including the 2011 Congressional High School Art Competition’s winning piece, "Bright America" by Heather Choi. Heather’s painting will join winners from other Congressional districts around the country to be displayed in the Cannon House Office Building Tunnel, a high-traffic pedestrian walkway leading to the United States Capitol Building. NOTE: For more information about Royce's Annual Congressional Art Competition please click here or contact Royce's Orange Office at 714-744-4130. ###
05.01.2011	Tonight, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, issued the following statement in reaction to Osama bin Laden's death: "This is a victory for our intelligence and military professionals and a victory for the American people. It also brings a sense of relief to all of those who lost loved ones on 9/11. "The face of al-Qaeda is dead. But the organization and its adherents live on. While we can rejoice, we can't let our guard down." "President Obama reported that Pakistani President Zardari was pleased. The concern is that many Pakistanis won't feel that way. "We've killed a lot of terrorists. This is the big one. His killing has great symbolic value worldwide." ###
04.27.2011	Rep. Ed Royce will join Leon Leyson, the youngest Holocaust survivor on Schindler’s List, and Bruno Ryff, the Consul General of Switzerland, to commemorate the first Holocaust Memorial in North Orange County. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) will join Leon Leyson, the youngest Holocaust survivor on Schindler’s List, and Bruno Ryff, the Consul General of Switzerland, to commemorate the first Holocaust Memorial in North Orange County on Sunday, May 1, 4:00 PM at the Temple Beth Tikvah located at 1600 N. Acacia Ave. in Fullerton. As a senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Rep. Royce has actively worked to shed light on many of the unfortunate human rights abuses being committed around the globe. His first lesson of the Holocaust came from his father, Ed Royce Sr., who will be honored at Sunday’s event. Royce Sr. was a forward observer with General Patton's 3rd Army and took pictures of the atrocities he saw at the Dachau concentration camp to document the magnitude of the crime. Unfortunately, he still finds the need to use those photographs when he confronts those who deny the genocide. This event is open to the press. Photography is permitted. For private interviews please contact: beverlysteinberg@templebethtikvah.com. WHO: Representative Ed Royce, California 40th District Leon Leyson, Youngest Holocaust Survivor on Schindler's List Bruno Ryff, Consul General of Switzerland WHAT: Holocaust Memorial Dedication at Temple Beth Tikvah, Fullerton WHEN: Sunday, May 1, 2011 at 4:00 PM PST WHERE: Temple Beth Tikvah, 1600 N. Acacia Ave, Fullerton, CA 92831 ###
04.07.2011	Today, Reps. Ed Royce and Carolyn McCarthy introduced the Small Business Lending Enhancement Act, legislation that will provide much needed financing for small businesses without spending a single tax dollar. share: f t Today, Reps. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) introduced the Small Business Lending Enhancement Act, legislation that will provide much needed financing for small businesses without spending a single tax dollar. “As the U.S. continues to grapple with both record deficits and high unemployment, Congress must look at proposals that will spur economic growth without saddling the U.S. taxpayers with more debt,” said Royce. “Small businesses drive the economy in my district on Long Island and in communities all over America. I’m proud to reach across the aisle – and across the country – to help our small businesses and entrepreneurs grow at this critical time,” said McCarthy. The Small Business Lending Enhancement Act would raise the current credit union member business lending (MBL) cap from 12.25% to 27.5%. To qualify for the higher cap a credit union must be well capitalized, have a history of member business lending experience, be operating near the lower cap for at least one year, and receive approval by the National Credit Union Administration. "With a projected $1.6 trillion budget deficit, stimulus spending is not an option," said Royce. "This legislation takes an important step in shifting our current economic path and putting Americans back to work. As a result of the Small Business Lending Enhancement Act, credit unions will be eligible to lend up to $10 billion to small businesses within a year, which translates into more than 100,000 new jobs." ###
04.04.2011	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) today was recognized for his outstanding pro-taxpayer voting record last year. The 362,000-member National Taxpayers Union (NTU), a nonpartisan citizen group, has announced that Royce is among the distinguished recipients of the 2010 “Taxpayers’ Friend Award.” “With all the challenges facing our economy, fiscal discipline in Washington, DC has never been more important,” NTU President Duane Parde said. “Fortunately, residents of the 40th district in California could count on Royce, to whom the National Taxpayers Union is proud to present a ‘Taxpayers’ Friend Award.’” The award is given to Representatives and Senators who achieve an “A” grade in NTU’s annual Rating of Congress. The Rating, which is based on every roll call vote affecting fiscal policy, assigns a “Taxpayer Score” to each Member of Congress that indicates his or her support for reducing or controlling federal spending, taxes, debt, and regulation. For 2010, a total of 165 House and 142 Senate votes were selected from the second session of the 111th Congress. "While many Members of Congress talk about fiscally responsible government, Rep. Royce backed up those words with solid votes. This Award recognizes that he is a steadfast and effective ally in our battle to make Washington accountable to taxpayers again.” Between 2009 and the end of 2010, the average “Taxpayer Score” in the House rose slightly from 38 percent to 42 percent. The Senate’s average rose by six points, from 39 percent to 45 percent. In 2010, 79 lawmakers attained scores sufficient to win the “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” (at least 90 percent in the House and 95 percent in the Senate). Meanwhile, a whopping 264 Senators and Representatives captured the title of “Big Spender” for posting “F” grades (scores of 20 percent or less in the House and 18 percent or less in the Senate). ###
03.30.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) introduced the Keeping the Pledge on Immigration Act, legislation that will address all three areas of immigration reform laid out in A Pledge to America. "Recently, I traveled to our Southern Border and met with those entrusted with patrolling our borders in Texas, New Mexico and Arizona. I had the opportunity to witness the challenges facing our Customs personnel and the Border Patrol. While I applaud them for their efforts, I believe the federal government can do more to secure our borders," said Rep. Ed Royce. On the one-year anniversary of the murder of an Arizona rancher, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano posed for a photo op claiming, "The border is better now than it ever has been." However, just days ago, the National Border Patrol Council stated, "U.S. citizens are being kidnapped and killed while our Border Patrol agents fight a war at home that no one will allow them to win." "Unfortunately we face a more violent threat along our Southern border due to a drug war in which the cartels are working to establish operational control of the borders. Border Patrol agents are increasingly finding themselves under attack, children are being kidnapped and public officials in Mexico are being assassinated," said Royce. NOTE: Based on the provisions included in A Pledge to America, Rep. Royce’s legislation will: 1) Establish Operational Control of the Border. The bill ensures the Border Patrol has the tools it needs to secure the border. For example, it prohibits the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture from interfering with Border Patrol enforcement activities on federal lands, which is increasingly a problem for border patrol agents. 2) Allow State and Local Officials to Enforce Our Immigration Laws. The problem of illegal immigration and Mexican drug cartels engaged in an increasingly violent conflict means we need all hands on deck to address this challenge. This bill reaffirms the authority of state and local law enforcement to assist in the enforcement of federal immigration laws. 3) Strengthen Visa Security. To stop terrorists like Omar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the Christmas Day bomber, the bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to review all visa applications at high-risk consular posts, such as countries designated as state sponsors of terrorism, and prevent aliens from attempting to avoid deportation after having their visas revoked. ###
03.29.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced legislation to permanently abolish the affordable housing goals of the Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. “The passage of legislation in the early nineties required the GSEs to devote a significant portion of their business to specific affordable housing goals,” said Royce. “To meet these goals, the GSEs purchased more than a $1 trillion in ‘junk loans.’ These loans accounted for a large portion of the mortgage giants’ losses; losses that were later loaded onto the backs of American taxpayers. With a price tag that could reach $360 billion, the GSE bailout is the most expensive bailout in history and it could’ve been avoided. It’s time the American taxpayers stopped paying for Washington’s mistakes.” Royce’s bill permanently abolishes Fannie and Freddie’s affordable housing goals, which were a central cause behind the collapse of the GSEs. The ongoing goal of the GSEs should be to reduce risk to taxpayers, not expose them to further losses. "Given the damage caused by the excessive government involvement in the housing market, most notably the junk loan market, now is the time to take corrective action," said Royce. "That is why I have introduced the GSE Mission Improvement Act. This legislation will remove the congressional mandate placed on the GSEs requiring them to dedicate a portion of their business to affordable housing. By eliminating these goals we can correct one of the many errors in the GSE charter and work to scale back the disproportionate level of government support in the housing market." NOTE: Royce’s bill is part of an effort by House Republicans to overhaul Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Today, Royce joined Rep. Scott Garrett (R-NJ), Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government-Sponsored Enterprises, and other members of the House Financial Services Committee to unveil the House Republican plan to overhaul the GSEs. The overhaul includes a number of bills targeted to end the bailouts, protect taxpayers and get private capital off the sidelines. ###
03.03.2011	Today, Rep. Royce and Rep. McGovern introduced the "Sudan Cessation of Support for the Lord’s Resistance Army Certification Act of 2011." share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), who have collaborated on past legislation on Africa, today introduced the "Sudan Cessation of Support for the Lord’s Resistance Army Certification Act of 2011." This legislation requires the Obama Administration to certify to Congress that the Sudanese government is "no longer engaged in training, harboring, supplying, financing, or supporting in any way the Lord’s Resistance Army, its leader Joseph Kony, or his top commanders" before Sudan could be removed from the state sponsor of terrorism list. "Last year, bipartisan legislation was signed into law requiring the Administration to devise a strategy to end the LRA’s atrocities. The strategy promises to ensure the LRA ‘receives no support or safe haven.’ I view this legislation as part of that effort," said Royce, who chairs the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. Historically, Sudan has backed the LRA with arms and supplies, making Khartoum the only documented state-supporter of the group, which is on the State Department’s "Terrorist Exclusion List." Joseph Kony, its leader, has been named a "specially designated global terrorist." "I’m very pleased to continue this important, bipartisan effort with Ed Royce," Rep. McGovern said. "The LRA and the Sudanese government need to know that the U.S. Congress – and the world – are watching." For over two decades, the LRA has terrorized northern Uganda and central Africa. Its followers have mutilated, abducted and forced individuals into sexual servitude, forcing as many as 65,000 children to fight as part of the rebel force. Last Congress, McGovern and Royce led efforts in the House to pass the Lord’s Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act, which was signed into law on May 24, 2010. The "Sudan Cessation of Support for the Lord’s Resistance Army Certification Act of 2011" is supported by Resolve, Enough and Invisible Children, advocacy groups dedicated to ending the LRA’s atrocities. ###
03.03.2011	Rep. Royce is an original cosponsor of the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011. This legislation repeals several burdensome tax provisions, including the 1099 requirement included in the Democrat’s healthcare law passed last year. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) voted in support of the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011. Rep. Royce is an original cosponsor of this legislation, which repeals several burdensome tax provisions, including the 1099 requirement included in the Democrat’s healthcare law passed last year. "The heavy paperwork burden on small businesses takes time, energy and resources away from creating jobs. Today’s legislation repeals the onerous requirement placed on small businesses," Rep. Royce said. "Families and individuals who do something as common as rent out a room, replace an appliance at their rental property or pay a lawn service should not have to worry about the added headache of reporting that transaction to the IRS." Democrats included a burdensome 1099 tax reporting requirement in their health care law, passed last year. The provision mandates that all companies file an IRS 1099 tax form when buying more than $600 in goods or services in a tax year. A recent National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) Small Business Survey determined that tax paperwork, costing $74 an hour, is the most expensive burden placed on small businesses by the federal government. Also under TARP III, Democrats expanded the reporting requirements by treating the recipient of rental income from real estate as engaging in the business of renting property. So now anyone that rents a vacation home or even a spare bedroom must comply with these reporting requirements. "Now, more than ever, we need to allow our small businesses, the job creators and the backbone of this country, to operate in an environment that encourages them to invest and create jobs. Flooding businesses with new paperwork won’t help spur economic growth in this nation," Rep. Royce said. ###
02.24.2011	Each spring, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) holds an art contest in his Orange District Office for high school students in the 40th District. share: f t Each spring, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) holds an art contest in his Orange District Office for high school students in the 40th District. Today, Rep. Royce announced that he is currently accepting entries for his Annual Congressional High School Art Competition. "Every year, Members of the U.S. House of Representatives recognize the creative spirit of American high school students in a nationwide art competition. This is a great opportunity for high school students to showcase their talents," said Rep. Royce. The contest is a part of a nationwide Congressional High School Art Competition sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus. The winning piece of art from Royce's district joins winners from other Congressional districts around the country and is displayed in the Cannon House Office Building Tunnel, a high-traffic pedestrian walkway leading to the United States Capitol Building. All interested high school artists in the 40th Congressional district may participate by submitting their entries no later than 5pm on Monday, April 25, 2011 to Royce's office in Orange, located at 1110 E. Chapman Ave., Suite 207. NOTE: For more information about the 2011 Congressional High School Art Competition, including rules, guidelines and student release forms, please click here. ###
02.19.2011	Royce votes to cut $100 billion in discretionary spending in the next seven months. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined his Republican colleagues and voted to cut $100 billion in discretionary spending in the next seven months. Following passage of H.R. 1, the Full Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011, Royce issued the following statement: "Under Pelosi’s leadership, the deficit grew nearly ten times. Additionally, for the first time since the enactment of the 1974 Budget Act the House failed to pass a budget. Despite all this, the Democrat Leadership continued to ignore opportunities to get serious about out-of-control spending. "Tonight, I joined my Republican colleagues to show taxpayers that we are serious about getting Washington’s reckless spending under control. "Failure to operate within our means has plunged our nation deeper and deeper into debt. Currently, we are borrowing nearly 40 percent of everything we spend and our deficit is $1.5 trillion. This is simply unsustainable. "Tonight’s vote is just the first step towards more reform and more cuts. Our new Republican majority will work to put an end to record deficits, reckless spending, and droves of new regulations." ###
02.16.2011	Today, Rep. Royce, with a bipartisan group of Financial Services Committee members, sent a letter to President Obama and Treasury Secretary Geithner to express their concerns that six months after the enactment of the Dodd-Frank regulatory reform bill critical insurance posts remain unfilled. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), with a bipartisan group of Financial Services Committee members, sent a letter to President Obama and Treasury Secretary Geithner to express their concerns that six months after the enactment of the Dodd-Frank regulatory reform bill critical insurance posts remain unfilled. "I am happy to be joined by so many of my colleagues in calling for these appointments. Given the importance of the insurance market in our economy, it is disconcerting that decisions directly impacting this sector have been made without the participation of two statutorily-required insurance experts," said Royce. In an effort to create a dedicated federal knowledge base on insurance matters the Dodd-Frank bill called for a Director of the Federal Insurance Office ("FIO") and an insurance-designee to the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the "Council"). Six months after the enactment of this legislation these critical insurance posts remain unfilled. "An insurance-designee to the Council will provide a better understanding of the insurance sector as well as the regulatory structure overseeing it," said Royce. "Additionally, a FIO Director will be essential as we work to modernize and improve insurance regulation in the United States." Note: The letter was sent by Rep. Royce (CA-40), Rep. Himes (CT-04), Rep. Miller (CA-42), Rep. Turner (OH-03), Rep. Moore (WI-4), Rep. Murphy (CT-05), Rep. Walsh (IL-08), Rep. Dold (IL-10), Rep. Tiberi (OH-12), Rep. Renacci (OH-16), Rep. Campbell (CA-48), Rep. Hayworth (NY-19), Rep. Capuano (MA-08, Rep. Ross (FL-12), Rep. Stivers (OH-15), Rep. Schwikert (AZ-05).insert other members. The final letter can be found here and full text of the letter can be found below: February 16, 2011 The Honorable Barack H. Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included certain provisions which were designed to create a dedicated federal knowledge base on insurance matters. Both the establishment of the Federal Insurance Office (the "FIO") within the Department of Treasury and the inclusion of an insurance expert as a voting-member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the "Council") acknowledged the vital role of the insurance sector in our economy. While we appreciate the size and the scope of the implementation task before you; we are concerned that, six months after enactment, the positions of the FIO Director and the Council’s insurance-designee remain unfilled. The Council has already met and acted on issues which directly impact the insurance sector. Within the last month, a proposed rule was released outlining the criteria that will be considered for designation of systemically important non-bank financial institutions and a study and recommendations were published on implementation of the Volcker Rule. Both of these steps will have a direct impact on the U.S. insurance market, yet the Council acted without the participation of two statutorily-required insurance experts. Their input would have brought a better understanding of the nature of traditional insurance activities and current regulatory structure overseeing this market. Additionally, the FIO Director vacancy may hamper action on an important study on how best to modernize and improve insurance regulation in the United States. This examination of current insurance and reinsurance regulation will help guide Congress as we consider ways to ensure effective oversight, consistent consumer protection, and strong competition in the insurance sector. Lastly, a robust FIO is essential in ensuring that the U.S. speaks with one voice internationally on insurance issues. With FIO participation, the U.S. will be able to maintain an active federal role within the International Association of Insurance Supervisors, better representing American interests and encouraging international cooperation. Thank you for taking the time to consider our input. We look forward to working with you in the future on critical issues surrounding financial services. Sincerely, ###
02.14.2011	Rep. Royce issued a statement in reaction to the President's budget proposal. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in reaction to the President’s budget proposal: "Astonishingly we are borrowing close to 40 percent of everything we spend. After two years of record spending, the President is proposing we cut less than one percent of the record $3.8 trillion budget. That is simply unacceptable. Even the President’s own fiscal commission Chairman Erskine Bowles said this budget goes ‘nowhere near where they will have to go to resolve our fiscal nightmare.' "Washington has ignored opportunities to get serious about our out-of-control spending. The President’s budget proposal is the latest example. In December, the President’s bipartisan deficit-reduction commission recommended that we reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over ten years. This budget proposal only offers a quarter of what the commission proposed. "The days of record deficits, reckless spending, and droves of new regulations must end if this economy is going to turn around. Unfortunately, the President’s proposed budget will do little to lighten the burden that’s been loaded onto the backs of American taxpayers. It will destroy jobs by spending too much, taxing too much and borrowing too much." ###
02.11.2011	Rep. Royce reacts to the Obama Administration’s GSE reform proposal, released this morning. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to the Obama Administration’s GSE reform proposal, released this morning: "I am pleasantly surprised that the Administration came out in favor of winding down the two government sponsored enterprises (GSEs), Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. "The 800-pound gorilla in the room remains the level of government support in the mortgage market going forward. On that front they decided to punt and offer three options. The time for debating the merits of options has long passed. Now is the time to act. "If recent history is any indication, government involvement in the mortgage market will exacerbate the boom-bust cycle and the taxpayers will be on the losing end. The House Republicans stand ready to eliminate the GSEs and create a mortgage finance system no longer dependent on government support." ###
02.03.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced his plan to introduce legislation that will address all three areas of immigration reform laid out in the Pledge to America. "This week I traveled to the US-Mexico Border. I had the opportunity to witness the challenges facing our Customs personnel and the Border Patrol, and I learned first-hand what resources and tools are necessary to improve operational control of the border," said Rep. Ed Royce. Based on the provisions included in A Pledge to America, Rep. Royce’s legislation will call for establishing operational control of the border, working with state and local officials to enforce immigration laws, and strengthening visa security. "With increasing violence along the US-Mexico border and recent news reports of terrorists taking advantage of our porous border, I know all too well that border security is national security. Now more than ever we must work to secure our borders," said Royce. NOTE: The Pledge contains three immigration reform components: 1) Establish Operational Control of the Border We will ensure that the Border Patrol has the tools it needs to establish operational control of the border. For example we will prohibit the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture from interfering with Border Patrol enforcement activities on federal lands. 2) Work with State and Local Officials to Enforce Our Immigration Laws The problem of illegal immigration and Mexican drug cartels engaged in an increasingly violent conflict means we need all hands on deck to address this challenge. We will reaffirm the authority of state and local law enforcement to assist in the enforcement of all federal immigration laws. 3) Strengthen Visa Security To stop terrorists like Omar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the Christmas Day bomber, we will require the Department of Homeland Security to review all visa applications at high-risk consular posts and prevent aliens from attempting to avoid deportation after having their visas revoked. ###
01.31.2011	Today, Congressmen Ed Royce (CA-40), Phil Gingrey (GA-11), and Steve King (IA-5) will travel to the United States border with Mexico to assess the infrastructure and technologies being employed by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection to combat illegal immigration. share: f t Today, Congressmen Ed Royce (CA-40), Phil Gingrey (GA-11), and Steve King (IA-5) will travel to the United States border with Mexico to assess the infrastructure and technologies being employed by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection to combat illegal immigration. Congressman Ed Royce (CA-40): "With increasing violence along the US-Mexico border and recent news reports of terrorists taking advantage of our porous border, I know all too well that border security is national security. This trip will give me an opportunity to see the challenges facing our Customs personnel and the Border Patrol, and learn firsthand how to improve operational control of the border," said Rep. Ed Royce, Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee. Congressman Phil Gingrey (GA-11): "Illegal immigration is one of the most pressing issues facing our nation today, particularly in my home state of Georgia where we have seen a 115% increase since 2000. I look forward to this opportunity to evaluate the tools and strategies used by Customs and Border Protection to gain control of the border and protect our ports of entry. Assessing how we are performing on the front lines will provide a valuable perspective of what more needs to be done to stem the tide of illegal immigration." Congressman Steve King (IA-5): "We are taking this border trip to review the resources deployed and practices used to gain operational control of the border," said King. "Today, we know that we need to build a fence, a wall, and a fence; shut off the bleeding at the border, and shut off the jobs magnet. Our review of the border will help prioritize the assets we have." ###
01.19.2011	Today, House Republicans voted to repeal the government takeover of healthcare. Rep. Ed Royce issued the following statement in support of repealing the legislation: share: f t Today, House Republicans voted to repeal the government takeover of healthcare. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in support of repealing the legislation: "Last year, despite our objections, despite the warnings from economists and actuaries regarding the sustainability of this program, and despite the overwhelming opposition from the American people – the Democratic Congress passed one of the most intrusive bills this nation has ever seen. "Obamacare is a 2 trillion dollar entitlement program that is "paid for" by higher taxes and budgetary gimmicks. This government takeover of healthcare is an example of the reckless spending and burdensome regulations coming from Washington. "The assertion that this law will somehow cut our budget deficit is proof that logic does not always prevail in Washington, DC. "Just like past entitlement programs, this one will likely be far more costly than previously projected. As a result, our budget deficit will widen and our dependence on China and Japan to finance our debt will continue to grow. "We must take action now. The credit rating agencies say we are on the verge of losing our triple-A credit rating and the debt contagion continues to spread throughout Europe. "That is why we are taking this important step and repealing this 2 trillion dollar fiscal train wreck. Now we can begin work on market based solutions that will actually lower healthcare costs." Note: To watch Rep. Royce’s speech on the House floor on the need to repeal this government takeover of healthcare, please click here. ###
01.15.2011	The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced it was officially canceling SBInet, a program to build a virtual fence to protect the border. As a result, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement and called for the Administration to reform DHS management. "DHS has shown time and again its inability to manage projects, like SBInet that use high technology. "As the General Accounting Office has pointed out, the DHS needs to strengthen management and oversight of programs like this. Too often, the department has failed to understand what it actually needs out of particular technologies and the final outcomes do not obtain the desired results. "Given that the Administration’s comprehensive immigration reform focuses on providing an amnesty, it is not surprising that it would shut down SBInet, without any viable alternatives to fill in the gaps in border security. "Rather than just shutting down SBInet, the Administration should be revamping DHS management so that we can effectively use technologies and other security efforts, to complete the job of protecting our border. "Securing the border requires the right technologies. Rather than walking away from border security, the Administration should be plugging security gaps." ###
01.07.2011	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) reacted to news reports that Vietnamese police officers not only manhandled a U.S. diplomat, but repeatedly slammed his legs in a car door, violating international laws that protect diplomats. "This attack on a U.S. diplomat is beyond reprehensible. My staff has met with this political officer and can confirm that he is no threat to Vietnam. That, however, didn’t prevent his legs from being crushed by Vietnamese officials." "In the past, the Vietnamese government has reserved the use of its thuggish tactics for peaceful dissidents and those deemed as threats to the government’s stranglehold on power. It’s now become clear that no one is immune from abuse," said Royce. Christian Marchant, the political officer with the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi, was on his way to visit Rev. Thadeus Nguyen Van Ly, one of Vietnam’s most prominent dissidents, when attacked. Father Ly was wrongfully sentenced to eight years in jail for "conducting propaganda activities to harm the security of the state," and was only released to house arrest after suffering two strokes while in solitary confinement. He also continues to be one of the enduring symbols of political oppression, as the image of him being muzzled during his sham trial has been spread far and wide. "It is widely understood that Vietnam has backslid on every human rights front," said Royce. "This attack on a U.S. diplomat is further proof of why we need to make human rights discussions a top priority, and shows why we need to relist Vietnam as a ‘Country of Particular Concern’ for violations of religious freedom. Maybe this assault will convince the State Department to make that listing." On the same day of the attack, Royce introduced H.R.156, the Vietnam Human Rights Sanctions Act, a bill that imposes sanctions on Vietnamese government officials who are complicit in human rights abuses committed against the people of Vietnam. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Additionally Royce serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Caucus on Human Rights. ###
01.05.2011	Today, the first day of the 112th Congress, Rep. Ed Royce introduced the Vietnam Human Rights Sanctions Act, a bill to impose sanctions on Vietnamese government officials who are complicit in human rights abuses committed against the people of Vietnam. share: f t Today, the first day of the 112th Congress, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) introduced the Vietnam Human Rights Sanctions Act, a bill to impose sanctions on Vietnamese government officials who are complicit in human rights abuses committed against the people of Vietnam. The bill targets government agents, police officers, and others who commit egregious human rights abuses against peaceful dissidents with travel restrictions and financial sanctions. "With the Communist government in Vietnam increasing its crackdown on human rights, Congress needs to respond. Those squashing freedom must pay a price," said Royce. The legislation notes that Vietnam remains a one-party state that is ruled and controlled by the Communist Party of Vietnam, and continues to deny its citizens the right to change their government. Those who bravely speak out against the totalitarian system are frequently beaten, detained, or put under house arrest. To exert pressure on the Vietnamese government, the Vietnam Human Rights Sanctions Act instructs the President to create a list of individuals who continue to wantonly disregard the human rights of the Vietnamese people. Those listed will be refused entry into the United States, and will be prohibited from doing business with U.S companies. "The Obama Administration has been disturbingly silent on human rights. This legislation lets those in Vietnam struggling for freedom know that Congress stands with them," said Royce. In addition to introducing the Vietnam Human Rights Sanctions Act, Royce once again introduced a resolution calling on the State Department to relist Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern" for violations of religious freedom. This resolution passed the House of Representatives in the last Congress on December 17, 2010. "Building off last year’s success, I want to put this Congress on record that we will continue to fight for religious freedom in Vietnam. The Communist government continues its crackdown on peaceful religious practitioners, and it’s important that we continue to put heat on the oppressors and the too tolerant Obama State Department," said Royce. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Additionally Royce serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Caucus on Human Rights. ###
12.22.2010	Rep. Ed Royce announced today that he will serve as Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans for the 112th Congress. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced today that he will serve as Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans for the 112th Congress. Royce, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and long-time advocate of close U.S.-India ties, continues in the role he has held in previous Congresses. "I am honored to serve as a key promoter of U.S.-India relations. As we saw during the consideration of the U.S.-India civil nuclear agreement, Congress plays a key role in building this relationship. I’m looking forward to seeing how strong we can make our economic, military and political ties," said Royce, who helped shepherd the India deal through Congress in 2006. "The U.S.-India relationship has made great strides since the Caucus started. But nothing can be taken for granted. The Obama Administration has been spotty on relations with India. I don't think it fully appreciates India's importance or the threat it faces. The Caucus will keep pressing to make that case," said Royce. Today’s announcement comes on the heels of Royce being named Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade in the 112th Congress. "South Asia will play prominently in the Subcommittee’s agenda: whether it is exposing illicit proliferation networks, the growing menace of regional terror groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba, or growing U.S.-India trade links," concluded Royce. Upon today’s announcement, one time co-chairman of the Caucus Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) said: "Ed has been a fantastic leader of the Caucus. I look forward to working with him in the next Congress. He has been an important voice for the relationship and the values that bind the U.S. and India." Since its inception, the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans has grown from a handful of members to one of the largest on Capitol Hill. Rep. Joseph Crowley (D-NY) was named Democratic Co-Chair of the bipartisan group. ###
12.21.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) was named today as Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. He released the following statement: "I thank incoming Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) for entrusting me with this important post. I look forward to working with her and all the members of the Committee to fashion policies that strengthen our country," said Royce. "The Subcommittee faces three daunting challenges: the far-reaching spread of Islamist terrorism and ideology; the proliferation of nuclear weapons and material; and a stalled trade agenda hampering U.S. economic growth. The Subcommittee will delve into all of these issues, seeking to make Americans more prosperous and safe," said Royce. Upon making the announcement, incoming Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen said: "Congressman Royce is one of the most respected Members on our Committee and is someone the American people can count on in this capacity to help prevent extremists and other outlaws from threatening the U.S. He has been a critical partner in holding North Korea accountable for its nuclear and missile activities, its aggressive posture against U.S. allies, and its money laundering activities that directly undermine U.S. security interests. Ed was relentless in his support for the strongest possible prosecution of Viktor Bout, an arms trader known as the ‘Merchant of Death,’ and I am very pleased to have him again take the reins on the Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade subcommittee." Royce wrote today on his blog, Foreign Intrigue, about his new role. Royce uses the blog to communicate with constituents and policy makers on a variety of national security issues. Royce is a senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He has previously served as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa and the Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Nonproliferation. Most recently, he has served as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. ###
12.17.2010	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.Res.20, authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), by a vote of -. Royce's legislation calls on the U.S. government to re-designate Vietnam as a “Country of Particular Concern” for gross violations of religious freedom. share: f t Today, the House of Representatives passed H.Res.20, authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), calling on the U.S. government to re-designate Vietnam as a “Country of Particular Concern” for gross violations of religious freedom. "This resolution puts the House of Representatives on record - the religious persecution in Vietnam is unacceptable. If Vietnam wants to have a strong relationship with the U.S., it must honor its citizen's basic rights, including religious liberty. Passing this resolution is a victory for the countless Vietnamese citizens who continue to face government harassment for practicing their beliefs," said Royce. Since 1999, the U.S. State Department has designated countries that "engage in or tolerate particularly severe violations of religious freedom," as "Countries of Particular Concern." This annual designation puts the violations of specific countries on record, making it a significant diplomatic tool for advancing human rights. "Most recently, residents of the Con Dau parish have felt the Communist government's oppression as local policemen and ‘anti-riot’ forces attacked with electric rods over a land dispute. In addition, persecution of the Hoa Hao Buddhists and the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam continues," said Royce. Due to Vietnam's egregious human rights violations, the State Department had previously listed it as one of these countries. In 2006, Vietnam was removed from this annual list. "The Obama Administration claims to see positive steps in Vietnam, but frankly, I don't see it. Religious freedom remains under attack. The Communist government continues to harass and physically abuse worshipers who don't follow every last state sanctioned rule. The State Department has time and again failed to act. I hope with the passage of this resolution, they’ll get the message," Royce stated. The Royce Resolution was introduced on January 6, 2009. Democratic leadership in the House has refused to consider it until today, one of the last days of the current Congress. "This should have passed long ago. The Vietnamese people deserved better. But better late than never." Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Additionally Royce serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Caucus on Human Rights. ###
12.16.2010	Rep. Ed Royce's statement following his vote in support of legislation that not only brings much needed certainty to our markets but also stops a massive tax hike on families and small businesses across America. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement after voting in support of legislation that not only brings much needed certainty to our markets but also stops a massive tax hike on families and small businesses across America: "Washington has created an unprecedented level of uncertainty that is stifling businesses. Extending these tax rates provides our entrepreneurs, the job creators, the backbone of this country, with the certainty necessary to encourage them to get off the sidelines and invest, create jobs and help us spur economic growth in this nation. "Unemployment in this country is near ten percent; in California it is twelve percent. At this time it is simply wrong to allow families and small businesses to be hit with a massive tax increase and to further burden our already struggling economy. "We’ve got to keep our focus on getting our economy going again and this means revitalizing the private sector. This legislation blocks tax increases on families and businesses that would otherwise put a lug on the economic engine and further delay our economic recovery. Real economic growth has always and will always come from the private sector; Washington must enable business to thrive and expand." ###
12.08.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in opposition to the Democrat Leadership’s efforts to pass amnesty legislation known as the DREAM Act: "Under this bill, any illegal immigrant may apply to stay in this country. DHS may not remove any alien who has a pending application. This status is valid for 5 years, and can be extended by DHS for another 5 years. All the while the applicant is allowed to work in the U.S. and travel outside the U.S. "With every amnesty, we have had a problem with massive fraud. About one-fourth of those legalized under the 1986 law received amnesty fraudulently. "As one former U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service employee told me ‘the system we have now can't handle the workload.’ There is a backlog, with some people having to wait 3 years to get their cases decided. "What do you think is going to happen when we have millions of new cases on top of what the USCIS has currently? Do you think it is going to be able to take the time to do proper background checks and investigations? I don't. It can't even do that now. "In fact, the Government Accountability Office has said this as well. It found that ‘production goals’ are put over rooting out fraud. While I applaud the requirement in the bill for background checks and increased fraud penalties, I question why there is no funding for additional personnel to handle the increase in the number of cases." ###
12.03.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, made the following statement in response to reports that U.S. and South Korean negotiators have come to an agreement on the long-stalled South Korea-United States Free Trade Agreement: "This is not just an economic agreement, but a strategic one. Approval of KORUS would help to anchor the United States in a pivotal region of the world. Today’s announcement comes at an important time, during tensions on the Korean Peninsula. "This agreement is an economic pick-up. Congress must approve it or 345,000 U.S. jobs could be lost due to competition from the European Union and others who have been striking deals with South Korea to our disadvantage," concluded Royce." Royce is a long-time chairman of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange. The Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee held a hearing on KORUS in 2007. ###
12.01.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) and several of his colleagues sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Chief John Morton. The letter urges the Administration to enforce all immigration laws. "While the deportation of illegal aliens who are considered dangerous or have committed serious crimes has risen, the number of deportations of other illegal aliens has decreased," said Royce. "The Obama Administration needs to uniformly enforce U.S. immigration laws against both categories of illegal aliens." In August this year, ICE Chief John Morton issued new guidelines regarding the deportation process for illegal aliens. As a result the deportation of illegal alien who haven’t committed serious crimes have dropped by thirty percent for the fiscal year 2010. "What kind of a message are we sending our ICE agents? They diligently work to uphold our immigration laws while we weaken our enforcement efforts and allow those here illegally to remain in this country," said Royce. The letter concludes, "As DHS and ICE contemplate future immigration enforcement, we urge the administration to fully enforce all federal immigration laws. While serious criminals should be prioritized for removal, the administration needs to do more than just enforce a few immigration laws." Note: To view the full text of the letter, please click here. ###
11.23.2010	Rep. Ed Royce, Ranking Member of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee and senior member of the Subcommittee on Asia issued the following statement in reaction to North Korea’s artillery attack against the South Korean island of Yeonpyeong: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee and senior member of the Subcommittee on Asia issued the following statement in reaction to North Korea’s artillery attack against the South Korean island of Yeonpyeong: "This is the latest in a long list of aggressive acts by the North Korean regime. "Those that have watched Pyongyang shred international agreements, attack its neighbors and race towards nuclear weapons are not surprised by its latest attack on innocents. The regime has long shown its DNA for those willing to see it. "Maybe this attack will wake-up American diplomats addicted to soft-line diplomacy. "The United States is right to condemn this attack and to stand by our South Korean ally in the pursuit of stability in a region of critical importance." Latest reports indicate that the attack set dozens of residential homes on fire, wounded civilians and soldiers and killed two South Korean Marines. ###
11.18.2010	This week, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) helped secure the remaining Fiscal Year 2007 funds, $861,887, owed to the Los Alamitos Unified School District (LAUSD) for its Impact Aid program. share: f t This week, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) helped secure the remaining Fiscal Year 2007 funds, $861,887, owed to the Los Alamitos Unified School District (LAUSD) for its Impact Aid program. "I know how important this funding is to LAUSD and to the children of Orange County. I am pleased that the Department of Education was finally able to make good on its commitment," said Royce. The federal government created the Impact Aid program to compensate school districts that contained federal property. Local property taxes are a major source of revenue funding for school districts. If there is federal property within a district education funding is significantly reduced, because no tax is paid on federal property. About 245 school districts across the nation receive significantly reduced education funding because of the federal property within their boundaries. LAUSD contains two military bases, the Joint Forces Training Base in Los Alamitos and the Naval Weapons Station in Seal Beach. These bases remove about 40% of the total District from its property tax rolls. Earlier this year Rep. Royce contacted the Department of Education after hearing LAUSD hadn’t received education funding owed to it through the Impact Aid program for Fiscal Years 2007 through 2010. This week Los Al received $861,887 as a final payment for 2007, making the total from that year $3.5 million. LAUSD is still owed funding for FY2008 through 2010. "Federal Impact Aid funding is essential to Los Alamitos USD's fiscal solvency which enables the District to continue, even during dire fiscal times, to provide educational programs that produce excellence in our students' academics, arts, athletics, and active citizenship. Los Al wants to thank Congressman Royce for his ongoing and active support of our District and Impact Aid funding," said Patricia Meyer, LAUSD Assistant Superintendent. "The funding received through Impact Aid is critical to LAUSD, especially during California’s tough budget crisis. I will continue working to ensure LAUSD gets what it is owed," said Royce. ###
11.17.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce slammed the U.S. Department of State as it released its 2010 Annual Report on International Religious Freedom. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) slammed the U.S. Department of State as it released its 2010 Annual Report on International Religious Freedom. While the section on Vietnam detailed some of the abuses on religious freedom, it fell far short. Significantly, the State Department once again failed to list Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern" (CPC) for violations of religious freedom, a recommendation that was made by the congressionally-mandated U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom. Further, the House of Representatives passed a Royce amendment to State Department funding legislation going on record in support of relisting Vietnam as a CPC. "The State Department’s failure to properly list Vietnam as a CPC is a grave mistake," said Royce. "The fact remains that no religious group is immune from government coercion and harassment. Buddhists, Catholics, and Evangelicals alike face the heavy hand of the government if they step outside tight restrictions." "This failed report is even more disappointing given Secretary Clinton’s remarks in Hanoi in late October, where she said human rights concerns are raised at all levels, both in Vietnam and Washington. When given the opportunity for concrete action, however, the State Department fell flat," said Royce. Although the State Department’s report gives credit to Vietnam for improving in some areas, it notes that religious groups like Protestants and Buddhists still face government sanctioned violence. "As the current state of human rights and religious freedom in Vietnam is deplorable, the State Department’s decision not to relist Vietnam as a CPC is extraordinarily short-sighted. Secretary Clinton’s call for Vietnam to value the rights of its citizens look like empty words," said Royce. Since 1999, the U.S. State Department has designated countries that "engage in or tolerate particularly severe violations of religious freedom," as "Countries of Particular Concern." This annual designation puts the violations of specific countries on record, making it a significant diplomatic tool for advancing human rights. Due to Vietnam's egregious human rights violations, the State Department had listed it as one of these countries from 2004-2006. In 2006, however, the State Department removed Vietnam from this annual list. "When Vietnam was placed on the CPC list, we saw some positive changes. Unfortunately, when they were prematurely released in 2006, Vietnam ramped up its persecution. The State Department’s failure to relist Vietnam does its people a great disservice," said Royce. In the House of Representatives, Royce authored H.Res.20, a resolution calling on the State Department relist Vietnam as a CPC, an initiative that he will further press in the next Congress. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Subcommittee on Asia. He is a senior member of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam. ###
11.16.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, issued the following statement after learning that international arms merchant Viktor Bout is being extradited by Thailand to face terrorism charges in the United States. "At times it felt as if Bout would slip away, so this is a huge victory. It may not have been pretty, but it counts as a big win," said Royce, referring to the more than two year up and down legal struggle. "Many dedicated individuals in the U.S. and Thailand worked diligently for this day to come. The man who armed terrorists and warlords across the globe is out of the game. "Bout now gets to have a fair trial. That is more than the victims of his trade got. "I appreciate that the Thai government did the right thing, by honoring the U.S. extradition request." Royce spearheaded congressional efforts to see that Viktor Bout was extradited to the United States. In August, on the eve of a crucial court hearing, Royce led a congressional letter to the Thai government, pressing for Bout’s extradition. In addition, Royce authored an op-ed which appeared in the Washington Post, calling for stepped up U.S. engagement to see that Bout was not set free. The August ruling by the Thai court set the stage for today’s action. Prior to his arrest, Viktor Bout, dubbed the "Merchant of Death," fueled many brutal civil wars on the African continent and elsewhere through the illicit sale of arms, breaking international arms embargos. Former Liberian president Charles Taylor relied on Bout to arm his reign of terror in West Africa, violently suppressing opposition to his corrupt rule in Liberia and arming allies in neighboring countries. In Afghanistan, Bout simultaneously armed the Taliban and the Northern Alliance and he has links to international terrorist organizations, including Hezbollah and al-Shabaab. Reportedly, Bout is expected to arrive in New York Tuesday evening and be arraigned in U.S. District Court in Manhattan on Wednesday. ###
11.05.2010	Today, the Department of Labor announced that the October unemployment rate stayed at 9.6 percent. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member on the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement: "Our country’s economic performance remains dismal. The fact that unemployment remains at 9.6% is proof that now is the time change the message coming from Washington. "By reaching into virtually every corner of our economy, government has created an unprecedented level of uncertainty that is impacting businesses on a day to day basis. As a result nearly $2 trillion in cash sits on the sidelines instead of being invested in R&D or hiring new employees. "The days of record deficits, reckless spending, and droves of new regulations must be behind us if this economy is going to turn around."
11.03.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement announcing his candidacy for the Chairmanship of the House Financial Services Committee: "This is a critical time for our capital markets and our economy. The passage of the Dodd-Frank bill fundamentally altered the structure of the U.S. financial services sector. As the Financial Services Committee addresses the implications for taxpayers and our capital markets there is no question that now is the time for a determined and effective Financial Services Committee Chairman. "With a business background I understand the importance of a limited, functional federal government that allows business to thrive. It is time to change the message coming from Washington and provide business with a modicum of certainty. "In addition to the Dodd-Frank bill, the Financial Services Committee will need to address the GSEs in the next Congress. For more than a decade I’ve been one of the very few members who have consistently advocated for strong GSE reform. In 2004, I introduced the first bill to bring all of the GSE's under one strong regulator. I’ve long recognized the systemic threat Fannie and Freddie posed to the world’s financial system which is why in 2005 I offered an amendment, endorsed by the Federal Reserve, to rein in Fannie and Freddie’s excessive risk taking. That amendment was defeated after strong lobbying by Fannie and Freddie. "If I am given the privilege to serve as Chairman, I will be dedicated to working with the members of our committee to get our economy back on a path toward prosperity." ###
11.01.2010	In anticipation of President Obama's upcoming trip to India this week, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on India, asked the President not to squander the opportunity to further U.S.-India relations. "Over the past dozen years, India has emerged as one of the United States’ key partners. Having joined President Bill Clinton on his 2000 trip to India, I witnessed firsthand the beginning of this transformation. President Bush followed, building upon a solid foundation. The question today, as President Obama heads to India, is how many stories will he build?" said Royce. The prospects of the Obama Administration building off its predecessors’ successes, however, are unclear. But while the Obama Administration may not have yet identified the next "big" agenda item, there are areas to focus on that would do much to strengthen the U.S.-India partnership. "Defense cooperation between the U.S. and India has made impressive strides in the last decade, and President Obama would be wise to help grow these ties on this trip," said Royce. "Our cooperation will be vital to keeping the peace in the dynamic Asia region for years and decades to come." Rep. Royce also sees an opportunity for President Obama to help strengthen economic ties. With an economy set to grow at near 10 percent for years to come, faster than any other large economy, India is in what some are calling a global sweet spot. Despite its impressive reform, barriers to trade and investment remain. "President Obama would be wise to resist protectionism and work for greater trade. There have been some ominous signals. The U.S.-India economic partnership has huge potential, but it will only be reached with strong leadership," said Royce. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and is serving his second term as co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans. ###
10.22.2010	WASHINGTON – Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued a statement following the release of a Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) report stating that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s taxpayer bailout will exceed $360 billion over the next three years. "These new numbers are yet another reminder that the epic blunder known as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac was created by Washington and is being paid for by the US taxpayers. "It is unfortunate that the most expensive bailout in history could have been largely avoided. Had Barney Frank and the rest of the Democratic Party listened to those who wanted true GSE reform five years ago, we could have reigned in the excessive risk taking and prevented this sad episode. "Going forward, we must move away from this failed model of private profits and public losses and create a mortgage finance system less susceptible to extreme boom-bust cycles." NOTE: For years, Royce worked to bring strong reforms to Fannie and Freddie. In 2005, when the House considered GSE reform legislation, Rep. Royce introduced an amendment to give the regulator the authority necessary to curtail the systemic risk posed by Fannie and Freddie's portfolios. ###
10.12.2010	On Sunday, Hwang Jang-yop, 87, the highest ranking North Korean defector and former mentor to Kim Jong-il, died in his Seoul home. Hwang escaped North Korea in 1997, and soon after became known for criticizing the Kim regime for starving millions of his fellow countrymen. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), a longtime co-chairman of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange, interviewed Hwang in 2003 in Seoul and later helped arrange his first trip to the U.S. Royce made the following comments upon Hwang's death: "Hwang Jang-yop provided unique and valuable insights into the North Korean military complex and propaganda machine that I often cite in Congress and elsewhere in trying to educate people about the North Korean threat facing us. "Mr. Hwang was disparaged by too many South Korean officials and media. He represented an unpleasant reminder of the brutal system in the North that too many South Koreans would rather ignore. His speaking the truth about Pyongyang was mistakenly viewed as provocative by some. "Mr. Hwang's perspective is as important as ever as the Obama Administration is looking to reengage North Korea. He spoke to the brutality and duplicity that are ingrained in the Kim regime." In April, Royce blogged on a foiled North Korean assassination plot against Hwang. Recalling an earlier meeting, Royce wrote, "The human suffering in North Korea seemed to weigh heavily on Hwang. He has a lot of ghosts to deal with, and he has vowed to speak out until his last breath." Upon his death, Royce reflected, "Mr. Hwang did what he could to serve freedom by speaking out against North Korean tyranny to his very end. May he rest in peace." ###
09.23.2010	Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, chaired a Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission hearing regarding the plight of North Korean refugees. share: f t Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, chaired a Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission hearing regarding the plight of North Korean refugees. Since 2003, Royce has co-chaired the International Parliamentarians' Coalition on North Korea Human Rights and Refugees, which has been instrumental in bringing attention to the plight of these refugees. "I want to extend a special welcome to our witnesses today, and thank the activists and concerned citizens who are so committed to improving the human rights and the well-being of the North Korean refugees," said Royce. It’s estimated that 200,000 North Koreans are currently held in a system of political concentration camps in North Korea. These are modern day gulags. People are systematically tortured, executed and otherwise abused. Freedom of speech and association are nonexistent. In order to continue to raise awareness in the U.S. many defectors are sharing their stories and the horrific experiences they witnessed at the Bowibu (where detainees are kept for political reasons). "One defector, Mr. Cho, was among the 40,000 North Korean laborers sent to Russia’s Far East to work in a labor camp. He and others like him worked long hours as loggers – sometimes as much as 15 hours per day. The majority of their wages were taken by the North Korean government. In total, workers receive less than 20% of what they earn. I’ve been informed that this is how North Korea plans to repay some of the debt they have to Russia and bring foreign currency to North Korea. The working environment and the treatment of the laborers are no different than modern day slavery," Royce said. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member of the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee and an active member of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus. ###
09.23.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement after House Republicans presented A Pledge to America, a new governing agenda focused on addressing the American people’s top priorities. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) released the following statement after House Republicans presented A Pledge to America, a new governing agenda focused on addressing the American people’s top priorities. The Pledge is the culmination of a months-long engagement with the American people in which House Republicans sought their ideas and priorities for Congress. "During the August work period I held town hall meetings, toured small businesses and met with local community groups to hear their thoughts on the issues most important to them. Many were tired of being ignored and frustrated with Washington’s out-of-control spending. Today, this Pledge takes their opinions, their questions, and their ideas and creates an agenda that offers solutions that reflect their priorities. "For too long, the voices of the American people have been ignored in Washington. It’s time that the priorities of the people once again set the agenda in Washington, so we are offering a Pledge to America. Through this pledge we are presenting a set of bold solutions, renewing a commitment to our founding principles, and offering a new way of doing business in Washington." NOTE: The agenda offers concrete solutions that can be implemented immediately to tackle the issues that are most important to the nation, including job creation, spending restraint, national security, health care, and reform to Congress itself. The full agenda, A Pledge to America, can be viewed here. ###
09.20.2010	The White House Fall Gardens and Grounds Tours will be held from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Saturday, October 16th, and from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. on Sunday, October 17th, 2010. share: f t The White House Fall Gardens and Grounds Tours will be held from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Saturday, October 16th, and from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. on Sunday, October 17th, 2010. The garden tours have been an annual tradition since 1972, when First Lady Pat Nixon first opened the gardens to the public. The gardens on this unique tour include: Jacqueline Kennedy Garden, Rose Garden, Children's Garden, and the South Lawn of the White House. The Kitchen Garden, a new addition to the South Lawn, will be viewable from a distance along the tour route. There will be a visual explanation to help educate tourists on the elements of the garden. The tours are open to the public; however, a ticket is required for all attendees, including small children. The National Park Service will distribute free, timed tickets at the Ellipse Visitor Pavilion located at 15th and E Streets on each tour day beginning at 8:00 a.m. Tickets will be distributed -- one ticket per person -- on a first-come, first-served basis. Tours of the Residence will be closed on the dates of the Garden Tours. Please note the following are prohibited on the White House grounds: • Food and Beverages of any kind • Duffel Bags/Suitcases/Backpacks • Animals (except guide dogs) • Aerosols of any kind Knives of any size • Mace • Smoking • Real or Simulated Weapons/Ammunition • Fireworks/Firecrackers The U.S. Secret Service reserves the right to prohibit any other personal items. Strollers, wheelchairs, and cameras are permitted. In case of inclement weather, the Garden Tours will be cancelled. Please call the 24-hour information line at (202) 456-7041 to check on the status of the event.
09.15.2010	Rep. Ed Royce reacts to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s plan to include amnesty legislation, known as the DREAM Act, in the Defense Department authorization bill. share: f t Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) reacted to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s plan to include amnesty legislation, known as the DREAM Act, in the Defense Department authorization bill: "Under this legislation, illegal immigrants will be granted amnesty by meeting minimal criteria. For every illegal immigrant admitted to a university, an American student or legal resident would be turned away at a time when every state university is raising tuition, and many are curtailing enrollment. "Additionally, this legislation provides illegal immigrants with benefits that American taxpayers are not eligible for. This legislation repeals the current federal ban on in-state tuition for illegal immigrants. However, U.S. citizens attending college out of state will continue to pay higher tuition fees. "Simply put, this isn’t fair. Amnesty legislation, like the DREAM Act, will only compound the problem, draw more illegal immigrants to this country, and encourage those breaking our laws to continue to disrespect them. We need to focus on enforcing our current immigration laws." ###
08.12.2010	Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), author of successful legislation to permanently authorize Radio Free Asia’s broadcasting authority, will host a forum on Radio Free Asia and its potential to establish the foundations necessary for freedom and democracy. This forum will be held TODAY, August 12, at 3:00 pm at the Walter D. Ehlers Recreation Center, located at 8150 Knott Avenue in Buena Park. Since 1996, U.S.-backed Radio Free Asia (RFA) has been providing accurate and timely news and information to Asian countries whose governments prohibit access to a free media. RFA’s mission is to act as a "surrogate" news service; performing as a free press would if one was allowed to operate in a target country. As one observer has noted, this type of broadcasting "irritates authoritarian regimes, inspires democrats, and creates greater space for civil society." Call Rep. Royce’s office at 714-744-4130 to reserve a seat or email Young Kim at young.kim@mail.house.gov if you have questions. RSVP is strongly recommended. WHO: Representative Ed Royce, California 40th District Libby Liu, President of Radio Free Asia Max Kwak, RFA Korean Service Director Khanh Nguyen, RFA Vietnamese Service Director WHAT: Forum on Radio Free Asia and its potential to establish the foundations necessary for freedom and democracy WHERE: Walter D. Ehlers Recreation Center 8150 Knott Ave., Buena Park, CA 90620 WHEN: 3:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. TODAY, August 12 ###
07.22.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined several of his colleagues on the Vietnam Caucus to participate in a press conference calling for human rights in Vietnam. Royce took the opportunity to express his disappointment that Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, who recently travelled to Hanoi, has not yet called for Vietnam to be relisted as a "Country of Particular Concern" for severe violations of religious freedom. "While much has been made about Vietnam’s maturing economy, the communist government continues to backslide on all human rights issues," Royce said at the press conference. "Secretary Clinton passed up a golden opportunity to announce her support for the religiously oppressed by not listing Vietnam as a Country of Particular Concern." Prior to her visit, Royce – joined by Reps. Cao, Rohrabacher, and Wolf – wrote to the Secretary alerting her to the passage of State Department funding legislation that includes a Royce amendment calling on Vietnam’s relisting as a "CPC." "Religious freedom remains under attack. The Communist government continues to harass and physically abuse worshipers who don't follow every last state sanctioned rule, whether Catholic, Buddhist or Protestant" said Royce. "And frankly, this Administration has given them a pass. I was disappointed that Secretary Clinton did not take a stand to put Vietnam back on the CPC list during her recent trip to Vietnam." Since 1999, the U.S. State Department has designated countries that "engage in or tolerate particularly severe violations of religious freedom," as "Countries of Particular Concern." This annual designation puts the violations of specific countries on record, making it a significant diplomatic tool for advancing human rights. It also gives the Administration the ability to impose sanctions on the offending government, creating leverage to bring about change. The legislation authored by Reps. Ed Royce and Joseph Cao to put Vietnam back on the CPC list was debated in the Foreign Affairs Committee earlier this year and subsequently passed the House of Representatives as part of the State Department Authorization Act. Human rights leaders continue to press the Senate to bring up this important legislation. In addition to his call for greater respect for religious freedom in Vietnam, Royce also called for the release of prominent writer and democracy advocate, Tran Khai Than Thuy. Having spoken to Ms. Thuy last year about the worsening human rights situation in Vietnam, Royce was particularly concerned about her well-being. Ms. Thuy, who was sentenced to three and a half years imprisonment, suffers from tuberculosis and heart disease. "Ms. Thuy’s sentence is a gross miscarriage of justice," said Royce. "Despite having been followed home by plainclothes policemen and then beaten in the head with a brick, Ms. Thuy was the one charged with assault. Such is the fate of many human rights activists in Vietnam, and it is mandatory that the Secretary of State raise these concerns." Earlier this month, Royce spoke with Ms. Thuy’s husband, who expressed grave concern for his wife’s health and cell conditions. Ms. Thuy suffers from Tuberculosis and has a heart condition. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and is an active member of the Congressional Vietnam Caucus. ###
07.21.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, today was encouraged by the announcement of new measures targeting North Korea’s weapons program and illicit activities. Traveling in South Korea, the U.S. Secretary of State began to articulate new measures to shut North Korea out of the international banking system and crimp Pyongyang’s use of counterfeit currency, cigarettes, drug smuggling and other illegal activity. "Better late than never. As I have long said, it is only when we have had a coordinated squeeze on Kim Jong-il’s wallet that we have gotten closer to peace and security in Northeast Asia. It has taken missile launches, nuclear tests and the sinking of a South Korean ship for this strategy to take hold," commented Royce. "Hopefully the Administration will do whatever it takes to make handling North Korean financing too painful for all financial institutions." According to press reports, State Department officials hope to recreate U.S. action taken in 2006 that resulted in North Korea being largely shut-out of the international financial system. These steps were unwound in the belief that North Korea would bargain away its nuclear program, a step strongly opposed by Rep. Royce. "Also encouraging is the recognition of the links between North Korea’s illicit activities and its nuclear program. Putting a stop to North Korea’s counterfeiting operation would sever a key subsidy for its weapons program and its elite," said Royce. "Today’s announcement is just step one of a long process. To be effective, this will likely require targeting Chinese banks, as was done effectively with Banco Delta Asia. The Administration will have to be tough with Beijing, something it hasn’t been willing to do to date." In 2007, Rep. Royce issued a report, "Gangster Regime: How North Korea Counterfeits United States Currency," which identified North Korea’s illicit activities as a key link to the regime’s weapons program. He authored an oped, "Kim the Counterfeiter," which appeared in the Wall Street Journal, summarizing its findings. In May, Royce authored a blog post, "You Sunk My Battleship," which appeared on the Heritage Foundation’s The Foundry, recommending a series of steps to be taken to counter North Korean aggression. Several of them have been, or are in the process of being adopted by the Administration. ###
07.20.2010	During today’s House Financial Services Committee hearing evaluating the SEC, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) highlighted the SEC failures and the failure of the Dodd-Frank regulatory reform bill to address the SEC's ineptitude: "There is a fundamental difference between the American approach and the British approach when it comes to dealing with a calamity in financial regulation. In the U.S. we tend to tinker around the edges and add additional agencies when a crisis comes, while the British are more open-minded about fundamentally reorganizing an entity when it has failed or even disbanding it altogether. "We have heard time and time again about the overlawyering, the bureaucratic delays, and the investigative ineptitude at the SEC. It took the Agency over 16 years to uncover the Madoff Ponzi Scheme. They had known about the Stanford Ponzi Scheme since 1997. According to the SEC’s Inspector General, ‘One SEC supervisor used her work e-mail account ‘on virtually a daily basis’ to conduct business on behalf of the operator of a Ponzi scheme in Arizona.’ "These problems did not arise from simply a ‘lack of funding,’ but rather a deeper structural flaw within the SEC. How does Congress treat an agency that has performed so poorly over the years? We reward it. "The bill awaiting the president’s signature vastly expands SEC’s regulatory authority without fundamentally reforming the troubled agency. Under the bill, the Agency will be required to promulgate approximately 123 rules; conduct 32 studies followed by reports; and establish seven new offices or committees within the SEC. "This is in stark contrast to the approach taken by the Brits – as a headline in the Financial Times recently noted, ‘FSA to be abolished in Osborne shake-up.’ "Ms. Schapiro, you have committed to at least begin the reformation of the SEC, and I commend you for that. Time will tell whether real reform can come from within the Agency or whether we would be better served taking a page out of England’s playbook and fundamentally restructuring this Agency." NOTE: Click here to watch Royce’s opening statement and click here to watch Royce question SEC Chairman Schapiro.
07.15.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), along with colleagues Reps. Anh "Joseph" Cao (R-LA), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), and Frank Wolf (R-VA), wrote to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton asking that she raise Vietnamese human rights concerns with high level Vietnamese authorities when she travels to Vietnam. Secretary Clinton is scheduled to travel to Hanoi next week to participate in the ASEAN Regional Forum, where she will meet with senior Vietnamese leaders to discuss bilateral relations. "While Secretary Clinton will likely exchange typical diplomatic niceties with her Vietnamese counterparts, she needs to press Vietnam hard on its recent crackdown on human rights" said Royce. "Abuses range from repression of political opposition to suppression of free speech and religion. The case of imprisoned writer and democracy advocate Tran Khai Thanh Thuy is telling." Having spoken to Ms. Thuy last year about the worsening human rights situation in Vietnam, Royce was particularly concerned about her well-being. Ms. Thuy, who was sentenced to three and a half years imprisonment, suffers from tuberculosis and heart disease. "Ms. Thuy’s sentence is a gross miscarriage of justice," said Royce. "Despite having been followed home by plainclothes policemen and then beaten in the head with a brick, Ms. Thuy was the one charged with assault. Such is the fate of many human rights activists in Vietnam, and it is mandatory that the Secretary of State raise these concerns." Royce’s letter also called on Secretary Clinton to raise concerns regarding Vietnam’s disregard for religious freedom, a problem that has worsened over the last several years. Recently, as reported by the Montagnard Foundation, ten Degar Christians were arrested after they refused to sign documents denouncing their religion. Many were beaten with batons, and some were even stabbed. "Persecution is the fate of many who oppose the Communist government in Vietnam. Buddhists and Christians alike face severe repercussions if they do not fall in line with the government. If this treatment doesn’t demand that Vietnam be relisted as a CPC, I don’t know what does," said Royce. Of note, an amendment offered by Ed Royce to State Department funding legislation calls for Vietnam to be relisted as a "Country of Particular Concern" for severe violations of religious freedom. This resolution passed the House of Representatives this year. NOTE: Text of the letter has been pasted below. A pdf of the letter with signatures can be found here. July 14, 2010 Dear Secretary Clinton: We write to you as you prepare to travel to Vietnam next week to participate in the ASEAN Regional Forum, and request that you raise the issue of Vietnam’s human rights abuses at the highest levels. Vietnam’s recent crackdown on human rights - ranging from freedom of speech to freedom of religion - raises significant concerns. The case of imprisoned writer and democracy advocate Tran Khai Thanh Thuy is telling. Many in Congress have spoken over the phone with Ms. Thuy about the worsening human rights situation. Recently, having done nothing more than peacefully advocate for social justice, Ms. Thuy was followed home by plainclothes Vietnamese police officers last February and beaten over the head with a brick. In a gross miscarriage of justice, Vietnamese authorities charged Ms. Thuy with assault, and sentenced her to three and a half years imprisonment. Such is the fate of many who speak out on the issue of Vietnamese human rights, such as Pham Thanh Nghien and Le Cong Dinh, whose release is of paramount importance. Another issue of serious concern remains the Vietnamese government’s crackdown on religious organizations that choose to practice outside the state’s rigid controls. On May 20, 2010, Vietnamese security forces arrested ten Degar Christians from Plei Kret Krot after refusing to sign a document renouncing their religion. Many of these peaceful practitioners were beaten with batons, others were stabbed. Such behavior demands that Vietnam be relisted as a "Country of Particular Concern" for religious freedom. As you may know, H.R.2410, the State Department Authorization bill, passed the full House of Representatives this year and included a resolution offered by Rep. Ed Royce calling on Vietnam to be relisted as a CPC. Since 1999, the U.S. State Department has designated countries that "engage in or tolerate particularly severe violations of religious freedom," as Countries of Particular Concern. The inclusion of Vietnam on this important list would not only send a message to the Vietnamese government that such abuses will not be tolerated, but would also provide additional tools to leverage for greater human rights in Vietnam. Again, we urge you to raise these human rights violations with top Vietnamese officials during your upcoming trip to Vietnam, address putting Vietnam back on the CPC list as called for in the House passed legislation, and press for the release of Ms. Thuy, Ms. Nghien, and Mr. Dinh along with other prisoners of conscience. Thank you for considering this request. Sincerely, ###
07.13.2010	Today, Representative Ed Royce (CA-40) announced three town hall meetings as part of the Republican initiative, America Speaking Out. All residents of the 40th Congressional District are invited to attend one of the following upcoming town hall meetings: Date: Saturday, July 31st Time: 9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. Location: Orange High School's Outdoor Theatre located at 525 North Shaffer Street Date: Saturday, August 14th Time: 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. Location: Cypress Senior Center located at 9031 Grindlay Street Date: Saturday, August 14th Time: 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. Location: Fullerton City Hall located at 303 West Commonwealth "I’ve heard from many of my constituents, frustrated with Washington’s out-of-control spending. I encourage them to continue to voice their opinions, ask questions, submit ideas and truly engage in the process. After all, great ideas aren’t limited to Washington DC; they come from all across America," Royce said. Royce will use the town hall meetings to give an update of legislation in the House of Representatives, listen to constituent concerns and answer any questions people may have. These events will be free of charge and open to the public. Please call Rep. Royce's Orange County office at (714) 744-4130 with any questions. NOTE: America Speaking Out is an initiative by House Republicans to engage constituents across America to talk about the challenges they’d like Congress to address. Submit your ideas or learn more by visiting www.AmericaSpeakingOut.com. ###
07.12.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Rep. James McGovern (D-MA), coauthors of the Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act (recently signed into law), expressed their outrage in response to the twin bombings in Kampala, Uganda, that killed scores. "These were heinous attacks on innocents gathered to watch the World Cup. I was particularly saddened to learn of the death of Nate Henn, a young activist with the California group Invisible Children. I've had the opportunity to work with Invisible Children to raise awareness of Joseph Kony's reign of terror and his Lord's Resistance Army group. Nate was on the front lines of Invisible Children's critical work. Sadly, Uganda is now facing another threat to its civilian population," said Royce, who is also the former Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa "I was deeply saddened to learn of the death of Nate Henn, who was killed by the terrorist bombing in Kampala, Uganda. Nate’s work with Invisible Children was dedicated to helping the most vulnerable victims of conflict, the children. My thoughts and prayers are with Nate’s family, the families of all the victims, and the many members of Invisible Children. And I strongly condemn this cowardly attack on innocent civilians who had simply gathered in fellowship to watch the World Cup," McGovern said. ###
07.12.2010	Last week, U.S. Representative Ed Royce was selected as the Commerce Award winner by the Orange Chamber of Commerce. The Commerce Award is presented to the elected official who has gone above and beyond their responsibilities to promote the economy of Orange. Upon receiving the award Rep. Royce expressed his appreciation and made the following comments: "There have been some minor attempts to stimulate small business growth across the country. But these efforts are being trumped by the much clearer and stronger anti-business message coming from Washington. "Businesses around the country see the new mandates and taxes that were just enacted in the healthcare bill. They understand that the cap and trade legislation will increase the cost of doing business and restrict future growth. They also see the level of spending going on in Washington and understand that eventually someone is going to have to pay this $12 trillion tab. "Businesses need certainty and room to operate. Instead they are seeing their future operating costs go up by the day. "I think we would be well-served to take a step back and reassess the message coming from Washington. "Instead of nationalizing our healthcare sector and dumping trillions into government bureaucracies, Congress should focus on creating private sector jobs and reestablishing a firm foundation for economic growth." ###
07.08.2010	Representative Ed Royce and the Asian Pacific Community Advisory Council, a group of prominent members of Orange County’s Asian community, will travel to Washington, DC from July 11, 2010 to July 15, 2010. They will meet with government officials, policy experts and other Members of Congress to discuss US-Asia relations. Media will be invited to a press conference following the groups return to California (location, date and time TBD). WHO: Representative Ed Royce, California 40th District Linda Sarno, Filipino American Community Fannie Cantal, Filipino American Community Carol Chen, Chinese American Community Charlene Hatakeyama, Japanese American Community Lac Tan Nguyen, Vietnamese American Community Sam Kim, Korean American Community Charles Kim, Korean American Community Sue Kint, Korean American Community WHAT: Discuss Royce, APCAC Washington DC trip on US-Asia relations, from July 11 to July 15, 2010 ###
07.06.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to the Justice Department’s decision to legally challenge the Arizona immigration law: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to the Justice Department’s decision to legally challenge the Arizona immigration law: "I am disappointed by the Justice Department’s decision to challenge the Arizona immigration law. Since when does the federal government sue a state for following federal law? This is simply another distraction and a waste of taxpayer dollars by this Administration. "In Arizona, 71 percent of voters support this immigration law. Phoenix has become the number one kidnapping capital in the U.S. Additionally, the Border Patrol has found that criminal gangs, such as MS-13, are drawn to Arizona because of the predominance of drug trafficking and human smuggling there. "Violence along the U.S.-Mexico border continues to increase at alarming rates. Our communities shouldn’t continue to live in fear of violent drug cartels, gangs and human traffickers. "Citizens across the nation have been waiting for this Administration to enforce our immigration laws. The state of Arizona is simply doing what this government has failed to do." ###
06.30.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a conferee on the financial regulatory reform Conference Committee, expressed his opposition to the Frank-Dodd Wall Street bill. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a conferee on the financial regulatory reform Conference Committee, expressed his opposition to the Frank-Dodd Wall Street bill. "There is no question that reform is desperately needed but the reforms needed most are not in this bill. Case in point is Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, this legislation does nothing to address these institutions which were most responsible for the collapse of the housing market. The bailout of these institutions, by the way, has cost taxpayers $145 billion. No regulatory reform effort will be complete without addressing the two institutions most responsible for the housing collapse. "This bill creates an industry of Too-Big-to-Fail firms. By labeling firms as systemically important, we will separate our financial system between those with a government backstop and their competitors. As a result, designated firms will see greater access to credit and a lower cost of capital compared to their Too-Small-to-Save counterparts. This will distort competition and create dozens of large GSE-like institutions. "Through the creation of a Consumer Protection Bureau, this bill separates consumer protection regulation from safety and soundness regulation. This model, which governed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, created competing and often conflicting interests. Applying this same flawed model throughout our financial system will weaken not strengthen our regulatory structure. "The government will be picking winners and losers with this legislation. The Frank-Dodd bill allows the FDIC to play favorites among the creditors of a failing institution undergoing FDIC resolution. Specifically, the FDIC could provide a bailout to whichever of these creditors it favors, while imposing severe losses on other institutions who bought the exact same bonds. This much power vested in the FDIC will inevitably lead to the government picking winners and losers based on political pull, not market discipline." ###
06.30.2010	Today, the House of Representatives sent legislation (S.3104) bolstering U.S.-backed Radio Free Asia to the President for his signature. When signed into law, the legislation would permanently authorize Radio Free Asia’s broadcasting authority. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) introduced companion legislation in the House in March. share: f t Today, the House of Representatives sent legislation (S.3104) bolstering U.S.-backed Radio Free Asia to the President for his signature. When signed into law, the legislation would permanently authorize Radio Free Asia’s broadcasting authority. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) introduced companion legislation in the House in March. Under current law, RFA is set to expire on September 30th. "With this legislation, Radio Free Asia can continue to bring its message of freedom, democracy, and respect for the rule of law - creating a space where civil society can flourish under the continent's oppressive regimes. They cannot hide," declared Royce. Founded in 1996, Radio Free Asia's mission is to act as a "surrogate" news service; performing as a free press would if one was allowed to operate in a target country. As one observer has noted, this type of broadcasting "irritates authoritarian regimes, inspires democrats, and creates greater space for civil society." Target countries of RFA broadcasts such as China, Vietnam and North Korea actively work to block RFA broadcasts and control information in their societies. "This surrogate broadcasting model was critical to inflicting damage to Soviet tyranny and helping to evolve a totalitarian system. It helped bring down the Iron Curtain. That’s why governments in Beijing, Hanoi and Pyongyang are so intent on shutting its message out. Today, Congress has sent the message that we will not cede the free flow of information in Asia," said Royce. Royce serves as a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a member of its Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and the Environment. He was the author of the Radio Free Asia Act of 1998, which significantly boosted broadcasting activities to Asian countries with repressive governments. ###
06.24.2010	This evening, the House of Representatives passed and sent to the President the final version of Iran sanctions legislation. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade served on the conference committee. share: f t This evening, the House of Representatives passed and sent to the President the final version of Iran sanctions legislation. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade served on the conference committee. The Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability and Divestment Act of 2010 aims to sanction foreign entities that assist Iran in importing refined petroleum or in maintaining or expanding Iran’s domestic refining capacity. It also includes financial sanctions aimed at the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, among other provisions. At the insistence of the Obama Administration, the legislation gives the President broad discretion on the implementation of the sanctions. Royce gave the following remarks on the House floor: "The threat of Iran is crystal clear, as its regime closes in on a nuclear weapon. "So a crystal clear response by us is urgent. But much of this legislation, unfortunately, is a muddle: Good sanctions are weakened by delays, half-measures and waiver after waiver. "For this, the Obama Administration gets the main blame. From the beginning, it has insisted on excessive leeway to implement new sanctions. It doesn't want to be forced into dramatic action. So yes, we do provide the tools, but there's little guarantee that they'll be used. "For example, the House-passed bill aimed to target Iran's energy sector. Yet with this conference report, a foreign oil company assisting Iran's petroleum sector could avoid even the investigation required to sanction it for at least a year. And the many companies from China and elsewhere rapidly building Iran's energy facilities today will surely be exempted from these sanctions. "This report's aggressive financial sanctions rightly aim at Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps. While important, they too can be waived. The so-called ‘Mandatory Financial Sanctions’ aren't even mandatory. "This report does require a barrage of reports, certifications and other executive branch paper. Meanwhile, in the real world, Iran marches on. "I'd be less critical if the Obama Administration, or previous ones, had applied a single sanction using existing Iran sanctions legislation. Instead, the Obama Administration has naively given Iran time with its ‘engagement policy.’ "I'll be supporting this bill because it does give the Administration the tools, should it wish to use them. More likely, it'll have to be pressured into action. "Mr. Speaker, even robust sanctions might not deter Iran from nuclear weapons. We need to give the intelligence community what it needs, strengthen our missile defense, target Iran's human rights abusers, and bolster its opposition movement. My colleagues, the clock is ticking.
06.23.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and one of the few members to oppose every bailout, issued the following comments after the Democrat Leadership announced it would not pass a budget this year: "After three and a half years of Democratic control the deficit is now ten times what it was since Pelosi became Speaker of the House. Still the Democrats continue to spend and spend and spend. Now they’ve announced they won’t even put a budget before this Congress, this will be a first since the enactment of the 1974 Budget Act. "Our budget deficit for this year ($1.6 trillion) will be roughly 11 percent of our GDP -- twice the size of any year since WWII. Don't expect that to change anytime soon, since according to the Administration's own numbers we will never see a balanced budget or a budget deficit below $700 billion. "As the Chairman of the Federal Reserve said, this is simply unsustainable. "Yet we continue to ignore opportunities to get serious about this out-of-control spending. For example, this week the Conference Committee on financial regulatory reform will wrap up debate on legislation that will fundamentally change the US financial sector. Missing from this legislation will be an end to the GSE’s unlimited $145 billion (and growing) taxpayer bailout. "This failure to operate within our means is plunging our nation deeper and deeper into debt." ###
06.22.2010	Rep. Royce offered an amendment during the Conference Committee meeting on financial regulatory reform. The Royce-Garrett amendment, defeated by the Committee, would ensure the CFPB does not negatively impact the safety and soundness of covered institutions. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, and Rep. Scott Garrett (R-NJ) offered an amendment during the Conference Committee meeting on financial regulatory reform. The Royce-Garrett amendment, defeated by the Committee, would ensure the CFPB does not negatively impact the safety and soundness of covered institutions. "The flawed approach put forward in the underlying bill bifurcates safety and soundness regulation from consumer protection regulation. The various banking regulators have repeatedly warned us about the problems with this model," Royce said. "We saw this in the case of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. They had one regulator watching for safety and soundness while HUD enforced the affordable housing goals. We know how that ended. Those affordable housing goals were in direct conflict with the health of Fannie and Freddie and ultimately led to their demise," Royce said. The Royce-Garrett amendment would require the CFPB to obtain written approval from the relevant federal banking regulator (prior to issuing a regulation) stating that the regulation in question will not negatively impact the safety and soundness of any covered institutions. Additionally, it gives the relevant federal banking regulator the authority to suspend a regulation issued by the CFPB if it could jeopardize the safety and soundness of a covered institution. "If it is the desire of Congress to create this separate institution with broad, largely unchecked powers, we should ensure that the solvency of our financial system remains the ultimate objective. It is unfortunate that my Democrat colleagues have rejected this amendment," Royce said. ###
06.22.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, offered an amendment to prohibit ACORN from being appointed to the Consumer Advisory Board. The Conference Committee on financial regulatory reform accepted Royce’s amendment. "Groups like ACORN for years have attempted to undermine our electoral system and cases of voter fraud are rampant. In the 2008 presidential election alone, ACORN was investigated in 14 states for massive voter irregularities," Royce said. Royce’s amendment would prohibit the appointment to the Consumer Advisory Board of any employee of an organization that has been convicted of violation under any Federal or State law governing the financing of a campaign for election for public office or any law governing the administration of an election for public office, including a law relating to voter registration. It is worth noting the role groups like ACORN played in the erosion of lending standards throughout our market. As Chicago Tribune article in 1991 noted, "Housing activists have been pushing hard to improve housing for the poor by extracting greater financial support from the country’s two highly profitable secondary mortgage-market companies. Thanks to the help of sympathetic lawmakers, it appeared…that they may succeed." While the GSEs pushed back at the time, out of this debate came the 1992 legislation dictating the GSEs dedicate roughly a third of their portfolio to affordable housing. "Considering ACORN’s role in the erosion of lending standards, I would say ACORN had too much influence in the legislative and regulatory process. If our goal is to create a more stable – less politically driven – financial sector, this amendment is a necessary addition. Excluding organizations that knowingly skirts the rule of law is something all Conferees can agree upon," Royce said. ###
06.16.2010	Rep. Royce and Rep. Bachus offered an amendment to restructure the SEC during today’s Conference Committee meeting. The amendment, adopted by the Conference Committee, will improve the ability of the SEC to protect investors. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, and Rep. Spencer Bachus (R-AL), ranking member of the Financial Services Committee, offered an amendment to restructure the SEC during today’s Conference Committee meeting. The amendment, adopted by the Conference Committee, will improve the ability of the SEC to protect investors. "This amendment is an attempt to hold the SEC more accountable to ensure we have a more competent regulatory body overseeing our capital markets," Royce said. "Earlier this year, the Committee heard from Harry Markopolos, an industry whistleblower, who for more than a decade attempted to bring Bernie Madoff's ponzi scheme to the attention of the SEC. Outside of one individual in the SEC's Boston office, Markopolos was alone in his decade long pursuit." "This amendment will ensure the SEC will have a high ranking official and office to coordinate and pursue the huge volume of whistleblower tips that very well could prevent future frauds like Madoff and Allen Stanford, which the SEC failed to detect for years. Complaints from within industry or by investors are the cheapest, most effective way to identify fraudsters, and I thank Mr. Royce for his leadership to bring this needed change," Bachus said. The Royce-Bachus amendment will improve the stature of whistleblower complaints within the SEC by establishing a separate office within the Commission to better protect whistleblowers and ensure their concerns are being acted upon by the SEC. According to a recent report, whistleblower tips were responsible for detecting 54% of fraud schemes at public companies whereas external audits (like those conducted by the SEC) accounted for 4% of fraud cases detected. "Without establishing an actual office within the SEC, we run the risk of allowing the SEC to continue its subpar treatment of whistleblowers like Mr. Markopolos. I applaud the Conference Committee’s decision to keep this language included," Royce said. ###
06.16.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following remarks in support of H.J.Res.86, Recognizing the 60th anniversary of the outbreak of the Korean War and reaffirming the United States-Korea alliance: "On June 25, 1950, the Korean War started and was halted three years later by an armistice that is still in place today. It involved 22 nations fighting together in defense of the Republic of Korea. "More than 5.7 million Americans served during the conflict. Some 33,600 were killed in action, including about 8,200 listed as missing and presumed dead. Another 21,400 died of non-battle causes and more than 103,000 Americans were wounded during the three years of war. Some have called this the Forgotten War, but we are here today remembering. "I should point out that this resolution was introduced by Mr. Rangel, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Conyers, and Mr. Coble – men who were there 60 years ago. We honor their service here today, as well. "Nearly 140,000 South Koreans were killed on the battle field, many of whom fought side-by-side with American forces for the cause of preserving freedom. The heroic deeds of these servicemen laid the foundation for an alliance between the U.S. and South Korea that has lasted over 60 years, bringing stability to Northeast Asia. "As this resolution rightly notes, the 'Republic of Korea is among the closest allies of the United States.' In no small part this is because of the sacrifices made by the brave Korean and American soldiers that fought valiantly together. "We’ve worked hard over the years to keep this relationship on solid footing. I’ve chaired several exchange meetings with our counterparts in the National Assembly. A few years ago [2008], legislation I authored was signed into law to treat South Korea just the same as NATO and other top allies when it comes to defense sales. "Unfortunately, we have been reminded of the importance of this relationship by the sinking of the Cheonan and by the loss of the 46 South Korean sailors who were killed by a North Korean torpedo attack. Our sympathies and condolences are with their families and the South Korean people. The House passed a resolution to this effect the other week. "Last month, South Korea unveiled the results of a methodical international investigation into the cause of the sinking of a South Korean naval vessel. The evidence – overwhelming – showed what many were all but certain occurred on March 26th – the ship was sunk by a North Korean torpedo attack, in clear violation of the Korean War Armistice. "This is the same regime that caused so much death and suffering in the early 1950’s – the regime brave American servicemen defended against back then, and continue to defend against today. ###
06.15.2010	The Conference Committee on financial regulatory reform began two weeks of debate with today’s discussions covering OTS-OCC, private funds, insurance, and credit rating agencies. share: f t The Conference Committee on financial regulatory reform began two weeks of debate with today’s discussions covering OTS-OCC, private funds, insurance, and credit rating agencies. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and a conferee, made the following arguments during today’s meeting: "We are repeating the mistakes that led to the crisis. By failing to accept the two amendments I offered today, this legislation moves regulators away from safety and soundness regulation. A similar mandate was put forward in the affordable housing goals on the GSEs which forced these institutions to dedicate a third of their portfolio to affordable housing – thereby shifting the focus of regulators away from systemic risk and solvency protection. As a result of those goals the GSEs purchased well over $1 trillion of subprime and Alt-A loans. "Under the Waters provision, financial regulators will be required to "assess the diversity policies" of every single institution they oversee including every credit union and community bank. Just like the affordable housing goals mandated on Fannie and Freddie, this provision will again lead to regulators shifting their focus away from systemic risks and safety and soundness. This time it will be toward racial and gender lending when inspecting the institutions they oversee. "When the government rather than the creditworthiness of the borrow dictates who gets a mortgage, problems arise. That was at the heart of the housing crisis. The Waters provision repeats that mistake and further politicizes the allocation of credit. "This is hardly the regulatory consolidation needed. Consolidating the alphabet soup of banking regulators is long overdue. This outdated structure has led to competing agencies with often conflicting missions. Earlier in the process, Chairman Frank admitted that the single-regulator would be a good one "if we were starting from scratch," but refrained from proposing it because it wasn’t "worth the political cost." It is unfortunate that political costs have outweighed effective regulatory reform. Simply merging the OTS and the OCC is woefully inadequate. "An antiquated beast still oversees our insurance market. We have 51 different regulators, 51 different sets of rules, and really 51 different markets; many of which are stymied by price controls and bureaucratic red tape. While the creation of a Federal Insurance Office is an important step, it is by no means the finish line. Congress must take additional action to streamline insurance regulation and move beyond the status quo, which amounts to little more than an antiquated beast. "Where’s the Fannie and Freddie Reform? It was Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that were at the center of the housing market and largely responsible for the proliferation of subprime and Alt-A mortgages throughout the financial system. No regulatory reform effort will be complete or truly effective without addressing the two institutions most responsible for the collapse of the housing market. It is vital that we put in place a reform plan for the short term to ensure the mistakes of yesterday are never again repeated. NOTE: Watch Royce debate the Waters Amendment here. ###
06.14.2010	Today, the U.S. Department of State released its 2010 Trafficking in Persons Report, a document that catalogues abuses of modern day slavery throughout the world. share: f t Today, the U.S. Department of State released its 2010 Trafficking in Persons Report, a document that catalogues abuses of modern day slavery throughout the world. The Report’s cataloging of abuses – and the categorizing of countries - can bring about change in some countries; the threat of sanctions on the most severe violators is also an important tool. "While this report brings much needed attention to the plight of some of the world’s most marginalized women and children, I regret that it appears that some countries like Cambodia have gotten a pass," said Royce. Citing it as a destination country for commercial sexual exploitation, the State Department had listed Cambodia as a "Tier 2 Watch List" country in its previous report. Despite an abundance of evidence that these problems still exist, Cambodia was upgraded one position. This will prevent automatic relegation to the lowest category (Tier 3) if next year it is once again listed as a Tier 2 Watch List country. "The 2010 report cites Cambodian children being trafficked to Thailand and Vietnam for forced labor, the sale of virgin girls ‘continues to be a serious problem,’ and a significant number of Asian and foreign men ‘travel to Cambodia to engage in child sex tourism.’ Furthermore, the report cites that police and judicial officials are both ‘directly and indirectly involved in trafficking.’ And under these conditions, the State Department saw fit to upgrade Cambodia? We need to be sending a much stronger message that these forms of modern day slavery and unacceptable," said Royce. Following a Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission hearing entitled "Human Rights and the Rule of Law in Cambodia" held last year, Rep. Ed Royce introduced a House Resolution – H.Res.820 - condemning Cambodian corruption and the role it plays in furthering human trafficking. "Having heard scores of accounts from NGO’s and from eyewitnesses, the Cambodian government’s corruption often hampers trafficking investigations, and at worse, covers up the problem. Rewarding Cambodia, as the State Department Report does, only hampers efforts to curtail human trafficking. I’d like to see my colleagues join me in pressing this issue by cosponsoring my resolution, H.Res.820," said Royce. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and is an active member of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission. ###
06.14.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) commended the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom for recommending Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern" (CPC) for severe violations of religious freedom in its recently released annual report. The USCIRF, a congressionally created organization that advises the State Department in matters of religious freedom, has designated Vietnam as a CPC every year since 2001. "Finding that the one-party Communist government continues to ‘severely restrict independent religious practice,’ I am glad that the USCIRF continues to put pressure on Hanoi. U.S. Department of State: Please listen!" said Royce. Since 1999, the U.S. State Department has designated countries that "engage in or tolerate particularly severe violations of religious freedom," as "Countries of Particular Concern." This annual designation puts the violations of specific countries on record, making it a significant diplomatic tool for advancing human rights. Due to Vietnam's egregious human rights violations, the State Department had previously listed it as one of these countries from 2004-2006. In 2006, however, the State Department removed Vietnam from this annual list. "As the current state of human rights and religious freedom in Vietnam is deplorable, the State Department’s decision to remove Vietnam from the CPC list was extraordinarily short-sighted. When Vietnam was placed on the CPC list, we saw some positive changes. Unfortunately, when they were prematurely released in 2006, Vietnam ramped up its persecution," said Royce. As the USCIRF report finds, over the past two years, the Communist government "has moved decisively to repress any perceived challenges to its authority." This is evident in the continued detention of hundreds of Montagnard Protestants, and dozens of other religious leaders, including the leader of the United Buddhist Church of Vietnam, the Venerable Thich Quang Do. Many who opposed restrictions on religion were beaten, sometimes with electric batons. To help bring attention to this matter, Royce introduced H.Res.20, a resolution calling on the State Department to relist Vietnam as a CPC. Language from this resolution was adopted by a bill to provide funding for the State Department, and was passed out of the House Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and is an active member of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam. ###
06.09.2010	The United Nations Security Council today passed a resolution, the fourth of its kind, against Iran for its nuclear program. Twelve members of the 15 member Security Council voted in favor, while two – Turkey and Brazil – voted against, and Lebanon abstained. share: f t The United Nations Security Council today passed a resolution, the fourth of its kind, against Iran for its nuclear program. Twelve members of the 15 member Security Council voted in favor, while two – Turkey and Brazil – voted against, and Lebanon abstained. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade issued the following statement: "We need dramatic action to change the game of Iran’s nuclear program. This resolution is far from dramatic. Yet another resolution, with a lowest common denominator approach. "The Democrat leadership in Congress has stalled action for over a year on an aggressive U.S. sanctions push in deference to the Obama Administration’s U.N. strategy. With the charade in New York over, it is time for Congress to implement crushing sanctions on Iran. "Countries like Turkey and Brazil are showing their true colors – practicing obstructionism and even provocation. This has been invited by a White House that has preached a world-view that all countries matter equally. "An illusion of progress is dangerous. That’s what we got today." Rep. Royce is a member of the conference committee for H.R. 2194, the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability and Divestment Act, still pending before Congress. ###
06.09.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, was named today as a conferee to the regulatory reform legislation. Following the announcement Royce issued the following remarks: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, was named today as a conferee to the regulatory reform legislation. Following the announcement Royce issued the following remarks: "Today we begin the conference on legislation that fundamentally alters the structure of the U.S. Financial Services sector. After the near collapse of this sector, and the subsequent government bailouts that occurred, there is no question that reform is desperately needed. However, in failing to include the reform of the two Government Sponsored Enterprises at the heart of the housing crisis – Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac – this legislation falls short. "It was Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that were at the center of the housing market and largely responsible for the proliferation of subprime and Alt-A mortgages throughout the financial system. Because of affordable housing mandates enacted by Congress in 1992, Fannie and Freddie became the largest purchasers of these junk loans; ending up with well over $1 trillion worth. No regulatory reform effort will be complete or truly effective without addressing the two institutions most responsible for the collapse of the housing market. "Additionally, this legislation creates an industry of Too-Big-to-Fail firms. By labeling firms as systemically important, we will separate our financial system between those with a government backstop and their competitors. As a result, designated firms will see greater access to credit and a much lower cost of capital compared to their Too-Small-to-Save counterparts. "Financial regulatory reform is a critical step for the future health of our capital markets. As we move forward with this Conference Committee we must address these glaring shortfalls and deliver a regulatory reform package that addresses the root causes of the housing and financial collapse while putting our economy back on a path toward prosperity." ###
05.26.2010	During today’s Financial Services Committee hearing Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) highlighted the role of the GSEs in the housing collapse. Additionally, Royce compared the failed GSE regulatory model to the approach put forward in the Dodd-Frank regulatory reform package moving through Congress. share: f t During today’s Financial Services Committee hearing Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) highlighted the role of the GSEs in the housing collapse. Additionally, Royce compared the failed GSE regulatory model to the approach put forward in the Dodd-Frank regulatory reform package moving through Congress. "Former Fed Chair, Alan Greenspan recently noted, Fannie and Freddie ‘paid whatever price was necessary’ to reach the affordable housing goals put in place by Congress in 1992," Royce said. "When we tried to rein in the GSEs, our efforts were blocked because they were viewed as attacks on affordable housing. Unfortunately, that argument won out and the Democrats in the Senate were able to stop legislation to rein in the GSEs from reaching the floor." Despite the low quality of the loans, millions of Americans now had a mortgage they otherwise could not afford. Pairing those affordable housing mandates with the GSEs excessive leverage was a toxic combination that was at the heart of the housing bubble. "If we hope for a more resilient housing market in the future, mortgage finance must be based overwhelmingly on the private investment and risk must be better aligned with the risk takers," Royce said. During the hearing, FHFA director DeMarco acknowledged that the separation of safety and soundness regulation from consumer protection regulation helped cause the downfall of Fannie and Freddie. "Congress is now on the brink of applying this failed model to the rest of the financial services sector – through the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency. Considering its past failures, taking this step would be a grave mistake that will end up weakening our regulatory model," Royce concluded. NOTE: Watch Royce question FHFA director DeMarco here.
05.25.2010	Through America Speaking Out, the American people will be given a voice in setting the priorities for a national agenda. At town hall meetings, online at AmericaSpeakingOut.com, and through new communications tools, all Americans will have an opportunity to be a part of this effort. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R- CA) applauded the House Republican’s new initiative "America Speaking Out." Through America Speaking Out, the American people will be given a voice in setting the priorities for a national agenda. At town hall meetings, online at AmericaSpeakingOut.com, and through new communications tools, all Americans will have an opportunity to be a part of this effort. "As Washington continues spending, upon spending, upon spending my constituents are eager to have a voice in shaping the policies that affect their lives. This new tool will allow them the opportunity to ask questions, submit ideas and truly engage in the process," Royce said. Our budget deficit for this year ($1.6 trillion) will be roughly 11 percent of our GDP -- twice the size of any year since WWII. When asked about our soaring budget deficits, Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke said 'certainly trillion dollar deficits as far as the eye can see would not be sustainable.' "On top of a growing federal budget we have had stimulus packages, a long series of government financed bailouts, and a government takeover of healthcare. The government now holds a significant stake in many of our banks, insurance companies and auto companies. This massive shift toward a government-run economy has resulted in trillion dollar deficits in the near and long term. This is a significant burden we are placing on the American taxpayers," Royce said. This website will be a tool to gather ideas from across the nation that will, in time, lead to a governing policy agenda. Using all the resources and opportunities available, including cutting-edge technology, town hall meetings, and traditional in-person conversation, America Speaking Out will engage the American people to talk about the challenges they’d like Congress to address. NOTE: To submit your ideas or learn more about the House Republican’s new initiative please visit www.AmericaSpeakingOut.com. ###
05.24.2010	In case you missed it...Rep. Royce (R-CA) highlights the Senate's regulatory reform shortfalls in the following Dear Colleague letter: As you know, the Senate passed its version of financial regulatory reform late Thursday evening. This bill falls far short of the reform our financial system needs. Here are a few points to remember about the bill as it moves forward: It creates an industry of Too-Big-to-Fail firms. By labeling firms as systemically important, we will separate our financial system between those with a government backstop and their competitors. As a result, designated firms will see greater access to credit and a lower cost of capital compared to their Too-Small-to-Save counterparts. Evidence of this competitive advantage has already surfaced. A report issued in late 2009 noted the current Too-Big-to-Fail policy has led to a $34 billion per year and 78 basis point advantage for our largest financial institutions over their smaller competitors. The Dodd approach will distort competition and create dozens of large GSE-like institutions. The creation of another government bureaucracy will weaken our regulatory model and hurt consumers. Through the creation of a Consumer Protection Bureau, the Dodd bill separates consumer protection regulation from safety and soundness regulation. As Comptroller of the Currency John Dugan noted, "the best way to implement consumer protection regulation of banks – the best way to protect consumers – is to do so through prudential supervision." As we saw with the regulatory model over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, separating mission oversight (HUD) from safety and soundness regulation (OFHEO) creates competing and often conflicting interests. Applying this flawed model throughout our financial system will inevitably weaken our regulatory structure. Further, this new entity will be vested with broad, largely undefined powers that will restrict credit and increase borrowing costs for consumers. Monetary policy is left unexamined. The Federal Reserve set real interest rates from 2002-2006 at a negative level when adjusted for inflation. The negative real interest rates intensified the boom-and-bust cycle and encouraged excessive risk-taking throughout the economy; especially in the financial sector and housing. Unlike the House GOP alternative, the Dodd bill fails to address this clear contributor to the financial bubble. It compounds the rating agencies cartel. For years leading up to the crisis, investors and regulators outsourced due diligence to the three major credit rating agencies. Because the rating agencies were government-sanctioned by the Federal Reserve and SEC, they were able to issue triple-A ratings on dubious securities without being second guessed. Despite their past failure, the Dodd bill rewards these institutions by creating a new board overseen by the SEC that would assign the rating agencies to rate specific debt instruments – thereby officially ordaining these private firms as a ratings oligopoly. This approach, unlike the one found in the House bill, will inevitably reintroduce the outsourcing of due diligence that occurred at the height of the financial bubble. The government will be picking winners and losers. Despite various changes, the Senate bill still allows the FDIC to play favorites among the creditors of a failing institution undergoing FDIC resolution. Specifically, the FDIC could provide a 100% bailout to whichever of these creditors it favors, while imposing severe losses on other institutions who bought the exact same bonds. This much power vested in the FDIC will inevitably lead to the government picking winners and losers based on political pull, not market discipline. Instead of authorizing regulators to bailout creditors, it should be known that no institution will ever again be shielded from losses of a failed firm with whom it does business. It grants resolution authority to an ill-equipped FDIC. The FDIC is responsible for liquidating very simple institutions primarily made up of insured deposits and small, straightforward loans. In fact, roughly 98 percent of the liabilities of banks and thrifts unwound by the FDIC in the last two years were insured deposits. This is in stark contrast to the many massive non-deposit taking institutions likely to be covered under a resolution authority. Take Lehman Brothers and AIG. At $639 billion, Lehman Brothers was nearly 15 times bigger than the largest bank resolved by the FDIC (AIG was even larger at $1 trillion in assets). Neither firm had insured depositors or depositors of any kind. Their complex assets and liabilities looked nothing like the simple residential and commercial mortgages dealt with by the FDIC. Handing over this type of authority to a government agency with little expertise will create a level of uncertainty in the market. The bankruptcy courts have a history of dealing with large complicated institutions and are better suited to liquidate failed financial firms. It fails to bring reforms to the two institutions at the heart of housing bubble. It was the government sponsored enterprises (Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) that were at the heart of the housing market and largely responsible for the proliferation of subprime and Alt-A mortgages throughout the financial system. Because of an affordable housing mandate passed by Congress in 1992, they loaded up on over one trillion dollars of these junk loans. The subsequent housing bust took down much of the financial system and left our economy in shambles. No regulatory reform effort will be complete without addressing the two institutions most responsible for the housing collapse. For these and many other reasons we should continue to work to prevent the Dodd bill from becoming law. Financial regulatory reform is a critical step for the future health of our capital markets. Going forward we must address these glaring shortfalls in the legislation and deliver a regulatory reform package that addresses the root causes of the housing and financial collapse while putting our economy back on a path toward prosperity. Sincerely, ER ###
05.24.2010	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives debated a resolution expressing condolences to the families of the 46 South Korean sailors who recently lost their lives to a North Korean torpedo attack. The resolution also expresses solidarity with South Korea, a vital ally of the United States. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, offered the following remarks during debate: "Mr. Speaker, this incident is offering long last clarity across Asia after years of delusions about North Korea. Reality is setting in. "In Seoul, is it offering clarity about the brutal nature of the Stalinist regime in the North. Earlier today, South Korea President Lee Myung-bak addressed the nation. He noted that, ‘North Korea’s goal is to instigate division and conflict.’ "This crisis is also offering clarity about Beijing’s role in Northeast Asia and beyond. Despite an international investigation …China has announced that it will complete its own assessment of the sinking. Beijing merely called the murder of these 46 sailors ‘unfortunate.’ "Beijing’s meek reply came days after it rolled out the red carpet for Kim Jong-Il and reportedly showered him with 100,000 tons of food and $100 million in other aid. So much for a ‘responsible’ China. "The U.S should support the efforts of South Korea to take their evidence to the U.N. Security Council. Why not press and make China show the world where it stands – with Kim Jong-Il and his recklessness, or with order and peace, not to mention the grieving families of his victims? "This House is right to stand in solidarity with our South Korean ally." Royce also serves as a member of the Asia Subcommittee. The House is expected to pass the resolution either later tonight or later this week. ###
05.20.2010	Today the Financial Services Committee held a joint hearing to discuss the trillion dollar European bailout proposal. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), one of the few members to oppose every single bailout, expressed his opposition to a bailout for Europe. "The government has lent, spent or guaranteed about $8.2 trillion to prop up our own economy in the last two years. While we were overleveraged pre-crisis, this drastic spike in taxpayer liabilities has put us on a Greek-like path," Royce said. The federal budget deficit – at 82.7 billion dollars – hit an all-time high for April. That was 53 billion dollars higher than economists had predicted. All the while, Chairman Bernanke continues to warn – this path is simply unsustainable. "Over the years, the IMF has developed into a dependence-inducing crutch used by weaker countries to avoid making the tough decisions necessary to get their fiscal houses in order. In many ways, the IMF has been as much part of the problem as part of the solution," Royce said. Additionally, the possibility of contagion puts potential US liabilities through the roof. Just within the IMF-EU proposal, US exposure is roughly 54 billion dollars. "Given our current fiscal situation, the fact that the IMF has a poor track record when dealing with these problems and the real possibility for contagion, the US needs to look at reducing its exposure to this organization. Now is the time for us to address our own budgetary crisis and put our economy back on a path toward growth," Royce said. NOTE: To watch Royce’s opening statement from today’s hearing, please click here. Watch Royce question Daniel Tarullo, a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, on the European bailout here. ###
05.19.2010	South Korea will soon formally cite a North Korean torpedo attack as the cause of the sinking of a South Korean warship, which killed 46 sailors in March. The announcement is set to come after the conclusion of a lengthy inquiry which included cooperation from Australian, British, Swedish and U.S. investigators. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee made the following comments: "Countries in the region, along with the United States, must have the resolve to stand up to North Korean aggression. The U.S. and our South Korean ally are not powerless in the face of such provocation. There is a long list of steps that Washington and Seoul can and should take in lockstep to strengthen deterrence in the region and show that 46 deaths will not go unanswered. "Those pushing fruitless Six Party Talks for years simply won't acknowledge the type of regime we're dealing. I don't have much hope that this will be a wake-up call, but we'll see. "And for all of those who have hoped to see the rise of a ‘responsible’ China, this is a clarifying moment. The U.S. should support efforts to take this evidence to the U.N. Security Council and make Beijing show the world where it stands. Royce serves as a senior member of the Asia Subcommittee. He recently penned a guest blog post, outlining prescriptions to responding to North Korean aggression, which appeared on the Heritage Foundation’s The Foundry, and can be found here.
05.18.2010	During today’s Financial Services Committee hearing, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), one of the few members to oppose every single bailout, joined his colleagues to oppose the Democrats’ latest spending scheme TARP 3.0, a new $30 billion program. "The policies of Washington are destroying the backbone of this country," Royce said. "Our budget deficit for this year ($1.6 trillion) will be roughly 11 percent of our GDP -- twice the size of any year since WWII. Yet, the Democrat Leadership wants to continue down this dangerous road of out-of-control spending by proposing a $30 billion TARP program." A couple weeks ago, the federal budget deficit (at $82.7 billion) hit an all-time high for the month of April. That was $53 billion higher than economists had predicted just for the month of April. "Our nation does not have $30 billion dollars to give out," Royce said. "Instead of focusing on TARP 3.0, Congress should look at the anti-business message coming from Washington. Businesses around the country are being forced to face Washington’s costly mandates and taxes, like those just enacted in the healthcare bill. They also understand that the cap and trade legislation will increase the cost of doing business and restrict future growth. "Real economic growth will not come from another program run out of the Treasury Department. We must turn our attention to creating a modicum of certainty for businesses going forward," Royce concluded. NOTE: To watch Royce’s opening statement from today’s hearing, please click here. ###
05.17.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R- CA) congratulated his 16 appointees on acceptance to the nation’s military service academies. Royce hosted a reception in honor of these outstanding students’ achievements. He met with them and their families to congratulate them in person. "Each year I have the privilege of nominating young men and women of high potential to our nation's military service academies. We are lucky here in Orange County to have many of the nation's best and brightest students. I have no doubt that these dedicated students will continue to make their families, communities and country proud," Royce said. The appointment process is very detailed, highly selective and based on a candidate's academic achievement, athletic ability, extra-curricular activities and community service. The following is a list of Royce’s 2010 Academy Appointees: West Point Phillip H. Le – Villa Park High School/ Orange Peter Lee – Sunny Hills High School/ Fullerton Kevin Pak – Cypress High School/ Cypress Cody A. Peterson – Villa Park High School/ Orange Trent Joseph Reece – Fullerton High School/ Fullerton Scott A. Williams – Orange Lutheran High School/ Villa Park Navy Samantha Michelle Espinosa – Troy High School/ Orange Merchant Marine Michael Jong Lee – Sunny Hills High School/ Fullerton Air Force Nicholas Arellano – John F. Kennedy High School/ La Palma Troy Fitle – Calvary Chapel, Downey/ lives in Cypress Carley Anne Gross – Foothill High School/ Villa Park Ernesto Guerrero – Troy High School/ Fullerton Kaleigh C. Moses – Rosary High School/ Westminster Eunice Haejung Park – Sunny Hills High School/ Fullerton Ryan Sheikh – Sunny Hills High School/ Fullerton Sionetufui Wolfgramm – Savanna High School/ Anaheim NOTE: To learn more about the application process please contact Patty Shay in Rep. Royce’s Orange office at 714-744-4130. ###
05.13.2010	Following passage of their legislation requiring a strategy to confront the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA), the bipartisan, bicameral group of legislators behind the bill called on President Obama to quickly sign it into law and make a personal commitment to ending the LRA’s ongoing bloodshed. The LRA, Africa’s longest running rebel group, is responsible for countless atrocities in Uganda and neighboring countries. The LRA Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act, introduced by Senators Russ Feingold (D-WI), Sam Brownback (R-KS) and James Inhofe (R-OK) in the Senate and Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Ed Royce (R-CA) in the House, requires the Obama administration to develop a new multifaceted, interagency strategy to assist regional governments in disarming the LRA, while ensuring the protection of civilians. This legislation has been cosponsored by 194 members of the House of Representatives and 64 members of the Senate, making it the most widely cosponsored Africa-specific bill in recent U.S. history. "Passage of this bill with historic bipartisan support shows that Congress is committed to ending the LRA’s reign of terror," Senator Feingold said. "I urge President Obama to sign this bill into law and quickly develop a plan to stop Joseph Kony and the LRA from committing further atrocities by bringing a lasting resolution to this conflict." "I applaud my House colleagues for passing this important piece of legislation. The LRA is a serious threat to the people of Uganda and neighboring countries. We must continue to work for a lasting peace. I am hopeful that the President acts quickly to sign this bill into law," Senator Brownback said. "Last night’s House action on the LRA bill marks a major step in addressing the atrocities of Joseph Kony and the LRA’s devastating activities in Uganda," said Inhofe. "This bill will help protect the children and people from Joseph Kony’s reign of terror. As the only U.S. Senator that has made over 100 country visits to the continent of Africa, I have witnessed first-hand the devastation caused by the LRA. Because of this, I have become fervently involved in trying to prevent further abductions and murders of Ugandan children. Now we are offering hope as this bill mandates the development of strategies to apprehend Kony and other top LRA leaders. I look forward to President Obama signing this measure," Senator Inhofe said. "I'm very pleased that this important, bipartisan legislation will be going to the President for his signature," Rep. Jim McGovern said. "It is crucial that the United States commit to a proactive strategy to help bring this conflict to an end and to strengthen humanitarian assistance. Passage of this bill is a tribute to the thousands of activists across the country who have dedicated themselves to this cause." "The LRA’s objectives are threefold: kill, capture and resupply for its next pillage. There is no other reason for its being. The removal of Kony and his top leadership would decapitate this group. This legislation ensures U.S. leadership in making that happen. The day can’t come soon enough," declared Rep. Ed Royce, a former Africa subcommittee chairman. For over two decades, the LRA terrorized northern Uganda, resulting in the displacement of nearly two million people at the height of the problem. The LRA has been pushed out of Uganda in recent years, but continues to wreak havoc in the border region of northeastern Congo, southern Sudan and Central African Republic. In addition to requiring a strategy, the LRA Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act calls for increased humanitarian assistance for communities throughout the region now affected by the LRA’s brutality. It also authorizes U.S. assistance for transitional justice and reconciliation efforts in Uganda. ###
05.11.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, listened to the SEC and CFTC discuss the causes of Thursday’s stock market temporary 1000 point plunge (the Flash Crash) and the current regulatory reform proposal. "Most investors simply want to see an orderly well-functioning trading environment which is fundamental to the strength and reliability of our financial markets." "Today, financial markets have adopted technology that allows for the implementation of traditional trading strategies in ways that are better, faster and more efficient than ever before. This provides a great benefit to investors who now see faster trades with a reduced bid/ask spread," Royce said, "but the downside is the potential for greater volatility." "In 2002, we had two dominant market centers that held the overwhelming majority of the market share. This meant coordination during times of high distress was much easier. "The events of last Thursday reflect the fact that our market structure has become more fragmented over the years – with more than 40 market centers, today. Given the evolution of this market and recent events, better coordinated market-wide response in times of severe distress needs to be addressed," Royce said. During the hearing Royce also addressed the ill-conceived proposal to tax all financial transactions proposed by several Democratic Members. "When Congress doesn’t understand or like something, it has the tendency to tax it or legislate it out of existence. "The recent proposal to tax every financial transaction would not have prevented last Thursday’s market swing and would put our capital markets at a competitive disadvantage. "On the other hand, if regulators follow the lead of Germany and enact meaningful safeguards through real-time circuit breakers our financial system would be better equipped to withstand this type of volatility." NOTE: To watch Royce discuss today’s hearing on CNBC, click here. For Royce’s opening statement, click here. To watch Royce question the SEC and the CFTC, please click here. ###
05.05.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, issued the following statement in response to developments in the Times Square car bombing plot. "This plot once again demonstrates the centrality of Pakistan’s radical religious schools in terrorist plots against our country and across the world. We are seeing the consequences of that country’s failure to control the Deobandi educational infrastructure of hate, which has been putting down roots across Pakistan for decades. "Simply put, we got lucky. Our counterterrorism tools – everything from intelligence collection on individuals entering the United States to no-fly lists to interrogation procedures and methods – have to be sharp. There can be no room for errors. "We owe a great deal to the citizens and police officers who helped to discover this plot and place this individual into custody. The attempted attack demonstrates the changing nature of the terrorist threat against our country, which means we have to adapt all the much quicker." Royce returned this week from a congressional oversight trip to Pakistan, where he met with President Zardari, Prime Minister Gilani, the former minister of education and religious leaders.
05.04.2010	This Friday, May 7, 2010 Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) will host a Combat Fraud Forum at the Cypress Community Center located at 5700 Orange Avenue from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Attendees will obtain information on identity theft, mortgage loans and lending, investment scams, charity fraud, Medicare fraud and more. "From immigration fraud to identity theft this forum is designed to empower constituents and educate them about their rights as consumers and I look forward to hosting my 2010 Combat Fraud Forum," Royce said. "This year’s representatives will provide a wide range of information giving our attendees the necessary tools to combat fraud." Representatives from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) will be on hand to provide valuable information on the various forms of fraud consumers face today. One of the most common forms of fraud, identity theft, will be addressed at Royce’s Combat Fraud Forum. The FTC estimates that as many as nine million Americans have their identity stolen each year. Additionally, representatives will address debt-relief scams, mortgage fraud and other forms of fraud that have seen an increase during this economic downturn. In fact, a recent AP piece reported that residential mortgage fraud increased seven percent last year - among states California was in the top five. "Internet fraud is on the rise as well. With the advantages of the Internet come certain dangers and potential threats to our safety and security. I want to provide my constituents with the tools they need to be informed and successful consumers in this era of increased technology," Royce said. The event is free of charge and open to the public. For additional information please contact Representative Royce's office at (714) 744-4130. NOTE: Click here for Royce's 2010 Combat Fraud Forum Flyer.
04.29.2010	Rep. Royce guests blogs on Heritage's The Foundry regarding regulatory reform: As the Senate moves closer to another cloture vote on Senator Dodd’s legislation, we are again reminded of the several flaws found in the Dodd-Frank approach to financial regulatory reform. Beginning with the rescue of investment bank Bear Stearns in the spring of 2008, the Federal government has committed trillions of taxpayer dollars to institutions like Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, AIG, Citigroup and Bank of America, out of fear that the demise of any of these "too big to fail" institutions would trigger a systemic crisis and collapse of the global financial system. With the bailout of creditors domestically and overseas, we have seen an increase in moral hazard and a 78 basis point advantage in lower borrowing costs for those firms receiving government funds. Instead of learning from the failures of 2008, the legislation put forward will compound the moral hazard problem. Take the House bill that passed last December. Armed with a $150 billion bailout fund backed by the US Treasury, regulators would be authorized to "make loans to, or purchase the debt obligations of a systemically risky company; purchase its assets; assume or guarantee its obligations; take liens on assets or sell or transfer the company’s assets." This is a huge amount of power left to the discretion of government officials. As my colleague Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA) accurately described when the bill was first introduced, it amounts to "TARP on steroids." Beyond the bailout fund, the House bill provides regulators the authority to "guaranty obligations of solvent" financial institutions; that’s right solvent firms. Essentially, the FDIC will be able to extend $500 billion in taxpayer liabilities to companies that are not currently in financial trouble. While final language remains uncertain, the Senate bill incorporates much of this approach. This is not the death panel that Chairman Frank so often claims when referring to the fate of failing institutions. Given the ability to arbitrarily reward certain creditors and counterparties, this is not an "enhanced bankruptcy process" or an "expedited bankruptcy" that the Administration wants people to believe. Despite the rhetoric coming from the other side, the Dodd-Frank approach hands over the keys to the Treasury to a group of unelected bureaucrats. If TARP was any indication, regulators will always err on the side of doling out too many (not too few) federal dollars under the guise of preventing a systemic shock. If the goal of regulatory reform is to prevent failed firms and those that do business with it from receiving taxpayer bailouts, three simple steps should be avoided: • First, do not give regulators the authority to make loans to or purchase assets of a failed firm. • Second, do not create a bailout fund which will reward those very parties. • Third, do not give the FDIC the authority to guaranty $500 billion worth of debt of solvent institutions. The underlying assertion of the Dodd-Frank approach is that the bureaucrats that missed the last crisis will be there to foresee and prevent the next one. Instead of handing over permanent bailout authority to the bureaucrats that performed so poorly in the past, Congress should focus on expanding the bankruptcy code to liquidate failed financial firms in a timely manner. Today, this type of expedited bankruptcy is routinely used to resolve failed airlines and railroads. The bankruptcy code is clear, efficient and does not rely on bureaucratic discretion. Firms that take improper risk will fail. Those businesses that choose to deal with such a firm will also face the consequences of their decisions. With the understanding that the federal government is out of the bailout business, better underwriting will be practiced throughout our capital markets and market discipline will return. As a result, credit will be directed to credit-worthy products, rather than to large financial institutions whose only competitive advantage is an implicit government guarantee in the event of failure. There was strong bipartisan opposition to the Dodd-Frank approach when it sneaked through the House last December. Those that opposed the bill understood the implications for the taxpayers and our capital markets under this plan. Hopefully, Senator Richard Shelby and his colleagues opposing the Dodd-Frank approach in the Senate will not settle until drastic changes are made to this fundamentally flawed bill. ###
04.28.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade posted to his blog - Foreign Intrigue – on the recent assassination attempt of Hwang Jang-yop, the highest-ranking North Korean official ever to defect. The full post is reprinted below. To view the latest posts from the Foreign Intrigue blog or to sign up to receive updates via e-mail, visit www.royce.house.gov/foreignintrigueblog. April 27, 2010 Thin Skin He’s frail. He’s 87 years old. He’s a marked man. His name is Hwang Jang-yop, the highest-ranking North Korean official ever to defect. He helped create juche, the North Korean philosophy of self-reliance. In 1997, after North Korean food policy killed millions, the former party secretary and mentor to Kim Jong-Il defected to South Korea on a trip to China. In Washington last month, Hwang called Kim Jong-Il "a dictator 10 times worse" than his old man, and the real traitor, for letting his people starve. Let’s just say that Kim Jong-Il doesn’t take criticism well. North Korean propaganda has long called Hwang "human scum" and he has received many death threats. One earlier this month read: "you must not forget that traitors have always been slaughtered with knives." I’ve met Hwang twice. Once was in Seoul, in 2003. Our small meeting room -filled with translators, Embassy staff, Hwang’s handlers, etc.- was a sauna, but I learned a lot about the North Korean military complex and propaganda. The human suffering in North Korea seemed to weigh heavily on Hwang. He has a lot of ghosts to deal with, and he has vowed to speak out until his last breath. Six months later I helped engineer Hwang's first trip to the U.S., to meet with other members of Congress. His security was a constant hassle. Some thought it was a bit overdone. This guy had defected years ago. Intelligence goes cold quick. Was Hwang really a threat? Well, turns out Kim Jong-Il certainly thinks so, even today. Last week, South Korean authorities announced that they had arrested two North Korean agents posing as defectors in a plot to assassinate Hwang. The two men traveled to South Korea via routes common for North Korean refugees. South Korean intelligence said their mission was to "cut his throat because he was a thorn in the eye of the North." Afterwards, they planned to take their own lives. Grim stuff. The message is no traitor is safe, ever. For Kim Jong-Il, this is personal too. Many North Korean agents are at work in South Korea. A member of the Dear Leader’s family who defected was shot and killed on a Seoul street in 1997. There have been other North Korean killings overseas. But there had been a pause, which helped the Bush Administration meet the legal standard to remove North Korea from the state sponsors of terrorism list in its naive hope of getting at the North Korean nuclear program. My bet is that the regime has no fear of an Obama Administration reversal. Mr. Hwang, watch your back! ###
04.28.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined Rep. Ted Poe and several other colleagues during a press conference to urge President Obama to address the growing national security threat along the southern border. "As the Ranking Member of the Terrorism Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee I know all too well that border security is national security. For years I have supported programs like Operation Jump Start that seek to address our nation’s border vulnerabilities," Royce said. "That is why I am pleased to work with Rep. Poe to give Americans what they’ve been asking the federal government to deliver for years: border enforcement. I hope this Administration makes border enforcement more of a priority." In a letter sent to President Obama this morning, Royce and his colleagues echoed the requests of border state governors: deploy National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border. Additionally, the letter specifically requests that any deployed National Guard troops be armed and allowed to defend themselves if fired upon, as well as assist Border Patrol agents and other law enforcement officers. Recent news reports of the murders of Lesley Enriquez, a U.S. Consulate employee, and her husband Arthur Redelf, a ten year veteran of the El Paso Police Department, and long-time Arizona rancher Robert Krentz, have brought the seriousness of this issue to the national forefront. Violence along the U.S.-Mexico border is increasing at an alarming rate and Border Patrol agents are faced with a growing threat to their safety. The attacks against Border Patrol agents have increased 46 percent from 2007 to 2008. "When drug violence from Mexico spills over the border and exposes our communities and families to the consequences it is time we make border enforcement a priority," Royce said. Note: To view the full text of the letter, please click here. ###
04.28.2010	Instead of acknowledging past failures, Chairman Frank continues his attempt to rewrite history. For years, Barney Frank and Chris Dodd ignored the warnings issued by former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan and allowed Fannie and Freddie to continue to grow and expand their profits by dramatically increasing their mortgage portfolios. Through legislation passed by the Democrat Congress in 1992, the GSE’s were able to dive into the junk mortgage market (purchasing well over $1 trillion worth) and rack up leverage ratios of 100-to-1. Understanding the systemic threat posed to the world’s financial system by Fannie and Freddie, when the House GSE reform bill was on the floor on October 26, 2005: • I offered an amendment endorsed by the Fed authorizing their regulator to rein in the Fannie and Freddie based on the systemic threat they posed. (Mr. Frank opposed it.) • Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX) offered an amendment to eliminate the ability of Fannie and Freddie to borrow from the Treasury. (Mr. Frank opposed it.) • Former Rep. Jim Leach (R-IA) offered an amendment to strengthen the minimum capital requirements for Fannie and Freddie. (Mr. Frank opposed it.) Considering recent events and the $126 billion (and counting) bailout of Fannie and Freddie, it is hard to argue these amendments were not necessary. Unfortunately, an army of lobbyists at Fannie and Freddie and their allies in Congress were successful in portraying these amendments and any attempt to rein in the GSEs as attacks on affordable housing (as seen by the quotes below). Mr. Dodd and his fellow Senate Democrats stonewalled the companion GSE reform legislation offered by former Senator Chuck Hagel (R- NE) from getting to the floor, which ultimately killed our reform efforts in 2005. Quotes on Fannie and Freddie: September 2003 "I think we see entities that are fundamentally sound, financially, and withstand some of the disaster scenarios. And even if there were a problem, the federal government doesn’t bail them out. But the more pressure there is there, then the less I think we see in terms of affordable housing. -Rep Barney Frank September 2003 "I do think I do not want the same kind of focus on safety and soundness that we have in OCC [Office of the Comptroller of the Currency] and OTS [Office of Thrift Supervision]. I want to roll the dice a little bit more in this situation towards subsidized housing. . . . -Rep. Barney Frank September 2003 "I believe there has been more alarm raised about potential unsafety and unsoundness than, in fact, exists. -Rep. Barney Frank February 2004 "I, just briefly will say, Mr. Chairman, obviously, like most of us here, [Fannie and Freddie] is one of the great success stories of all time. And we don't want to lose sight of that and [what] has been pointed out by all of our witnesses here, obviously, the 70% of Americans who own their own homes today, in no small measure, due because of the work that's been done here. And that shouldn't be lost in this debate and discussion. . . . -Sen. Chris Dodd Luckily, some Democratic colleagues of Dodd and Frank have admitted their culpability in the handling of Fannie and Freddie: September 2008 "I think the responsibility that the Democrats have may rest more in resisting any efforts by Republicans in the Congress, or by me when I was President, to put some standards and tighten up a little on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. -Former President Bill Clinton October 2008 "Like a lot of my Democratic colleagues, I was too slow to appreciate the recklessness of Fannie and Freddie…Frankly, I wish my Democratic colleagues would admit, when it comes to Fannie and Freddie, we were wrong. -Rep. Artur Davis (D-AL) NOTE: Watch statements from members of Congress on Fannie and Freddie here.
04.24.2010	Today, Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA) expressed his disappointment that President Obama failed to recognize the 1915 massacre of Armenians as genocide. "As a Senator, Barrack Obama had a strong record on the Armenian Genocide. As President, however, he’s fallen flat once again. I’m disappointed that the President has missed yet another opportunity to set the record straight," said Royce. Royce also took the occasion to call on the House of Representatives to take up H.Res.252, a resolution that would put Congress on record as recognizing the slaughter of 1.5 million Armenians as genocide. "It is far past time for the United States Congress to officially recognize the Armenian Genocide. The U.S. has long been a global leader in promoting human rights around the world. On the issue of the Armenian Genocide, however, we lag behind. The French, Swiss, Swedish, Germans, and even the Russian governments recognize the Armenian Genocide properly. As a global leader in human rights, it is imperative for the U.S. to stand on principle and recognize the annihilation of the Armenians and move the bill," said Royce. As a State Senator, with the help of Governor George Deukmejian, Royce authored the first resolution recognizing the Armenian Genocide, which passed the California Legislature. In Congress, Royce, along with George Radanovich and Jim Rogan, was able to pass the first Armenian Genocide resolution through the Foreign Affairs Committee. But, regardless of these successes, the impact of the Government of Turkey's protests has had the same effect. Each year the genocide resolution has passed through the Foreign Affairs Committee, Turkish pressure has prevented it from coming to the House floor for a vote. Rep. Royce is a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. He is an active member of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues. ###
04.22.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, was named today as a conferee to H.R. 2194, the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability and Divestment Act. "Time is not on our side. Iran is working on nuclear weapon designs. It is mastering the technology to enrich uranium - which would fuel that weapon. A secret nuclear facility located on an Iranian military base was recently revealed. Tehran could have a missile to reach the U.S. in five years. And for years, Iran has been slapping away diplomatic overtures. We must spare no effort in maximizing pressure on this regime," remarked Royce. Both the House and Senate have passed different versions of the sanctions legislation – which targets Iran’s reliance on imports of refined petroleum. House and Senate conferees will aim to agree on a final product that can be sent to the President and signed into law. Royce is an original cosponsor H.R. 2194, which passed the House last December. "This legislation was introduced a year ago with overwhelming bipartisan support. It was not scheduled for a floor vote until December. The Senate passed their legislation in January. But House Democratic Leadership did not appoint conferees until April. It is well past time to put a strong, robust bill into law. While we dither, Iran is advancing," declared Royce. Background: The Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act requires that any foreign entity that sells refined petroleum to Iran - or otherwise enhances Iran’s ability to import refined petroleum such as financing, brokering, underwriting, or providing ships for such activity - will be effectively barred from doing business in the United States. The legislation also applies to any entity that provides goods or services that enhance Iran’s ability to maintain or expand its domestic production of refined petroleum. Iran must import approximately 40 percent of its gasoline. ###
04.21.2010	The Web site of Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) was recognized today by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF), for having one of the best Web sites in Congress. CMF analyzed all 620 congressional Web sites and Royce’s site, www.royce.house.gov, was one of only 135 Web sites commended by CMF in its 111th Congress Gold Mouse Project. "I have always encouraged my constituents to keep in touch with my office. The Web site is one of the many tools I use to stay in direct contact with the people of the 40th District, to frequently update them on the work I am doing as their Representative," Royce said. "I believe individuals in the district should have the opportunity to voice their concerns and ask questions. I am pleased to hear that my website is being recognized as a successful tool, one that my constituents can utilize." The 111th Congress Gold Mouse Awards are part of CMF’s Partnership For A More Perfect Union, which seeks to improve the quality of communication between Members and their constituents. For this project CMF partnered with researchers from the Harvard Kennedy School, Northeastern University, University of California–Riverside, and the Ohio State University to study how Members of Congress can use the Internet to improve communications with their constituents and to promote greater participation in the legislative process. "One of the key reasons for the awards is to highlight best practices so offices can improve their sites by learning from those already excelling in online communications," said Beverly Bell, CMF’s Executive Director. "Web sites like Rep. Royce’s serve as a prime example that we hope other congressional offices will follow." "The 111th Congress report shows that Web sites continue to be a critical channel through which Members and congressional committees can communicate with, and hear from, citizens. The Internet is a vital tool for elected officials and the public to use in the give-and-take of ideas and opinions that has characterized the American form of government since its founding" Bell said. Web sites were graded on how well they incorporate five core principles that CMF identified as critical for effectiveness: know your audience, provide timely and targeted content that meets their needs, make the site easy to use, foster interaction both on and offline, and add value through innovation. The 111th Congress Gold Mouse Project report, a full list of winners, and other comparative data is available on CMF’s Partnership For A More Perfect Union Web site at www.pmpu.org. ###
04.14.2010	At an International Conservation Caucus Foundation event honoring Philippine President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) presented the President with the ICCF Teddy Roosevelt International Conservation Award. The award recognizes her leadership in the Coral Triangle Initiative on Coral Reefs, Fisheries, and Food Security; the largest reef conservation program ever taken. "President Arroyo's extraordinary leadership in launching the Coral Triangle Initiative will prove vital in preserving one of the world's most important resources. Dubbed the 'Amazon of the Sea', this area contains a third of the world's coral reefs, more than 3,000 species of fish, and the world's richest mangrove forests," said Royce. The Coral Triangle Initiative will better protect the waters surrounding the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, and Timor-Leste from over fishing and environmental degradation. Following the award presentation, Rep. Royce participated in an honorary dinner with President Arroyo, at which he was able to highlight the upcoming national election. Royce was able to raise concerns over electoral fraud and the new electronic voting machines, a problem that he also raised with Assistant Secretary of State, Kurt Campbell, when he testified before the Asia Subcommittee. "As problems arise with voting machines rejecting ballots and failing to transmit results, many are concerned that their voices won't be heard on Election Day," said Royce. "We need to do what we can to make sure the results in May represent the will of Filipino voters." Royce also cautioned President Arroyo that many Filipinos living in the United States want to vote in the upcoming election but are concerned that their votes cast at polling stations in the United States won't make it to the Philippines in time to be counted. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) is a senior member of the Subcommittee on Asia, and is a member of the Congressional Caucus on the Philippines. ###
04.08.2010	This morning, President Obama and Russian President Medvedev signed a nuclear arms reduction treaty in Prague, Czech Republic. The agreement limits the number of operationally deployed nuclear warheads to 1,550. The signing ceremony comes approximately one year after President Obama gave a speech in Prague in which he vowed to seek "the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons." Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, had the following reaction: "The Administration's rhetoric that this will somehow increase the pressure on nuclear rogues Iran and North Korea is pure naïveté. Since the end of the Cold War, the United States has cut its nuclear arsenal by thousands of weapons. But the world has only gotten more dangerous when it comes to nuclear weapons and material. "Suffering from neglect, Moscow’s nuclear arsenal has already been reduced to the levels envisioned in the treaty. Meanwhile, in the past decade, Moscow has been particularly unhelpful in curtailing Tehran's nuclear program, whether by blocking sanctions or building a nuclear reactor in Iran. Reportedly, thousands of Russian nuclear technicians are in Iran." The Treaty will need to be ratified by a two-thirds majority of the U.S. Senate. Rep. Ed Royce also writes about national security issues on his blog: Foreign Intrigue. Last week he posted on the agreement: "The START of a nuclear-free world?" ###
04.08.2010	Yesterday, before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan testified that Congress failed to rein in GSE giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in response: "Yesterday, Chairman Greenspan rightly pointed out the epic failure by Congress to rein in the excessive risk-taking at Fannie and Freddie. "For years the Fed warned about the systemic threat posed by the GSE's. In 2005, I offered an amendment on the House floor that would have allowed the regulators to wind down their portfolios. "Unfortunately, some Members of Congress, including then FSC Ranking Member and now Chairman Barney Frank, chose to block my amendment and roll the dice on safety and soundness all in the name of promoting affordable housing. That grave error led to the collapse of our housing market and (at least) $127 billion in taxpayer losses. "The Members that chose to roll the dice on Fannie and Freddie now want to roll the dice with our entire financial system. "The Dodd-Frank regulatory reform bills institutionalize the too-big-to-fail doctrine and create dozens of GSE-like institutions. Congress should stop the gambling and drop this approach which has so clearly failed us once before." ###
04.07.2010	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (CA-40) will host a town hall meeting on Saturday, April 10, 2010. All residents of the 40th congressional district are invited to attend and discuss any current issues or concerns. It will be held from 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. at the Liberty Theatre located at the Los Alamitos Joint Forces Training Base, 4111 Yorktown Ave, Bldg 6, STE 104. "There are many things happening in Washington that affect everyone in the 40th district, from proposed amnesty legislation to the government takeover of healthcare legislation. I encourage my constituents to voice their concerns so that I can take these issues back to Washington," Royce said. Royce will use this opportunity to meet with his constituents, address questions and listen to their suggestions and concerns. He will give an update on current legislative issues in Washington and those important to the 40th district. The event will be free of charge and open to the public. Please call Rep. Royce's Orange office at (714) 744-4130 with any questions or for directions. ###
03.23.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) participated in a Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission hearing on human rights in Vietnam. The Vietnamese governments continued denial of basic human rights like freedom of speech, assembly, and religion were highlighted. "The Vietnamese government remains an abusive, one-party state, and the release of Father Nguyen Van Ly doesn't change that fact," said Royce, noting the recent release of the prominent Vietnamese dissident who was imprisoned for his advocacy of democracy and religious freedom. "This is a pattern that we've seen before; the Vietnamese government feels pressured, so they make a token gesture to try to appease its critics. I can assure its party leaders, though, that until the communist government fully respects the rights of its citizens, we will not let up," Royce continued. Religious persecution remains particularly widespread in Vietnam, as the government continues to harass, beat, and detain those that practice religions not officially recognized by the state. Catholics, Montagnard Christians, and numerous Buddhist groups catch the brunt of the government's abuse. According to recent reports, Bat Nha Buddhists have been terrorized by undercover police and communist party officials, Montagnards report being shocked by electric batons, and many others report similar treatment. "It's vital that the State Department re-list Vietnam as a 'Country of Particular Concern' for violations of religious freedom. The House expressed its will last year by passing language that I offered calling on this re-listing. It's now time for the State Department to take this issue as seriously as the House does," said Royce. At the hearing, Rep. Anh "Joseph" Cao echoed Royce's call, testifying that "if there's one thing the U.S. government can do to put pressure on Vietnam, it's putting it back on the CPC list." Royce also questioned Cao about Vietnam's human trafficking record and commended him for his efforts to meet with peaceful dissidents during a recent trip to Vietnam. "In Vietnam, the government itself actively engages in human trafficking through labor export companies partly or wholly owned by the Vietnamese Ministry of Labor," Cao said. "Until the government of Vietnam eliminates these exploitative aspects of its labor export program (its) placement on Tier Two of the Trafficking in Persons list... is indefensible." Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Additionally, Royce serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Human Rights Commission. ###
03.21.2010	The House passed H.R. 3590, the health care bill by a vote of 219-212, and H.R. 4872, the House reconciliation bill, which makes changes to the underlying legislation by a vote of 220-211. Royce voted against both bills. The legislation now goes back to the Senate. "We are faced with trillion dollar deficits for years to come. Now is not the time to create a $2 trillion entitlement. This bill raises taxes and cuts Medicare," said Royce. The bill increases taxes by $569.2 billion over ten years, which will harm small businesses, middle-class families, and our economy. It also includes $528.5 billion in cuts to Medicare, cutting benefits and raising premiums on seniors. The employer mandate imposes a new tax on business, which will destroy current and new jobs during a time when millions of Americans are already unemployed. "It is a huge step toward a Washington-controlled healthcare system that rations care, limits choice, and reduces quality, innovation, and competition," Royce said. "Just look at the sweeping new powers given to enforce the mandates. Along with roughly 17,000 new IRS agents to keep track of coverage requirements, payments and penalties, the bill creates 159 new government agencies to regulate insurance and medical care for Americans." Royce is also concerned that the bill fails to adequately address citizen verification for individuals applying for affordability subsidies, Medicaid, and high risk pools. Taxpayers will be subsidizing health care benefits for illegal immigrants. This massive new entitlement program will cost future generations dearly. Much of this revenue will be generated through tax hikes and fees. Congress should have focused on alternatives that actually lower costs and avoid putting our country on a path toward bankruptcy. Royce supports three simple, low cost solutions to reform our health care system. Any reform effort must include tort reform to rein in junk lawsuits that make the cost of healthcare skyrocket. Royce wants to allow small business and individuals to purchase health care across state lines and access one broad national market. Small businesses should be allowed to band together to purchase health care for their employees at a more affordable price, just as large corporations and unions do. ###
03.19.2010	House Republicans, led by Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Spencer Bachus, today released a set a principles they believe should be part of immediate legislative efforts to address the future of the Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs). “It is time to deal with bailed out companies, which were at the center of the mortgage market meltdown that caused the financial crisis, and have cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars.” Bachus said. “House and Senate Democrats have chosen to essentially ignore the problem as part of financial regulatory reform, and the Administration’s strategy is to punt the problem into the future.” The principles call for phasing out the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac within four years in an effort to restore long-term stability and private capital to the housing finance market. “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were key players at the heart of the economic crisis and housing meltdown, and the principles outlined by House Republicans offer serious reforms we desperately need,” said Republican Leader John Boehner. “For years, Republicans warned of the dangers posed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and advocated responsible reforms, but we were blocked by Democratic lawmakers with deep political ties to the worst offenders. It’s long past time to reform Fannie and Freddie to help restore long-term stability to our financial and housing markets.” “One of the dirty little secrets of the Obama Administration is its continued failure to reform GSEs,” said Republican Whip Eric Cantor. “While the Administration keeps punting the hard decisions, House Republicans are developing common-sense solutions that protect taxpayers and restore a robust housing market. I congratulate Ranking Member Spencer Bachus for his continued focus on real reform.” In September 2008, the Federal Housing Finance Administration (FHFA) exercised authority granted by Congress to place the two enterprises in conservatorship and established a $200 billion facility to purchase senior preferred stock in the enterprises to backstop their losses. In February 2009, the Obama Administration raised the senior preferred stock purchase commitment to $400 billion, before announcing on Christmas Eve 2009 that it was removing any limits on the use of Federal funds to cover losses at the enterprises. The federal government has purchased more than $127 billion of senior preferred stock in the two enterprises thus far, and has explicitly guaranteed $1.7 trillion of their debt and over $5 trillion in mortgages they have purchased. The FHFA, as conservator, has assumed all of the powers of common stockholders. As a result of the government’s actions, U.S. taxpayers now own at least 80 percent of the two enterprises and it is unlikely that they will be returned to private shareholders. “For years we warned about the systemic risk posed by Fannie and Freddie. Unfortunately our calls for reform were largely ignored under the guise of promoting affordable housing,” said Rep. Ed Royce. “Today, there are 127 billion reasons to not only reform the two institutions that were at the heart of the U.S. housing bubble; but to legislate them out of existence.” “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac played a central role in the housing collapse, and now taxpayers have been stuck owning the institutions, eating their losses, and bankrolling trillions in outstanding liabilities,” said Rep. Judy Biggert, the Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. “Taxpayers deserve to know where their dollars are going, what risks they are being exposed to, and how these institutions are being managed or mismanaged. Our reforms will impose some common-sense accountability on these intuitions, end the bailouts, and take immediate steps to wind down the immense risks they pose to the long-term stability of our housing market. GSE reform is a critical element of economic recovery and should start now.” As part of the process of winding down the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the Republican principles call for phasing out the elevated conforming loan limits in high-cost areas established by Congress in October 2009, reducing the mortgage portfolio holdings of the two GSEs by 25% a year over four years, and reducing leverage by phasing in capital requirements that are consistent with global standards for large, complex financial institutions. “I am pleased to join my colleagues on the Financial Services Committee in taking the initial steps toward reforming Government Sponsored Enterprises,” said Rep. Shelley Moore Capito, the Ranking Member of the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee. “This Congress has a responsibility to address the future of mortgage security and ensure that taxpayers are not on the hook for funding future bailouts. I look forward to moving ahead on real GSE reform.” The principles also call for creating an Inspector General for the federal agency that regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, putting the operations of the companies on the federal budget, and limiting the compensation of their employees to that of the highest paid government employees. “The goals outlined here precisely identify the objectives of any credible GSE reform effort: ending government subsidies and protecting taxpayers from tens of billions of dollars in additional GSE losses,” said Rep. Jeb Hensarling, the Ranking Member of the Financial Institutions Subcommittee. “Fannie and Freddie are financial Frankensteins created in a government laboratory that were allowed to abuse their congressionally-granted charters for their own private gain while exposing taxpayers to more than $5 trillion of risk. It is imperative that we end the GSE bailout now and transition to a sustainable housing finance system free from the GSE duopoly. I commend Ranking Member Bachus for offering a plan to achieve meaningful GSE reform, while the Administration and Democrats in Congress continue to remain silent on how to end what will surely prove to be the mother of all bailouts.” “These principles are a serious commitment to reducing the risk Fannie and Freddie pose to the taxpayer,” said Rep. Scott Garrett, the Ranking Member of the Capital Markets, Insurance and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee. “The Obama Administration has been deliberately obtuse in their efforts to reform these toxic assets, a shocking abdication of responsibility considering the central role the GSEs played in the financial crisis. Under the leadership of Ranking Member Bachus, Financial Services Republicans are dedicated to pursuing GSE reform, in spite of the myopic treatment of Fannie and Freddie by the Democrats.” “We can’t afford to wait until next year or the year after that to start working on a plan to wind down Fannie and Freddie; we must start now,” said Rep. Randy Neugebauer, the Committee’s Vice Ranking Member. “Our economy needs a stable housing finance system that relies on private capital rather than the taxpayers to finance mortgages, but until we have a plan to get Fannie and Freddie off the taxpayers’ dole, that’s not going to happen. Our Republican principles provide a framework to begin this effort and protect the taxpayers from even more losses.” Click here to view the full list of the Republican goals and principles. ###
03.19.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined his colleagues in announcing the formation of a new caucus that will focus on getting Americans back to work, the Reclaim American Jobs Caucus. Currently, 15 million Americans are unemployed, while an estimated 8 million illegal immigrants are employed. "I applaud the efforts of this caucus. With 2.2 million Americans unemployed in California it is egregious to begin working on legislation that would create a blanket amnesty," said Royce. "Amnesty legislation, like that proposed by Senators Graham and Schumer, will only compound the problem, draw more illegal immigrants to this country, and encourage those breaking our laws to continue to disrespect them. We need to focus on enforcing our current immigration laws." The SAVE (Secure America with Verification and Enforcement) Act, cosponsored by Rep. Royce, would secure America's borders, implement mandatory work authorization verification, and reduce illegal immigration through interior enforcement. It will help to restore the integrity of our nation’s borders and reestablish respect for our immigration laws. "Citizens and legal immigrants should not be forced to compete with illegal immigrants for jobs. This caucus will work to raise awareness about the impact illegal immigration has on American jobs and will do it at a time when unemployment is 13 percent in California," said Royce. Almost eight million illegal immigrants have jobs in our economy, stolen jobs that could and should go to U.S. citizens and legal immigrant workers. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ("ICE") has been slashing worksite enforcement efforts. For the first four months of fiscal year 2010, administrative arrests are down 89% as compared to 2008 averages, criminal arrests are down 84%, indictments are down 86% and convictions are down 85%. "We are the most generous nation in the world as far as extending citizenship to others. But Americans draw the line when it comes to illegal immigration," said Royce. ###
03.18.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) today introduced legislation to permanently authorize Radio Free Asia's broadcasting authority. Under current law, RFA is set to expire on September 30th. "With this legislation, Radio Free Asia can continue to bring its message of freedom, democracy, and respect for the rule of law - creating a space where civil society can flourish under the continent's oppressive regimes. They can not hide," declared Royce. Founded in 1996, U.S.-backed Radio Free Asia's mission is to act as a "surrogate" news service; performing as a free press would if one was allowed to operate in a target country. As one observer has noted, this type of broadcasting "irritates authoritarian regimes, inspires democrats, and creates greater space for civil society." Target countries of RFA broadcasts such as China, Vietnam and North Korea actively work to block RFA broadcasts and control information in their societies. "In Vietnam, Hanoi maintains strict control over information. Increasingly, bloggers are coming under attack. It is not surprising that Vietnam has tried to jam RFA's broadcasts since the first day of operations. Hanoi can't handle the truth. "In North Korea, listening to foreign broadcasts is punishable by death. That is the step the regime takes to protect a system based on lies. Yet I have met North Korean defectors who risked their lives to listen to radio broadcasts. Just as earlier generations of Eastern Europeans huddled over radios in the 1980s to hear broadcasts about their repressive governments, the information stream into North Korea may too help evolve a totalitarian system," said Royce. Royce serves as a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a member of its Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and the Environment. He was the author of the Radio Free Asia Act of 1998, which significantly boosted broadcasting activities to Asian countries with repressive governments. Joining Congressman Royce in introducing the measure were Reps. Howard Berman (D-CA), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Adam Schiff (D-CA). Berman serves as Chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Ros-Lehtinen as it Ranking Member. Schiff serves as a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs. ###
03.11.2010	Today, the U.S. Department of State released its 2009 Human Rights Report. The section on Vietnam detailed the wide range of human rights abuses that remain endemic across the country. Of particular concern, Vietnam continues to deny its citizens the right to assemble freely, as well as freedom of speech and freedom of religion. "This report gives in detail many of the human rights abuses that continue to plague Vietnam, but I'd like to see the State Department take a tougher stance. Merely stating that the government's human rights record "remained a problem" is diplomatic speak. We need to be condemning these abuses in much tougher terms," said Royce. Of particular concern is the Vietnamese Communist Government's control of all information. As the 2009 Human Rights Report found, Vietnam has no free, independent press, and restrictions on internet access are worsening. Bloggers who publish material that criticizes the state are often heavily fined or imprisoned. While this year's report recognizes that the Vietnamese government continues to place restrictions on organized religions, it's finding that "in general restrictions were enforced less strictly than in previous years," is problematic. "The signal this sends to the Vietnamese government is that they're on the right course and that the status quo is acceptable," said Royce. "As long as contract thugs are carrying out attacks with electric batons, and others remain imprisoned for their beliefs, we shouldn't be patting the Vietnamese government on the back." "Detailing some of the harassment of religious practitioners is helpful, but this report falls far short. Without calling for Vietnam to be put back on the list of 'Countries of Particular Concern,' I give this section a failing grade," said Royce. To view the full-version of the report, please visit this site: http://www.state.gov/g/drl/rls/hrrpt/2009/eap/136015.htm Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Royce also serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Caucus on Human Rights. ###
02.25.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) raised his support for the Iranian people with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, as she testified before the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Royce pushed for the Obama Administration to undertake an assertive effort to target Iran's human rights abusers. "We should be doing more to target those who are hanging, raping, and maiming their own people... A concerted effort here would do much to discredit the Iranian regime both inside and outside the country," Royce told the Secretary of State. Royce pushed for bipartisan legislation that was introduced in the House this week that would target Iran's human rights abusers. Specifically, the legislation would require the Administration to compile a list of Iranian human rights abusers which would be made public. These abusers would then be subject to travel and financial sanctions. "Since June's fraudulent re-election of Mamoud Ahmadinejad, a broad political opposition has remained active and determined in the face of regime-orchestrated violence, detentions and executions. We should be spotlighting the Iranian regime's human rights abuses at every turn. "Let's be clear. This regime is at war with its own people. We should clearly stand on the side of the Iranian people and hold their oppressors accountable," declared Royce. Along with Royce, H.R. 4649, the Iran Human Rights Sanctions Act, was introduced in the House this week by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) and Rep. Jim Marshall (D-GA). Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) serves as the Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. He also writes about national security issues on his Foreign Intrigue Blog. ###
02.24.2010	During today's Financial Services Committee hearing entitled "Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy," Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the committee, questioned Chairman Ben Bernanke on whether our current budget deficits are sustainable. "The Congressional Budget Office says the current budget is on an 'unsustainable path.' Congress continues to drive this country deeper and deeper into debt with double digit increases in spending bills," said Royce. According to the Administration's own numbers, at no point anywhere in the future does the Administration expect our nation to have a balanced budget. In fact, after 2020 -- long after the President has left office -- the deficits are expected to spike dramatically. "This failure to operate within our means is plunging our nation deeper and deeper into debt. By 2020, the interest payment alone will quadruple to $840 billion, making it the fourth largest budget item. "Mr. Bernanke, you and I have discussed this issue many times in the past. Last time you said 'budget deficits [of this magnitude] as far as the eye can see are simply unsustainable.' "The way I see it is we have a window to address this problem before it spirals out of control -- and that window is closing very quickly. I am afraid there is a lack of urgency coming from the Administration to address this ticking time bomb. "Is this proposal put forward by the Administration unsustainable?" asked Royce. Bernanke responded, "...basic arithmetic says if deficits continue at 3, 4, or 5 percent of GDP, you will see an increase in interest payments and it will spiral out of control." "Mr. Chairman, please take that message on the road," concluded Royce. ###
02.23.2010	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined Rep. Scott Garrett (R-NJ) and other members of the Financial Services and Budget Committees at today's press conference introducing the Accurate Accounting of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Royce is a cosponsor of the legislation which would compel the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to account for the losses sustained by the GSEs since they were placed in conservatorship in the President's budget request. "To date the taxpayers have lost $111 billion from Washington's most expensive blunder -- Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Unfortunately, it looks like this is just the beginning," said Royce. For years, Royce worked to bring strong reforms to Fannie and Freddie. Unfortunately, with the help of the lobby arm of these institutions his efforts to rein in their excessive risk-taking were blocked. After the GSEs were placed in conservatorship, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) concluded that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should be included in the federal budget. Yet OMB continues to exclude Fannie and Freddie's activity from the balance sheet of the federal budget. "The money is being spent. Taxpayers are taking the hit. It is just a matter of whether or not the Administration is going to recognize the costs associated with this unending bailout," said Royce. "I would like to thank Scott Garrett for bringing this issue to light. A failure to consider this bill would amount to nothing more than budgetary deception," said Royce. ###
02.11.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, made the following statement in reaction to clashes in Iran on the 31st anniversary of the Islamic Republic and the regime's announcement that it has stepped up its uranium enrichment program. "With its recent missile launches and advances in uranium enrichment to fuel its nuclear program, the Iranian regime is attempting to project an image of strength. But it is anything but. "If announced advances in Iran's enrichment are accurate, this wouldn't be a shock. Iran has been pursuing these capabilities with determination. After a year of misreading the regime, the Obama Administration is finally at least talking about reassessing. "Since last June's fraudulent election, a broad political opposition has remained active and determined in the face of regime-orchestrated violence, detentions and executions. The movement has gone from protesting the massive vote rigging, to challenging the fundamental tenets of the Islamic Republic. They deserve our support. "As the world struggles with the regime's nuclear weapons pursuit, we should realize that the regime in Tehran probably doesn't fear another round of 'least common denominator' U.N. sanctions. But, it is downright paranoid of a color revolution. "The Obama Administration could boost the morale of the opposition movement by: speaking out on their behalf over and over; spotlighting the regime's human rights abuses; helping them overcome the Iranian Revolutionary Guard's jamming of the Internet; and perfecting our broadcasting into the country. It is time that we clearly stand by their side." ###
01.13.2010	Today, Rep. Ed Royce met with a delegation from the Korean National Assembly composed of members of the Grand National Party, the Democratic Party, and the Freedom Forward Party. Organized by the Korean Economic Institute, discussion revolved around the importance of the U.S.-Korea economic partnership and the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, which was signed in June 2007. "Passing and ratifying the KORUS FTA is vitally important to forwarding the U.S.-Korea partnership. By all measures, this agreement helps both countries. The U.S. gets better access to South Korean markets, and South Korea gets assurances that its favorable U.S. market access will continue, thereby allowing both economies to grow together," said Royce. Members of the National Assembly echoed Royce's enthusiasm for the agreement, but expressed concerns that it was not a high enough priority for the U.S. Congress. The agreement has yet to be brought to the floor for consideration by the Democratic majority, despite calls from the minority. "At a time when there is such emphasis on creating jobs, the decision by the Democratic majority to ignore opening up foreign markets to U.S. goods should be seen for what it is: politics," said Royce. Also discussed was the importance of the U.S.-Korea defense partnership. With relations dating back more than half a century and a presence of nearly 29,000 U.S. troops on the Korean peninsula, the U.S. and Korea are historic allies. "In recognition of this alliance, I have worked to see that the relationship is properly reflected in U.S. law. Legislation I drafted granted South Korea the same preferential treatment in defense purchases as our NATO allies. I am pleased to say that this important legislation passed last year," said Royce. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) is Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Korea and is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
12.26.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, made the following statement in reaction to the failed Christmas Day midair terrorist attack: "This incident shows that al-Qaeda and other affiliated organizations and individuals keep returning to airliners with increasing determination. "Our government must constantly be challenging itself to stay ahead of those intent on doing us great harm. We are thankful for the passengers and crew who subdued the terrorist. "This event also highlights the global nature of Islamist extremism. The Nigerian in custody claims to have been taking orders from al-Qaeda in Yemen, a hotbed of terror activity, and British authorities are now searching a London apartment in connection with the terror plot. From West Africa, to Yemen, to London – no part of the world seems to be immune." ###
12.22.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to the Senate's latest attempts to pass legislation which would result in a government take over of healthcare: "The legislation up in the Senate is just as flawed as the bill passed by House Democrats in November. The core problem with both bills is that they fail to reduce costs and they increase the government's involvement in the healthcare sector. "According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), this plan will result in a net increase in federal health care spending of $200 billion. Despite what the proponents of this legislation will claim, as many as 9 million Americans could lose their current employer coverage under the Senate bill. "Just like the House plan, the Senate bill places the burden to pay for this massive government expansion on small businesses with additional taxes, fees and bureaucratic regulation. Now is not the time to punish America's small businesses; the backbone of our struggling economy. "During the eight town hall meetings I held this year my constituents made it clear that they want the freedom and opportunity to make health care choices for their families rather than giving Washington bureaucrats more power. The legislation put forward in both chambers of Congress fail to meet this critical objective," said Royce. ###
12.11.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) expressed his disappointment with the Rules Committee decision to reject his amendment to ensure the Consumer Financial Protection Agency does not negatively impact the safety and soundness of covered institutions: "If the ultimate objective of our regulatory reform effort is to ensure a more resilient and stable financial system, creating another agency with broad unchecked authority is not the right approach. "Separating the two responsibilities, safety and soundness and consumer protection, can lead to unintended consequences like systemic financial failure. We saw this in the case of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. "They had one regulator watching for safety and soundness while HUD enforced the affordable housing goals. We know how that ended. Those affordable housing goals were in direct conflict with the health of Fannie and Freddie and ultimately led to their demise. "With the legislation before us, we run the risk of repeating the Fannie and Freddie mistake and putting the safety and soundness of our financial system in jeopardy. "I brought an amendment to the Rules Committee which would have prevented Congress from repeating this mistake, by ensuring the banking regulators have a say on the rules issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Agency. Guess what, my amendment was not made in order and it won't be heard on this floor," said Royce. NOTE: To watch Royce's speech on the House floor please click here. Recently, Royce laid out his concerns on this legislation in an op-ed for Investor's Business Daily, please click here to view his op-ed. ###
12.10.2009	Today the House of Representatives passed H.Res.55, legislation offered by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) which establishes a National Prader-Willi Syndrome Awareness Month, and encourages continued federal research of this syndrome -- a recognized, common genetic cause of childhood obesity. "With this legislation we can increase awareness of this genetic disorder among health care providers, pediatricians, parents, teachers, and communities. Additionally, we can begin to provide opportunities for fuller, more independent lives for those affected by this disease," said Royce. Prader-Willi Syndrome is a complex condition that is characterized by morbid obesity, insatiable appetite, poor muscle tone and failure to thrive during infancy and currently there is no cure. "Seven and a half years ago I had never heard of Prader-Willi Syndrome. Then a little girl named Abby Porter was born. Abby was sleeping almost 24 hours a day, was unable to eat on her own, and had almost no muscle tone at all." "When Abby was just two weeks old we learned she had a genetic disorder called Prader-Willi Syndrome. Abby was one of the lucky ones and received an early diagnosis. As a result, she was able to reach all of her developmental milestones at roughly the appropriate times." "Abby and I want families with Prader-Willi children to know that they are not alone in this fight to search for cures and treatments that will improve the futures of their children. And for that reason, we are both proud today to see this House call for a National Prader-Willi Syndrome Awareness Month, and express support for further research in this disorder," said Royce. NOTE: To watch Royce's statement on the House floor, please click here. ###
11.07.2009	Following the passage of Speaker Pelosi's trillion dollar government-run health care bill, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement: "The Democrat Leadership served a debilitating blow to the rights of patients and doctors in this country. The passage of this trillion dollar government-run health care bill gives Washington bureaucrats an unprecedented and expansive role in our health care sector. Unfortunately, these aren't the only provisions the Democrat Leadership allowed with the passage of this bill. "They have agreed to provide health benefits to 8.5 million illegal immigrants at the expense of the taxpayer because they rejected Republican amendments which would have verified citizenship or legal residence by requiring more than self attestation or Social Security numbers. "They have agreed to fine any American that does not maintain 'acceptable' health insurance coverage. Should the individual not pay that assessment, one can face felony willful evasion punishable by a fine of up to $250,000 and imprisonment of up to five years. "They have agreed to ignore medical liability reform and the $200 billion spent every year on unnecessary medical tests conducted to avoid frivolous lawsuits. "They have agreed to burden America's future generations by adding another trillion dollar entitlement program onto a federal budget the Congressional Budget Office declares is already on an 'unsustainable path'." Note: Click here to watch Royce blast this legislation on the House floor during Saturday's debate. For Royce's floor speech earlier in the week, please click here. ###
11.06.2009	At today's press conference Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined several colleagues as well as representatives from Numbers USA and Federation of Americans for Immigration Reform (FAIR) to discuss the lack of verification measures in the Democrat Leadership's government run health care bill. "I support the amendments being offered to ensure adequate safeguards are in place to prevent illegal immigrants from receiving benefits at the expense of taxpayers," said Royce. Currently, there are no requirements in the bill that require individuals to verify their citizenship and identity. The amendments being presented to the Rules Committee will prevent American taxpayers from being forced to finance benefits for illegal immigrants and would ensure enforcement mechanisms be included in the legislation. According to analysis from the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) the number of illegal immigrants covered under Speaker Pelosi’s health care bill (H.R. 3962) has increased by an additional 2.5 million from the original bill, H.R. 3200. "We have put in place, with this legislation, an amplified message that the rule of law will not be enforced here in the United States and that if you do come here illegally all you have to do is provide a fraudulent Social Security number and self attest to obtain these entitlement benefits," said Royce at the press conference. "Since passage of the 2005 Deficit Reduction Act we have required documentation of proof of citizenship for obtaining federal welfare benefits. Passage of this legislation will eliminate that requirement for receiving the health care benefits in the bill. Why the Democratic Leadership would consciously choose to change that requirement is beyond me. This will cost over $30 billion and it is most unfortunate that the Leadership have already said they will not accept amendments to the Speaker's bill to address this issue," said Royce. Royce is an original cosponsor of the Secure America with Verification and Enforcement (SAVE) Act and is a cosponsor of the Secure Fence Act. ###
10.29.2009	During today's Financial Services Committee hearing on "too big to fail" and systemic regulation Rep. Ed Royce, a senior member of the committee, issued the following opening statement: "Apparently, the "too big to fail" model is too hard to kill. "I thought we would have learned our lesson from Fannie and Freddie. Prior to their failure, it was widely perceived that the government would be there to bail them out when they ran into trouble. That implicit guaranty translated into real advantages for the GSE's in terms of lower cost of capital, which facilitated their dominance in the marketplace. "The explicit backstop already provided to the largest of our financial institutions is having an eerily similar effect. A recent study by the Center for Economic and Policy Research found that the too-big-to-fail doctrine has translated into a tangible subsidy for the 18 largest bank holding companies worth $34 billion per year; with a 78 basis points lower cost of capital when compared to their smaller competitors. "Instead of granting permanent bailout authority and institutionalizing the too big to fail doctrine -- which this legislation does -- we should set up a structure that will allow for an orderly liquidation of an institution through an enhanced bankruptcy without the use of government funds." ###
10.29.2009	Following the Democrats introduction of a health care bill that will not only increase the cost of health care but will limit choice, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement: "I've hosted a total of eight town halls since Congress began debating health care reform this year and at each of those town halls an overwhelming majority of my constituents have expressed very serious concerns regarding government run healthcare. "At one of those town halls I had a doctor stand up and show me thousands and thousands of pages of a nuisance lawsuit he currently faces. It has been estimated that roughly $200 billion every year is spent on additional unnecessary medical tests to avoid frivolous lawsuits. This translates to the average American family paying an additional $2,000 per year in healthcare costs. "Limiting medical liability exposure for our doctors would go a long way toward solving the problems that plague our system and would not add to an out of control budget deficit. "There are real reforms needed in our healthcare sector, but the public healthcare option will do more harm than good. Take, for instance, the costs to small businesses to provide coverage for their employees. According to a recent report from the National Small Business Association, by allowing small business owners to join buying pools to reduce the cost of health insurance we could reduce health insurance plan costs for small businesses by as much as 12 percent and reduce the number of the uninsured by one million. "It is disappointing that despite American's concerns the Democrat Leadership has drafted a bill behind closed doors and ignored the voices of constituents across the nation as they push forward on a government take over of health care. At a cost of nearly one trillion dollars, only partly paid for through Medicare cuts and higher taxes, it adds to the deficit at a time when we're already running one and a half trillion in red ink annually." ###
10.28.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, offered two amendments to restructure the SEC during a committee mark-up of H.R. 3817, the Investor Protection Act. Royce's amendments, adopted by the Committee, will improve the ability of the SEC to protect investors. The amendments would establish a separate office within the SEC to enforce whistleblower protections and would create a new office with the SEC called the "Capital Markets Safety Board" to inspect SEC registered institution failures. "Earlier this year, the Committee heard from Harry Markopolos, an industry whistleblower, who for more than a decade attempted to bring Bernie Madoff's ponzi scheme to the attention of the SEC. Outside of one individual in the SEC's Boston office, Markopolos was alone in his decade long pursuit," said Royce. The first of two Royce amendments will take a step toward improving the stature of whistleblower complaints within the SEC by establishing a separate office within the Commission to better protect whistleblowers and ensure their concerns are being acted upon by the SEC. According to a recent report, whistleblower tips were responsible for detecting 54% of fraud schemes at public companies whereas external audits (like those conducted by the SEC) accounted for 4% of fraud cases detected. Royce's second amendment would create a new office within the SEC called the "Capital Markets Safety Board" which would send inspection teams in after an SEC registered institution fails. This Board would diagnose exactly what went wrong and in what sequence that lead to the failure of the institution. The Capital Markets Safety Board would then make this knowledge publicly available on the SEC's website for companies, accountants, and investors use in avoiding these mistakes. "By establishing a Capital Markets Safety Board, individual investors and regulators will have a better sense of what went wrong and have the opportunity to learn from these past failures." Royce said. "As Mr. Markopolos alluded to, the case of the Bernie Madoff ponzi scheme provides several useful lessons for the investor public and regulators; such as never allocating more than 20% to any one investment manager, never putting 100% of your eggs in one basket, make sure the investment manager uses an independent third party custodian, etc." Royce said. ###
10.07.2009	The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) today honored Rep. Ed Royce (R-Calif.) as a Taxpayer Hero for scoring 98 percent on its 2008 Congressional Ratings. The average for the entire House was 35 percent, and the average for the Senate was 38 percent; this makes Rep. Royce’s achievement that much more impressive. Since 1989, CCAGW has tracked roll call votes to separate the taxpayer advocates in Congress from those who favor wasteful programs and pork-barrel spending. The 2008 Congressional Ratings cover the voting year 2008, the second session of the 110th Congress. CCAGW rated 48 key votes in the House and 42 in the Senate. “Rep. Royce put the interests of taxpayers ahead of politics by consistently voting to cut wasteful spending, reduce the tax burden, and make government more accountable to taxpayers,” said CCAGW President Tom Schatz. “The 2008 Congressional Ratings show that many elected officials continue to demonstrate little regard for the harmful effect a large and cumbersome federal government has on taxpayers’ wallets. Out-of-control spending reigned over Capitol Hill, leading to a record $1.6 trillion deficit in fiscal year 2009, and an $11.8 trillion national debt. Rep. Royce’s votes give taxpayers hope for the future.” House Democrats scored an average of 6 percent; House Republicans scored an average of 70 percent. In the Senate, the average for Democrats was 4 percent, and Republicans averaged 72 percent. CCAGW’s website, www.ccagw.org, features the complete 2008 Congressional Ratings, including vote descriptions, scorecards for the House and Senate, and averages by chamber, party, and state delegation. In the House, Rep. Paul Broun (R-Ga.) was the sole “Taxpayer Super Hero” with a grade of 100 percent. In 2007, there were three House members with a perfect score. In 2008, there were 59 “Taxpayer Heroes” with a grade of 80 percent or above, the same as in 2007. The big difference was in the number of members with a perfectly abysmal score of zero. In 2006, there were nine House members with a zero rating, and in 2007 there were only two. In 2008, however, the number of members with a score of zero skyrocketed to 34; a 1,600 percent increase and an indication of growing partisanship as all of them are Democrats. In 2006 and 2007, there were no “Taxpayer Super Heroes” (scoring 100 percent) in the Senate, and, unfortunately, that did not change for 2008. There were, however, a total of 14 “Taxpayer Heroes,” one fewer than the 15 in 2007. The two highest scores were achieved by Senators Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) and Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) at 98 percent. There were 17 senators with a score of zero, compared to 13 in 2007. Five senators scored zero for the second year in a row, including current Vice President Joe Biden (D-Del.), Sen. Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii), then-Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd (D-W.Va.), Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (D-N.D.), and Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Chairman Chris Dodd (D-Conn.). The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste is the lobbying arm of Citizens Against Government Waste, the nation’s largest nonpartisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in government. 1301 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Suite 1075 Washington, D.C. 20004 (202) 467-5300 media@ccagw.org www.ccagw.org
09.30.2009	Last evening, the U.S. Senate passed H.R. 3593, legislation authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), which extends Radio Free Asia's broadcasting authority for an additional year. The legislation was passed by the House of Representatives last week. It now goes to the President, who is expected to sign the measure. Without enactment of this legislation, RFA's authority is set to expire. "Members of the House and Senate worked quickly, on a bipartisan basis, to see that Radio Free Asia can continue to bring the truth to the millions who live under repressive rule in Asia," declared Royce. Founded in 1996, U.S.-backed Radio Free Asia's mission is to act as a "surrogate" news service; performing as a free press would if one was allowed to operate in a target country. Target countries of RFA broadcasts such as China, Vietnam, Burma and North Korea attempt to block RFA broadcasts and control information in their societies. "From Hanoi to Beijing to Pyongyang, these governments seek to keep a tight lid on news and information. Radio Free Asia broadcasts are about cracking that lid, and creating breathing space for civil society to flourish," commented Royce. Royce serves as a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a member of its Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and the Environment. He was the author of the Radio Free Asia Act of 1998, which significantly boosted broadcasting activities to Asian countries with repressive governments. ###
09.29.2009	Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), co-chair of the International Conservation Caucus, chaired its bi-cameral hearing regarding the Congo Basin Forest Partnership (CBFP). Royce co-authored this landmark legislation which Congress passed in 2004. The CBFP set aside large swaths of land in Africa to be protected from harmful activities. "The tropical forests of Central Africa's Congo Basin are second only in size to the Amazon Basin's, and are nearly seven times the size of my home state of California. They're a critical economic resource for 20 million people that must be conserved," said Royce. Unfortunately, Congo Basin forests continue to disappear. In Gabon, the Chinese state-run oil company Sinopec has been prospecting for new oil reserves in a nature reserve. It has been charged with mass pollution. Areas of the park have been dynamited to create roads, fueling the bush meat trade, creating "empty forests." "The CBFP needs much work. Aid programs have become too removed from the core mission of protecting parks. The Caucus will be pursuing this issue of creeping and peripheral aid objectives. Regardless, the CBFP deserves support, because I'm sure the regions' forest landscape would be smaller without it. "Conservation isn't easy. What Americans take for granted, Yosemite and Yellowstone, our entire magnificent national park system, required great foresight and political commitment to create. We led the world. And while the CBFP is appropriately an international initiative, American leadership is critical. Making that leadership more effective is the point of today's hearing," said Royce. Royce is a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and from 1997 to 2004 Royce chaired the Africa Subcommittee. ###
09.23.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3593, legislation authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), which extends Radio Free Asia's broadcasting authority for an additional year. Under current law, RFA is set to expire on September 30th. "With this legislation, Radio Free Asia can continue to bring its message of freedom, democracy, and respect for the rule of law - creating a space where civil society can flourish under the continent's oppressive regimes. Quite simply, RFA's broadcasts are devoted to enlightenment," commented Royce. Founded in 1996, U.S.-backed Radio Free Asia's mission is to act as a "surrogate" news service; performing as a free press would if one was allowed to operate in a target country. Target countries of RFA broadcasts such as China, Vietnam and North Korea actively work to block RFA broadcasts and control information in their societies. "In Vietnam, Hanoi continues its strict control over newspapers, television and radio stations. Increasingly, bloggers are coming under attack. It is not surprising that Vietnam has tried to jam RFA's broadcasts since the first day of its broadcasts. RFA employs six times the frequencies than it would to a non-jamming country and it defeats this interference. Hanoi can't handle the truth. "All around the world, an information war is at play. From Hanoi to Tehran to Pyongyang, these regimes understand that controlling information is central to keeping totalitarian control. Radio Free Asia is one of our pieces on this chessboard," said Royce. Royce serves as a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a member of its Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and the Environment. He was the author of the Radio Free Asia Act of 1998, which significantly boosted broadcasting activities to Asian countries with repressive governments. ###
09.16.2009	The White House Gardens and Grounds Tours will be held from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Saturday, October 17th, and from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. on Sunday, October 18th, 2009. share: f t The White House Gardens and Grounds Tours will be held from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Saturday, October 17th, and from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. on Sunday, October 18th, 2009. Visitors to the gardens will be able to view the Jacqueline Kennedy Garden, Rose Garden, Children's Garden and the South Lawn of the White House. The Kitchen Garden, a new addition to the South Lawn, will be viewable from a distance along the tour route. There will be a visual explanation to help educate tourists on the elements of the garden. The tours are open to the public; however, a ticket is required for all attendees, including small children. The National Park Service will distribute free, timed tickets at the Ellipse Visitor Pavilion located at 15th and E Streets on each tour day beginning at 8:00 a.m. Tickets will be distributed -- one ticket per person -- on a first-come, first-served basis. Tours of the Residence will be closed on the dates of the Garden Tours. Please note the following are prohibited on the White House grounds: Food and Beverages of any kind Duffel Bags/Suitcases/Backpacks Animals (except guide dogs) Aerosols of any kind Knives of any size Mace Smoking Real or Simulated Weapons/Ammunition Fireworks/Firecrackers The U.S. Secret Service reserves the right to prohibit any other personal items. Strollers, wheelchairs, and cameras are permitted. In case of inclement weather, the Garden Tours will be cancelled. Please call the 24-hour information line at (202) 456-7041 to check on the status of the event.
08.25.2009	Following the release of federal budget numbers from the Administration's Office of Management and Budget and the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and one of the few members to oppose every bailout, issued the following statement: "Earlier this year I spoke with Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke and I asked the Chairman about these soaring budget deficits. At that time he said 'certainly trillion dollar deficits as far as the eye can see would not be sustainable.' "I think we are rapidly approaching that point. Our budget deficit for this year ($1.6 trillion) will be roughly 11 percent of our GDP -- twice the size of any year since WWII. "On top of an already growing federal budget we have had two stimulus packages and a long series of government financed bailouts. The government now holds a significant stake in many of our banks, insurance companies and auto companies. In addition, Congress is looking to take over the healthcare sector, which economists predict will be another trillion dollar commitment. "This massive shift toward a government-run economy has resulted in trillion dollar deficits in the near and long term. This is a significant burden we are placing on the American taxpayers." "The new estimate by the Office of Management and Budget that the ten year deficit will reach $9 trillion, rather than the original estimate of $7 trillion shows how rapidly soaring spending and declining tax revenues are compounding the debt. The ten year deficit is more than the sum of all previous deficits in our nation's history. "Still lacking in the totals are the costs of any new health insurance legislation and the cap and trade bill awaiting passage in the Senate." ###
08.11.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the top Republican of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, made the following remarks in reaction to the news that a Thai court has rejected a request by U.S. authorities for the extradition of international arms dealer Viktor Bout to face terrorism charges in the United States: The United States and Thailand have had strong relations for 175 years. Unfortunately, if this ruling holds, this relationship will be set back dramatically. The court's ruling is nothing short of astonishing. It is my expectation that this be vigorously appealed. Round one has gone to Bout, but the battle for justice for this international menace is not over. It is unacceptable that this man goes free. While the Thai Foreign Ministry has stated that the extradition request meets the conditions of the Thai-American extradition treaty, the Russian government has been pushing hard for Bout's release. Politics seems to have trumped the law. Something is rotten in Bangkok. Royce has spearheaded congressional efforts regarding Viktor Bout's case. After Bout's arrest in 2008, Royce led a congressional letter to the Thai government regarding Bout's extradition, and in February led a similar letter to Attorney General Holder and Secretary of State Clinton asking that the extradition "remain a top priority" for their Departments. From 1997-2005, Royce chaired the Subcommittee on Africa. During that time, Royce closely examined the conflicts that trouble the continent - particularly West Africa in Sierra Leone and Liberia. It was through that work that Royce highlighted Victor Bout and his exploits. Bout has been called the "Merchant of Death," a moniker coined by a British diplomat. From the dust of the Cold War, Bout emerged to form a complex enterprise spanning several continents and a large network of nefarious individuals, front companies, corrupt government officials, old Soviet airplanes, and Eastern European mobsters. Bout became capable of delivering anything from ordinary commodities to AK-47s, missile launchers, and even attack helicopters to anyone who would pay. Bout's activities in the 1990s lead to his designation by the United States government as the highest-ranking international target other than Osama bin Laden and his top tier of terrorist leaders. ###
08.11.2009	Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) will host a forum on combating fraud on Wednesday, August 19, 1:00 pm at the Buena Park Senior Activity Center located at 8150 Knott Avenue. The event, free of charge and open to the public, will provide information on Identity Theft, Mortgage Loan and Lending, Investment Scams, and Charity Fraud. WHO: Representative Ed Royce, California 40th District Federal Trade Commission California Office of Privacy Protection United States Postal Inspection Service WHAT: A combat fraud forum to provide information on identity theft, mortgage loans and lending, investment scams, and charity fraud WHERE: Buena Park Senior Activity Center 8150 Knott Avenue Buena Park, CA 90620 WHEN: 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Wednesday, August 19 ###
08.11.2009	Today, in response to the devastating typhoons and earthquakes that hit East Asia over the past several days, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement: "I would like to offer my heartfelt condolences to all of those who have been affected by the recent natural disasters in East Asia. Having been hit with as much as seven feet of rain, communities in Taiwan, China, Japan, and the Philippines have been devastated and lives have been lost. "In a cruel twist of fate, many of these same regions have been hit by strong earthquakes. Nonetheless, the people of East Asia are strong and resilient. I have the utmost faith that those affected communities will rally together to help rebuild, as I've seen in the past with overseas families." Rep. Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and serves on the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and the Global Environment. ###
08.05.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, made the following comments after two American journalists, Laura Ling and Euna Lee, held in North Korea since March arrived in the United States: share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, made the following comments after two American journalists, Laura Ling and Euna Lee, held in North Korea since March arrived in the United States: This is great news, but it's long overdue. These two should have been freed months ago. For Laura Ling and Euna Lee, freedom surely has never felt so fantastic. The millions of Americans that have been watching their case for months are finally breathing a sigh of relief. Secretary of State Clinton and many others worked hard to secure the release of Laura and Euna. North Korea no doubt feels it got something by having President Clinton come. Assuming no concessions were made, I can live with that. Our broader relations with North Korea are unlikely to be changed by this release. The name of the game should be putting maximum pressure on this regime, driving it away from its nuclear program. Rep. Royce, an active member on North Korea policy, who has known Laura's mother Mary Ling for years, has raised the case of the two journalists in several face-to-face conversations with Secretary of State Clinton. In April, Royce handed Secretary Clinton a personal letter, and pressed for urgent action. In June, after North Korea sentenced the two to 12 years hard labor, Royce led a congressional letter to President Obama asking that he give the matter his "personal attention." Royce and Young Kim of his staff have been in contact with Mary Ling throughout the ordeal. ###
07.31.2009	Congressmen Brad Sherman (D-CA) and Ed Royce (R-CA), joined by more than two hundred of their colleagues, are urging the Saudi Arabian government to seize on this historical moment to foster peace in the Middle East in a letter to be delivered this evening. The letter calls on the Saudi government to engage directly with the Israelis to discuss a resolution to the Arab-Israeli conflict. The letter to King Abdullah builds on comments made by President Obama earlier this year in his address to the Muslim World, when he called on Arab states to live up to their responsibility and recognize Israeli legitimacy. "…Arab states must recognize that the Arab Peace Initiative was an important beginning, but not the end of their responsibility," Obama said. “The Arab-Israeli conflict should no longer be used to distract the people of Arab nations from other problems. Instead, it must be a cause for action to help the Palestinian people develop the institutions that will sustain their state, to recognize Israel's legitimacy and to choose progress over a self-defeating focus on the past." The Saudi Arabian government authored the Arab Peace Initiative, first proposed at an Arab League summit in 2002, which calls for Arab states to normalize relations with Israel in return for Israeli withdrawal to the 1967 "Green Line" and a settlement of the Palestinian refugee issue. This proposal is potentially an important step by the Arab states toward peace with Israel, as it holds out the possibility of Arab recognition of Israel. However, the Saudis have treated the proposal as a take-it-or-leave-it offer. Sherman, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, argues, “it is not enough for the Saudis to put forward a peace proposal and treat it as a take-it-or-leave-it document that the Israelis must fulfill in total before the Arab states take any concrete steps toward peace with Israel.” "How can there be peace without recognition of Israel? Direct engagement between the parties is essential if there is to be a chance at peace," remarked Royce, also a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. In part, the letter reads, “We have been disappointed thus far to see the public reaction of your government to President Obama’s request. Rather than expressing willingness to break down barriers between Arabs and Israelis, your foreign minister asserted that Saudi Arabia could not take any step toward normalization before the return of all Arab land.” -30- July 31, 2009 Abdullah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Dear King Abdullah: We have taken great interest in the Arab Peace Initiative and its evolution over the past few years. We have been encouraged by the possibility that this initiative has offered as an important element in the effort toward peace in the Middle East. In his address to the Muslim world in Cairo, President Barack Obama called on Arab states to live up to their responsibility and recognize Israeli legitimacy. We believe that the President’s call to the Arab world to move in this direction represents an important request that can open a path to a better future. We recall that prior successful negotiations leading toward peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors involved direct contact between the parties and a forswearing of war even before any actual movement on the ground. For example, Egypt’s President Anwar Sadat visited Jerusalem in 1977 in a transformational event that forever changed the nature of Israel’s perception of the Arab world. And Jordan’s King Hussein opened direct ties with Israel well before the realization of the Israeli-Jordanian peace treaty. We have been disappointed thus far to see the public reaction of your government to President Obama’s request. Rather than expressing willingness to break down barriers between Arabs and Israelis, your foreign minister asserted that Saudi Arabia could not take any step toward normalization before the return of all Arab land. We urge you to assert a strong leadership role and help lead the Middle East to a new era of peace and reconciliation by stepping forward with a dramatic gesture toward Israel akin to the steps taken earlier by the leaders of Egypt and Jordan. We believe that such a step on your part can help open the door to a better future and will reinforce the initiative undertaken by President Obama in Cairo. Sincerely, Brad Sherman Howard Berman Gary Ackerman Peter DeFazio Danny K. Davis Eliot Engel Barney Frank Daniel Lungren Jerry Moran (KS) Jo Bonner Mark Souder Jerrold Nadler Jan Schakowsky Jim Costa Michael Capuano Tim Ryan John Boccieri John Culberson Susan Davis Patrick Murphy Grace Napolitano Dan Maffei Gabriel Giffords Mike Honda Chris Van Hollen Rodney Alexander Zack Space Michael McMahon Allyson Schwartz Stephanie Herseth Sandlin Jim Gerlach Kevin Brady John Shadegg James P. McGovern Ed Perlmutter Parker Griffith John Sullivan Ed Royce Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Mike Pence Anthony Weiner Sheila Jackson Lee Joe Baca Bart Stupak Ken Calvert Henry A. Waxman Peter Hoekstra Steve Buyer Steven R. Rothman Ben Chandler Mike Quigley Harry E. Mitchell Duncan Hunter John Boozman Tom Perriello John Campbell Niki Tsongas Thaddeus McCotter Dave Reichert Dennis Moore Russ Carnahan Steny Hoyer Ron Klein Tim Murphy Gerald Connolly Jason Altmire Jerry McNerney Tim Bishop Peter King Doug Lamborn Shelley Berkeley Patrick Kennedy Steve Scalise John Carter Albio Sires Mark Kirk Cynthia Lummis Paul Ryan Loretta Sanchez Gus Bilirakis Hank Johnson Doc Hastings Rush Holt John Adler Cathy McMorris Rodgers Paul Hodes Rick Larsen Connie Mack Erik Paulsen Michael Arcuri Jeb Hensarling Scott Garrett Robert Brady Dan Boren Candice Miller Frank Wolf Frank Kratovil Debbie Wasserman Schultz Lee Terry Chaka Fattah Carolyn B. Maloney Carolyn McCarthy Alcee L. Hastings Gene Green Jane Harman Lamar Smith Frank LoBiondo Mike Ross Rodney Frelinghuysen F. James Sensenbrenner John Linder Judy Biggert Charles Dent Blaine Luetkemeyer Ann Kirkpatrick Gary Peters Virginia Foxx John Kline John Hall Dennis Cardoza Robert Wittman Jason Chaffetz James Langevin Leonard Lance Rob Bishop Paul Tonko Lynn Jenkins Bill Shuster Jim Himes Patrick McHenry Al Green Jeff Flake Marsha Blackburn John Fleming Dana Rohrabacher Dan Burton Gary Miller Greg Walden Chet Edwards Chris Smith Adam Smith Judy Chu Roscoe G. Bartlett Todd Tiahrt Adam Schiff Bill Pascrell Christopher Murphy Ginny Brown-Waite Christopher Carney Heath Shuler Jim Jordan Jim Marshall Peter Roskam Todd Russell Platts Tom Cole Rosa L. DeLauro Jeff Miller Randy Forbes Jerry Costello Pete Sessions Geoff Davis Linda Sánchez Bill Foster Peter Welch Michael T. McCaul Anna Eshoo Kenny Marchant Joe Pitts Tom McClintock Eric Massa Richard E. Neal Elton Gallegly David Wu C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Michael Conaway Joe Courtney John T. Salazar Frank Pallone Jr. Lincoln Davis (TN) Earl Pomeroy Jim Matheson Tom Latham Roy Blunt Charlie A. Wilson David P. Roe Ed Pastor Tom Price André Carson Phil Hare Pete Olson Adrian Smith Bill Cassidy Brett Guthrie Steve Israel Joseph Crowley Adam Putnam Denny Rehber Sander Levin Kurt Schrader Mary Fallin Joe Donnelly Steve Austria Alan Grayson Daniel Lipinski Patrick Tiberi Doris O. Matsui Dina Titus Brian Higgins Michael Michaud Bruce L. Braley Frank D. Lucas Mike Simpson Cliff Stearns Chellie Pingree Bob Inglis Joe Wilson John P. Sarbanes Charlie Melancon Dave Camp Marcia L. Fudge Bart Gordon Don Young Tom Rooney Artur Davis Mike Rogers (MI)
07.29.2009	Today, the Club for Growth awarded Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) the "Defender of Economic Freedom Award" for his commitment to economic growth. Royce scored 98 percent on the Club for Growth's 2008 Congressional scorecard. Royce's score is the highest for the California delegation and overall one of the highest scores in Congress. "Representative Royce's commitment to policies that encourage economic growth is admirable. As one of the few members in Congress that stood firm and opposed every bailout, we are pleased to recognize Royce as a true defender of economic freedom," said Chris Chocola, President of the Club for Growth. The Club for Growth's 2008 scorecard covers votes during the second session of the 111th Congress. The Club's 2008 ratings include 23 House and 20 Senate roll call votes as well as other selected actions that either advanced or harmed pro-growth policies. Royce opposed legislation to bailout Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Other votes included his opposition to the $700 billion to bailout banks and other financial institutions, and $14 billion to bailout the automobile industry. To view a complete list of the Club for Growth's 2008 Congressional Score card including archived ratings, vote descriptions, and searches by state, year, member, or party affiliation, visit http://clubforgrowth.org/scorecard/index.php. Club for Growth is a national network of thousands of Americans, from all walks of life, who believe that prosperity and opportunity come through economic freedom. The Club for Growth works to promote public policies that promote economic growth primarily through legislative involvement, issue advocacy, research, training and educational activity. ###
07.23.2009	"I applaud Rep. Shuler's efforts and I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of the legislation this year. Illegal immigration remains to be one of the biggest concerns for my constituents in the 40th district and they want to see action on this issue," Royce said. share: f t Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) applauded Rep. Heath Shuler (D-NC) for reintroducing the Secure America through Verification and Enforcement (SAVE) Act . Royce, an original cosponsor of the legislation in the 110th Congress, issued the following statement: "I applaud Rep. Shuler's efforts and I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of the legislation this year. Illegal immigration remains to be one of the biggest concerns for my constituents in the 40th district and they want to see action on this issue," Royce said. The SAVE Act is a three-point plan to reduce illegal immigration. This legislation will help secure America's borders, implement mandatory work authorization verification, and reduce illegal immigration through interior enforcement. It will help to restore the integrity of our nation’s borders and reestablish respect for our immigration laws The bill increases Border Patrol agents by 6,000 and utilizes new technology to secure the border. It closes the existing loopholes in E-Verify to stop multiple people using the same Social Security number and to detect people using stolen identities. And it provides state and local law enforcement the tools they need to enforce immigration laws and expedites the removal of illegal aliens. "This legislation provides a sensible solution to the problems brought on by illegal immigration that are disproportionately affecting our state. It is costing California taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars a year for medical care, education, and incarceration," Royce said. NOTE: To view a list of immigration related legislation Royce supports in the 111th Congress, please click here. ###
07.23.2009	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) participated with Nguyen Thang of Boat People S.O.S. in a hearing held by the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission entitled, "Vietnam: An Update on the Status of Human Rights and Religious Freedom." At the hearing, Royce raised concerns over the continued persecution of religious practitioners and stressed the need for Vietnam to be relisted as a "Country of Particular Concern" (CPC) for severe violations of religious freedom. "Put plainly, the current state of human rights and religious freedom in Vietnam is deplorable. When Vietnam was placed on the CPC list, we saw some positive changes. Unfortunately, when they were prematurely released in 2006, Vietnam ramped up its persecution," said Royce. A Royce and Rep. Cao (R-LA) amendment to State Department legislation put the House of Representatives on record as being in support of relisting Vietnam as a "CPC." As Human Rights Watch cites in its 2009 report on religious freedom in Vietnam, "2008 saw the harshest crackdown on Catholics in Vietnam in decades," which included the seizure of land belonging to the Thai Ha Church and the use of "contract thugs" to carry out beatings and harassment. Evangelical churches face the same repression. Royce expressed frustration at the State Department's intransigence. "Pastor Nguyen Cong Chinh has been interrogated more than 300 times and been beaten over 20 times. Only days ago, he was forced to flee from his home once again to escape police abuse. Pastor Nguyen is a symbol of religious persecution for many in Vietnam," said Royce. Other religious groups like the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam, Hoa Hao Buddhists, and Cao Dai also face severe persecution from the communist government. The Venerable Thich Quang Do has spent the last 33 years of his life in prison or under house arrest. "Having met with the Venerable Thich Quang Do and other political prisoners when I travelled to Vietnam, I know the extent to which these men are persecuted. We need to tell the Vietnamese government that this mistreatment must stop," said Royce. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Additionally Royce serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Human Rights Commission. ###
07.14.2009	Today, Reps. Ed Royce (R-CA) and James McGovern (D-MA), with support from a bipartisan group of 96 Members of Congress, sent a letter to Secretary Hilary Clinton expressing their concern for the ongoing massacres and abductions being carried out by the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) in central Africa. The Members of Congress ask Secretary Clinton for increased U.S. leadership to protect civilians from these atrocities. Legislation with similar aims, the Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act of 2009 (H.R.2478) was introduced in May by McGovern and Royce. “The United States must take an active role in protecting innocent lives in Uganda,” Rep. McGovern said. “I want to commend Ed Royce for his leadership on this issue, and thank the dozens and dozens of our colleagues who have rallied to this important cause.” Recent attempts to achieve a negotiated end to the violence collapsed when LRA leader Joseph Kony refused to sign a final peace agreement. The Congressional letter urges Secretary Clinton, "to devote U.S. resources and diplomatic leadership to improve protection of civilians who are vulnerable to LRA attacks and to support viable efforts to apprehend Joseph Kony, whose leadership is vital to the LRA's survival." "Over 95 Members of Congress have come together to say that Joseph Kony must be stopped. A remarkable grass-roots movement has rallied for this cause. This letter is a first step in ensuring that the United States leads the way in ending the atrocities of the sadistic Lord's Resistance Army," remarked Rep. Ed Royce. The letter concludes, "U.S. leadership on this issue has the potential to help protect millions of civilians from further violence and to advance our country's core interests in stability and development for this troubled region of Africa." From June 22-23, Invisible Children, Resolve Uganda, and Enough organized a lobbying effort in which approximately 2,000 citizens from across the country traveled to Washington, D.C. to meet with policymakers to raise awareness about the ongoing atrocities in central Africa. NOTE: The following letter was sent by Rep. Ed Royce and Rep. James McGovern to Secretary Hillary Clinton and it can also be found here: July 14, 2009 The Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton Secretary of State U.S. Department of State Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Clinton, We are writing to express our serious concern about the continuing massacres and abductions being carried out by the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) in central Africa and to request increased U.S. leadership to protect civilians from these atrocities. As you know, last month, a bipartisan group of Senators and Representatives introduced the Lord’s Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act of 2009 (S.1067, H.R.2478), which similarly aims to spur U.S. leadership to help end the LRA’s terror. Recent attempts to achieve a negotiated end to the violence collapsed when LRA leader Joseph Kony refused to sign a final peace agreement. A subsequent military operation conducted by regional militaries, with some backing from the United States, was launched in December 2008 against the LRA’s bases in northeastern Congo but failed to apprehend Kony. Tragically, over the following two months, Kony’s forces attacked civilians in the region, leaving over 900 people dead. In one coordinated attack, the LRA brutally massacred more than 200 Congolese civilians gathered for celebrations on Christmas Day. We believe that ending this continued violence against civilians should be an urgent priority for the United States. We urge you to devote U.S. resources and diplomatic leadership to improve protection of civilians who are vulnerable to LRA attacks and to support viable efforts to apprehend Joseph Kony, whose leadership is vital to the LRA’s survival. Apprehending Kony would likely lead to the dissolution of the LRA, enable hundreds of children in LRA captivity to return home, and facilitate significant progress toward stabilizing and rebuilding war-affected regions. Increased leadership from the United States is crucial if any such efforts to end LRA violence are to succeed. To that end, we write to ask how you and the Obama administration plan to work with partners in the United Nations, the international community, and affected countries to improve civilian protection and stop Joseph Kony. Is there currently an interagency process underway to ensure U.S. involvement in addressing the LRA threat is effectively coordinated? Moreover, what precautions are being made to ensure the failures of recent military operations are not repeated and that civilian protection is being prioritized? Such action should take place in conjunction with increased diplomacy to address the regional dimensions of the crisis. We are particularly concerned with the potentially disruptive role of the government of Sudan in Khartoum, who previously supplied the LRA, and with the impact of LRA attacks on Sudan’s tenuous north-south peace process. U.S. leadership on this issue has the potential to help protect millions of civilians from further violence and to advance our country’s core interests in stability and development for this troubled region of Africa. We thank you for your attention to this matter and look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, ###
07.14.2009	Following Speaker Pelosi's press conference and the introduction of the Democrats' health care reform legislation, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement: "What Speaker Pelosi and Democrats in Congress are introducing today is a government-run health insurance plan that will kill competition within the healthcare market. As a result, private plans will be shifted over to the government option and two out of three Americans will lose their current coverage." "Who are they asking to pay for this massive government entry into the healthcare market? Everyone that currently has health benefits, small businesses, and those individuals who cannot afford coverage will all see a tax increase under this plan." "Problems in our health care system need addressing. But adding more government into a system already dominated by red tape and bloated bureaucracies is not the answer." "Instead of empowering bureaucrats, we should empower doctors and patients through market-based changes to our existing system that will enhance consumer choice and encourage greater competition." "Skyrocketing costs for professional liability insurance faced by hospitals and physicians have paralleled rising healthcare costs in recent years. Addressing medical liability reform would be a good first step toward lower prices. Also, strong tax incentives will encourage more Americans to get coverage for themselves and their families and lessen the burden the uninsured place on our healthcare system." NOTE: To read Royce's op-ed "Public Option Will Kill Off Competition" in today's Investor's Business Daily, please click here. ###
06.26.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), in an effort to protect taxpayers from an unprecedented national energy tax, opposed the Democrat Leadership's legislation - the Waxman-Markey Cap and Trade Plan. Royce, a cosponsor of the Republican energy alternative, which would increase American energy production by American workers, issued the following statement after the vote today: "I am a strong supporter of environmental stewardship, but I believe the benefits of the Democrat's Cap and Trade plan are too low and the costs to Americans too high. "It's been estimated that the current cap and trade proposal will raise a single household's energy bill by 77 to 129 percent. That means if you're energy bill is $160 a month, under this bill, it could soar to $390 per month. It will increase gas prices, food prices, consumer product prices, and the cost of government. "Even President Obama admitted 'electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket' under his cap-and-trade program (January 2008). Anyone using a car, public transportation, electricity or any product that involves creating CO2 would face higher prices. Under this plan families can expect to pay an additional $3,000 in energy costs per year. "The additional costs this plan is asking taxpayers to bear is done to affect one one-hundredth of a degree in global warming. Again, I believe the benefits of the cap and trade plan are too low and the costs to Americans too high. "We need meaningful solutions, which is why I am a sponsor of the American Energy Act. This bill will increase American energy production made by American workers, encourage greater efficiency and conservation, and promote the use of clean, alternative fuels." NOTE: To watch Royce's speech on the House floor click here. ###
06.26.2009	The head of a national non-partisan senior citizens group has presented the Benjamin Franklin Award to Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) because “Rep. Royce has a record of voting to repeal this terrible ‘death’ tax.” 60 Plus Association President Jim Martin noted, “It was Franklin who famously said there are two certainties in life, death and taxes, but because of the estate or ‘death’ tax, there is a third certainty--- taxes after death. 60 Plus decided to give a Benjamin Franklin award to those who support repeal. “The House of Representatives has passed Death Tax repeal legislation by a 110-vote margin, 272-162, but repeal failed in the Senate, 57-43, where 60 votes were needed. Over 40 Democrats, including eight members of the Congressional Black Caucus, voted to abolish this confiscatory tax. This makes it crystal clear this is not a tax break for the rich as liberal, big-spending Members of Congress assert. That’s nonsense. The rich set up trusts and foundations to protect their assets. Instead it’s farmers and small businesses throughout California who suffer the most. “This is a clever but morbid tax on after-tax assets. After you’ve paid every tax that Congress has conceived while you are alive, then you die, and Congress hits you again with a tax that it passed more than 90 years ago, ‘to tax the rich’ to raise revenue, but the first claimant in line is greedy old Uncle Sam, not even a blood relative, ready to take as much as half of your after-tax assets. That’s a confiscatory rate and it’s wrong. Taxed for dying - how morbid! “So, it is with a great deal of pride that 60 Plus honors Rep. Royce with the Benjamin Franklin Award because if Rep. Royce has his way, we will get rid of that third certainty—taxes after death—and make Mr. Franklin’s famous quote accurate once again.” Martin concluded, “I’ve been credited by many, most notably Bill Gates, Sr. in his book, Wealth and Our Commonwealth: Why America Should Tax Accumulated Fortunes, with popularizing ‘death tax’ for the estate tax. Why do I call it that? Because it’s triggered only by death. Senior citizens know they can always depend on Rep. Royce to abolish this anti-farmer, anti-senior, anti-small business, confiscatory tax.” ###
06.19.2009	Today, the House passed H.Res. 560, a bipartisan resolution expressing support for Iranians protesting a deeply flawed election, and condemning the Iranian government's crack-down on the peaceful demonstrations. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and member of the Middle East Subcommittee, voted in support of the resolution and issued the following statement: share: f t Today, the House passed H.Res. 560, a bipartisan resolution expressing support for Iranians protesting a deeply flawed election, and condemning the Iranian government's crack-down on the peaceful demonstrations. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and member of the Middle East Subcommittee, voted in support of the resolution and issued the following statement: "The Government of Iran is carrying out a campaign of great brutality against the Iranian people. Security forces and the Basiji - squads of roving, government-backed thugs - are beating and killing Iranians peacefully protesting the election results. "In one case, two medical students at Tehran University hid in their dorm room closet as the government militia approached in the middle of the night. They heard screams as their friends were dragged from their beds and beaten. After the Basiji left, the two students emerged to find their classmates strewn unconscious across the floor with stab wounds to the chest and bloody faces. "This is not a strong regime. The act of beating protesters, in fact, signals weakness. A strong regime is based upon the consent of the people. This is the only source of legitimacy, in a democracy. Those directing the crackdown legitimize their power through religious claims, not the people's consent. "Iranians want change. They don't like their government's lousy economic policies, cultural repression and hostile foreign policy. The government wants power, and it is willing to kill its own citizens to keep it. "Americans and people throughout the world naturally look to the United States at times like these. America is the strongest country in the world, and in large part, that is because we have built a political system based upon individual liberty. The President should inspire men and women throughout the world to peacefully seek liberty. That means the right to choose one's own government, which many, many brave Iranians are doing. They deserve our strong support --especially those being targeted by the regime. To not speak is to speak." ###
06.16.2009	During today's Financial Services Committee hearing entitled "Systemic Risk and Insurance," Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) gave the following opening statement: share: f t During today's Financial Services Committee hearing entitled "Systemic Risk and Insurance," Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) gave the following opening statement: "Yesterday's op-ed by Larry Summers and Tim Geithner in the Washington Post noted the importance of international coordination among regulators and reiterated the Administration's commitment to leading the effort to improve supervision around the world. "Unfortunately, with our fragmented regulatory regime over insurance we are lagging -- not leading -- the rest of the world. As Solvency II works to unite the insurance markets in the 27 member countries in the EU, we continue to struggle with a patchwork system of 50-plus state regulators. "With the implementation of this Directive nearing, it is becoming more apparent that the framework potentially will be at odds with the U.S. regulatory structure. It is unlikely that the EU would find the current U.S. state-based regulatory structure “equivalent." "This means the ability of our regulatory system to detect offshore risks will be weakened and many of our US-based institutions will be forced to shift significant operations overseas if they hope to continue to do business in the EU. "Certainly an Office of Insurance Information would be a logical first step to address this and other problems we face in the international insurance market. However, an OII would rely heavily on the various state insurance commissioners to implement the regulatory policies. Without strong preemptive authority over the states, the ability for an OII to enact policies nationwide -- and consequently the ability of an OII to adequately represent the entire US insurance market -- would be greatly weakened. "I remain concerned, however, that an OII will not go far enough. Maintaining solvency regulation at the state level will limit the effectiveness of a potential systemic risk regulator as well as coordination efforts with foreign regulators. "Certainly noting the failure of AIG, once the nation's largest insurer, is relevant given the focus of today's hearing. Dating back to 2006 the Paulson Treasury Department noted "systemic gaps" in the state-based system, which AIG exploited. "The blame for the collapse of the company should start with AIG. From a regulatory standpoint, there were failures at both the state and federal level. Using capital from their insurance subsidiaries, with the approval of various state insurance regulators, the Securities Lending Division (in tandem with the Financial Products Unit) put at risk the entire company and the broader financial system. "With more than 250 subsidiaries operating in 14 states and more than 100 countries, AIG is the "poster child" for both the need to open up lines of communication among regulators worldwide and the need to establish a domestic insurance regulator with the ability to oversee these large and complex institutions." NOTE: To watch Royce's opening statement in committee, please click here. ###
06.16.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, was one of ten Members of Congress selected by Congressional Leaders to welcome South Korean President Lee Myung-bak to Capitol Hill. Issues discussed included the historic Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA), increased defense cooperation between the U.S. and South Korea and North Korea's recent nuclear test. Following the meeting, Royce issued the following statement: "President Lee Myung-bak was well received by congressional leaders - and rightly so. South Korea sits at the crossroads of Northeast Asia and is one of America's closest trading partners and allies. Close U.S.-South Korean relations will be key in managing the challenges and opportunities of the region. "The President showed a fresh and welcomed sense of realism about North Korea --about its nuclear ambitions, negotiating ploys, and its abuse of its people. We are never going to get what we want diplomatically so long as we deal with some imagined version of North Korea. This South Korean leader understands the reality we are facing in North Korea. "The President warned about the need to reject protectionism. He made a strong case for the Korea-US Free Trade Agreement. He said that South Korea is moving ahead with a trade agreement with the European Union. Without KORUS, this will hurt American companies. Too bad the Democrats in the White House and Congress have no interest in passing KORUS. "President Lee thanked me for my legislation which was signed into law which enhances South Korea's military procurement status, improving defense cooperation between the militaries of the U.S. and the Republic of Korea." ###
06.15.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, spoke on the House floor today in favor of H.Res. 309, calling North Korea to cease its hostile rhetoric and activity towards South Korea. share: f t Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, spoke on the House floor today in favor of H.Res. 309, calling North Korea to cease its hostile rhetoric and activity towards South Korea. Royce issued the following statement: North Korean foreign policy, always aggressive, has lately included a long-range missile test, booting U.N. inspectors from the country and sentencing two American journalists, Laura Ling and Euna Lee, to 12 years hard labor. Counterfeiting U.S. currency, missile proliferation, drug trafficking and other illicit activities have long been state-sanctioned activities. Now North Korea has conducted a second underground nuclear test in three years. The U.S. should deploy measures to further undercut North Korea’s economy and target its proliferation activities. Past attempts to squeeze Pyongyang's wallet have proven successful, when banks from across Asia refused to do business with North Korea after a bank in Macau was shut down by U.S. sanctions for laundering counterfeit U.S. currency for North Korea. North Korea's second nuclear test in three years offers a silver lining: clarity of Pyongyang's intentions. North Korea has dropped the pretense of being willing to negotiate away its nuclear program. South Korean President Lee Myung-bak, who will be visiting Washington this week, has advocated for a new approach, recognizing the failure of the Six Party Talks. That South Korea - our ally of over 60 years - is pressing for a fresh approach should speak volumes. I hope the Obama Administration is listening. H.Res. 309 passed the House by voice-vote. Royce also serves as a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia. Note: To watch Royce support this resolution on the House floor please, click here . ###
06.10.2009	Last night, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, sent a letter signed by 24 members of Congress to President Obama... share: f t Last night, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, sent a letter signed by 24 members of Congress to President Obama, asking that he “pursue every avenue to secure” the release of Laura Ling and Euna Lee, two American journalists sentenced this week to 12 years hard labor in North Korea. The letter asks President Obama to give their case his “personal attention.” A copy of the letter, along with a list of cosigners can be found here and is reprinted below. “One of President Obama's highest priorities must be to protect American citizens. President Obama himself must be personally involved and see to it that every avenue to secure the release of these two brave young women is pursued,” said Royce upon the release of the letter. "We have stated it very clearly -- there is no justice system in North Korea. Laura Ling and Euna Lee should be released immediately." In April, Rep. Royce raised the case of the two journalists in a face-to-face conversation with Secretary of State Clinton. Royce handed the Secretary a personal letter, and pressed for urgent action. The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our grave concern over the fate of two American journalists currently held in North Korea. As you know, Laura Ling and Euna Lee of Current TV of San Francisco have been found guilty of illegally entering North Korea and sentenced to 12 years of hard labor. We ask that you take urgent action and pursue every avenue to secure their release. Simply stated, there is no justice system in North Korea. Representatives from the Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang, which is the United States' protecting power in North Korea, were not even allowed to witness the court proceedings. According to the State Department's 2008 Human Rights Report on North Korea, "Prison conditions were harsh and life threatening and torture occurred." Indeed, North Korean defectors have spoken of unfathomable horrors in labor camps. That is what these two young women face. Without question, these two Americans should be immediately released on humanitarian grounds. Laura Ling has an ulcer condition that requires medical attention. Euna Lee has a four-year old daughter from whom she has been separated since March. Given the horrendous conditions that face Laura Ling and Euna Lee, coupled with their draconian sentence, this situation requires your urgent and personal attention. We look forward to working with you to speed the release of these two young American journalists. Sincerely, Rep. Ed Royce Rep. Joe Pitts Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Rep. Madeleine Bordallo Rep. Shelly Berkley Rep. Peter King Rep. Gerry Connolly Rep. Scott Garrett Rep. Bob Inglis Rep. Betty McCollum Rep. Michael H. Michaud Rep. Carol Shea-Porter Rep. Tammy Baldwin Rep. Dan Burton Rep. Elton Gallegly Rep. Jim Oberstar Rep. Ken Calvert Rep. Jim Moran Rep. Robert Wexler Rep. Dan Lungren Rep. Don Manzullo Rep. Trent Franks Rep. Albio Sires Rep. Michael Capuano ###
06.08.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, released the following statement after learning of a guilty verdict and sentencing to 12 years hard labor in the case of Laura Ling and Euna Lee, two American journalists held in North Korea since March: “One of President Obama's highest priorities must be to protect American citizens. President Obama himself must make it clear that this action cannot stand. Period. Now is the time for urgent action. “These court proceedings were a cruel joke – nothing more than a kangaroo court. I know of no 'justice' system in North Korea. The two should be immediately released. “As if there were any doubts, the North Korean regime has shown its true colors – a hostile regime bent on destroying the lives of its own citizens and others. "These two wouldn't have been near North Korea were it not for the barbaric cruelty of its regime. Ling and Lee were convicted of so-called "grave crimes." The regime commits real grave crimes against millions of North Koreans everyday. In April, Rep. Royce raised the case of the two journalists in a face-to-face conversation with Secretary of State Clinton. Royce handed the Secretary a personal letter, and pressed for urgent action. ###
06.03.2009	During today's Financial Services Committee hearing on the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) gave the following opening statement: "Some of us had warned about the structural flaw of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac many years ago. The ability for these companies to borrow at a lower rate typically reserved for branches of the federal government while paying out dividends to their shareholders and bonuses to their executives was doomed for failure. "Add in the sheer size of these two institutions (owning or guaranteeing roughly $6 trillion worth of the mortgage market) as well as the desire for Members of Congress to use the GSE model as a vehicle to subsidize homeownership -- and you had a recipe for disaster. "In 2003, I introduced the first legislation to bring Fannie, Freddie and the FHLB under one strong federal regulator. Two years later, I offered an amendment on the House floor to allow the GSE's regulator to control for systemic risk when addressing the size of the GSE's portfolios. "Unfortunately our calls for reform went unheeded. "To date, the federal government has invested more than $85 billion into these two institutions. Beyond the actual cost to the US Treasury, the cost of this failed public/private model to the broader financial system is unparalleled. "There was a belief throughout the market that it was okay to purchase these junk loans because Fannie and Freddie (i.e. the federal government) were purchasing them -- lessening the need for due diligence in the market. "With the understanding that no two institutions were more central in enabling a housing boom to become a housing bubble (which inevitably led to the housing bust) than Fannie and Freddie, I believe reforming the GSE model is critical. "Going forward, Fannie and Freddie should be broken up into smaller companies and any direct or indirect government support should be eliminated -- thus eliminating the ability for political manipulation. "At a minimum, the retained portfolios should be unwound and any ambiguity in the way of government support should be addressed. "Without including these reforms, we run the risk of having to deal with an even greater collapse down the road." For more than a decade Royce, as senior member of the committee, has warned about the risk associated with the GSE's. He introduced the first legislation in Congress to strengthen the GSE's regulator. ###
05.28.2009	Representative Ed Royce will host a discussion on North Korea policy in conjunction with Mike Kim the author of "Escaping North Korea" on Friday, May 29, 7:00 pm at Orange Barnes and Noble Booksellers located at 791 S. Main Street. Royce and Mr. Kim will discuss the North Korean human rights and refugee situation, call for the need to pay attention to the growing crisis in North Korea, discuss the two journalists (Laura Ling and Euna Lee) detained in North Korea and their efforts to document the plight of North Korean refugees along the China and North Korea border. WHO: Representative Ed Royce, California 40th District Mike Kim, Author of "Escaping North Korea" WHAT: Royce to host a discussion on North Korea foreign policy in conjunction with author of "Escaping North Korea" Mike Kim WHERE: Orange Barnes and Noble Booksellers at 791 S. Main Street WHEN: 7:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. Friday, May 29 ###
05.26.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, made the following statement in response to reports of North Korea's underground nuclear test: “A long-range missile test; U.N. inspectors booted from the country; American journalists detained; and now its second underground nuclear test in less than three years. A string of rejectionist North Korean actions continues with little or no consequences. These deeds must be met with real consequences and muscular sanctions. "Reports surfaced this weekend that the Administration was developing measures to further undercut North Korea’s economy and target its proliferation activities. As North Korea has made its intentions clear, these long overdue actions should be put into play. "Given North Korea’s proliferation record, it must be made crystal clear that the United States would hold Pyongyang fully accountable for the transfer of nuclear weapons or material to states or non-state actors. "North Korea’s work on its long-range missiles and nuclear program also underscores the need for a strong U.S. missile defense system." ###
05.21.2009	Today, the American Conservative Union (ACU) congratulated Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) for earning the "Defenders of Liberty" Award for 2008. Royce scored 100 percent on the ACU 2008 Ratings of Congress. Royce's lifetime rating of 98 over 16 years of service is one of the highest in the entire Congress over an extended period of time. “The American Conservative Union’s Defender of Liberty Award received by Congressman Royce reflects his perfect 100 percent rating for 2008 on a wide variety of issues of interest to grass roots conservatives,” said ACU Chairman David A. Keene. “By attaining a lifetime ACU rating of 98 over 16 years of service, Congressman Royce has shown a consistent devotion to conservative principles of government and someone who conservatives in California and across the nation can look to for leadership.” The ACU 2008 Ratings cover the voting year 2008, the second session of the 110th Congress. ACU rated 25 votes in the House and Senate. Royce supported legislation to combat illegal immigration by tightening restrictions on the IRS to prevent illegal aliens from receiving tax benefits and encouraging state and local official to report illegal immigrants. Other votes included: Efforts to encourage domestic energy production through oil and gas exploration domestically and off the Outer Continental Shelf and legislation to strengthen the nation's immediate anti-ballistic missile program. ACU's website features the complete 2008 Ratings of Congress, including vote descriptions, scorecards for the House and Senate, personalized scorecards for each member of Congress, and historical comparisons. Visit www.acuratings.org. The American Conservative Union was founded in 1964 to promote the principles of liberty and the strength of the Constitution. ACU is the nation’s largest and strongest grassroots conservative organization. ###
05.20.2009	Washington, D.C. -- Today, the House Foreign Affairs Committee passed the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, a bill that authorizes funding for the U.S. Department of State. Importantly, this bill contains an amendment offered by Ed Royce calling on the State Department to relist Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern" for violations of religious freedom. The amendment was included in the bill after spirited debate in Committee, led by Royce. "Passage of this bill is an important step to putting the House of Representatives on record as supporting religious freedom in Vietnam. We need to send a message to the State Department that the status quo in Vietnam is unacceptable," said Royce. Since 1999, the U.S. State Department has designated countries that "engage in or tolerate particularly severe violations of religious freedom," as "Countries of Particular Concern." This annual designation puts the violations of specific countries on record, making it a significant diplomatic tool for advancing human rights. Due to Vietnam's egregious human rights violations, the State Department had previously listed it as one of these countries. In 2006, Vietnam was removed from this annual list. "Some have seen positive steps in Vietnam, but frankly, I don't see it. Religious freedom remains under attack. The Communist government continues to harass and physically abuse worshipers who don't follow every last state sanctioned rule," Royce stated. Representative Joseph "Anh" Cao joined Representative Ed Royce as an original cosponsor of H.Res.20 the resolution that provided the text for the amendment. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Additionally Royce serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Caucus on Human Rights. ###
05.20.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, today supported H.R. 1886, legislation that would impose tough conditions on U.S. aid to Pakistan. The legislation requires of Pakistan: providing "access to Pakistani nationals" connected to proliferation networks and "ceasing support, including by any elements within the Pakistan military or its intelligence agency, to extremist and terrorist groups" and "preventing cross border attacks into neighboring countries" as conditions to U.S. security assistance. The legislation passed out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee by a voice vote. The legislation's next step is consideration by the full House of Representatives. The following is a statement from Rep. Royce, who serves as the Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade: "For far too long, Pakistan has taken U.S. assistance with one hand, while undoing U.S. efforts to bring stability to Afghanistan with the other. For far too long, Pakistan has been receiving U.S. aid to fight terrorism, while keeping its army aimed at India. This legislation lays down an important principle - that Pakistani actions will have consequences. "Congress is sending an important signal - that we must see progress on A.Q. Khan, ISI, and the terrorists targeting U.S. troops and neighboring India. I hope the Administration hears us. Royce recently returned from a congressional delegation to India and Pakistan. He is an original cosponsor of H.R. 1886, introduced on April 2, 2009. ###
05.19.2009	U.S. Senators Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Sam Brownback (R-KS) and U.S. Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA), Brad Miller (D-NC) and Ed Royce (R-CA) are introducing legislation today to help end the reign of terror conducted by the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) in northern Uganda and neighboring countries. For over two decades, the LRA terrorized northern Uganda, which led to the displacement of nearly two million people. The LRA has been pushed out of Uganda in recent years, but continues to wreak havoc in the border region of northeastern Congo and southern Sudan. Under the leadership of Joseph Kony, the LRA has supported itself in part through the kidnapping of 66,000 children and forcing them to fight as child soldiers. The bipartisan Lord’s Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act would require the Obama administration to develop a strategy to support multilateral efforts to protect the region’s civilians from the LRA and eliminate the threat it poses. The bill also authorizes funding for humanitarian assistance for those areas affected by the LRA’s brutality, including additional funds to support recovery and reconciliation in war-torn areas of Uganda. The LRA’s actions have spurred hundreds of thousands of Americans, most notably young Americans, to speak out and call on the U.S. government to help stop the violence and build lasting peace. “When I traveled to northern Uganda, I saw the effects of the LRA’s brutality in the faces of the Ugandan people living in displacement camps,” said Feingold, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on African Affairs, who visited the country in 2007. “We must not allow Joseph Kony and the LRA, who have forced children to do unspeakable acts and destroyed the lives of millions, to continue their reign of terror. The strategy required by this bill would address the conditions in northern Uganda that originally gave rise to the LRA and if unchanged, could re-ignite violence in the north.” “For more than two decades, Joseph Kony and the LRA have terrorized the people of northern Uganda. In 2008, the mayhem and devastation crossed borders and spread throughout Uganda, Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan, and Central Africa Republic. More than 900 people were killed, and tens of thousands were displaced throughout the region. We in the global community must act now. I am pleased to support this bipartisan legislation that I am hopeful will help to bring long-term, sustainable peace to those who have suffered under Joseph Kony and the LRA,” said Brownback. “For over two decades the Lord's Resistance Army has terrorized central Africa, attacking civilians and abducting children from northern Uganda to eastern DR-Congo to southern Sudan,” said McGovern, Co-Chair of the House Human Rights Commission. “The introduction of this bill demonstrates the growing consensus on the need for greater U.S. leadership to disarm top LRA leaders and permanently end this violence. At the same time, it will ensure that the U.S. steps up to aid communities affected by the most recent LRA attacks and assist in long-term recovery efforts in northern Uganda.” “The LRA has abducted more than 20,000 children over the past decade for forced conscription and sexual exploitation. Almost 90 percent of the LRA’s soldiers are children, some as young as eight. They are brutalized and forced to commit atrocities on each other and on their own siblings,” said Rep. Brad Miller. "This bill rightly targets LRA leader Joseph Kony. Kony's removal is essential to peace in the region,” said Rep. Ed Royce, the former Africa subcommittee chairman. In recent years, there was a lull in the violence as representatives from the Ugandan government and LRA engaged in sporadic peace negotiations in southern Sudan. Despite some progress, Kony refused to sign the agreement and his forces have resumed attacks from their new footholds in northeastern Congo and southern Sudan. In December 2008, a joint offensive against the LRA launched by the Ugandan, Congolese and South Sudanese militaries failed to apprehend Kony, who retaliated against civilians in the region, leaving over 900 people dead. During the offensive, insufficient attention and resources were devoted to ensuring the protection of civilians. This legislation commits the United States to work with multilateral partners to develop a viable path to disarm the LRA, while ensuring the maximal protection of civilians. The legislation also encourages the United States to increase assistance over the next several years for recovery efforts, provided the Ugandan government demonstrates a commitment to genuine, transparent and accountable reconstruction. ###
05.19.2009	Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), during a House Foreign Affairs Committee markup of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, will offer an amendment to call on the State Department to relist Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern" for violations of religious freedom on Wednesday, May 20, 10:00 am in 2172 Rayburn HOB. Since 1999, the U.S. State Department has designated countries that "engage in or tolerate particularly severe violations of religious freedom," as "Countries of Particular Concern." This annual designation puts the violations of specific countries on record, making it a significant diplomatic tool for advancing human rights. Due to Vietnam's egregious human rights violations, the State Department had previously listed it as one of these countries. WHO: Representative Ed Royce, California 40th District WHAT: Offer an amendment to the Foreign Relations Authorization Act to call on the State Department to relist Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern" WHERE: 2172 Rayburn House Office Building WHEN: 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Wednesday, May 20 ###
05.11.2009	Today, Rep. Ed Royce participated in the fifteenth commemoration of Vietnam Human Rights Day, marking the anniversary of the House-Senate Joint Resolution signed into law in May of 1994. The commemoration, which took place on Capitol Hill, provides an opportunity for lawmakers to discuss the ongoing human rights violations in Vietnam. "Unfortunately, the human rights conditions in Vietnam haven't change much since this resolution was passed fifteen years ago," said Royce. "Vietnam remains a one-party state that denies its citizens basic human rights." Focusing on the lackluster international effort to address the situation, Royce noted Vietnam's examination by the U.N. Human Rights Council's Universal Periodic review. While the final outcome document has yet to be released, a Human Rights Council summary is telling. Instead of pressing Vietnam on political and religious freedom, delegations reviewing Vietnam's human rights situation chose instead to press Vietnam to increase the use of ethnic languages, and to improve on socio-economic disparities. "Failing to press Vietnam on its control of the media, its harassment of citizens, its control of religion does more than just give them a pass. It sends a message that the international community isn't watching or doesn't care. This demoralizes all Vietnamese seeking freedom," said Royce. The United Nations is not the only body that has given Hanoi a pass, however. The U.S. State Department once again failed to list Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern" for gross violations of religious freedom in its 2008 Human Rights Report. "The fact is, religious freedom is under attack in Vietnam. Its Communist government continues to harass and physically abuse worshipers who peacefully resist state sanctioned rules on religion. That is why I introduced legislation in Congress calling on the State Department to relist Vietnam as a 'CPC'," said Royce. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Additionally Royce serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Caucus on Human Rights.
04.28.2009	Today, at the North Korean Freedom Week Rally, Representative Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chairman of the Korea Caucus, offered the following statement on the humanitarian crisis in North Korea: "As you know, we face a tremendous humanitarian challenge on the Korean Peninsula. It is one, I am afraid, that the international community has been far too relaxed about. Really, ignored. I've taken several tours of the DMZ. I remember when we looked across to the North Korean outpost, we noticed that North Korea soldiers were much smaller. After suffering from years of malnutrition, their growth has stunted. As we know, the North Korean regime apportions food based on perceived citizen loyalty to the regime. From 1994 to 1998, at least two million North Koreans perished from starvation and related diseases. Nearly 50 percent of all North Korean children are malnourished to the point that it threatens their physical and mental health. 13 million people - over half the population - continue to suffer from starvation and malnutrition. Let's be clear - this is conscious government policy. Because of these conditions, North Koreans have fled their country by the thousands to their northern neighbor - China. Ironically, many of these defectors seek a taste of freedom in China. I guess everything is relative. Sadly, most of these refugees do not find the safety they desire, and are repatriated with North Korea, where they face the notorious gulags. In the Foreign Affairs Committee, we have held many hearings on the humanitarian crisis and heard the testimony of North Korean defectors. One described for us the life in a North Korean gulag. In her testimony, she said, "A prisoner has no right to talk, laugh, sing, or look in a mirror. Prisoners must kneel down on the ground and keep their heads down deeply whenever called by a guard. Prisoners have to work as slaves for up to 18 hours a day." Unfortunately, we will continue to face opposition as we try to put North Korea’s human rights on international agenda. There are those who will ask why we should focus on human rights abuses when the nuclear issue should be the priority. Others, including some South Koreans, are resentful of our efforts. While I know full-well of the dangers of a nuclear North Korea, such wanton disregard human rights will not get us the North Korea that North Koreans deserve. And ultimately, a North Korea that respects human rights is a far less threatening country."
04.22.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (CA-40), a member of the House Republicans Saving Solutions Group, issued the following statement on the Savings Recovery Act, legislation he cosponsored today to help Americans rebuild their retirement, college, and personal savings: "Along with our struggling economy, over the past 16 months millions of Americans have seen their personal savings and retirement accounts hit hard. Americans should be given every opportunity to help rebuild their savings. Unfortunately, current law limits the amount Americans can put into their retirement savings or the “catch-up” contributions they may make. "We must do more to encourage additional savings in our country. The personal savings rate in America has plummeted to roughly zero over the past few decades. "If our economy is going to experience long term sustainable growth going forward, we have to encourage savings and investment. As a part of a broader economic recovery effort, I have worked with Rep. John Boehner to produce a few simple solutions Congress can consider that will make it easier for Americans to rebuild their retirement and savings. This is a step toward getting capital back into the financial system and putting our country on the path back to recovery. "Unfortunately, up to this point Washington's response to the economic downturn has almost exclusively focused on racking up a massive budget deficit and spending frivolously on government programs. Inflating the federal government is not the solution to our problems. "While our proposal alone will not lead to an economic turnaround, it is a part of a broader recovery effort geared toward empowering the American consumers and the private sector rather than the federal government." NOTE: The Savings Recovery Act will: • Make it easier for Americans to save more for their retirement by increasing the contribution and catch-up limits for individuals and families. • Restore college savings by extending the existing SAVERs Credit to contributions made to 529 college savings accounts, effectively reducing by up to half the cost of a family’s contribution to the plan. • Increase retirement income by doubling the Social Security earnings limit from $14,160 to $28,320 and allowing more Americans to increase their income without being hit by the Social Security earnings penalty. • Provide tax relief for investors and seniors by immediately suspending the capital gains tax on newly acquired assets for the next two years, raise and index to inflation the amount of capital losses allowed against ordinary income to $10,000, and suspend taxes on dividend income through 2011. • Stabilize worker pensions and helping employers invest in the future by temporarily providing an increased glide path for recognizing losses and two additional years to resolve pension funding shortfalls. • Preserve employee-controlled 401(k)s by blocking efforts to wipe out 401(k)s entirely and replace them with government-run accounts. ###
04.10.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) was recognized for his pro-taxpayer voting record for last year. The National Taxpayers Union (NTU), a nonpartisan citizen group, announced that Royce is among the top ten 2008 “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” recipients out of the entire House of Representatives. “It took a lot of courage to withstand political pressure and vote against the bailout last fall, and Congressman Royce chose to stand up for taxpayers,” National Taxpayers Union President Duane Parde said. “His strong commitment to lower taxes and principled method of governing is reflected in his Taxpayer Score of 88 percent – the ninth-highest in the entire House of Representatives. Congressman Royce is truly a ‘Taxpayers’ Friend,’ and we at National Taxpayers Union are proud to present this award to him.” The award is given to Representatives and Senators who achieve an “A” grade in NTU’s annual Rating of Congress. The Rating, which is based on every roll call vote affecting fiscal policy, assigns a “Taxpayer Score” to each Member of Congress that indicates his or her support for reducing or controlling federal spending, taxes, debt, and regulation. For 2008, a total of 182 House and 104 Senate votes were selected. "At a time when many taxpayers are hurting it is wrong to pass legislation that loads trillions of dollars of debt onto their backs. While Americans tighten their belts, the federal government should be doing the same," Royce said. “Given today’s economic climate, fiscal discipline is more important now than ever,” NTU President Duane Parde said. “Fortunately, taxpayers have a staunch ally in Royce, to whom National Taxpayers Union is proud to present a ‘Taxpayers’ Friend Award.’” ###
04.07.2009	Today, Web Wise Kids recognized the efforts of Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) to protect our nation's children and presented to him the "Children's Champion" Award. Web Wise Kids is a non-profit organization dedicated to empowering today's youth to make wise choices online through easy-to-use, school-approved internet safety education programs for young people. "Thank you for this award. For years, I have been working to protect our children. When I was in the state senate, I supported the first laws in the country to deal directly with cyber bullying. I also supported Megan's law, which required sex offender registration and community notification and I was the author of the first anti-stalking law in the country," Royce said. "I would like to thank Web Wise Kids for dedicating itself to protecting children from online dangers by showing them how to make wise choices online." Web Wise Kid's programs have reached over six million American children and thousands of parents nationwide. There is such a demand now to educate children about the dangers that exist online. Royce submitted a request on behalf of the Orange County Department of Education to provide funding for an Internet Youth Safety Program. Federal legislation signed into law requires all schools receiving E-Rate funding to implement Internet safety programs. The E-Rate program provides discounts for telecommunications including internet access. Yet no funding has been provided to achieve this mandate. "With increasing numbers of children using the Internet, it is imperative that they have the tools to use technology safely and act responsibly. An Internet Youth Safety program is critical to providing educators the tools to prevent online child victimization for today’s children, who are literally growing up online," Royce said. "Considering the pervasiveness of Internet access by children and the rapid increase in Internet crime and predatory behavior, never before have powerful educational solutions, like the programs offered by Web Wise Kids, been more necessary." ###
04.05.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, made the following statement in response to North Korea's test of a long-range ballistic missile: "This test clearly violates United Nations Security Council Resolutions prohibiting Pyongyang from ballistic missile activity. The North Koreans believe that the more provocative they act, the more concessions they'll gain. The U.S. must lead an international response that demonstrates to Pyongyang that those days are over. During the Presidential campaign, Mr. Obama declared that if North Korea did not meet its obligations, than stiff sanctions should be imposed. That rhetoric must be matched by deeds. North Korea’s criminal and proliferation activities should be targeted. A response must include getting South Korea to join the Proliferation Security Initiative to go after missile parts in route to Pyongyang. Deepening and expanding U.S. missile defense cooperation with allies in the region is needed too." ###
04.02.2009	Citing the meltdown of insurance giant AIG and the broad crisis in the nation’s financial system as proof of the vital need for regulatory reform, Congresswoman Melissa Bean (D-IL-08) and Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA-40) introduced the National Insurance Consumer Protection Act to create a robust federal regulator for insurance to act as an alternative to the antiquated, non-uniform system of state insurance regulators currently in operation. “The events of 2008 show us that insurance reg reform can no longer be postponed — it is needed now,” Bean said. “This bill will provide consumer protection and choice while eliminating barriers to industry competitiveness in the global market.” "Never before has the federal government been so invested in an industry it has no regulatory authority over. Leaving the business of insurance regulation solely to the various state insurance commissioners, while the federal government provides taxpayer-funded assistance is simply irresponsible." Royce said. The National Insurance Consumer Protection Act (NICPA) establishes a national system of regulation and supervision for nationally registered insurers, agencies, and producers (agents and brokers) to monitor the systemic risk to the economy from the insurance market, enhance consumer protection and choice, and reduce inefficient regulatory complexity that puts U.S. firms at a competitive disadvantage. States would maintain responsibility for regulating state-licensed insurers, agencies and producers. Major points of the bill include: Consumer protections. By creating a world-class regulator, consumers working with a nationally chartered insurer benefit from best practices in consumer protection. The bill directly implements the model laws propagated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners covering consumer protection. A single nationwide telephone number will connect consumers with problems to their local federal or state insurance regulator. The Office of National Insurance will have a physical office and staff in every state through its Division of Consumer Affairs. Consumer choice. By eliminating outdated price controls insurance customers across the country will have products more closely reflecting actuarially sound prices available to them. (Illinois, one of the only states without price controls, enjoys lower-than-average insurance rates as insurers compete for customers.) By providing an alternative to the antiquated patchwork of state regulators, nationally chartered insurers will be able to bring new products to market more quickly, providing greater consumer options. Risk reduction. NICPA reflects the importance of monitoring the insurance sector for "systemic threats" to the economy and anticipates the need to coordinate with a systemic risk regulator, likely to be created by Congress. The bill calls on this regulator to gather financial data from insurers and affiliates within holding companies, and to consult with the Office of National Insurance to determine the most effective form of functional regulation for systemically important institutions. Under these provisions, AIG’s insurance subsidiaries – in addition to its holding companies and non-insurance subsidiaries, like the financial products division – would have been overseen by ONI. Insurance reg reform has been recommended in numerous bipartisan reports on financial services modernization, such as the Schumer/Bloomberg report on United States competitiveness, the Treasury Department’s Blueprint for a Modernized Financial Regulatory Structure, and the report by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s bipartisan commission on capital market competitiveness. Additionally, Timothy Geithner and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke have recently noted the systemic gap exploited by AIG and called for a review of our insurance regulations as a critical component of the broad regulatory reform needed to prevent another future collapse of the financial system as occurred in 2008. During a Senate Budget Committee hearing on March 3 Bernanke stated, "[AIG] made huge numbers of irresponsible bets, took huge losses, there was no regulatory oversight because there was a gap in the system.” Just last week during a House Financial Services Committee hearing Geithner said, "What we need is better, smarter, tougher regulation, because we've seen the costs of these weaknesses and gaps are catastrophic to the system as a whole." "Beyond the inefficiencies created by the fragmented state-based system overseeing insurance, systemic gaps have revealed themselves in recent months. Until these gaps are filled, the threat of another AIG remains." Royce said. "Our legislation will go a long way toward filling those gaps." “The complexity of the modern financial system of insurance conglomerates and holding companies cannot be adequately overseen by the state-based system, as shown by recent events,” Bean said. “Insurance reg reform that protects consumers and investors must be included as Congress moves ahead on comprehensive reg reform of the financial services sector.” Note: Attached is the NICPA fact sheet. Please click here for a PDF copy of the bill.
04.01.2009	Today, in response to the Democrat Leadership's proposed 2010 budget Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement: The Democrat Leadership's 2010 budget calls for an unprecedented $3.5 trillion in spending and results in trillion dollar deficits for years. It also increases taxes by $1.1 trillion. I oppose this budget because this unchecked spending will result in borrowing hundreds of billions from China, the Middle East, and other nations that own our growing debt. At a time when many taxpayers are hurting, they can't afford their mortgages, they are losing money in their pensions, and they are worried about their jobs, it is wrong to pass this kind of debt onto their backs. This spending plan increases the annual cost of government for every household in America by 33 percent. This budget leaves permanent deficits averaging $600 billion, and it doubles the publicly held national debt to over $15 trillion. After multiple bailouts, a stimulus, and an omnibus spending bill, the American people cannot afford this huge tax and spend budget. When is enough going to be enough? Note: Click here to watch Royce question Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke on deficit spending. Bernanke states, "obviously trillion dollar deficits as far as the eye can see would not be sustainable." ###
03.27.2009	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) celebrated the Department of the Navy's decision to award Frank J. McNerney Jr., an 82 year-old Marine Corps veteran, a Purple Heart for his service during World War II. "One of the most important responsibilities a Member of Congress has is helping constituents interact with the many agencies and offices of the federal government. I encourage anyone in my district that's currently facing an up hill battle with a federal agency to get in contact with my district office. This story is proof that there are happy endings. My staff and I are here to act as liaisons to whichever federal agency you are seeking assistance from," said Royce. McNerney's son, a Judge in Southern California, reached out to Royce's office for assistance in obtaining the Purple Heart for his father after years of unsuccessful attempts. His letter to request Royce's assistance said, "Dad saw combat in three of the bloodiest engagements in the war." He went on to say, "He and his men were repeatedly decorated for their bravery during these fierce engagements, except for the Purple Heart which has eluded him." "Mr. Frank McNerney is the recipient of numerous military awards. I was proud to support the recommendation that he be honored with this prestigious award and today I applaud the Navy's decision to recognize this great man's service," said Royce during the Purple Heart presentation for McNerney. Note: Rep. Royce's remarks to the decoration ceremony are attached below. Remarks by Congressman Ed Royce SGT. FRANK MCNERNEY ORDER OF THE PURPLE HEART We are here today to honor United States Marine Corps Sergeant Frank McNerney as he is awarded the Order of the Purple Heart for combat wounds he received 65 years ago in the Battle of Saipan during World War II. Frank Joseph McNerney enlisted in the United States Marine Corps in September, 1942, just nine months after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. He was only 16 at the time, and the Marine Corps made him wait another six weeks until he reached his 17th birthday before he was formally inducted. He was sent to Parris Island, North Carolina for basic training. But by November or 1942, the Marines were engaged in a life-or-death struggle at Guadalcanal, Solomon Islands and needed every man that was available, so basic training for new recruits was cut from 13 weeks down to six. By December, 1942, Frank McNerney found himself on a ship heading south thru the Panama Canal for war in the Pacific. The battles he fought in are now legendary in Marine Corps history. He served with the 3rd Battalion, 2nd Marines at Guadalcanal, and again as the first battalion to go ashore at Tarawa in November of 1943. Then, in June of 1944, the Marines invaded Saipan in the Marianna Islands. The invasion of Saipan was known as the D-Day of the Pacific, and began just nine days after Normandy. Over 13,000 Marines were killed or wounded on Saipan in three weeks of fighting. As the Marines went ashore on June 15th, Frank McNerney’s sergeant was one of the first casualties, and Frank was immediately promoted to take his place. During the three weeks that followed, Sergeant McNerney and his fellow Marines battled their way up the island thru dense jungles and mountainous terrain, encountering fierce Japanese resistance at every turn. They fought off repeated Banzai attacks by the Japanese defenders, and air raids by Japanese bombers flying in from Iwo Jima to the north. By the first week of July, the Marines had pushed the Japanese up to the north end of the island at Mount Marpi. As his unit dug in at the base of the mountain, Sgt. McNerney heard the air raid sirens, and the familiar sound of the Japanese bombers. As he scrambled for his fox hole, a bomb exploded to his right, ripping a shrapnel wound thru his left knee. He was found by Navy corpsmen and taken to a makeshift field hospital where he was treated until he could be evacuated along with the other wounded Marines. He was shipped back to the Naval hospital as Pearl Harbor where doctors spent months re-building his badly-damaged knee. For 65 years, Sgt. Frank McNerney has walked with a stiffness to his gait, a daily reminder of the wound he received on Saipan. But, like many of his fellow Marine veterans, he never complained. Like many of his fellow Marines, every day after Saipan was a gift from God, lived on borrowed time. Sgt. Frank McNerney was one of the true heroes of what has come to be called the "Greatest Generation." He and his fellow Marines who fought their way thru those terrible battles in the Pacific gave the greatest, and for many, the last full measure of devotion for their country. Sgt. McNerney never received the Purple Heart he was due for the combat wound he suffered on Saipan. It has taken 65 years for that honor and recognition to catch up to him, and today, here in this courtroom, that moment has finally come. ###
03.18.2009	During today's Financial Services Committee hearing entitled "American International Group’s Impact on the Global Economy: Before, During, and After Federal Intervention" Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) gave the following opening statement: Back in September I voted against bailing out AIG and other financial institutions; I wrote an editorial at the time Bail Out Plan Could Mutate Into A Gravy Train of Tax Money. Well it has and rewarded in this are the counterparties around the world that made poor investments with AIG. Rewarded with bonuses are the members of the very financial products division that contributed to AIG's demise. Rewarded is AIG that now appears to be using their new "systemically significant" label issued by the federal government to charge artificially lower rates in their commercial lines and undercut other responsible insurance companies in this country. Central to this discussion on AIG is what Chairman Bernanke told us. He said the 54 various state insurance regulators didn't have the capacity to deal with a global insurance company. I have been warning about this systemic gap since 2006. Congresswoman Melissa Bean and I have been pushing a bill that will close that gap and until we establish a world class regulatory alternative that is able to deal with a global insurance company like this, that gap will remain. In the meantime we should strike these bonuses. Note: To watch Royce's opening statement please, click here. ###
03.18.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) condemns Fannie Mae's plan to give top executives bonuses of up to $611,000 each. The news comes on the heels of today's Financial Services Committee AIG hearing. "Today we heard about the outrage from members of Congress over bonuses going to a division of AIG largely responsible for the collapse of the firm. Considering the gross mismanagement of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, I find it troubling that they are set to dole out bonuses to executives," said Royce, who for years has criticized the quasi-governmental status of these firms and the failures of their management. "Fannie and Freddie are the two entities most responsible for the housing bubble and the economic downturn that has followed. The American taxpayers could be on the hook for as much as $400 billion because of the failure of Fannie and Freddie. Until that money is paid back, the executives largely responsible for their failure should not receive a dime in bonuses," said Royce. Note: Royce questioned a panel during the AIG hearing about a recent ABC News report that senior Democrats stripped out a measure in the stimulus bill that could have restricted AIG bonuses. Click here to watch. ###
03.17.2009	On June 1, 2009, U.S. citizens must present a passport book, passport card, or other travel documents approved by the U.S. government to enter the United States from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda at land borders and sea ports of entry. If you are interested in learning more about the new travel requirements or you need to apply for your passport then join blank on "Passport Day in the USA." The Los Angeles Passport Agency will host this event on Saturday, March 28, 2009 from 10:00 a.m. until 3:00 p.m. They are located at 11000 Wilshire Blvd in Suite 1000 in Los Angeles, CA 90024. You may also visit Travel.state.gov for more information on passports, fees, and application fees. Click here for a flyer for Passport day. For detailed information on important traveling requirements please, click here. ###
03.11.2009	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced the launch of his blog Foreign Intrigue. As the Ranking Member of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, Royce is at the forefront of some of the most important issues facing our country. This blog will serve as a unique vehicle to communicate Royce's views on current foreign policy issues. "The goal of my blog is to inform and bring attention to interesting and important items that may otherwise go unnoticed. The world is changing rapidly. I'm excited about this new way to keep in touch with my constituents and share my views on various foreign policy issues facing our country; offering current and unique analysis on items from around the globe. I hope readers in Orange County and Washington, D.C. find it interesting," said Royce. To view the latest blog posts from the Foreign Intrigue blog or to sign up to receive updates via RSS Feeds visit: www.royce.house.gov/foreignintrigueblog. The blog is the latest in 'new media' communication tools emerging from Royce's office since he redesigned his website in September 2008. Last year Royce introduced electronic newsletters with interactive surveys and telephone town halls, all of which supplement his traditional forms of constituent interaction. ###
03.11.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) and several of his colleagues, sent a letter to President Barack Obama and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano today requesting renewal of Operation Jump Start. The program, which ended in July 2008, successfully assisted in securing the border, enhanced border infrastructure, and improved border security and agent safety by deploying National Guard troops along the border. "Operation Jump Start was a very effective effort that had support for its extension back in 2008. Given the current situation in Mexico we need more resources along our borders," said Royce. The Guardsmen, providing additional "eyes and ears" along the Southwest border, built 37 miles of fence, repaired 700 miles of roadway, assisted in confiscating over 298,000 pounds of drugs, offered support in over 166,000 arrests and helped in 100 rescues. The letter concludes, "At a time when drug violence from Mexico threatens to spill over the border and expose our communities and families to the consequences, we strongly encourage you to resume Operation Jump Start. We look forward to working with you to ensure the security of our borders." Note: The full text of the letter is attached and can be found here. The letter to President Obama and DHS Secretary Napolitano was sent by Rep. Royce (R-CA), Rep. Bilbray (R-CA), Rep. Rohrabacher (R-CA), Rep. Coble (R-NC), Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX), Rep. Gary Miller (R-CA), Rep. Franks (R-AZ), Rep. Tiahrt (R-KS), Rep. Marchant (R-TX), Rep. Myrick (R-NC), Rep. Alexander (R-LA), and Rep. Posey (R-FL). March 11, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: We are writing to express our strong support for resuming Operation Jump Start. As you know, this effort deployed National Guard troops to meet our Southwest border security needs. Operation Jump Start was a tremendous success. Guardsmen built 37 miles of fence, repaired 700 miles of roadway, assisted in confiscating over 298,000 pounds of drugs, offered support in over 166,000 arrests and helped in 100 rescues. They were vital in securing the border, enhancing border infrastructure, and improving border security and agent safety. The main reason why the National Guard was deployed under Operation Jump Start was that there were not enough resources on the border for effective security – both in the number of "eyes and ears" on the ground as well as infrastructure being built. The mission ended in July 2008. As you know, the Mexican military's crackdown on drug cartels and corruption has increased violence and decreased stability in the region. Last year, more than 6,000 people and this year more than 1,000 have died as a result. On February 20, the State Department issued a travel alert as drug cartels are engaged in an increasingly violent conflict among themselves and the Mexican government for control of trafficking routes along the U.S.-Mexico border. Due to the current situation in Mexico, we believe that more resources are needed to ensure additional border security. There are still significant security and infrastructure needs on the border and the National Guard should be used as an asset in this regard. At a time when drug violence from Mexico threatens to spill over the border and expose our communities and families to the consequences, we strongly encourage you to resume Operation Jump Start. We look forward to working with you to ensure the security of our borders. Sincerely, ###
03.06.2009	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced legislation condemning Turkey's treatment of the Ecumenical Patriarchate. The Ecumenical Patriarchate is the spiritual home of the world's oldest and second largest Christian Church. "The Turkish government talks about religious freedom; but at the end of the day, it has not honored even a modicum of religious freedom to the most revered Christian institution in Turkey," said Royce. The Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew is one of the world’s preeminent spiritual leaders, representing approximately 300 million Orthodox Christian worldwide. Yet successive Turkish governments have followed policies which disparage the spiritual head: refusing to recognize his status as leader of a major religious faith, viewing him as solely the head of the small Greek Orthodox community of Istanbul. “Established in the fourth century, the Patriarchate has been reduced to a small besieged enclave in Istanbul. Extremists often demonstrate outside the Patriarchate, calling for his ouster from Turkey. He has even been burned in effigy,” noted Royce. Turkey has actively been seeking membership into the European Union. “This is a litmus test. If Turkey cannot recognize the value of this revered institution, what makes one believe that Turkey will respect the liberal values and traditions that define Europe?” concluded Royce. The legislation calls on Turkey to: grant the Ecumenical Patriarchate appropriate international recognition and ecclesiastic succession; grant the Ecumenical Patriarchate the right to train clergy of all nationalities, not just Turkish nationals; and respect the property rights of the Ecumenical Patriarchate. Royce was jointed by House Foreign Affairs Committee members Rep. Diane Watson (D-CA) and Rep. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL) in introducing this resolution. Note: To view the text of the resolution please, click here. ###
03.05.2009	Today, the House passed irresponsible housing legislation. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) opposed this legislation because of his concerns with the long term implications the cram down provision will likely have -- making it more costly for homeowners to obtain a mortgage in the future and hindering the housing sector's ability to recover from this difficult period. "As Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens said during Nobelman v. American Savings Bank, there is a reason why that mortgage contract is held in the law the way it is. If you manage to allow [bankruptcy judges] to reduce that mortgage then the consequences will be that capital will not come into the system to drive down interest rates," said Royce. In 2008 alone, 2.3 million loans were restructured through the Hope Now Alliance on a case-by-case basis. These workouts allow the borrowers to stay in their home and avoid unnecessary foreclosures. "Besides the impact this legislation will have on interest rates, think now about what happens with the HOPE Now Alliance where people at the table work to renegotiated their loans. Are either the borrower or the lender going to stay at the table? We are headed down a road here that is very ill advised," said Royce. Note: Investors Business Daily recently ran an op-ed penned by Rep. Ed Royce entitled "Letting Judges Rewrite Loans Is Toxic Itself." Royce's piece highlights the serious problems with the 'cram down provision' included in the housing legislation. To read the op-ed please, click here. To view Royce's speech on the House floor in which he laid out his concerns for this irresponsible legislation please, click here. ###
02.26.2009	Representatives Ed Royce (R-CA) and Brad Sherman (D-CA), the ranking member and chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee (Foreign Affairs Committee), have introduced legislation designed to give U.S. foreign investors greater protection. The legislation requires that the State Department produce each year a report on the business and investment climates in foreign countries. The Secretary of State is to report on unfair business and investment practices in foreign countries that have harmed U.S. businesses and investment. The report is also to include measures that the U.S. government is taking to prevent such unfair practices. "This bill is a reality check to the State and Commerce Departments' hyping of foreign economies, especially China. U.S. businesses are given rosy scenarios by these Departments, they invest, get in trouble, and too often are left on the side-of-the road," Royce said. The legislation also requires the Secretary of State to develop a system to issue "investment warnings" for countries with which the U.S. has significant economic relations. A warning would alert investors to "long-term, protracted conditions that make a country's business or investment climate risky or potentially dangerous to members of the United States business community and United States investors." The State Department has long maintained a warning system for U.S. travelers. This legislation, expected to be referred to the Subcommittee for consideration, stems from a hearing it held last July, "Aiding American Businesses Abroad: Government Action to Help Beleaguered American Firms and Investors." That hearing featured testimony by Nancy Weinstein, CEO and Founder of Nancy's Lifestyles, a southern-California-based high-end furniture retailer. Ms. Weinstein testified to the Subcommittee about how an unscrupulous landlord and complicit local police in Shanghai have cost her millions of dollars in a foreign investment nightmare. She criticized the U.S. Consulate (State Department) in Shanghai's advocacy on her behalf. At that hearing Representative Royce said, "If our Government is going to provide commercial service, it ought to give accurate and prominent warnings about China and elsewhere, and fight darn hard when there is a problem like [Ms. Weinstein's]." Note: H.R. 1202 was introduced yesterday. ###
02.25.2009	Today, the U.S. Department of State released its 2008 Human Rights Report. The section on Vietnam detailed the wide range of human rights abuses that remain endemic across the country. Of particular concern, Vietnam continues to deny its citizens the right to assemble freely, as well as freedom of speech and freedom of religion. "This report gives in detail many of the human rights abuses that continue to plague Vietnam, but I'd like to see the State Department take a tougher stance. Merely calling the situation 'unsatisfactory,' as this report does, is a grave understatement. We need to be condemning these abuses in much tougher terms," said Royce. Of particular concern is the Vietnamese Communist Government's control of all information. As the 2008 Human Rights Report found, Vietnam has no free, independent press, and restrictions on internet access are worsening. Bloggers who publish material that criticizes the state are often heavily fined or imprisoned. Religious freedom also remains a top concern, as the report details the continued harassment of the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam, the Catholic Church, and Hoa Hao Buddhists. As the report finds, "unregistered" religious gatherings in the Northwest Highlands are continually broken up by "contract thugs" who harass or beat religious practitioners. Despite these findings, Royce feared that the report does not do enough. "Detailing the continued harassment of religious practitioners is helpful, but this report falls short. Without calling for Vietnam to be put back on the list of 'Countries of Particular Concern,' I give this section a failing grade," said Royce. In response to the State Department's continued disregard for religious freedom in Vietnam, Royce introduced a resolution - H.Res.20 - calling on the State Department to once again list Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern." Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Additionally Royce serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Caucus on Human Rights. ###
02.13.2009	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) opposed the Democrat Leadership's unstimulating stimulus package. The $789 billion legislation, loaded with wasteful spending, passed the House 246 to 183. "In February 2008, the House Democrat Leadership enacted a $168 billion economic stimulus package, in June a $260 billion emergency supplemental, then in July, a $300 billion housing bill, in October, a $700 billion bailout, and now, it wants to spend another $800 billion," said Royce. Less than 20 percent of the tax relief in this bill can be considered stimulative. Most of the spending in this legislation is social spending, which is of questionable benefit to our economy. This plan now allows for stimulus money to be spent on stadiums, parks, museums, theaters, art centers, and highway beautification projects. "All nice things but how is borrowing money to pay for this going to help those who are at risk of loosing their jobs or their homes? It appears real economic growth took a back seat to pork-barrel spending," said Royce. The following are highlights of the 1,000 page bill made available at midnight last night: • $5.5 billion for federal buildings• $200 million for Americorps and other volunteer programs• $8 billion for high speed passenger rail• $1.3 billion for Amtrak• $50 million for the National Endowment of the Arts• $2 billion for neighborhood stabilization fund, providing funds to organizations such as ACORN, which has been accused of practicing unlawful voter registration in recent elections "I am concerned with the long term implications of this bill and what it will mean for our national debt. This stimulus package will be met by an increase in our $10 trillion government debt (primarily through borrowing) and an increase in future taxes. The American people deserve much more," said Royce. Note: To read Royce's op-ed on the stimulus please, click here. ###
02.12.2009	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, introduced legislation condemning Pakistan's February 6th release of A.Q. Khan. "Dr. A.Q. Khan, the single person who has done more than anyone to spread the world’s most dangerous technology, was released from house arrest by Pakistan last Friday. This is a blow to justice and international security," said Royce. The legislation condemns Khan's release and declares Khan to be a continuing proliferation threat who should be required to give a full accounting of his activities to outsiders. Importantly, the legislation states that Pakistan's mishandling of the Khan case should be a "guiding element in the determination of U.S. policy toward that country, including bilateral assistance." It also declares Pakistan's behavior as "incompatible" with its status as a "major non-NATO ally" of the United States. "With this move, Pakistan is making it clear that it does not want to be a responsible actor. There is no reason to believe that the A.Q. Khan network has been put out of business. This cannot go unchallenged. The House of Representatives should immediately consider this legislation, demonstrating to Islamabad the seriousness of the mistake they have made," said Royce. In 2004, Dr. Khan confessed to running an illicit nuclear proliferation network, supplying North Korea, Libya, Iran and possibly others with nuclear technologies and designs. U.S. and IAEA investigators have yet to be granted personal interviews with Khan to determine the true extent of his activities. "Khan belongs behind bars, not roaming Pakistan," concluded Royce. In 2006, as Chair of the Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Nonproliferation, Rep. Royce held the hearing, "The A.Q. Khan Network: Case Closed?" Note: Text of the resolution can be found here. ###
02.12.2009	Today, the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans met to officially reorganize the Caucus for the 111th Congress. Rep. Royce (R-CA), a co-chair in the 107th Congress, will join Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA) as co-chair's of the Caucus for the next two years. "Back when the Caucus was formed in 1993, it had only eight members. Last Congress it had 188 members and was the largest on Capitol Hill. This not only shows the strong support of the U.S.-India relationship among members of Congress, but is a tribute to Indian-Americans, who advocate tirelessly on behalf of improving relations," said Royce. Royce joined fellow co-chairman McDermott and other members of the Caucus to discuss the goals of the Caucus for the upcoming Congressional session. "Confronting the challenges of the Lashkar-e-Taiba terror network will be a top priority of the Caucus," said Royce. "Pakistan's continued intransigence on the Mumbai bombing is of great concern and does much to destabilize the region." Another top priority of the Caucus will be the focus on the economic partnership between India and the United States. The Indian economy has soared in recent years, and even has managed to stay relatively stable in these tough economic times. High economic growth is good for tens of millions of Indians who will be lifted into the growing middle class of 300 million. "Trade between India and the U.S. is strong, but it has much room for improvement. It's time these two key countries make tough decisions --the U.S. should shed its antiquated farm subsidy program, India should lower its high tariffs against U.S. and other goods and services-- and regain its global trade momentum," said Royce. Rep. Ed Royce is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and is a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
02.11.2009	Over 25 members of Congress joined Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, in asking the Obama Administration to make the extradition request of international arms dealer Viktor Bout as a top priority in U.S.-Thailand relations. "The Congress is making it abundantly clear, the 'Merchant of Death' must face justice," said Royce, using Viktor Bout's moniker given for his history of fueling brutal civil wars on the African continent and elsewhere through the illicit sale of arms. Viktor Bout was arrested in Bangkok, Thailand, as part of an elaborate U.S.-led law enforcement operation in March 2008. Federal prosecutors in New York are seeking Bout's extradition to stand trial for conspiracy to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization. Bout believed he was negotiating a deal to provide the FARC with millions of dollars in arms when he was arrested in Thailand. "Bout's actions have threatened the security of many countries and regions and destroyed the lives of tens of thousands of innocent individuals. His extradition must be a continuing priority for the U.S. government," said Royce. Bout's extradition has been proceeding through the Thai judicial system since July of last year. There is growing concern amongst Members of Congress, however, that Bout's legal team has been successful in delaying the extradition process. At his most recent hearing in December, Bout managed to delay proceedings until March. Continuing reports suggesting that the Russian government is attempting to negatively influence this process continue, heightening concerns. The Russian Duma recently passed a resolution calling for Bout to be returned to Russia. "The U.S. and Thailand have a very good relationship in the areas of security and law enforcement. But frankly, I am concerned. Bout needs to stand trial in the U.S. now for his support for terrorist organizations that have targeted Americans," concluded Royce. Last July, Royce spearheaded the effort to bring the attention of the Bout extradition proceedings to the Thai government. A copy of the letter, addressed to Attorney General Eric Holder and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is attached. February 11, 2009 The Honorable Eric Holder Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530 The Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Attorney General Holder and Secretary of State Clinton: We are writing in regards to the United States' pending request with the Kingdom of Thailand for the extradition of Viktor Bout. As you know, Bout is to stand trial in the United States for conspiring to provide weapons to a terrorist organization. We ask that this international arms dealer's extradition remain a top priority for your Departments and the United States government. Viktor Bout was arrested in Bangkok, Thailand, as part of an elaborate U.S.-led law enforcement operation in March 2008. Federal prosecutors in New York are seeking Bout's extradition to stand trial for conspiracy to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization. Indeed, Bout thought he was negotiating a deal to provide the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) with millions of dollars in arms when he was arrested in Thailand. Prior to his arrest, Viktor Bout fueled many brutal civil wars on the African continent and elsewhere through the illicit sale of arms. Dubbed the "Merchant of Death," Bout dealt weapons to several sides fighting in the Democratic Republic of Congo and rebels in Angola in the 1990s, breaking international arms embargoes. Former Liberian president Charles Taylor relied on Bout to arm his reign of terror in West Africa, violently suppressing opposition to his corrupt rule in Liberia and arming allies in neighboring Sierra Leone, Guinea, and Cote d'Ivoire. In Afghanistan, Bout simultaneously armed the Taliban and the Northern Alliance. As you may know, Bout's extradition has been proceeding through the Thai judicial system since July of last year. We are concerned, however, that Bout's legal team has been successful in delaying the extradition process. At his most recent hearing in December, Bout managed to delay proceedings until March. Reports suggesting that the Russian government is attempting to negatively influence this process only heighten our concern. Indeed, the Russian Duma recently passed a resolution calling for Bout to be returned to Russia. As Mr. Bout's actions have threatened the security of many countries and regions and destroyed the lives of thousands of innocent individuals, the United States Congress is following his case closely. We thank you for your attention to the extradition proceedings of Viktor Bout so that he may face trial in the United States. We look forward to working with you on this and other important national security issues facing the United States. Sincerely, ###
02.04.2009	During today's Financial Services Committee hearing "Assessing the Madoff Ponzi Scheme and Regulatory Failures," Rep. Ed Royce highlighted the need to overhaul the SEC and provide regulation that addresses systemic risk. "We're not discussing here how we stop all fraud we're discussing the greatest fraud on record. We are talking about a systemic fraud here that has done untold damage to confidence in the system," said Royce. The $50 billion ponzi scheme undertaken by Bernie Madoff is the latest in the long list of reasons why we need to overhaul our regulatory structure overseeing the financial sector. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC was examined at least eight times in 16 years by the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulators. The SEC dropped the ball on the Madoff case. During today's hearing the committee heard testimony from Harry Markopolous. From May 2000 through April 2008 Markopolous, an industry whistleblower, made contact with the SEC nine times and issued several reports to convey his belief that Bernie Madoff's investment scheme was, in fact, a fraud. "We have got to re-engineer the SEC going forward so that these kind of systemic risks to the system are prevented, especially when a citizen like you comes forward and does their best to lay out the case," concluded Royce. Note: To view Rep. Royce's opening statement from the hearing please click here. ###
01.28.2009	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) opposed the Democrat Leadership's proposal, an $825 billion "stimulus" package loaded with wasteful spending. Royce voted against the bill because it failed to deliver much needed economic stimulation or job creation. "Americans around our nation are suffering. They deserve legislation that spurs investment and creates jobs back home. Instead I have to tell my constituents that the Democrat Leadership decided the solution to this crisis included giving billions to ACORN, a special interest group that has been accused of voter fraud and is reportedly under federal investigation," said Royce. What started out as an economic stimulus bill turned into an omnibus spending spree. Rather than helping our economy, the bill funds at least 150 different federal agencies, and provides taxpayer money for new government buildings, Americorps, Smithsonian upgrades, Amtrak, Department of Agriculture expansion, and the National Endowment for the Arts. These massive increases in government spending will not result in a stronger economy and it will not create jobs. Government does not increase "the size of the economic pie," it simply rearranges the pieces. Real economic growth has always and will always come from the private sector. "Any stimulus package should focus on encouraging private capital into the system rather than redistributing taxpayer money through the government. The deficit is projected to reach $1 trillion and this bill could add an additional $1 trillion to the problem. We should be concerned with the amount of national debt we are loading onto the backs of our young citizens," said Royce. "In the economic climate we are currently facing, our country deserves better. We need a plan that actually fixes the problem that got us into this mess in the first place." Rep. Ed Royce is a Senior Member of the Financial Services Committee. ###
01.23.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A bipartisan group of Financial Services Committee members, today sent a letter to Treasury-designate, Timothy Geithner, asking him to create an office within the Treasury Department that will address the lack of insurance oversight and expertise at the federal level. After unprecedented federal intervention in the insurance industry and as the 111th Congress embarks on historic regulatory reform, the list of bipartisan cosigners note that there remains no position within the federal government that covers insurance matters. It is important that this gap be filled prior to beginning the debate on regulatory reform. Like other aspects of the financial system, the insurance sector was involved in the tumultuous events of 2008: the meltdown in the bond insurance industry, failure of the largest U.S. insurance company AIG, and additional applications for federal funding by U.S. insurance companies. The letter concludes, "Considering the critical role the insurance sector plays in our capital markets and the amount of taxpayer money the federal government has committed to assist U.S. insurance companies, it is disconcerting that there remains no expertise within the federal government on insurance matters. Because preliminary regulatory reform discussions are already underway, we believe the establishment of an office within the Treasury Department in the near future would greatly assist the process." Note: The following letter was sent by Rep. Bean, Rep. Royce, Rep. Moore, Rep. Castle, Rep. Carson, Rep. Campbell, and Rep. Adler to Treasury-designate Geithner and can be found here: January 23, 2009 The Honorable Timothy F. Geithner Secretary of Treasury-designate U.S. Department of Treasury Washington, DC 20220 Dear Secretary of Treasury-designate Geithner: The events of the past several months have reinforced the widely-held belief that the U.S. financial regulatory model must be reformed. As the Obama Administration and Congress begin to consider establishing a systemic risk regulator in the immediate future and changes to the regulatory structure in the upcoming months, we encourage you – upon confirmation – to either create an office within the Treasury Department or assign a high level Treasury appointee an insurance portfolio to fill a void on insurance oversight and expertise at the federal level. We strongly believe that this would be a valuable – and indeed necessary – interim step which would provide policymakers with insight into issues surrounding the insurance market as reform is contemplated. As you know, events in the insurance sector during the past twelve months have had a significant impact on the broader capital markets and economy. The apparent risk of a systemic shock to the broader economy was the reason behind the government intervention to prevent the collapse of American International Group, once the largest U.S. insurance company. We all share the belief that we must take steps to ensure that a similar situation does not occur in the future and we believe that an important first step ought to be the establishment of an office within Treasury which would have a knowledge-base and understanding of insurance operations. Additionally, the losses and subsequent rating downgrades experienced by many of the top bond insurance companies in 2008 resulted in a tighter credit market for bond issuers and significant losses by banks and other financial institutions. During the 110th Congress, the House Committee on Financial Services found it imperative that Treasury have a working and dedicated knowledge base on insurance matters. Considering the critical role the insurance sector plays in our capital markets and the amount of taxpayer money the federal government has committed to assist U.S. insurance companies, it is disconcerting that there remains no expertise within the federal government on insurance matters. Because preliminary regulatory reform discussions are already underway, we believe the establishment of an office within the Treasury Department in the near future would greatly assist the process. Again, thank you for taking the time to consider this issue and we look forward to working with you on the critical issues surrounding the financial services sector. -30-
01.19.2009	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) today expressed relief at the President's announcement to commute the sentences of Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. Today's announcement comes in the final days of the President's term, when it has become customary for him to grant clemency in criminal cases. "Today, a gross miscarriage of justice has finally been righted. For far too long, these former border patrol agents faced harsher sentencing than convicted drug cartel operatives. I am thankful that after years of appeals by Members of Congress and public outcry, that common sense has prevailed," said Royce. Rep. Ed Royce has been a leader in bringing public attention to the plight of Ramos and Compean, and in recent weeks he personally spoke to President Bush on their behalf at the White House. With today's announcement, Ramos and Compean, who have been incarcerated since January 2007, will be relieved of their 11 and 12 year sentences, respectively. Even U.S. Attorney Johnny Sutton, whose office prosecuted the border agents, has agreed that the sentencing was excessive. "Without question, this case has demoralized our Border Patrol Agents, who put their lives on the line everyday to protect our country. I've seen first-hand the conditions these men and women face in pursuit of their mission. I am hopeful that today's announcement will restore our Border Patrol Agent's confidence in the justice system," added Royce. In 2005, U.S. Border Patrol Agents Ramos and Compean pursued and wounded Osvaldo Aldrete-Davila, a Mexican national suspected of drug smuggling on the Arizona/Mexican border. Davila's van contained 743 pounds of marijuana - a street value of $1 million. Ramos and Compean received excessive prison sentences for discharging their weapons during the attempted apprehension, while Davila not only received immunity but also continued to smuggle drugs into our country while testifying. ###
01.14.2009	As President Bush's last week in office comes to a close, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), joined his colleagues at a press conference in the U.S. Capitol to urge the President to commute the sentences of Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. "I am here today because we are in the final days of President Bush's term, and there remains a wrong that can be righted. I talked to him personally recently to urge him to do so. The President can commute the sentences of Border Patrol Agents Ramos and Compean," said Royce. Border Patrol Agents have a difficult and dangerous job, guarding U.S. borders. Giving these men such harsh sentences hurts morale and sends the wrong message to the men and women who are protecting our borders. This case is forcing Border Patrol agents and law enforcement in general to question everything they do, at the detriment of our safety. These Border Patrol agents were convicted based on the testimony of a known drug dealer that has since been convicted for running drugs across the border. In fact, he was continuing to run drugs into the U.S. while serving as the government's star witness. "It is incomprehensible to me that he was allowed to violate his immunity agreement, be granted a series of unlimited visas to roam free, and continue his drug smuggling in our country, while two border patrol agents were given excessive prison sentences," said Royce. "This is a gross miscarriage of justice. After years of appeals by me and other Members of Congress and public outcry, it is time that common sense prevails," said Royce. Note: In 2005, U.S. Border Patrol Agents Ramos and Compean pursued Osvaldo Aldrete-Davila, a Mexican national suspected of drug smuggling, as he fled to Mexico. Davila's van contained 743 pounds of marijuana - a street value of $1 million. Ramos and Compean received excessive prison sentences for discharging their weapons during the attempted apprehension, while Davila not only received immunity but also continued to smuggle drugs into our country while testifying. ###
01.07.2009	On the eve of the historic Inauguration of President-elect Barack Obama, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) will welcome constituents of the 40th district in town for the ceremony to attend an Open House at his Washington, D.C. office. "I look forward to meeting with my constituents as they travel to our Nation's Capital to witness a historic moment for our country," said Royce. Constituents will have the opportunity to meet Rep. Royce during the Open House on Monday, January 19th from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Royce's D.C. office is located on the first floor of the Rayburn House Office Building in room 2185. Light refreshments will be provided. This event will be free of charge and open to the public. Rep. Royce looks forward to seeing everyone on the 19th. Please call Rep. Royce at (202) 225-4111 with any questions. Note: Rep. Royce's office will be closed on Inauguration day. ###
01.06.2009	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) welcomed newly-elected Member of Congress, Jopseph Cao to Congress at a press conference outside of his office. Rep. Cao (R-LA), who defeated nine-term Democratic Congressman, William Jefferson, in a run-off election in Louisiana, won by a margin of 49.6 percent to 46.8 percent. Rep. Cao is the highest ranking Vietnamese-American elected in the country. "As the first Vietnamese-American elected to Congress, this was truly a momentous election. The Vietnamese-American community in Orange County, and across the country, is rightfully proud of Joseph Cao. I would like to personally congratulate him and extend an invitation to join us on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam. He will be able to offer a unique and valuable perspective. Human rights and religious freedom are systematically violated in Vietnam. The communist government continues to crackdown on any political dissent, often times resorting to violence. The Vietnamese government should take notice of this important election as an example of how political pluralism works. Congressman-elect Cao's victory is yet another example of the Vietnamese-American community contributing to our nation. His life story is an inspiration," said Royce. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, and is a member of the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam. ###
01.06.2009	Today, the first day of the 111th Congress, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives calling on the U.S. government to re-designate Vietnam on the list of "Countries of Particular Concern" for gross violations of religious freedom. Representative Anh "Joseph" Cao, the first Vietnamese-American elected to Congress, joined Royce in introducing the legislation. "This Resolution will put the House of Representatives on record - the status quo in Vietnam is unacceptable. If Vietnam wants to have a strong relationship with the U.S., it needs to honor its citizen's basic rights, including religious liberty," said Royce. Since 1999, the U.S. State Department has designated countries that "engage in or tolerate particularly severe violations of religious freedom," as "Countries of Particular Concern." This annual designation puts the violations of specific countries on record, making it a significant diplomatic tool for advancing human rights. "Most recently, the Vietnamese Catholic Church has felt the Communist government's oppression over disputed land. In addition, persecution of the Hoa Hao Buddhists and the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam continues," said Royce. Due to Vietnam's egregious human rights violations, the State Department had previously listed it as one of these countries. In 2006, Vietnam was removed from the annual list. "Some have seen positive steps in Vietnam, but frankly, I don't see it. Religious freedom remains under attack. The Communist government continues to harass and physically abuse worshipers who don't follow every last state sanctioned rule. Later this month we'll have a new Administration. I want it to recognize that religious freedom is under fire in Vietnam and that it needs to be put back on this list," Royce stated. In 2008, China, Burma, and North Korea were among those listed as "Countries of Particular Concern." Representatives Anh "Joseph" Cao (R-LA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Dan Burton (R-IN), Frank Wolf (R-VA), and Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) joined Royce as original cosponsors. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Additionally Royce serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Caucus on Human Rights. ###
01.05.2009	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced the opening of his new district office located in the city of Orange at 1110 East Chapman Avenue, Suite 207, the office phone number is (714) 744-4130. "I encourage all of my constituents to visit me and my staff in my new office. Constituent services remain the cornerstone of my office. As always, I think it is important to hear from the people I work for," said Royce. "During this transition, I apologize for any inconvenience constituents may incur while contacting my office. I am working diligently to ensure there is as little delay as possible bringing my new office up to speed." Please click here to view the new location of my district office through the google maps feature on my website at www.royce.house.gov. Rep. Ed Royce is an Orange County native and currently serves as a senior member on the House Financial Services Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
12.10.2008	Today, H.Res. 1532, legislation to condemn the series of Islamist terrorist attacks that rocked Mumbai two weeks ago, unanimously passed the House of Representatives. Nearly 200 were killed in the terrorist attacks, including 6 Americans. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee and incoming Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, was a leader in bringing the resolution to the floor. "Terrorism is not new to India. This great democracy, a country of over 1 billion, has been fighting terrorism for a generation. While a kaleidoscope of terrorist groups confront India, it looks as if this was an Islamist terrorist attack perpetrated by Lashkar-e-Taiba," said Royce. Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a Pakistani-based group, whose name means 'Army of the Pure,' was behind the December 2001 attacks on the Indian parliament. After that attack, Pakistan reluctantly banned LeT, and arrested dozens of its leaders. But after international pressure waned, Pakistan released the group's leadership; and Lashkar then renamed itself Jamaat-ud-Dawa. "Lashkar-e-Taiba has been able to expand its membership, its operational reach, and its influence among the constellation of radical Islamist networks. Inside Pakistan, it still operates training camps and runs a charitable and social services organization that has been embraced by Pakistani officials." A group thought to be solely focused on India is now global. One of the 2005 London subway bombers spent time at a LeT-affiliated school in Pakistan. British national Richard Reid, who attempted to blow-up a transatlantic flight, trained with LeT. LeT has also been active inside the United States. In 2006, 11 men were convicted in the Washington D.C. area for providing material support to Laskkar-e-Taiba. "What is clear is that Pakistan and South Asia is at a crossroads. Pakistanis have to make the fundamental decision to turn their backs on the culture of jihad. For if they don't, the future of their country, the region, and security in the world will be in peril," concluded Royce. ###
11.27.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, released the following statement in response to the series of terrorist attacks in Mumbai, India. "It is often said that India and America have a natural bond as the two largest democracies. Today, we share a bond of a common enemy: what the 9/11 Commission identified as Islamist terrorism. Islamist ideology is spreading across South Asia, and must be stamped out. I am confident in the aftermath of these attacks, we will see all the resilience that is embodied in the Indian people." The coordinated terrorist attacks are the latest in a six-month bombing campaign that has swept across India. The attacks on Mumbai – India’s financial center – serve as an attack on the economic boom India has enjoyed, reaching growth rates of 9 percent over the past three years. Royce served as the Co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans in the 107th Congress and has visited Mumbai on a number of occasions. ###
11.20.2008	During today's press conference, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined his colleagues to request that Mr. Ronald Rogers, Pardon Attorney, submit his recommendation to the President to commute the sentences of Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. "It is incomprehensible to me that an illegal alien drug smuggler was allowed to violate his immunity agreement, be granted a series of unlimited visas to roam free, and continue his drug smuggling in our country, while two border patrol agents were given excessive prison sentences," said Royce. In 2005, U.S. Border Patrol Agents Ramos and Compean pursued Osvaldo Aldrete-Davila, a Mexican national suspected of drug smuggling, as he fled to Mexico. Davila's van contained 743 pounds of marijuana - a street value of $1 million. Ramos and Compean were sentenced to 11 and 12 years in prison respectively, while Davila not only received immunity but also continued to smuggle drugs into our country while testifying. "I traveled to the border in 2004 and witnessed first hand the challenges the brave men and women of the Border Patrol face every day as they head out to do their jobs and protect us. The message sent by giving Ramos and Compean such harsh sentences hurts morale and sends a debilitating message to those Border Patrol agents that are putting their lives on the line daily," said Royce. Royce added, "The application of 18 U.S.C. 924 (c), which carries a mandatory 10-year minimum sentence, was a grotesque interpretation of the law. The original intent of this legislation was to prevent criminals from using a gun during the commission of a crime - not law enforcement officers who discharge their weapons in the line of duty." To view the letter sent to Mr. Ronald Rogers, Pardon Attorney, please click here.
11.19.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives calling on the U.S. government to re-designate Vietnam on the list of "Countries of Particular Concern" for gross violations of religious freedom. "This Resolution will put the House of Representatives on record - the status quo in Vietnam is unacceptable. If Vietnam wants to have a strong relationship with the U.S., they need to honor the basic rights of its citizens, including religious liberty," said Royce. Since 1999, the U.S. State Department has designated countries that "engage in or tolerate particularly severe violations of religious freedom," as "Countries of Particular Concern." This annual designation puts the violations of specific countries on record, making it a significant diplomatic tool for advancing human rights. "Most recently, the Vietnamese Catholic Church has felt the Communist government's oppression over disputed land. In addition, persecution of the Hoa Hao Buddhists and the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam continues," said Royce Due to Vietnam's egregious human rights violations, the State Department had previously listed it as one of these countries. In 2006, Vietnam was removed from this annual list. "Some have seen positive steps in Vietnam, but frankly, I don't see it. Religious freedom remains under attack. The Communist government continues to harass and physically abuse worshipers who don't follow every last state sanctioned rule. Next January we'll have a new Administration. I want it to realize that religious freedom is under fire in Vietnam and it should act accordingly," Royce stated. In 2008, China, Burma, and North Korea, were amongst those listed as "Countries of Particular Concern." Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Additionally Royce serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Caucus on Human Rights. ###
10.30.2008	Today, federal jurors convicted Charles "Chuckie" Taylor Jr., the son of former Liberian President Charles Taylor, on torture and conspiracy charges. Taylor was found guilty on one count of torture, one count of conspiracy to commit torture and one count of possession of a firearm during the commission of a violent crime. The case, tried in Miami, Florida, was the first brought under a 1994 United States law permitting U.S. citizens accused of committing torturous acts overseas to be tried in a U.S. federal court. In 2006, after Taylor was arrested in Miami on passport fraud, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), encouraged the Department of Justice to take such action. "The Justice Department took on a groundbreaking case and won. Today's guilty verdict sends a powerful message about the long arm of U.S. law. Those in West Africa can take solace that Chuckie will be behind bars," commented Royce. As head of the "Anti-Terrorist Unit," an elite security force created by President Charles Taylor, "Chuckie" was involved in heinous acts; including torture, violent assaults, killings, rape, the recruitment of child soldiers and even burning civilians alive. The judge in the case set sentencing for January 9, 2009. Chuckie's father, the former president of Liberia, is currently on trial before the Special Court for Sierra Leone on charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity for overseeing the murder, rape and mutilation of thousands of people during neighboring Sierra Leone's bloody civil war. Royce was a leader in seeing that Charles Taylor face justice before the Special Court. ###
10.14.2008	At a townhall meeting with the Vietnamese American community held in Orange County, CA on October 10, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced his intention to introduce a resolution in the House of Representatives calling on the U.S. government to reinstate Vietnam on the list of "Countries of Particular Concern" for gross violations of religious freedom. The prospects of a post-election "lame duck" session of the 110th Congress are increasing. "When Congress returns, I will be introducing a resolution to put the House of Representatives on record - the status quo in Vietnam is unacceptable. If Vietnam wants to have a strong relationship with the U.S., they need to honor the basic rights of its citizens, including religious liberty. Most recently, the Vietnamese Catholic Church has felt the Communist government's oppression over disputed land. In addition, persecution of the Hoa Hao Buddhists and the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam continues," said Royce. Since 1999, the U.S. State Department has designated countries that "engage in or tolerate particularly severe violations of religious freedom," as "Countries of Particular Concern." This annual designation not only puts the violations of specific countries on record, but is one of the most significant diplomatic tools for advancing human rights. Due to Vietnam's egregious human rights violations, the State Department had previously listed it as one of these countries. In 2006, Vietnam was removed from the list. "Some have seen positive steps in Vietnam, but frankly, I don't see it. Religious freedom remains under attack. The Communist government continues to harass and physically abuse worshipers who don't follow every last state sanctioned rule. It's time for Congress to ratchet up the pressure. Next January we'll have a new Administration. I want it to realize that religious freedom is under fire in Vietnam and it should act accordingly by putting Vietnam back on the 'Countries of Particular Concern' list," Royce stated. Rep. Ed Royce is ranking member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Additionally Royce serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Caucus on Human Rights. ###
10.11.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, released the following statement in response to news that North Korea is being removed from the State Department’s list of statesponsors of terrorism. The reward comes as North Korea has expelled U.N. nuclear inspectors and test fired missiles in recent days. The verification regime being proposed is unlikely to be as comprehensive as originally sought, as North Korea has balked at essential verification elements such as environmental sampling and "snap" inspections. Reports indicate that key Asian allies are skeptical of the proposal. "The pattern of negotiation, provocation, and capitulation continues. We can’t pretend to verify, while North Korea pretends to disarm. At this point, it seems that this Administration will agree to anything, even at the expense of key relationships in Asia. I’m confident there will soon be new North Korean demands as the price of keeping these talks alive." ###
10.10.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), an original cosponsor of the Vietnam Human Rights Act, welcomed U.S. Ambassador to Vietnam Michael Michalak to a townhall meeting for the Vietnamese American community to discuss U.S.-Vietnam relations. Royce has made human rights his number one priority in U.S.-Vietnam policy. "Your predecessor left Vietnam listing the lack of improvement on human rights as his 'biggest disappointment.' I hope that you will be able to leave Hanoi with it as your biggest accomplishment, but unfortunately, the last year hasn't pointed in that direction, as repression as intensified," said Royce. "Ambassador, I was surprised that the three areas you focused on in a recent op-ed discussing the U.S.-Vietnamese relationship were education, the environment, and regional security. What about human rights?" said Royce during his speech. Political dissidents are routinely silenced and religious freedom is systematically suppressed in Vietnam, which has continuously ranked "Not Free" by Freedom House. "If we are going to bolster our relations with Vietnam, it must embrace political pluralism in all of its forms. Silencing dissidents and suppressing religious freedoms are not the ways towards a close partnership," said Royce. "I remain very concerned about freedom of religion in Vietnam. The State Department has seen positive steps - removing Vietnam from the list of 'countries of particular concern.' But I don't see it. Religious freedom remains under attack in Vietnam and the recent attacks on the Catholic Church are evidence of this," said Royce. Rep. Ed Royce is ranking member on the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee. Additionally Royce serves on the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Caucus on Human Rights. ###
10.08.2008	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) hailed the enactment today of the landmark U.S.-India civilian nuclear agreement as it was signed into law at the White House. Today's ceremony comes after the legislation passed Congress in the final days of the legislative session. In the House of Representatives, the initiative passed with strong Republican support by a vote of 298-117; over 100 Democrats opposed the deal. "There were many who thought this day would never come. The newspaper headlines that wrote this deal's obituary were wrong. The hard work of the U.S. and Indian governments, supporters in Congress, and the Indian American community has paid off. This is truly a momentous day for U.S.-India relations," said Royce, who was invited to today's White House ceremony. In 2006, Royce managed the Hyde Act on the floor of the House, which laid the groundwork for today's vote, fighting back three Democratic "poison pill" amendments designed to scuttle the agreement. Under the agreement, India separates its civil and military nuclear facilities, gives the IAEA increased access, and continues its unilateral moratorium on nuclear testing. In addition, the Nuclear Suppliers Group, an organization of 45 countries that seeks to control the spread of nuclear technology, has given the agreement its approval. Royce chaired the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans in the 107th Congress, and was instrumental in strengthening relations between the U.S. and India. Royce was designated by the Speaker of the House to be an official member of then-President Clinton’s historic delegation to India in 2000. In 2001, Royce led the effort to lift sanctions against India. ###
10.02.2008	Legislation to upgrade South Korea's military procurement status, authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), passed the U.S. Senate late last night. The measure now goes to the President, who is expected sign it into law in the coming days. With this change, foreign military sales with Korea would be treated just as those with members of NATO, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan, and therefore improve defense cooperation. This "NATO+3" grouping would become "NATO+4." "South Korea sits at the intersection of Northeast Asia. Twenty-five percent of the world's trade flows through this dynamic region. It is one that the United States must remain engaged in. This legislation helps to solidify relations with a long-time and close ally, giving the relationship the proper recognition it deserves after nearly 60 years of mutual cooperation," commented Royce, who serves as the top Republican of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange. South Korea is a larger foreign military sales partner than any of the "NATO+3" members. Last year, Seoul purchased over $3.7 billion worth of American defense equipment, making it one of the largest partners in U.S. foreign military sales. This has led South Korea to formally request this preferential status through its Foreign and Defense Ministries. During a visit with Congressional leaders last spring, South Korean President Lee Myung-bak raised the importance of the legislation to the U.S.-Korea relationship. The change has been supported by the U.S. Department of State and Defense. "The U.S.-South Korea alliance is distinct. With a Mutual Defense Treaty dating to 1953, Korea and the U.S. form perhaps the most integrated alliance of interoperable forces. On the Korean Peninsula, interoperability isn't just a buzzword. It is a real life practice that this legislation will help cement," concluded Royce. The upgrade in South Korea’s military procurement status would mean a streamlined defense sales process. Specifically, the monetary thresholds that trigger congressional review will be raised and Congressional review time will be reduced. H.R. 5443, the "United States-Republic of Korea Defense Cooperation Improvement Act of 2008," passed the House unanimously on September 23. It was then folded into H.R. 7177, legislation encompassing a variety of security assistance provisions. That legislation passed the Senate last night as Congress nears completion of its legislative business for the year. ###
10.02.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) attended an impromptu reception at the State Department organized by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to celebrate congressional approval of the United States-India Nuclear Cooperation Approval and Nonproliferation Enhancement Act (H.R. 7081). The only other lawmakers in attendance were Senators Richard Lugar, Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and Senator Christopher Dodd, who managed the bill on the floor of the Senate yesterday. Ambassador Raminder Singh Jassal, Deputy Chief of Mission of the Indian Embassy in Washington D.C., also attended. Secretary of State Rice commended Royce for managing the 2006 House passage of the Hyde Act, which was the critical first step in congressional approval of yesterday's nuclear cooperation agreement. Secretary Rice suggested that Royce's work was critically important in realizing this agreement. "After three years of work, this agreement is a done deal. It wasn't easy - in Washington, or in New Delhi. But that hard work has built a foundation for a strategic partnership with India that will provide global leadership in the years ahead," commented Royce after today's reception. Royce chaired the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans in the 107th Congress, and was instrumental in strengthening relations between the U.S. and India. Royce was designated by the Speaker of the House to be an official member of then-President Clinton’s historic delegation to India in 2000. In 2001, Royce led the effort to lift sanctions against India. ###
10.01.2008	The quarter century-old moratoriums on exploration on the Outer Continental Shelf and the American interior for oil shale expire today. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) has pushed to end the moratoria on these sources of energy and recognized today as American Energy Freedom Day, the day Americans will begin to benefit from the vast amounts of American petroleum and natural gas. "Today, Americans are one step closer to ending our reliance on energy from the OPEC cartel and other hostile countries," said Rep. Royce. In Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming we have the largest known oil shale deposits in the world, holding from 1.5 to 1.8 trillion barrels of crude oil. Of that, some 800 billion barrels are recoverable with current technology. That's roughly triple the known reserves of Saudi Arabia. The Outer Continental Shelf contains nearly 18 billion barrels of crude oil and 55 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. With access to these resources Americans will see a tremendous increase in supply. Former Chairman of the Federal Reserve said of this situation, only a one percent increase in supply could result in a ten percent decrease in price. "While this is a step in the right direction, Americans deserve more. We need to harness the technological ingenuity of the American worker and focus on achieving long term energy independence by making strides in the area of renewable energy. "Nuclear, wind, solar, and lithium-ion car batteries for electric hybrids will provide the base of our energy supply in the future. Improvements in vehicular fuel efficiency have also helped, benefiting the environment and lessening our reliance on oil. Developing new, clean technology is an economic necessity and it is vital to our national security." Rep. Ed Royce was one of the 155 members to call for the expiration of the moratoria in a letter to the Democrat Leadership. ###
10.01.2008	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) hailed the passage of the historic U.S.-India Agreement for Cooperation on Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy in the U.S. Senate this evening. The action in the Senate follows last weekend's vote in the House of Representatives, where Republicans muscled through the agreement by a vote of 298-117. The legislation will be signed into law in the coming days. Once signed by the President, the U.S. and India will have completed a process begun in July 2005. Rep. Ed Royce reacted to this evening's vote: "Today's vote caps a long, history-making process. U.S. relations with India, which will be a major 21st century power, are cemented. We will be true partners as we enter into an ever challenging world; which includes the decades-long struggle against Islamist terrorism." In 2006, Royce managed the Hyde Act on the floor of the House, which laid the groundwork for today's vote, fighting back three Democratic "poison pill" amendments designed to scuttle the agreement. Under the agreement, India separates its civil and military nuclear facilities, gives the IAEA increased access, and continues its unilateral moratorium on nuclear testing. In addition, the Nuclear Suppliers Group, an organization of 45 countries that seeks to control the spread of nuclear technology, has given the agreement its approval. "Indian Prime Minister Singh deserves credit for putting his government on the line, and beating back opposition from those who sought to disrupt U.S.-India relations. Today, Congress repaid the Prime Minister's bet." Senate passage finishes a lengthy process which many analysts thought might be derailed as Congress works to conclude its legislative business for the year. The pending adjournment added to the drama surrounding today's vote. "Both governments deserve great credit for tackling a complex and controversial issue. Bolstering India's commercial nuclear energy capacity, overcoming its isolation, was no easy task. We threaded the needle." Royce chaired the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans in the 107th Congress, and was instrumental in strengthening relations between the U.S. and India. Royce was designated by the Speaker of the House to be an official member of then-President Clinton’s historic delegation to India in 2000. In 2001, Royce led the effort to lift sanctions against India. ###
09.27.2008	Legislation to implement the landmark U.S.-India Agreement for Cooperation on Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy passed the House of Representatives today with overwhelming Republican support by a vote of 298-117. The legislation now heads to the Senate for consideration. With few remaining days before Congress adjourns, time is of the essence. "The time for Senate action is now, there is no time to waste. Failure to send the U.S-India civilian nuclear agreement to the President for his signature would be a big setback to the U.S.-India relationship. Too many of us have worked far too hard to see that happen," commented Royce after today’s historic vote. "Chairman Berman did the right thing in bringing this agreement to the House floor – but I’m surprised that over 100 Democrats opposed this critical deal." Under the agreement, India separates its civil and military nuclear facilities, gives the IAEA ncreased access, and continues its unilateral moratorium on nuclear testing. In addition, the Nuclear Suppliers Group, an organization of 45 countries that seeks to control the spread of nuclear technology, has given the agreement its approval. "The world is not standing still. France and Russia are moving ahead with civilian nuclear trade with India. The United States can’t afford to be on the sidelines," concluded Royce, who spoke last night on the House floor in support of the agreement. The agreement passed today is widely considered to be the culmination of years of growing U.S.-India relations. Royce chaired the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans in the 107th Congress, and was instrumental in strengthening relations between the U.S. and India. Royce was designated by the Speaker of the House to be an official member of then-President Clinton’s historic delegation to India in 2000. In 2001, Royce led the effort to lift sanctions against India. ###
09.26.2008	Legislation to implement the historic U.S.-India Agreement for Cooperation on Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy was debated in the House of Representatives today, with its passage expected tomorrow. Once signed into law, the U.S. and India will have completed a process begun in July 2005. In 2006, Royce managed the Hyde Act on the floor of the House, fighting back three Democratic "poison pill" amendments designed to scuttle the agreement. The legislation must still pass the Senate before being signed into law. Royce reacted to today's debate: "This has been a long road. But today, we have taken a huge step forward. Failure by this Congress to push this agreement across the finish line, by sending this bill to the President, would be foreign policy malpractice. The time for Senate action is now." On the House floor, Royce pointed to the fact that under the Agreement, India separates its civil and military nuclear facilities, gives the IAEA increased access to its nuclear facilities, and continues its unilateral moratorium on nuclear testing. In addition, the Nuclear Suppliers Group, an organization of 45 countries that seeks to control the spread of nuclear technology, has given the agreement its approval. "Either we continue to try to box-in India, and hope for the best, or we act to make India a true partner. This agreement works through a difficult nonproliferation situation to strengthen an important relationship. India will be a major 21st century power," concluded Royce. The agreement debated today is widely considered to be the culmination of years of growing U.S.-India relations. Royce Chaired the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans in the 107th Congress, and was instrumental in strengthening relations between the U.S. and India. Royce was designated by the Speaker of the House to be an official member of then-President Clinton’s historic delegation to India in 2000. In 2001, Royce led the effort to lift sanctions against India. ###
09.23.2008	Legislation to upgrade South Korea's military procurement status, authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), passed the House of Representatives today. If signed into law, foreign military sales with Korea would be treated just as those with members of NATO, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan, and therefore improve defense cooperation. This "NATO+3" grouping would become "NATO+4." "The U.S.-South Korean alliance is distinct. With a Mutual Defense Treaty dating to 1953, Korea and the U.S. form perhaps the most integrated alliance of interoperable forces. On the Korean Peninsula, interoperability isn't just a buzzword. It is a real life practice that passage of this legislation would help cement," commented Royce during debate on the House floor. South Korea is a larger foreign military sales partner than any of the "NATO+3" members. Last year, Seoul purchased over $3.7 billion worth of American defense equipment, making it one of the largest partners in U.S. foreign military sales. This has led South Korea to formally request this preferential status through its Foreign and Defense Ministries. During a visit with Congressional leaders last spring, South Korean President Lee Myung-bak raised the importance of the legislation to the U.S.-Korea relationship. During debate of the legislation, Rep. Royce cited the support of the Secretaries of State and Defense, and recalled that the former Commander of U.S. Forces Korea called it "bizarre and strange" that Korea did not have this status in U.S. law, during testimony to Congress. "This legislation helps to solidify relations with a long-time and close ally, giving the relationship the proper recognition it deserves after nearly 60 years of mutual defense cooperation," commented Royce. The upgrade in South Korea’s military procurement status would mean a streamlined defense sales process. Specifically, the monetary thresholds that trigger congressional review will be raised and Congressional review time will be reduced. H.R. 5443, the "United States-Republic of Korea Defense Cooperation Improvement Act of 2008," passed the House by a voice vote/by a vote of X-X. The legislation now goes to the Senate for consideration. ###
09.17.2008	Reps. Ed Royce (CA-40) and Melissa Bean (IL-08), coauthors of the National Insurance Act, pointed to the Federal Reserve's unprecedented bailout of insurance giant AIG as a startling indication of the need to establish an optional federal charter for insurance. "This unprecedented move by the Fed highlights the dangers of letting a 19th-century system govern a 21st-century marketplace," Bean said. "Our largest insurers are too complex, too interconnected worldwide, to allow the limited resources of state regulators to serve as the only option for oversight." "Congress needs to address this matter before the Federal Reserve is forced to step in again. The insurance marketplace requires a world class regulator with the authority to adequately oversee these firms. At the end of 2007 AIG had assets over one trillion dollars, larger than the GDP of 47 states. Clearly the status quo is no longer an option," said Royce. The announced bailout by the federal government of a non-federally regulated insurance company should concern all American taxpayers. Nearly 140 years ago states were given sole responsibility for regulating the business of insurance. This antiquated model has been costing insurance consumers and providers tens of billions of dollars annually and now all taxpayers’ dollars are at risk. In their Blueprint for regulatory reform, the Treasury Department notes the potential systemic gaps in oversight at the state level as a reason to establish an optional federal charter (OFC) for insurance. While individual AIG policy holders were likely not in danger, our financial markets will question the ability of insurance regulators to protect against struggling companies until a world class regulatory alternative is established that can focus on the impact these institutions have on capital markets worldwide. "An optional federal charter would address many of the concerns expressed by the Treasury Department and others concerned with the well being of our capital markets. It would also establish a world class regulator within the federal government with the authority necessary to oversee this global sector. And it would ensure these institutions operate in a safe and sound manner and provide a nationwide guaranty fund to act as a backstop against potential failures," said Royce. "Our competitiveness in a global market depends on a modern regulatory structure that can handle the complexity of today’s insurance market. An optional federal charter will provide a safer, more cost-effective regulatory environment for our economy and for our consumers," Bean said. ###
09.16.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) announced the launch of his newly redesigned website which can be found at www.royce.house.gov. The improved site is more user friendly with easier navigation. Royce's new site also includes the latest in multimedia capabilities such as video and audio clips. "I encourage my constituents to keep in touch with my office and I hope this new site will serve as a tool to better enable the people in the 40th district to be more informed on how I'm working to voice their opinions and concerns here in Washington," said Royce. The re-designed website is the latest in communication outreach tools emerging from Rep. Royce's office. This year Royce launched as series of telephone town hall meetings as well as an improved electronic newsletter which features interactive surveys. These new types of constituent outreach will supplement the more traditional forms of communication Rep. Royce has conducted over the years such as casual coffees, newsletters and in-person town halls. "Constituent services remain the cornerstone of my office. Constituents should have the opportunity to interact with their Representative through means that are most convenient for them. My new site is another means to accessing the constituent services my office has provided over the years - tours of Washington, D.C., assistance with a federal agency," said Royce. To sign up for Royce's electronic newsletter please click here. ###
09.16.2008	Today, the House considered H.R. 6899, the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Taxpayer Protection Act. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) strongly opposed this bill. "This bill fails to provide Americans with more domestic energy production, which will continue to make our country less secure economically and keep gas prices high," said Royce. "The Democrat bill slaps a permanent ban on 88 percent of offshore oil reserves and provides no incentive for states to drill in the remaining 12 percent by precluding revenue sharing. It blocks oil shale exploration, ANWR, as well as nuclear energy and coal-to-liquid fuel. The bill will provide no new refineries to help increase capacity and it expressly invites lawsuits to prevent new U.S. energy production. In short, it is a continuation of the moratorium on new domestic energy, which the Democrat-controlled Congress has championed for the last two years. Under Speaker Pelosi's watch, gas prices have doubled. The Democrat's sham of an energy bill fails to lower gas prices, and high energy prices means more inflation. Why send $360 billion each year to OPEC countries, like Saudi Arabia, when we could be creating U.S. jobs and spending the money here." The Democrat's energy bill includes: • No environmentally responsible exploration on the Arctic coastal plain in Alaska. Today, ANWR has an estimated 10.6 billion barrels of oil. We would be getting about 1.4 million barrels per day, or nearly as much as we get from Venezuela, had President Clinton not vetoed legislation to permit drilling there. • No exploration of oil shale in the American West. The Democrats put a moratorium in place last year. In Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming we have the largest known oil shale deposits in the world, holding from 1.5 to 1.8 trillion barrels of crude oil. Of that, some 800 billion barrels are recoverable with current technology. That's roughly triple the known reserves of Saudi Arabia. • No new refineries will be expedited. There hasn't been a new refinery built in 31 years and this bill offers no provisions to cut red-tape. If the Democratic leadership is serious about bringing more oil online then they need to help create more refineries to produce this oil. • And most problematic, this bill won't even open up offshore drilling - despite its claims. First, 88 percent of the outer continental shelf's oil reserves are contained within the 50 miles the Democrats want to permanently restrict us from accessing. Second, under the Democrats new proposal, drilling will be permitted 50 to 100 miles off shore, but only for states that choose to opt-in to the program. Since states won't see a dime of revenue generated from off shore drilling, there is no incentive to do so. In the Republican alternative, the American Energy Act, revenues would be shared with the states, with $8.8 billion going to alternative and renewable energy. Today, our economy is 70 percent dependent on foreign energy sources for gasoline, most of which we get from hostile countries. Over the next ten years, if no action is taken to increase domestic energy sources, it is estimated that the U.S. will spend $10 trillion on foreign oil, much of it going to Saudi Arabia, Iran, Venezuela, and other OPEC cartel countries. "One of the sad realities of our current energy crisis is that we have the means to lower the price of oil and to lessen our demand for foreign sources. The only thing standing in our way is Democratic opposition. The moratorium, which prevents drilling and oil shale exploration, will expire on September 30th. The Democrat bill makes that one-year moratorium permanent," said Royce. ###
09.12.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined his Republican colleagues on the House floor to demand an up or down vote on the "American Energy Act." Royce is an original cosponsor of this legislation. "Democrats in Congress not only took the day off, but left this week without passing a single piece of legislation to address the skyrocketing gas prices American families are struggling with," said Royce. "Although the Democrat leadership is taking today off, my colleagues and I are speaking today on the House floor to demand a lifting of the moratoriums placed on domestic energy production. The price of gas has doubled since the Democrats took over control of Congress, and the prohibitions on use of oil shale, coal to gas liquefaction, and further exploration is taking its toll on the economy, and helping drive inflation due to ever higher energy prices." The American Energy Act is an "all above" strategy to solve this nation's energy crisis. This legislation will increase the supply of American-made energy, improve conservation and efficiency, and promote renewable and alternative energy technologies. "The Democrats energy legislation doesn't allow for the environmentally responsible exploration on the Artic coastal plain, no development of advanced clean coal-to-liquid, no expansion of emission-free nuclear power, no new refineries, and no exploration for oil shale. The Democrats energy proposal isn't an all above approach it's a none of the above approach." "I will continue to fight for the American worker struggling with the prices at the pump. It is vital that we utilize our nation's vast energy supplies. Doing so is an economic necessity and is vital to our national security especially at a time when the OPEC cartel announces its intention to curtail production in order to increase prices." ###
09.08.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined his Republican colleagues on the steps of the U.S. Capitol to demand an up or down vote on the "American Energy Act." "I’ve had an opportunity to listen to the constituents of the 40th district during August recess. Overwhelmingly, they are tired of heading to the gas station to watch the numbers at the pump go up and up and up. These high gas prices are hurting the pocketbooks of families across America," said Royce. "With gas prices increasing, it is vital that we utilize our nation's vast energy supplies. At the same time, we should continue to develop new, clean technology. This would significantly reduce our use of foreign oil. Doing so is an economic necessity and is vital to our national security especially at a time when the OPEC cartel announces its intention to curtail production in order to increase prices. I encourage other lawmakers to join me in this effort to bring this important piece of legislation to the floor for a vote." "My colleagues and I have repeatedly asked the Democrat Leadership to bring the American Energy Act to a vote. The American people shouldn’t have to wait for Congress to do its job any longer. It is time to bring this important piece of legislation to the House floor for an up or down vote and address the number one issue facing all Americans." Rather than transfer $700 billion a year from our economy into OPEC’s, we should break the stranglehold of the cartel by creating American energy resources, produced by American workers with the money spent in the U.S. The American Energy Act would do just that – it will increase the supply of American-made energy, improve conservation and efficiency, and promote renewable and alternative energy technologies. The current moratoriums on new forms of domestic energy production are driving up energy costs and they risk sinking the economy. This legislation will open up our deep water resources, open the Arctic coastal plain, allow for development of our nation's oil shale, and cut red tape to allow for the construction of new refineries - refineries that haven't been built in over 30 years in this country. Royce is an original cosponsor of the "American Energy Act" and a cosponsor of the "No More Excuses Energy Act"; both bills would increase domestic energy supplies. ###
09.07.2008	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), senior member of the Financial Services Committee and a long-time advocate of a strong government regulator for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, made the following statement regarding today's announcement of the Treasury Department's GSE plan. "I appreciate the hard work of Secretary Paulson and Director Lockhart in this difficult period for our capital markets. I hope the plan put forward by the Treasury Department and the Federal Housing Finance Agency for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will help stabilize the troubled mortgage markets. For the better part of a decade I, along with some of my colleagues in Congress, have been calling for a stronger regulator for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Because of their implicit government backing, Fannie and Freddie took on excessive risk over the years, becoming two of the largest most complex financial institutions in the world. The Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight simply did not have the tools necessary to control the size and scope of these institutions or to ensure they were adequately capitalized. In 2003, I introduced the first legislation which sought to bring Fannie, Freddie and the Federal Home Loan Bank System under one strong regulator within the federal government. In 2005, I introduced an amendment on the House floor to give the new regulator the authority to review and adjust the GSEs' retained portfolios in order to mitigate against systemic risk. It is unfortunate these calls for reform were not adopted at that time. Had these legislative solutions been acted on in a timely manner, the GSE's would likely be in far better shape than they are today. Should any taxpayer funding go toward a bailout, I hope my colleagues in Congress and our financial regulators will rethink the current structure of these institutions. The implicit government guarantee created the moral hazard which led to the excessive risk taking. I believe the risk posed by Fannie and Freddie will remain until this problem is addressed." ###
08.21.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined his Republican colleagues to urge the Democrat Leadership to bring the House back to session to address the current energy crisis by bringing the American Energy Act to a vote. "We should be in session; the other side of the aisle should be here engaging in meaningful debate to address this issue. We should have never gone into a five-week recess without addressing the issue of gas prices," said Royce. On a party line vote Democrats agreed to head into a five-week recess without addressing the number one issue facing Americans - soaring gas prices. Families across the nation are only weeks away from dealing with yet another problem - the high costs of home heating. "I've conducted town halls and coffees throughout my district and I've had an opportunity to listen to the concerns of my constituents. Overwhelmingly, they are concerned about the high cost of gas prices. I am back in D.C. to demand the Democrat Leadership bring the American Energy Act to a vote. High gas prices are affecting the pocketbooks of Americans across the country and straining family budgets. The families of the 40th district don't understand why Congress has done nothing to solve this energy crisis. Frankly, I can't understand it either." Royce supports the American Energy Act, which will increase the supply of American-made energy, improve conservation and efficiency, and promote renewable and alternative energy technologies. For weeks Republicans have asked the Democrat Leadership to bring this bill to the floor. "They don't have to vote for it but at least allow us the opportunity to represent our constituents back home," said Royce. Royce is an original cosponsor of the "American Energy Act" and a cosponsor of the "No More Excuses Energy Act"; both bills would increase domestic energy supplies. ###
07.29.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) expressed his disappointment with the court ruling upholding the unjust convictions of Border Patrol agents Ramos and Compean for shooting a fleeing illegal drug smuggler during an altercation. The two were sentenced in October 2006 to 11 and 12 years in prison, respectively. Over 740 pounds (over $1 million street value) of marijuana was discovered in the drug smuggler's van near the border. "The news of this court decision is both shocking and disappointing and my heart goes out to the families of these Border Patrol agents. When is the Administration going to get it? Senator Feinstein and Senator Cornyn have warned that this case was a miscarriage of justice and so has America's Most Wanted," said Royce. This case will force Border Patrol agents and law enforcement in general to question everything they do, to the detriment of our safety. These agents were convicted based on the testimony of a known drug dealer that has since been convicted for running drugs across the border. In fact, he was continuing to run drugs into the U.S. while serving as the government's star witness. "It is incomprehensible to me that a drug smuggler who entered this country illegally was allowed to violate his immunity agreement and be granted a series of unlimited visas to roam free to continue his drug smuggling in our country, while two Border Patrol agents were given such harsh prison sentences. Border Patrol agents have a difficult and dangerous job, guarding U.S. borders. Giving these men such harsh sentences hurts morale and sends the wrong message to the men and women who are protecting our borders," said Royce. Today, Royce signed on to a letter requesting that President Bush pardon the two Border Patrol agents. He has previously signed letters and also cosponsored legislation calling on the President to commute the sentences of United States Border Patrol agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. ###
07.24.2008	Yesterday, 35 Members of Congress sent a letter to Thai Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej requesting assistance with the pending extradition request for international arms dealer Viktor Bout. Extradition proceedings are scheduled to begin in Thailand on Monday, July 28, 2008. Bout faces charges in the United States for conspiring to provide weapons to a terrorist organization. "Viktor Bout is an international terrorist who made a global empire out of arming the world's worst. It is past time he faced justice. Congress is grateful for the close cooperation between U.S. authorities and the Royal Thai Police in his capture. We now look forward to his timely extradition to the United States to face terrorism charges," said Royce, who spearheaded the letter. Viktor Bout has fueled many brutal civil wars on the African continent and beyond through the illicit sale of arms. Dubbed the "Merchant of Death," Bout dealt weapons to several sides fighting in the Democratic Republic of Congo and rebels in Angola in the 1990s, breaking international arms embargoes. Former Liberian president Charles Taylor similarly relied on Bout to arm his reign of terror in West Africa. "This year marks the 175th anniversary of U.S.-Thai relations. Our countries have enjoyed good relations on the security and law enforcement front. Yet, Members of Congress are greatly concerned about reports of Russian attempts to negatively influence this process to prevent Bout's legal extradition to the United States," said Royce, who serves as Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. In Afghanistan, Bout simultaneously armed the Taliban and the Northern Alliance. His dealings with international terrorist organizations include Hezbollah and the FARC in Colombia. Indeed, Bout thought he was negotiating a deal to provide the FARC with millions of dollars in arms when he was arrested in Thailand in March. Thirty-five Members of Congress, including top members who oversee U.S. foreign policy and foreign aid dollars, signed the letter to Thai Prime Minister Samak. The letter noted that "The preservation of the rule of law and the certain and swift application of justice have long been a hallmark of U.S.-Thai relations." President Bush has recently announced an upcoming trip to Thailand. The President's trip comes on the heels of a trip by U.S. Attorney general Michael Mukasey to Thailand last month, who discussed Bout's case with Thai officials. Reporters Note: Please click here for a copy of the letter. ###
07.23.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined his Republican colleagues on the steps of the U.S. Capitol to unveil the "American Energy Act." Royce is an original cosponsor of this legislation which will increase the supply of American-made energy, improve conservation and efficiency, and promote renewable and alternative energy technologies. "High gas prices are hurting the pocketbook of families across America. Family budgets are strained. I am pushing for short and long-term solutions to lower gas prices and to address our future energy needs," said Royce. The current moratoriums on new forms of domestic energy production are driving up energy costs and they risk sinking the economy. This legislation will open up our deep water resources, open the Arctic coastal plain, allow for development of our nation's oil shale, and cut red tape to allow for the construction of new refineries - refineries that haven't been built in over 30 years in this country. Just last week the Chairman of the Federal Reserve said the oil market was so tight that only a one percent increase in supply could result in a ten percent decrease in price. This legislation provides tax incentives for businesses and families that purchase more fuel efficient cars. It also provides tax incentives to those that improve their energy efficiency. It permanently extends the tax credit for alternative energy production, including wind, solar and hydrogen. Barriers to the expansion of emission-free nuclear power production are eliminated in this piece of legislation. It spurs the development of alternative fuels. "With gas prices increasing, it is vital that we utilize our nation's vast energy supplies. At the same time, we should continue to develop new, clean technology. This would significantly reduce our use of foreign oil. Doing so is an economic necessity and is vital to our national security. I encourage other lawmakers to join me in this effort to bring this important piece of legislation to the floor for a vote."
07.23.2008	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, expressed his opposition to "the Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008" which rewards radical organizations and loads risk onto the backs of the American taxpayers. "Because I believe good governance and protecting the American taxpayer must trump rewarding radical organizations and imprudent lenders and speculators I will be opposing this legislation and I encourage my colleagues to do the same. The failure of Congress to pass such critical legislation over the years could end up being one of Washington's greatest oversights in recent history. Worse yet, we are here today asking, as we so often do, the American taxpayer to pay for our past failures." Today's legislation has been loaded with handouts and improperly funded liabilities, the most obvious of which bails out speculators and investors that incorrectly gambled on the housing industry and the institutions that provided their loans. The $300 billion plan would allow banks to dump their least appealing loans onto the Federal Housing Administration. By taking on these mortgages, we are shifting that default risk, currently held by institutions and investors around the world, onto the backs of the American taxpayers. Perhaps less obvious than the $300 billion bailout, but in many respects more egregious, is the affordable housing fund which would funnel as much as $600 million every year to activist organizations with long histories of both voter fraud and anti-free market advocacy throughout the country. "I encourage my colleagues to join me in opposing this legislation because of the unprecedented amount of taxpayer liabilities included in this package. This is an affront to good governance and it should be avoided at all costs." ###
07.21.2008	All are invited to two upcoming events with Representative Royce on August 16, 2008. Both are great opportunities for Rep. Royce to learn about issues affecting his constituents. It's also a chance for his constituents to talk face-to-face with him. All are invited to have coffee with Rep. Royce on Saturday, August 16th from 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. This event will be held at the Orange Public Library, which is located at 407 E. Chapman Ave. in Orange, CA. This will be a chance for Royce to talk with his constituents, answer any questions or listen to concerns. Following the coffee, Rep. Royce will host a Townhall Meeting which will be held from 1:00 to 2:00 p.m. at the Los Alamitos Joint Forces Training Base at 11206 Lexington Ave. Royce will use this opportunity to meet with his constituents, address questions and listen to their suggestions and concerns. Rep. Royce will also give an update on current legislative issues in Washington and those important to the 40th District. These events will be free of charge and open to the public. Rep. Royce looks forward to seeing everyone on the 16th. Please call Rep. Royce at (714) 992-8081 or (562) 220-2411 with any questions.
06.24.2008	The Congressional Page Program is accepting applications for the fall 2008 Page session. The fall session begins Septemeber 2, 2008 and concludes January 23, 2009. Page applications are now being accepted at the Fullerton District Office of Representative Ed Royce. To be qualified to serve as a Page, all applicants must be citizens of the United States of America. Page candidates MUST reside in the state that the nominating Member represents. Pages must be at least 16 years of age but not yet 18 years of age at the time their appointment begins. School-year Pages may only serve for one semester during their junior year of high school. Applicants must have a cumulative grade point average of a "B" or better in the five major subjects. All Pages must have health insurance. The U.S. House of Representatives will NOT provide insurance. Applications will only be taken until Monday June 30, 2008. If you are interested please contact Patty Shay at 714/992-8081.
06.24.2008	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member on the Financial Services Committee, praised the passage of the Credit Union, Bank and Thrift Regulatory Relief Act, H.R. 6312 and pressed for continued progress on CURIA. H.R. 6312 passed the House with unanimous support. By reducing the regulatory burdens, H.R. 6312 allows credit unions, banks and thrifts to devote more resources toward better serving their customers. "As our capital markets continue to evolve, the regulatory model overseeing our financial institutions must evolve as well. Today's legislation is a small example of this effort to improve the regulatory structure overseeing our banks, credit unions and thrifts," said Royce. Today's legislation joins regulatory relief for credit unions with improvements geared toward thrifts and banks. Representative Moore's reg relief bill - much of which has been incorporated into H.R. 6312 - will remove several unnecessary regulatory burdens faced by these financial institutions, allowing them to better serve their customers. Among other things, the bill provides savings institutions with greater lending flexibility by removing limits on small business and auto loans. The bill also increases the ability of savings associations to invest in small business investment companies and make commercial real estate loans. Furthermore, H.R. 6312 authorizes banks and thrifts to pay interest on business checking accounts for their customers. While the Credit Union, Bank and Thrift Regulatory Relief Act has several worthwhile provisions which deserve consideration Royce made the following comments regarding CURIA: "I believe the other major provisions contained in CURIA, which are not in today's legislation, are important and should not be forgotten. 150 Members of this Congress have signed onto CURIA and it will remain the ultimate objective for those of us trying to bring the regulatory structure overseeing credit unions into the 21st century." ###
06.19.2008	Today, several Vietnamese-American human rights groups held a press conference in our nation's Capital to speak out about the continued human rights abuses in Vietnam. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment Subcommittee, and a major voice on Vietnam issues participated in the rally. "Sadly, Hanoi continues its oppression of religious freedom and human rights... just as it has been doing for decades. As President Bush will meet with Vietnamese Prime Minister Dung next week, it is imperative that human rights be at the forefront of their discussions." Dr. Nguyen Quoc Quan is yet another sad example of the state of human rights in Vietnam. Dr. Quan was arrested on November 17, 2007 along with 5 other democracy activists for distributing pro-democracy leaflets. This peaceful dissent landed him in a Vietnamese prison, where he remained for six months. "In Vietnam, arguing against the government peacefully, for a multiparty system, is considered terrorism," said Royce. In Congress, it is critical that the Senate pass the Vietnam Human Rights Act. One of the most important components of this bill is its focus on ending Vietnam's efforts to jam radio broadcasts into the country and its funding for continued broadcasts. "With the Vietnam Human Rights Act, Radio Free Asia will now be better able to bring objective news – the truth – to the Vietnamese people," said Royce. "I would like to assure you that we will continue to speak out against the Vietnamese governments continued abuses against its citizens. We know that when we speak out, they hear us, and we will continue to do so until Vietnam honors the rights of its people." Rep. Ed Royce is a member of both the Congressional Caucus on Vietnam and the Congressional Human Rights Caucus. ###
06.19.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) congratulated Congressional Gold Medalists Kyle Fitle of Cypress and Katherine Tse of Orange for their outstanding commitment to public service. Fitle and Tse are in Washington, D.C. to receive their Congressional Gold Medals during the 2008 Congressional Gold Medal Ceremony being held in our nation's Capital. "Today, it is my honor to attend the 2008 Congressional Gold Medal ceremony and recognize the dedication, initiative and service of Mr. Fitle of Cypress and Ms. Tse of Orange. Their local communities are better served because of their selfless dedication to public service. The Congressional Gold Medal Award requires a significant commitment - this award is not simply received but achieved," said Royce. Congress established the Congressional Award in 1979 to recognize initiative, achievement and service in young people. Each participant must spend two years or more completing at least 400 hours of community service, 200 hours of both personal development and physical fitness activities, and a 4-night expedition or exploration. The 2008 Congressional Gold Medalists have contributed over 110,000 voluntary public service hours in their communities nationwide. These young Americans had to set and achieve goals in four program areas to earn the award: voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition/exploration. Kyle Fitle completed over 500 hours of voluntary public service. His service included working to support shelters for abused women and children, international aid organizations and local community and military establishments. Katherine Tse contributed over 400 hours of voluntary public service through the USA Girl Scouts by serving several consecutive years at summer day camp and with various community projects. ###
06.16.2008	Rep. Ed Royce showed his commitment to addressing the healthcare needs of the small business community by signing the National Federation of Independent Business’ (NFIB) Solutions Start Here SM petition. In doing so, Royce pledged to work with the next president and Congress to enact meaningful reforms to address this healthcare crisis. "Small businesses are the backbone of the American economy and healthcare is their No. 1 issue, yet finding and providing affordable health insurance has become an overwhelming obstacle for many small business owners," said NFIB President and CEO Todd Stottlemyer. "The support of policymakers like Representative Royce is critical as we work to find solutions to this healthcare crisis that work for small business owners and employees." Small businesses are disproportionately burdened by healthcare costs. Of the 47 million Americans without health insurance, more than 28 million are small business owners, employees and their dependents. Under current law they generally do not enjoy the same tax treatment, coverage or pooling options as large businesses and corporations; on average, they pay 18 percent more for the same healthcare benefits. On top of this, over the last eight years, insurance premiums have increased an alarming 129 percent. By signing this petition, Royce is standing with NFIB and the small business community to work toward meaningful healthcare reform that starts with: Quality, affordable health coverage with options for small business owners, employees and their families; Choice in insurers, doctors and hospitals; The peace of mind that if people leave their job, they won’t lose their health coverage; A clear understanding of how much people are paying for healthcare and what level of quality they are getting; and Confidence that medical records are private, safe and secure. The petition reflects the goals of the Solutions Start Here campaign, which serves as the small business platform for healthcare reform. It is the largest and most aggressive campaign in the 65-year history of NFIB. As part of the effort, NFIB is hosting a series of "Fix-it Forums" across the country to engage small business people in a dialogue about the challenges they face on the frontlines of this healthcare crisis. Additionally, NFIB has communicated with the presidential candidates about this issue, as well as moderated a series of healthcare reform forums that bring together health policy leaders and economists to debate the most crucial elements of health reform. The campaign is also supported by a print and radio advertising campaign. "Small business owners and employees are shouldering an overwhelming and disproportionate burden of a broken healthcare system," continued Stottlemyer. "The needs of America’s small businesses must be included in healthcare reform, because when it’s fixed for small business it’s fixed for America." ###
06.10.2008	Reps. Ed Royce (CA-40) and Melissa Bean (IL-08), cosponsors of the Insurance Information Act and coauthors of the National Insurance Act, applauded Chairman Kanjorski for holding today's hearing on the creation of an Office of Insurance Information. "Today’s hearing is important and timely," Bean said. "I strongly commend Chairman Kanjorski’s plan to establish an Office of Insurance Information. I see this as a vital step toward providing greater industry agility and a modern regulatory alternative to the antiquated and non-uniform system of state insurance regulation." "Today's hearing acknowledges that there is a serious problem with the way our insurance marketplace is regulated and I commend Chairman Kanjorski on his continued leadership on this issue," said Rep. Royce. An Office of Insurance Information would provide the federal government with an industry expert able to provide Congress with the necessary insight when dealing with a financial shock, a national crisis or in formulating tax policy. Additionally, this Office would have the authority to reach and implement agreements with US trading partners. Considering the global nature of the insurance sector, this authority is long overdue. "Furthermore, I believe the greatest attribute of an Office of Insurance Information is that it moves us one step closer to an optional federal charter for insurance which I have been an advocate of for over 2 years," said Rep. Royce. "To preserve American competitiveness, our insurers need the same strong voice that our banks have had for decades," Bean said. "There’s a consensus for reform." ###
06.10.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) joined several colleagues and the President of Grassfire.org, Steve Elliott, to demand action from the democratic leadership on the bill, H.R. 4987, the Fence By Date Certain Act. President Elliott was armed with over 200,000 citizen petitions in support of H.R. 4987. "One thing expressed at my field hearings in San Diego and Laredo, Texas is that the border fence is effective. The Border Patrol testified about the effectiveness of a border fence saying that quote, 'It's a great force multiplier. It expands our enforcement capacity and allows us the discretion to redeploy agents to areas of more vulnerability or risk. It's one component that certainly has been integral to everything we have accomplished here raising the level of our security.'" With the establishment of the border fence project in San Diego crime rates have fallen off dramatically - by 50 percent - vehicle drive-throughs have fallen, and San Diego is no longer one of the most prolific drug smuggling corridors. Extending the fence will allow the border patrol to focus its resources and better protect our border. The Fence By Date Certain Act would revise deadlines and funding provisions for certain fencing and security project requirements along the southern border. Much of the Secure Fence Act was gutted with the passage of a 3,500 page omnibus spending bill in the middle of the night. "It is past time we strengthen operational control of all borders and ports through additional physical barriers and fencing and greater use of state-of-the-art technology and surveillance along the southwest border." Royce is a strong supporter and cosponsor of both the Secure Fence Act and the Fence By Date Certain Act. ###
05.15.2008	Legislation to upgrade South Korea's military procurement status, authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) and Rep. Ellen Tauscher (D-CA), passed the House of Representatives today as part of a broad package of security assistance measures. If signed into law, the legislation would streamline defense sales to South Korea, putting Seoul on the same plane as currently enjoyed by members of NATO, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan, therefore improving defense cooperation. "The U.S.-South Korean alliance is distinct. With a Mutual Defense Treaty dating to 1953, Korea and the U.S. form perhaps the most integrated alliance of interoperable forces. This legislation cements that cooperation," commented Royce. "An ally as vital, strategic, and long-term as South Korea deserves to have a streamlined defense procurement process that leads to increased interoperability between our forces. But not only that, the 29,000 men and women of our Armed Forces currently stationed in Korea deserve the best protection we can offer and this legislation will provide just that," said Rep. Tauscher. H.R. 5443, the "United States-Republic of Korea Defense Cooperation Improvement Act of 2008," was introduced by Rep. Royce and Rep. Tauscher on February 14, 2008. Its key elements were included in H.R. 5916, the Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Reform Act of 2008. H.R. 5916 passed the House by a voice vote. ###
04.17.2008	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, was one of a dozen Members of Congress selected by Congressional Leaders to welcome South Korean President Lee Myung-bak to Capitol Hill. President Lee is making his first official visit to the United States, and will meet at Camp David with President Bush later this week. Issues discussed included the historic Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA), increased defense cooperation between the U.S. and South Korea and North Korean human rights. Following the meeting, Royce issued the following statement: President Lee Myung-bak was well received by congressional leaders - and rightly so. South Korea sits at the crossroads of Northeast Asia. Close U.S.-South Korean relations will be key in managing the challenges and opportunities of the region. The U.S.-South Korea economic relationship is tremendously important. President Lee has spoken of the FTA as a 'historic moment' that would 'create an engine for prosperity.' Unfortunately, many of my Democratic colleagues are attempting to sink this agreement. It was important that President Lee was able to aggressively advocate for KORUS, and let Congressional leaders know its importance to our relationship. President Lee expressed his desire to see legislation I have authored to enhance South Korea's military procurement status passed and signed into law, therefore improving defense cooperation between the militaries of the U.S. and the Republic of Korea. Lastly, I had a chance to ask President Lee to consider reversing a policy put in place in 2000 by South Korea that disallows privately funded radio stations based in Seoul from transmitting to North Korea. These broadcasts are key to breaking Pyongyang's information dominance, empowering North Koreans to learn the truth about their country. President Lee expects this law to be revised. ###
04.15.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) commended the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) for releasing their report, A Prison Without Bars. The report, which coincides with the South Korean President's visit to the U.S., details the severe human rights violations committed against the people of North Korea and highlights China's mistreatment of individuals during repatriation. "As the report finds, the human rights condition in North Korea remain among the world's worst," said Royce. "The testimonies in this report from North Korean refugees are heart-wrenching, telling of the severe penalties levied on those who are found to be practicing religion." A Prison Without Bars also documents the treatment of North Korean refugees who have been repatriated by Chinese authorities. Despite China's international obligation they continue to repatriate North Korean refugees. "This is effectively a crime against humanity," said Royce. "Pyongyang deems leaving North Korea a crime, punishable by execution or the gulag." This report comes on the eve of South Korean President Lee Myung-bak's arrival to the United States. President Lee's attention to North Korea's human rights violations is encouraging and Royce is hopeful that he will continue to highlight this issue. "For years, leadership in Seoul was dealing with the North Korea it hoped for, not the one that exists. Fresh leadership is demonstrating that we don't have the luxury of ignoring North Korea's human rights nightmare -- because the treatment of its own people is a reflection of how it will treat its neighbors. It is vital that we continue to keep a laser focus on human rights in North Korea and this report does just that. I look forward to raising this issue with the President when I meet with him later this week." Rep. Ed Royce co-chairs the Korea Caucus and serves on the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and the Global Environment. In August of last year Royce traveled to North Korea. ###
04.15.2008	On tax day, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) asked his collegeues what Congress is doing for the American Taxpayers. Royce spoke against H.R. 5719, Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act, which would undermine Health Savings Accounts and increase the cost of healthcare. While on the House floor Royce gave the following remarks: "Today is tax day. And what are we doing for the American Taxpayers? Making them jump through more hoops! That's right, the bill that is being brought to the floor today under this rule would enact burdensome and bureaucratic regulations undermining Health Savings Accounts, which have been proven successful at slowing the growth of health costs and insurance premiums for millions of individuals and small businesses. These new burdens are unnecessary, inefficient and inconsistent with the flexibility purposely afforded HSAs at their inception. These provisions undermine efforts by employers, individuals, and insurers to reduce health care costs and improve health outcomes. This new step of independent "substantiation" will increase costs for banks and account administrators, who will pass these costs on to consumers. While there have been complaints in recent months about the charges which banks and other commercial lending institutions pass on to their customers, this provision will increase those costs further. This doesn't make sense. HSAs were created to reduce the growth of health care costs and have achieved some noteworthy successes. However, this bill would lead to increased health care costs for individuals. Don't taxpayers have enough to worry about on tax day? I urge my colleagues to vote against this rule so we can fix this bill and provide a little relief to hardworking Americans on April 15th." Rep. Royce was recently awarded the 2007 Taxpayers' Friend Award and received the highest pro-taxpayer score in the California delegation. ###
04.08.2008	Today, the National Taxpayers Union (NTU), a nonpartisan citizen group, announced that Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) received the highest pro-taxpayer score within the California delegation and was one of only a few dozen lawmakers in the House and Senate to win the 2007 "Taxpayers’ Friend Award." "Representative Royce's pro-taxpayer score of 93 percent is among the highest in the entire House of Representatives," NTU President Duane Parde said. "By consistently voting to reduce federal spending, taxes, and debt, Representative Royce has led by example in the fight to ease the burden on taxpayers everywhere -- something NTU's 362,000 members nationwide and 52,300 members in California greatly appreciate. He has truly earned the title 'Taxpayers' Friend.'" The award is presented to those Members who achieve an "A" grade in NTU’s annual Rating of Congress. The Rating, which is based on every roll call vote affecting fiscal policy, assigns a "Taxpayer Score" to each Member of Congress that indicates his or her support for reducing or controlling federal spending, taxes, debt, and regulation. "I opposed the Democrat leadership's $683 billion tax hike, the largest single tax increase in American history, and I support maintaining tax relief for middle-class families and small business owners. It is a great honor to receive this award and I will continue to fight to lower taxes, reign in government spending and support tax relief for middle-class families," said Royce. From 2006 to 2007, the average "Taxpayer Score" in the House fell four points to 35 percent. True "high performers" in Congress are always rare. In 2007, 52 lawmakers earned scores sufficient to win the Taxpayers’ Friend Award. Meanwhile, more than 260 Members captured the title of "Big Spender" for scoring 16 percent or less in the House and 14 percent or less in the Senate. "If every Member of Congress had voted as responsibly as Royce did in 2007, Americans could have enjoyed much lower taxes and less waste in government," Parde concluded. "Overburdened taxpayers in California and across the nation owe Royce a debt of gratitude for his hard work on their behalf. He has truly earned the title ‘Taxpayers’ Friend.’" ###
04.01.2008	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) today met with representatives from the American Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM) in Korea. William C. Oberlin, Chairman of AMCHAM Korea and President of Boeing International Corporation Korea, and Tami Overby, President & CEO of AMCHAM Korea, are visiting Washington, D.C. to build support for H.R. 5443, the "United States-Republic of Korea Defense Cooperation Improvement Act of 2008," and the Korea-United States Free Trade Agreement. Rep. Royce introduced H.R. 5443 on February 14, 2008. If approved, Royce's legislation would give South Korea the same preferential treatment for foreign military sales as afforded members of NATO, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan ("NATO+3"), therefore improving defense cooperation between the militaries of the U.S. and the Republic of Korea. "Given the history of our alliance with the Republic of Korea and the integration of our two militaries on the Peninsula, this legislation makes sense. AMCHAM Korea's advocacy for this legislation on Capitol Hill comes at a critical time, just before President Lee Myung-bak's visit," said Royce, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. The group also discussed the importance of the KORUS FTA to American companies operating in Korea, as well as the bilateral relationship. "The proposed free trade agreement with South Korea is the world’s largest of its kind. Given our significant trade with South Korea, and even more significant security relationship, this agreement deserves the strong support from Congress," said Royce. ###
03.31.2008	Reps. Melissa Bean (IL-08) and Ed Royce (CA-40), authors of the National Insurance Act, commended Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson's recognition for the need for an optional federal charter for insurance, which would help streamline and modernize the antiquated and patchwork system of state insurance regulation. In its recently released Blueprint for Financial Regulatory Reform, the Treasury Department calls for the creation of a world-class insurance regulator through the establishment of the Office of National Insurance within Treasury. The report states: "Much like other financial services, over time the business of providing insurance has moved to a more national focus even within the state-based regulatory structure. The inherent nature of a state-based regulatory system makes the process of developing national products cumbersome and more costly, directly impacting the competitiveness of U.S. insurers… To address these issues in the near term, Treasury recommends establishing an optional federal charter for insurers within the current structure." Bean said, "Our nation’s economic leadership in the world hinges upon its global leadership in capital markets. The Treasury report follows the Schumer/Bloomberg report and a report by the U.S. Chamber’s bipartisan commission, all of which make the compelling case to update our insurance regulatory environment. An optional federal charter will improve efficiencies, which will enhance consumer choice and industry competitiveness. "The current regulatory structure for the insurance industry predates the Great Depression of the 1930s. In a 21st century economy, insurance needs a 21st century, world-class regulator." Royce said, "I commend Secretary Hank Paulson for his leadership on the issue of improving the oversight of our financial services sector. The Secretary believes, as many do, that the creation of an optional federal charter should be at the forefront of any initiative intended to improve the oversight and competitiveness of the financial services industry in the United States. "America's insured and insurers have had to operate under an outdated and duplicative regulatory system consisting of individual state regulators for over 135 years. As a result, fewer insurance products are available nationwide and the products that are available reflect the additional operating costs imposed by inefficient regulations." Today’s system has hurt the U.S. insurance industry’s ability to compete globally. In 2006 alone, the U.S. insurance services trade deficit totaled $24 billion, suggesting that domestic insurance providers are operating at a significant competitive disadvantage. "The current system - which requires insurers to work with 51 different state regulators - is burdensome and slows new products’ ‘time to market,’ sometimes by years," Bean said. "These obstacles currently discourage insurance innovation and product development to capitalize on emerging growth markets. A national charter will foster greater industry innovation and agility." "While the National Association of Insurance Commissioners is well intentioned, it does not possess the regulatory powers and is not equipped to perform even an informal oversight role that today’s global insurance industry requires and demands," Royce said. "By establishing a world-class regulator for insurance, Congress would fill a void in the regulatory structure overseeing our financial services industry and provide our insurance sector with a necessary tool to compete more effectively throughout the world." "At a time when Europe is getting closer to modernizing their insurance supervision, hopefully the Treasury's report will initiate a move down the same road for the insurance market within the United States," Royce said. In July of 2007, Bean and Royce introduced H.R. 3200, the National Insurance Act, which would establish an optional federal insurance charter in the United States. H.R. 3200 is a companion bill to legislation introduced earlier in the 110th Congress by Senators John Sununu (R-NH) and Tim Johnson (D-SD).
03.26.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and Vice-Chair of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange, reacted positively to major press accounts that South Korea will vote in favor of a U.N. resolution expressing concerns about human rights in North Korea later this week. Royce has been a frequent critic of Seoul's "sunshine" policy that led it to avoid discussing the "sensitive" issues of human rights, the hundreds of South Koreans abducted by North Korea and Pyongyang's march to nuclear weapons. "In previous years, Seoul either abstained or sat-out altogether annual votes condemning North Korea's atrocious human rights record. President Lee Myung-bak is putting his promises into action," said Royce. Since 2003, South Korea has only once voted for a U.N. resolution on North Korean human rights; a vote that came after North Korea's nuclear test. In other votes, South Korea either abstained or stayed away out of concerns that highlighting the North's abysmal human rights standing would jeopardize Seoul's policy of engagement with Pyongyang. "For years, leadership in Seoul was dealing with the North Korea it hoped for, not the one that exists. Fresh leadership is demonstrating that we don't have the luxury of ignoring North Korea's human rights nightmare -- because the treatment of its own people is a reflection of how it will treat its neighbors," commented Royce. The vote at the U.N. Human Rights Council in Geneva is expected to take place on Thursday or Friday at the end of the council's four-week session. The announcement from South Korea comes as earlier this week President Lee Myung-bak pledged to prioritize the return of South Koreans kidnapped by North Korea. More than 540 South Korean soldiers captured during the Korean War are believed to be still alive in North Korea while another 480 civilians, mostly fishermen, have been captured by the North since the war. Again, previous South Korean governments were reluctant to raise the kidnapping issue. ###
03.19.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, released the text of a letter sent to U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, asking for his assistance in regards to a group of North Korean refugees currently in Beijing under the protection of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. "Currently, there are seventeen refugees under the protection of the United Nations High Commissioner (UNHCR) in Beijing - some since October 2006. But despite the fact that these individuals could be quickly resettled, China is refusing them exit visas unless the UNHCR agrees not to process any more asylum seekers until after the Beijing Olympics. This is simply unacceptable," commented Royce after the letter's release. The refugees requested UNHCR protection rather than risk repatriation to North Korea, where they would face certain imprisonment and torture, and possibly execution. This practice continues despite China's obligations under the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol to: halt the forced repatriation of North Korean refugees; terminate the practice of automatically classifying all North Korean border crossers as illegal economic migrants; and grant the UNHCR unfettered access to such refugees. "We are asking U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to call upon Beijing to honor its international commitments and immediately provide these refugees exit visas so that they can safely be resettled," concluded Royce. Royce was the author of H.Con.Res. 234, legislation calling on China to halt the repatriation of North Korean refugees, which passed the House in October 2007. Below is the full text of Rep. Ed Royce's letter. Other Members of Congress signing the letter: Senator Tom Coburn (R-OK), Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS), Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA), Rep. Diane Watson (D-CA) and Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA). March 18, 2008 The Honorable Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General The United Nations First Avenue at 46th Street New York, NY 10017 Dear Secretary-General Ban: We are writing to urge you to call upon the People's Republic of China (PRC) to issue exit visas to a group of North Korean refugees currently in Beijing under the protection of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. We are deeply troubled to learn that the PRC continues to deny exit visas for these refugees, forcing them to remain in Beijing for as long as two years. This is especially tragic since they could otherwise be resettled quickly and safely in third countries. As you know, North Korean refugees enjoy automatic Republic of Korea citizenship under Articles 2 and 3 of the Republic of Korea's Constitution. South Korea has already accepted well over 10,000 refugees, while other countries have also accepted North Korean refugees for resettlement. Humanitarian workers involved with helping North Korean refugees in the PRC have informed us that the group of refugees placed in safe houses by the UNHCR is mentally stressed due to long confinement and isolation. The refugees requested UNHCR protection because their only other option was to risk repatriation to North Korea, where they would face certain imprisonment and torture, and possibly execution. As you know, this practice continues despite the PRC's obligations under the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol to: halt the forced repatriation of North Korean refugees; terminate the practice of automatically classifying all North Korean border crossers as illegal economic migrants; and grant the UNHCR unfettered access to such refugees. At this time, we understand there are seventeen refugees currently under UNHCR protection in Beijing, including a group that sought asylum in October 2006. We understand that the PRC is refusing them exit visas unless the UNHCR agrees not to process any more asylum seekers until after the Beijing Olympics. We also understand that UNHCR has been unable to bring refugees into protection since July 2007 because of this policy. Indeed, the Congressional-Executive Commission on China, recently released its annual report, finding that "during the past one to two years, the Chinese government has intensified its efforts to forcibly repatriate North Korean refugees, in part as a security preparation for the 2008 Olympic Games." We think you will agree that this practice by the PRC is unacceptable. The UNHCR needs your support and influence as the Secretary General of the United Nations to call upon Beijing to honor its international commitments and immediately provide these refugees exit visas so that they can safely be resettled. Any information you could provide us in this respect would be most appreciated. Sincerely, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) Senator Tom Coburn (R-OK) Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI) Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA) Rep. Diane Watson (D-CA) Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA) ###
03.12.2008	Today, during testimony in front of the House Armed Services Committee, General B.B. Bell, Commander of U.S. Forces Korea, endorsed Rep. Ed Royce's (R-CA) legislation to add South Korea to the list of countries receiving the most preferential treatment for foreign military sales. General Bell called South Korea's absence from the "NATO+3" list "bizarre and strange." Bell continued that South Korea's lack of status is "just not right" and that "I think we should go to 'NATO+4,'" adding South Korea. If approved, Royce's legislation would give South Korea the same preferential treatment for foreign military sales as afforded members of NATO, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan ("NATO+3"), therefore improving defense cooperation between the militaries of the U.S. and the Republic of Korea. "General Bell, our top commander on the Korean Peninsula, put forth a straightforward endorsement of efforts to afford South Korea the most preferential treatment when it comes to defense sales. I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this legislation so it can move quickly through Congress," commented Royce, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. H.R. 5443, the "United States-Republic of Korea Defense Cooperation Improvement Act of 2008," was introduced by Rep. Royce and Rep. Ellen Tauscher (D-CA) on February 14, 2008. Purchases of U.S. defense articles and equipment enhance the interoperability between the armed forces of the United States and the Republic of Korea. South Korea is a larger foreign military sales partner than any of the "NATO+3" members. Last year, Seoul purchased over $3.7 billion worth of American defense articles, making it one of the largest partners in U.S. foreign military sales. South Korea has formally requested this status through its Foreign and Defense Ministries. ###
03.11.2008	Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) signed a discharge petition for H.R. 4088, the bipartisan Secure America through Verification and Enforcement (SAVE) Act. Once the Discharge Petition receives 217 signatures (a majority of the House’s current total membership), House rules require the bill to brought to the floor for an up-or-down vote. The bill could hit the floor as early as this week. "This bill does what the American people want us to do and they've waited for far too long for us to do it. It is past time that we enforced our immigration laws and gained control of our borders," said Royce, a cosponsor of the SAVE Act. Illegal immigration is one of the most pressing issues facing our nation. Americans are angry that their government is not taking action. The SAVE Act is a three-point plan to reduce illegal immigration. This legislation will help secure America's borders, implement mandatory work authorization verification, and reduce illegal immigration through interior enforcement. It will help to restore the integrity of our nation’s borders and reestablish respect for our immigration laws The bill increases Border Patrol agents by 8,000 and utilizes new technology to secure the border. It closes the existing loopholes in E-Verify to stop multiple people using the same Social Security number and to detect people using stolen identities. And it provides state and local law enforcement the tools they need to enforce immigration laws and expedites the removal of illegal aliens. "Our current immigration system is broken. It is past time we fix it. And it is good to see a bipartisan solution that moves us in the right direction," said Royce. ###
03.06.2008	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), the top Republican of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, issued the following statement in reaction to the news of arms dealer Viktor Bout's arrest in Bangkok, Thailand: Thanks to the Thai authorities, the 'Merchant of Death' is out of the game. This is good news to anyone who cares about checking strife in Africa and support for transnational terrorists. While many were attempting to stop conflicts across Africa, Bout was pouring fuel on the fire. In UN report after UN report, Victor Bout was cited as the chief sanctions buster, supplying arms to anyone who would pay. Bout simultaneously armed the Taliban and the Northern Alliance. He's had dealings with the FARC in Colombia. And he's been connected with Hezbollah. Bout is an international menace who needs to face justice. From 1997-2005, Royce chaired the Subcommittee on Africa. During that time, Royce closely examined the conflicts that trouble the continent - particularly West Africa in Sierra Leone and Liberia. It was through that work that Royce highlighted Viktor Bout and his exploits. Bout has been called the "Merchant of Death," a moniker coined by a British diplomat. From the dust of the Cold War, Bout emerged to form a complex enterprise spanning several continents and a large network of nefarious individuals, front companies, corrupt government officials, old Soviet airplanes, and Eastern European mobsters. Bout became capable of delivering anything from ordinary commodities to AK-47s, missile launchers, and even attack helicopters to anyone who would pay. Bout's activities in the 1990s lead to his designation by the United States government as the highest-ranking international target other than Osama bin Laden and his top tier of terrorist leaders. ###
03.04.2008	All are invited to two upcoming events with Representative Royce on March 15, 2008. Both are great opportunities for Rep. Royce to learn about issues affecting his constituents. It's also a chance for his constituents to talk face-to-face with him. All are invited to have coffee with Rep. Royce on Saturday, March 15th from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. This event will be held at Coffee Bean and Tea Leaf, which is located at 4957 Katella Ave., Suite F in Cypress, CA. This will be a chance for Royce to talk with his constituents, answer any questions or listen to concerns. Following the coffee, Rep. Royce will host a Community Forum which will be held from 1:00 to 2:00 p.m. at the Orange City Hall 300 E. Chapman Ave. Royce will use this opportunity to meet with his constituents, address questions and listen to their suggestions and concerns. Rep. Royce will also give an update on current legislative issues in Washington and those important to the 40th District. These events will be free of charge and open to the public. Rep. Royce looks forward to seeing everyone on the 15th. Please call Rep. Royce at (714) 992-8081 or (562) 220-2411 with any questions.
02.29.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, released the text of a letter sent to the State Department requesting United States officials to vigorously protest Vietnamese jamming of U.S.-backed Radio Free Asia (RFA) broadcasts. The letter comes on the eve of Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill's planned visit to Vietnam. "Since day one of RFA's broadcasts into Vietnam, Hanoi has jammed them. RFA must employ multiple frequencies to overcome this interference. I wonder what news the communist government is afraid of," asked Royce. Radio Free Asia is a "surrogate" broadcasting service, acting as a free press for Vietnam, bringing accurate news and information. During a recent Congressional hearing, Royce brought the issue of Vietnamese jamming to the attention of a top State Department official, who committed to raising it with the Vietnamese government. "We should be protesting loudly against this hostile assault on RFA's broadcasts. This can not continue to go unchallenged," commented Royce after the letter's release. Below is the full text of Rep. Ed Royce's letter: February 27, 2008 The Honorable Christopher R. Hill Assistant Secretary, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Ambassador Hill: As you prepare to travel to Vietnam, I am writing to express my concern regarding the command over the media that the Vietnamese government exercises and U.S. efforts to counter that command. Newspapers, television and radio stations are under strict government control. As longtime dissident Dr. Nguyen Dan Que correctly stated, "The state hopes to cling to power by brain-washing the Vietnamese people through stringent censorship and through its absolutist control over what information the public can receive." To combat this censorship, I have been supportive of Radio Free Asia's broadcasts to Vietnam. As you know, Radio Free Asia is a "surrogate" broadcasting service, acting as a free press for Vietnamese. Unfortunately, Vietnam has a history of heavily jamming RFA, beginning on the first day of its broadcasts in February, 1997. In order to overcome this jamming, RFA employs six times the frequencies than it does for non-jamming countries. While still effective, I regret the fact that additional resources must be put to use. I think you will agree that we should not let Vietnamese government interference with such accurate news and information go unchallenged. If relations between our two countries are truly improving, as the Administration states, this should not be an issue. Yet, to my knowledge, no official complaint has been lodged with the Vietnamese government over its hostile assault on RFA's broadcasts. During a recent hearing of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on International Organizations, Human Rights, and Oversight, Deputy Assistant Secretary Scot Marciel committed to looking into this issue and to raising it with Vietnamese officials during future trips to the region. Any information you can provide me in this respect upon your return from Vietnam would be most appreciated. Sincerely, EDWARD R. ROYCE ###
02.26.2008	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA/40) has announced his annual U.S. Service Academy Information Night will be held Monday evening, March 10, 2008 at the Buena Park City Hall. The event is scheduled to begin at 7:00 P.M. in the Buena Park City Council Chambers. The City Hall is located at 6650 Beach Blvd., Buena Park, CA 90622-5009. The purpose of the information night is to make all students, parents and counselors aware of the educational and leadership opportunities through the four U.S. Service Academies. The meeting will also answer questions as to the application and nomination process to the academies. A representative from each U.S. Service Academy will be present to answer questions. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy will also make a presentation. "This meeting is vital for those interested in attending any one of the service academies," Royce said. "It is an excellent opportunity for students and their families to plan for their educational and professional futures." The Information Night will feature Midshipmen from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. For more information, please contact Patty Shay in Royce’s Fullerton office at 714/992-8081. ###
01.29.2008	Today, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee's Subcommittee on Asia and Vice-Chairman of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange, introduced a resolution congratulating Lee Myung-Bak on being elected the next President of the Republic of Korea and to wish him well during his period of transition. Upon introducing the resolution, Royce said: "The U.S. and South Korea have long had a mutually beneficial relationship. President-elect Lee Myung-Bak has indicated that he will work to further strengthen our partnership, and I look forward to working to promote international peace and security, economic prosperity, human rights, and the rule of law." In addition to congratulating President-elect Lee Myung-Bak, the resolution also recognizes the deep cultural and personal ties between the peoples of the US and the Republic of Korea, the designation of January 13th as Korean American Day, and the strong trade relations between the US and the Republic of Korea. ###
01.17.2008	Today, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) spoke in honor of Korean-American Day, which was held on Sunday, January 13th. As an original cosponsor of H.Res.487, "Supporting the goals and ideals of Korean American Day" in the 109th Congress, Rep. Royce offered the following statement: "On January 13th, 1903, the first Korean immigrants landed in America. Since that time, Korean-Americans have taken root and thrived in our country through their strong family ties and hard work. In my own district, I am continually impressed with the Korean community and their commitment in upholding their rich heritage. The United States, and California in particular, has been enriched and defined by the contributions of Korean-Americans in a wide variety of fields. Mr. Speaker, South Korea has been an ally and friend to the United States for decades. Over this time, South Korea has emerged as a major economic power and our seventh-largest trading partner. It is thus vital that Congress take up and pass the Korea-US free trade agreement. The proposed trade agreement with South Korea is the world’s largest of its kind. When the US International Trade Commission released its report on the KORUS FTA last September, they found that US GDP stands to gain between $10.1-11.9 billion as a result. As the economy lags, it is vital that we continue to open up new markets for our goods and services. This agreement accomplishes just that." ###
01.16.2008	Today, along with two of his colleagues, Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) requested that the Noble Peace Prize Committee consider the Most Venerable Thich Quang Do for the 2008 Noble Peace Prize. In his letter, Rep Royce stated: "The Most Venerable Thich Quang Do, a Buddhist monk, well-known writer and Deputy Head of the banned Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam (UBCV), has dedicated his life to a struggle for justice, peace and human rights in Vietnam. In his struggle for the rights of others, he has sacrificed his own safety and freedom, spending almost 30 years in detention for his peaceful advocacy of democracy and human rights. Today, he is under house arrest at the Thanh Minh Zen Monastery, denied the right to travel and communicate freely. Even under house arrest, Thich Quang Do continues his peaceful campaigns for the rights of all Vietnamese. In July 2007, he broke out of house arrest to support a demonstration staged by 'Victims of Injustice,' a movement of farmers and peasants protesting official corruption and state confiscation of lands. Thich Quang Do’s vision of democracy extends beyond Vietnam’s borders. In September 2007, he expressed solidarity with the democratic protests of Buddhist monks and civilians in Burma, calling for urgent United Nations action to cease the violence. The Vietnamese authorities reacted by launching a widespread vilification campaign against Thich Quang Do in the State-controlled media, threatening his imminent arrest. Thich Quang Do was awarded the prestigious Rafto Prize in 2006 by the Norwegian Rafto Foundation for his "personal courage and perseverance through three decades of peaceful opposition against the Communist regime," acting as a "unifying force" and a "symbol of the growing democracy movement" in Vietnam. Vietnam, unfortunately, refused to allow Thich Quang Do to travel to Norway to receive the award. We believe that Thich Quang Do is a most worthy candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize. This award would not only honor a courageous proponent of peace, but also acknowledge the silent struggle of all those who risk their lives daily for the case of human rights and religious freedom in Vietnam and elsewhere. Thus, we respectfully submit to your Selection Committee the name of Thich Quang Do as candidate for the 2008 Nobel Peace Prize." ###
01.15.2008	Today, U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) announced a series of town hall meetings via telephone. The first in the series will begin this evening. "My hope is that this method of communication will open up yet another avenue for me to hear what’s on your mind, and to give you the opportunity to ask questions about important issues I am working on in the House of Representatives -- including border security and the need to restrain federal spending and balance the budget," said Royce. The tele-town hall is the latest in communication outreach tools emerging from Rep. Royce's office. Recently, Royce launched an improved electronic newsletter which features interactive surveys. These new types of constituent outreach will supplement the more traditional forms of communication Rep. Royce has conducted over the years such as casual coffees, newsletters and in-person town halls. The tele-town hall scheduled for tonight will reach approximately 25,000 constituents from around the 40th district. The calls, constituent concerns and questions will not be screened. The telephone town hall is intended to allow Rep. Royce to understand the concerns of his constituency while he is in Washington voting. These town halls conducted via telephone will not replace the in-person town halls Royce has conducted for years. Instead, Royce sees the tele-town halls as an additional way to reach out to his constituents. The forum for the evening will begin with Rep. Royce introducing himself and thanking his constituents for listening. After he explains the process of the tele-town hall constituents will be encouraged to ask their questions. ###
01.15.2008	The U.S. Supreme Court ruled 5-3 that investors targeting third party contractors, vendors and consultants over corporate fraud cannot file lawsuits unless they relied on actions by those parties when making investment decisions. Establishing this legal precedent will prevent companies from being held liable for misdoings by business counterparties. Today's ruling was a major victory for U.S. companies, our capital markets, and the broader economy. If we hope to remain the market of choice for the world’s public companies we need to put an end to frivolous securities class action lawsuits. The Court's ruling today was a significant step toward that goal. This case was a backdoor attempt to expand the scope of securities class action lawsuits and it could have had a devastating effect on businesses throughout the country. With roughly 6 percent of the world's population, the United States is host to approximately 97 percent of the world's lawsuits. Many of these lawsuits are frivolously filed against U.S. public companies driving up the apparent and actual cost of doing business. Securities class action lawsuits have been cited as the single most important factor in the decline in the preeminent position of the United States in the global financial services marketplace. We should be looking for ways to curtail securities class action lawsuits, not expand their reach. In June 2007, Rep. Royce and 15 of his colleagues sent a letter to the Chairman of the SEC, Chris Cox, asking him to investigate the rationale and economic impact of securities class action lawsuits. Chairman Cox expressed his desire to further investigate this issue. He plans on holding a roundtable discussion at the SEC later this year. ###
12.27.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade expressed his outrage over the attack and death of Benazir Bhutto. “Her courage was remarkable and my condolences go out to those close to her. The loss of this strong and courageous woman makes more difficult what was already going to be a challenge – the task of brining stability and peace to the people of Pakistan.” Benazir Bhutto was shot in the chest, head and neck before the suicide bomber blew himself and many of her supporters up. Approximately 20 have died and nearly 50 are injured. Benazir Bhutto was Pakistan’s first woman prime minister and the first woman elected to lead a Muslim state. She returned to her country after almost 10 years of self-imposed exile despite death threats and repeated warnings to take on the challenge of running for Prime Minister. “Our primary interest is working with those who show a commitment to fighting the radical Islamist insurgency in the northwest frontier and, most importantly, to make sure the nuclear arsenal is locked down.” Earlier this year Royce was in Rawalpindi, the site of Bhutto’s assassination, where he met with President Pervez Musharraf and Pakistani military officials. He subsequently traveled to the Afghan-Pakistan border region where he met with the local constables and militia. He also traveled to public schools being established to counter the Islamist Madrassas in the Northwest frontier. “Pakistan is at the epicenter of radical Islam jihad and chaos. The ensuing weeks will demand careful diplomacy and calibrated pressure on the Pakistani government to avert dictatorship and the blowback of militant insurgency.” ###
12.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, Rep. Royce (R-CA) joined his colleagues to welcome the family members of those who had recently been wrongly imprisoned by the Vietnamese government. Rep. Royce offered the following statement: "I have little doubt that the pressure we're applying on Hanoi is making a difference. And this is why it's essential that we keep up the pressure, to ensure the safe release of Dr. Nguyen, who remains in captivity, yet to be charged with a crime, for his peaceful promotion of democracy. The November 17th imprisonment of Mr. Nguyen and Mr. Truong has taken this historic crackdown to new levels. By taking into custody two U.S. citizens, Hanoi has shown that the citizens of other nations who promote democratic values are to be silenced as well. To this end, I recently wrote to President Triet and Vietnamese Ambassador Le Cong Phung. I told them if they want to have a relationship with the United States, it is essential that they honor the rights of its citizens and ours. If we are going to bolster our relations with Vietnam, it must embrace political pluralism in all of its forms. Silencing dissidents and suppressing religious freedoms are not the ways towards a partnership. The government's response? The Vietnamese Ambassador told me that the Viet Tan party was a terrorist organization that had long advocated armed activities against the government. Ambassador Michalak disavowed these claims last night, however, when he spoke to the press in Hanoi. At the time of their arrests, Dr. Nguyen and Mr. Truong didn't come armed with guns and ammo, but leaflets and pamphlets touting democracy. After Dr. Nguyen and Mr. Truong were detained, I spoke with U.S. Ambassador Michael Michalak over the phone, and we discussed the various approaches the US can take to push for human rights in Vietnam, and specifically, the case of Dr. Nguyen and Mr. Truong. Mr. Truong's release, I believe, is a testament of the Ambassador's commitment. Hopefully, we'll soon see the release of Dr. Nguyen as well. As a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I also wrote to our Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, asking that she press for their timely release, explaining that, 'we need to convey to the Vietnamese government in the strongest terms that if they wish to have a productive relationship with the U.S., it needs to respect the basic human rights of its citizens, and especially those of visiting Americans.' The Vietnamese government understands criticism. When I met with Thich Quang Do and Le Quang Liem in Saigon several years back, I was immediately denounced. This showed me that the government is listening to what we say - and it has impact. So silence isn't an option. We need to continue to speak out against these injustices. We've seen the successful release of Leon Truong. Now's the time to ratchet up the pressure on Hanoi." ###
12.06.2007	Yesterday, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) contacted Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice regarding the detention of U.S. citizens, and Viet Tan Party members, Dr. Nguyen Quoc Quan, and Mr. Truong Leon, by Vietnamese authorities. Dr. Nguyen and Mr. Truong have been held since their November 17th arrest for their peaceful advocacy of democratic change in Vietnam. Rep. Royce called on Secretary Rice to give this matter prompt attention, and to press Hanoi for their timely release. "The imprisonment of U.S. citizens for their peaceful advocacy," Royce wrote "indicates that the Government of Vietnam continues to deny basic human rights to foreigners as well as its own citizens." Rep. Royce further stated in his letter to the Secretary of State: "We need to convey to the Vietnamese government in the strongest terms that if they wish to have a productive relationship with the U.S. it needs to respect the basic human rights of its citizens, and especially those of visiting Americans." Cosigning Royce's letter were Representatives Chris Smith (R-NJ), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), and Tom Davis (R-VA). The complete text of the letter is attached. ***
12.06.2007	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) today warned that if government resources are used to engineer a government bailout of shaky mortgages, the result would incur billions of dollars in costs and increase risky behavior by borrowers. In the Financial Services Committee, Royce said:"While over 95% of homeowners are paying their mortgage on time, there are millions of homeowners holding subprime mortgages with five year adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) that may default next year. In 2008 alone, $350 billion of mortgages will adjust up to higher rates. Most of the flippers and speculators will default anyway, but there are many people who can afford to make their existing payment if they do not have to go through the closing costs and appraisal issues when negotiating a higher rate. When homeowners move into foreclosure, the damage is not limited only to those who lose their home. Lenders, investors, neighborhoods and borrowers are also negatively impacted. For instance, investors typically lose 30% to 50% of the unpaid mortgage balance when a home has to be resold due to foreclosure. If servicers and investors believe they can benefit from renegotiating a mortgage -- they should do so, and we should not sabotage such an effort. The difficulties experienced in the mortgage industry do not require a government bailout, which would put billions of dollars of taxpayers' money in jeopardy. By working with the private sector, Secretary Paulson's plan should avoid a taxpayer bailout and helps millions of Americans stay in their home, while saving investors the 30 to 50% they would typically lose on foreclosed property. By voluntarily bringing together servicers, lenders, and investors a proposal has been formulated to freeze ARMs for five years. To qualify, borrowers must prove they are currently able to pay their mortgage but will not be able to afford the payment when their rate resets. By making certain that this applies only to primary residences, it ensures speculators, "flippers" and property developers will not be advantaged." ###
11.15.2007	Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda visits Washington, D.C. Friday and consults with President Bush on North Korea and other bilateral issues. On the eve of the Prime Minister's visit, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, issued the following statement: The purpose of the Six-Party Talks was to bring concerted regional and international pressure on the North Korean regime, causing it to change course. It is unclear if North Korea will change course, but it is increasingly clear that the United States' approach is risking a key alliance for little in return from North Korea. U.S. negotiators surely believe that the choice between North Korea's nuclear weapons and the fate of Japanese citizens is no contest. But the question they should be asking is: if Kim Jong-il can't come clean on abductions decades ago, what makes us believe he will come clean on his nuclear program? It makes little sense to sideline Japan. It is perhaps the country most threatened by Pyongyang. We should be listening carefully. Prime Minister Fukuda and President Bush meet among reports that the United States may soon remove North Korea from the state sponsors of terrorism list as part of the Six-Party Talks on North Korea's nuclear weapons program. The possibility of such a move has caused strains in the U.S.-Japan relationship, which has long been a cornerstone in U.S.-Asia policy. Japan hopes to see a resolution to its citizens who vanished off the streets of Japan in the 1970s and '80s - kidnapped by North Korean agents to teach spies how to pass as Japanese - before further concessions are granted to Pyongyang. ###
11.15.2007	Representative Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior member on the Financial Services committee, expressed his opposition to the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act. Rep. Royce made the following remarks urging his colleagues to oppose the bill: Often times financial services legislation results in unintended consequences in the marketplace. This bill has the potential to seriously restrict access to credit for millions of Americans looking to purchase a home or refinance their mortgage. The Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act will provide new regulations and licensing requirements on mortgage loan originators and will expand the reach of the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994 (HOPEA). I believe exposing players in the secondary mortgage market to legal liability is a serious mistake. The ability to securitize and distribute mortgages throughout our capital markets has been a major contributor to the success experienced in the housing sector in recent history. It has spread risk around the world and provided millions of Americans with the financing necessary to purchase their own home. I believe the consumer is in the best position to determine which product is in his best interest. By increasing the options available and increasing effective disclosures, we would be enabling consumers. Instead of helping homeowners facing foreclosure, this legislation will benefit a small group of trial lawyers. In its present form, a borrower will have the ability to recover all of the principal and interest paid over the history of the loan, as long as he can convince a court that he didn't have "a reasonable ability to repay" the loan. It is not hard to imagine how language such as this could be abused in our court system." ###
11.06.2007	Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) joined a bipartisan delegation of Members of Congress to announce the introduction of the Secure America through Verification and Enforcement (SAVE) Act. "This bill does what the American people want us to do - to enforce our immigration laws," said Royce, a coauthor of the SAVE Act, at the press conference. Illegal immigration is one of the most pressing issues facing our nation. Americans are angry that their government is not taking action. The SAVE Act is a three-point plan to reduce illegal immigration. This legislation will help secure America's borders, implement mandatory work authorization verification, and reduce illegal immigration through interior enforcement. It will help to restore the integrity of our nation’s borders and reestablish respect for our immigration laws The bill increases Border Patrol agents by 8,000 and utilizes new technology to secure the border. It closes the existing loopholes in E-Verify to stop multiple people using the same Social Security number and to detect people using stolen identities. And it provides state and local law enforcement the tools they need to enforce immigration laws and expedites the removal of illegal aliens. "Current immigration policies are obviously a failure. It is past time we strengthen operational control of our borders and it is good to see a bipartisan solution that moves us in the right direction," said Royce. ###
10.29.2007	Below find today's press release from the Department of Homeland Security:As the embers from the recent firestorms cool, people affected are starting to look ahead. The first step to recovery is a simple phone call: 1-800-621-FEMA (3362). For the speech or hearing impaired, the number is 1-800-462-7585. These numbers will connect the caller with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) telephone registration hotline. Operators are available 24/7 to register the applicant for assistance. Those with Internet access can apply online at www.fema.gov. FEMA registration starts the government disaster application process. People who have registered with the American Red Cross or other helping agencies must also register with FEMA if they want access to federal and state aid. Personnel fluent in all languages are available to help non-English speaking callers complete the application process. “Anyone who has been affected by the fires could be eligible, but there's no way to know if they don’t register,” said Federal Coordinating Officer Mike Hall of FEMA. “That’s the first step to receive assistance." Disaster assistance can include grants for short-term rental needs; grants for homeowners to make minimal home repairs; U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) low-interest disaster loans to repair major damage or replace damaged personal property to homeowners, renters, businesses of all sizes and private nonprofits; and grants from FEMA and the State of California to meet serious disaster-related needs not covered by insurance and other programs. Applicants will be asked to provide: Social Security number Address of the damaged home or apartment Description of the damage Information about insurance coverage A contact telephone number An address where you can get mail (Optional) bank account and routing numbers for direct deposit of any financial assistance. Eligible applicants may be referred to the State for additional assistance. “Fortunately, California can assist those who have needs after receiving the maximum grant from FEMA’s Individual and Households Program with grants of up to $10,000 through the State Supplemental Grant Program,” said State Coordinator Officer Henry Renteria of the Governor’s Office of Emergency Services. “There’s no separate application process.” FEMA will move quickly on each application. A FEMA inspector will call to make an appointment if the home was damaged. The inspections take place within three to five days. On arrival the inspector will show FEMA identification, then review and record the damage to the structure and contents, any vehicles, and other disaster-related expenses such as medical, dental and funeral expenses. Homeowners and renters with insurance may receive a FEMA letter saying they are denied because of “INS” or “IINS.” That means that FEMA requires more information on the insurance settlement before a final decision can be made. By law, FEMA and the State cannot duplicate what insurance already covers, or pay any deductibles. Insured applicants should reconnect with FEMA by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) after their insurance claim is settled. If settlement is not imminent, they can ask their insurance agent to provide a “delay of settlement” letter. That information, along with any new or important information that may have surfaced since they first registered, should be mailed to the address provided in the FEMA letter. FEMA coordinates the federal government’s role in preparing for, preventing, mitigating the effects of, responding to, and recovering from all domestic disasters, whether natural or man-made, including acts of terror. The California Governor’s Office of Emergency Services (OES) coordinates overall state-agency response to major emergencies in support of local government. OES is also responsible for maintaining the State Emergency Plan and coordinating the state’s preparedness, mitigation and recovery efforts. # # #
10.25.2007	U.S. Representative Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement. "Many Members of the California delegation with districts ravaged by the wildfires have returned home to assist constituents in their time of need. Speaker Pelosi and the Democrat leadership - despite being fully aware of this development - inexplicably proceeded to schedule an important vote on the SCHIP bill which would expand coverage to include non citizens at enormous cost to the taxpayer. Regardless of the importance of the bill to Californians and the wrenching effect of the devastating fires, the Democrat dominated Rules Committee refused to delay debate. This request was rejected by the Democrats on the Rules Committee, including one Democrat from California. Up to seven members of the California delegation - all of whom oppose the bill without a citizenship provision - will be in their districts assisting constituents to get back on their feet. The Democrats know this and are wantonly trying to exploit the disaster to loot the American treasury. I was one of thirteen California Republicans to sign a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Wednesday, urging her as ‘a fellow Californian’ to postpone the vote. She refused. Speaker Pelosi and the Democrat Leadership have decided once again to play politics while California burns. This time, they are politicking while many of our Members aid constituents during this difficult time. They should be ashamed. We as Californians must make it clear that we will not stand for this abuse or lack of respect". ###
10.25.2007	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade made the following comments in reaction to the announcement of additional Iran sanctions announced by the Departments of State and Treasury this morning: The Iranian regime continues its pursuit of nuclear weapons. Strong action is needed by the United States, the West, and Iran's neighbors to prevent a nuclear Tehran. Among other sanctions announced today, efforts to isolate Iranian state-owned banks are promising. Bank Melli and Bank Melat have been found to be supporting Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs. With today's announcement, they are stigmatized - which should cut them out of the international financial system and undermine support for the nuclear program. With 60 percent of Iranians under age 30 yearning for economic opportunity –foreign trade and investment matter greatly to the regime. That makes today's action all the more important. In April 2007, in a hearing with senior State and Treasury officials, Rep. Royce called for additional Iranian state-owned banks to be sanctioned.
10.23.2007	Legislation authored by U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) on the plight of North Korean refugees cleared the House Foreign Affairs Committee this morning. The measure focuses on China's forced repatriation of North Korean refugees, calling on Beijing to halt the practice. The bill passed the Committee unanimously and is likely to be considered by the full House of Representatives in the coming weeks. Royce made the following comments after its passage: "Today, the House Foreign Affairs Committee spoke with one voice on behalf of the hundreds of thousands of North Korean refugees who have fled to China. Beijing can no longer systematically disregard its international obligations by forcibly repatriating these individuals to North Korea. These individuals - whose only crime is fleeing the repression of Kim Jong-Il - are actively hunted down by Chinese authorities and returned to North Korea, where they face brutal imprisonment in concentration camps or even death. The Chinese Government has pursued this practice for years, yet by many accounts it is only getting worse." The plight of North Korean refugees was discussed during Rep. Royce's recent visit to Seoul as the Vice-Chair of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange. The issue was also a primary topic at the International Parliamentarians Coalition for North Korean Refugees' Human Rights meeting in Seoul on August 29, 2007, in which Royce participated. "This coalition of parliamentarians from across the globe called for efforts to protect North Korean refugees to be increased. Significantly, the Korean-American community has answered that call, working tirelessly to bring awareness to the plight of the hundreds of thousands of North Korean refugees living a life of fear in China," said Royce. Specifically, the resolution calls on China to honor its obligations under the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol by: halting the forced repatriation of North Korean refugees; terminating the practice of automatically classifying all North Korean border crossers as illegal economic migrants; and granting the UN High Commissioner for Refugees unfettered access to such refugees. Royce is a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and member of the Subcommittee on Asia. He recently returned from a trip to Seoul where this issue was raised with members of the South Korean National Assembly and others. Joining Royce as the primary cosponsor of the resolution is Rep. Diane Watson (D-CA-33), Chair of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange.
10.17.2007	Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40), Ranking Member of the Terrorism Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, spoke out in opposition to H.R. 3773. While on the House floor addressing his colleagues Rep. Royce said: "For the first time, this bill would stop intelligence professionals from conducting surveillance of foreign persons in foreign countries unless they can read the mind of their terrorist targets and guarantee that they would not call the U.S. or one of their people in the U.S. This is more protection than Americans get under court-ordered warrants in mob and other criminal cases. So the issue we're debating today is very important. It is a matter of life and death essentially. I serve as ranking member of the Terrorism and Nonproliferation Subcommittee. That there has not been a terrorist attack on our soil since 9/11 is due to the improved surveillance in real-time that we're able to conduct against foreign terrorists. That good record, though, in no way should lead us to discount the jihadists, because the image of Osama bin Laden's allies operating in some remote terrain somewhere may give the impression that our foes are isolated. They are not isolated. We are confronting a virtual caliphate. Radical jihadists are physically dispersed, but they're united through the Internet, and they use that tool to recruit and plot their terrorist attacks. They use electronic communications for just such a purpose, and they're very sophisticated in that use. So how has the West attempted to confront that? Well, the British use electronic surveillance in real-time, and they used it last year to stop the attack on 10 transatlantic flights. They prevented that attack in August of last year by wiretapping. The French authorities used wiretaps to lure jihadists basically into custody and prevented a bomb attack. Given this threat, it is unfathomable that we'd weaken our most effective preventative tool, and that's exactly what this bill does. Before we passed the Protect America Act in August, the Director of National Intelligence told Congress that we are losing up to two-thirds of our intelligence on terrorist targets. Admiral McConnell went on to testify, 'We're actually missing a significant portion of what we should be getting.' Though Admiral McConnell has served both Democrat and Republican administrations with distinction, now his credibility has been attacked. I'd ask those so distrustful: Go ahead, discount his estimate, cut them in half, say we'd lose one-third of our intelligence by passing this bill. Isn't that too much to give up? I don't want to lose a single percent of our intelligence on terrorist communications. With nuclear and biological material floating around this globe, we don't have that margin of error. We've heard the ACLU concerns, but before we unilaterally disarm, before we hobble our ability to listen in real-time to the very real terrorists who are attacking our troops in Iraq every day, shouldn't we have something of an accounting of the supposed civil liberties price we're paying? Frankly, I don't see the troubling cases. What I do see is the very misguided concern for the civil liberties of foreigners having conversations with terrorists. This bill grants privacy protection to foreigners, those believed to be terrorists, by requiring the intelligence community to seek court orders to collect foreign intelligence on foreign targets. This process in the past has clogged the FISA Court, it has wasted untold intelligence hours, it has pulled Arabic and Urdu and Farsi speakers off of listening to terrorist cases and put them on filing hundreds of pages of paperwork. FISA restirctions hindered the search for kidnapped Americans in Iraq. My colleagues, it has come down to this: Are we interested in best protecting American lives, or giving away privacy rights to foreigners involved in conversations with terrorists?" ###
10.16.2007	Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) applauded the passage of the Internet Tax Freedom Act Amendments Act. The legislation, H.R. 3678 passed in the House today with a vote of 405 to 2 and would extend the current moratorium on Internet taxes an additional four years through 2011. The moratorium was set to expire at the end of 2007. Royce, having voted in favor of this legislation said: "The Internet has experienced unprecedented growth and development as a result of freedom from oppressive taxation and regulation. I am committed to maintaining this environment so that it can continue to flourish and be available for an even greater number of people." Royce was a cosponsor of the original Internet Tax Freedom Act which prohibited goods sold over the internet. He is also a cosponsor of the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act which would have permanently banned taxation of the Internet. Royce was disappointed the Democrats on the Judiciary committee refused to pass a measure which would have allowed the permanent ban of internet taxes, and said: "Rather than vote to permanently protect the public's tax-free access to the Internet, the Democrats are willing to ignore the importance of the Internet to the American people and our economy by allowing Americans to face future taxes of up to 20 percent just for accessing the Internet." Royce understands the Internet is the single most important resource for businesses and consumers today. He will continue to work towards a permanent ban on Internet taxation. The Internet does not need more government interference which may stifle its growth. ###
10.15.2007	Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) introduced legislation focused on China's forced repatriation of North Korean refugees, calling on Beijing to halt the practice. Royce is a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and member of the Subcommittee on Asia. He recently returned from a trip to Seoul where this issue was raised with members of the South Korean National Assembly and others. Joining Royce in introducing the resolution is Rep. Diane Watson (D-CA-33), Chair of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange. "Given the horrendous conditions in North Korea, hundreds of thousands of North Koreans have fled to northeastern China. Yet despite its international obligations, China forcibly repatriates North Korean refugees to North Korea, where they face brutal imprisonment in concentration camps or even death," said Royce upon the resolution's introduction. "This resolution sends a strong message to Beijing: this practice must stop." Specifically, the resolution calls on China to honor its obligations under the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol by: halting the forced repatriation of North Korean refugees; terminating the practice of automatically classifying all North Korean border crossers as illegal economic migrants; and granting the UN High Commissioner for Refugees unfettered access to such refugees. "This situation is not new. Unfortunately, it has been going on for a number of years, and now numerous reports indicate that the practice has been stepped-up over the past year or so," said Royce. The plight of North Korean refugees was discussed during Rep. Royce's recent visit to Seoul as the Vice-Chair of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange. The issue was also a primary topic at the International Parliamentarians Coalition for North Korean Refugees' Human Rights meeting in Seoul on August 29, 2007, of which Royce participated. "This coalition of parliamentarians from across the globe called for efforts to protect North Korean refugees to be increased. Significantly, the Korean-American community has answered that call, working tirelessly to bring awareness to the plight of the hundreds of thousands of North Korean refugees living a life of fear in China," said Royce. Last week, the Congressional-Executive Commission on China, of which Royce is a member, released its 2007 Annual Report (www.cecc.gov). The Commission recommended similar actions as that proposed in Royce's resolution. The unique Commission, consisting of Members of the House of Representatives, the Senate, and the Administration was created in 2000 to monitor human rights and the development of the rule of law in China.
10.14.2007	Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce welcomed newly installed U.S. Ambassador to Vietnam Michael Michalak to Orange County, where the two participated in a town hall meeting with the vibrant Vietnamese American community. Rep. Ed Royce, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a member of the Subcommittee on Asia, made the following remarks: It is time for Vietnam to emerge from the dark ages and embrace freedom, the rule of law and universal human rights. Ambassador, your predecessor left Vietnam listing the lack of improvement on human rights as his 'biggest disappointment.' I hope that you will be able to leave Hanoi with it as your biggest accomplishment. No doubt, you have a difficult road ahead of you. But one thing is for sure: the status quo is unacceptable. U.S.-backed Radio Free Asia is a "surrogate" broadcasting service, acting as a free press for Vietnam would if the Communist government in Hanoi would allow one to flourish. Vietnam has a history of heavily jamming RFA - jamming it since the first day of its broadcasts. I wonder what news the communist regime is afraid of? We are not getting the full potential out of these broadcasts. Ambassador, objections to Vietnamese jamming of these vital broadcasts must be raised to the highest levels. It must stop. Ambassador, we have got to make sure that we are bringing as much pressure to bear in our annual human rights dialogue. I'd also ask the Vietnamese American community be included in pre-dialogue discussions, as you will find that they have unique insights into the country. I hope this is your first of many visits with my Vietnamese-American constituents.
10.10.2007	Today, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs reported H.Res.106 out of Committee favorably by a vote of 27-21. As a cosponsor of the Resolution and a long time advocate for recognition of the Armenian Genocide, Representative Ed Royce called the vote, "a victory for human rights and accountability." Speaking before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Rep. Royce said: "I am a co-sponsor of this resolution and I have worked on this issue since I was a State Senator in California, where I authored a resolution recognizing the Armenian Genocide, the first by any such state. I'm old enough to have known a few of the survivors, while they were still alive. My resolution passed in California a generation ago. President Reagan spoke out about the Armenian Genocide long ago as President. Now it's time for Congress to take action. This resolution focuses singularly on the United States' record of the Armenian Genocide. As the text indicates, our National Archives is filled with thousands of pages documenting the premeditated extermination of the Armenian people. As the Genocide was being committed, the U.S launched a diplomatic, political and humanitarian campaign to end the carnage. We should be proud of that effort. Yet, to this day - for a variety of reasons - we fail to recognize the events that began ninety years ago for what they are: Genocide. Today, we have a chance to set this record straight. The U.S. has long been a global leader in promoting human rights around the world. On the issue of the Armenian Genocide, however, we lag behind. The French, Swiss, Swedish, Germans, and even the Russian governments recognize the Armenian Genocide. As a global leader in human rights, it is imperative for the U.S. to stand on principle and recognize the annihilation of the Armenians as genocide. Opponents ask "why now?" They warn of dire actions Turkey will take against the United States if this resolution passes. Yet, it is important that this Committee doesn't loose sight between what is right and wrong - and speak out about the wrongs in the world. While the Armenian Genocide was the first of the 20th century, the blind eye cast to the slaughter of Armenians was a point used by Hitler who asked his joint chiefs-of-staff, "Who…speaks today of the [their] annihilation?" Today, those words could just have easily been used by the culpable leaders of the Khartoum government who continue their genocide in Darfur. The lesson of genocide is an argument I first heard from my father who served with General Patton's 3rd Army and later the 7th when they cut through Germany and finally liberated the concentration camps at Dachau. He had his brother's camera and documented on film the ovens with bodies stacked like cord wood, the rail cars and trenches filled with the dead in the holocaust. Still, he finds the need to use those photographs when he confronts those who deny that genocide. History is a continuum that affects today and tomorrow. It's much harder to get tomorrow right if we get yesterday wrong. The world's strength to oppose killing today is made greater by accountability, for actions present, but also past. It's weakened by denial of accountability of past acts. Not recognizing the Armenian Genocide, as such, does just that. For the sake of genocides past and present, I urge the passage of this bipartisan resolution. 1.5 million Armenians were murdered, 500,000 were removed from their homeland. Passing this resolution will be a victory for human rights." ***
10.03.2007	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, recently visited North Korea. Mr. Royce has grave misgivings concerning reports that North Korea has promised to disable nuclear operations and expose its nuclear weapons by the end of the year - in exchange for being removed from the U.S.'s list of states sponsors of terrorism: “The steps announced today basically mirror steps that Kim Jong-Il committed to just a few months ago – not surprisingly he reneged on that commitment. The harsh reality is that we are dealing with a dictatorial regime focused on extracting maximum concessions from the United States and others. North Korea has a disturbing history of broken pacts and an extraordinary ability to squeeze money and extort funds based on empty promises. The United States used to insist on 'complete, verifiable, irreversible, dismantlement' before throwing more benefits Pyongyang's way. I'm concerned that the move away from that principle may make it less likely that North Korea will hand over its nuclear weapons. The state sponsor of terrorism list shouldn't be a bargaining chip - especially in the post 9/11 world. It was years between Libya's dismantlement of its nuclear weapons and its removal from the list. Further, such a move risks undermining the critical U.S.-Japan relationship based on North Korean promises”. We are naive if we believe a Kim Jong-Il promise is a panacea for peace and nuclear co-operation with the erratic North Koreans”. Royce recently traveled to North Korea, where he visited the Mt. Kumgang development. He also discussed North Korea's nuclear program with South Korean counterparts in Seoul. ###
09.24.2007	Money Magazine announced the 100 best hometowns to live in America. La Palma, located in the 40th district, ranked 16th. Data provider OnBoard and consultant Bert Sperling of BestPlaces.net utilized a number of data to determine the 2007 best 100 places to live. Only places that have populations above 7,500 and under 50,000 were considered and towns with low education scores, high crime rates, declines or sharp increases in population, projected job losses or lack of access to airports or teaching hospitals were eliminated. Remaining towns were considered based on job, income and cost-of-living data; housing affordability; school quality; arts and leisure opportunities; ease of living; health-care access; and racial diversity. Once the ranking was down to the top 25, community leaders and residents were interviewed. Lastly, they assessed the sense of community, vibrancy of town center, natural surroundings, amenities, real estate and congestion. To visit the city of La Palma click here.
09.17.2007	Calling it a "victory for democracy in Southeast Asia," Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) praised the Vietnam Human Rights Act of 2007. The legislation, H.R. 3096, was debated by the House of Representatives this afternoon, with a vote by the full House scheduled for Monday evening. Having recently pressed Vietnamese President Nguyen Triet during his visit to the United States on human rights in Vietnam, Royce, an original cosponsor of the bill, said: "Since early this year, human rights abuses in Vietnam have intensified. The organization Human Rights Watch characterized the ongoing situation in Vietnam as one of the worst crackdowns on peaceful dissidents in 20 years. Vietnamese officials have brought their harassment of religious leaders, political dissidents, and student activists to new, draconian levels. Royce, who was the author of legislation to expand Radio Free Asia's (RFA) broadcasts in this critical region of the world, praised the legislation's provisions designed to bolster RFA's impact on Vietnam. U.S.-backed Radio Free Asia is a "surrogate" broadcasting service, acting as a free press for Vietnam would if the Communist government in Hanoi would allow one to flourish. "With this legislation, Radio Free Asia will now be better able to bring objective news – the truth – to the Vietnamese people. The spread of democratic values in Asia is critical to U.S. security interests. "It is important to note that Vietnam has recently ratcheted up its efforts to block radio broadcasts from Radio Free Asia. This tells me that not only are these broadcasts having a positive effect in combating state propaganda, but Hanoi is feeling increased political pressure. This bill provides the means to overcome radio jamming and the funds for continued broadcasts. Royce, who was condemned by the Communist government in Hanoi when he secretly met with Thich Quang Do and Le Quang Liem, also spoke of the encouragement that the Vietnam Human Rights Act will give dissidents inside Vietnam: The Vietnam Human Rights Act is an inspiration to the brave dissidents inside Vietnam who continue to be brutally repressed by Hanoi. I've been denounced by the Vietnamese government for simply meeting with those whose only wish is the freedom to speak their mind. That tells me that the Vietnamese government is sensitive to international criticism, and that the United States must continue to speak out, as the House has done so today. Silence is not an option. The legislation prohibits increases in U.S. nonhumanitarian assistance to the government of Vietnam unless the President certifies that Hanoi has made substantial progress respecting the release of political and religious prisoners. It also provides $2 million for non-governmental organizations to provide humanitarian assistance, and over $10 million for combating efforts to jam Radio Free Asia. ###
07.31.2007	Today, the "Vietnam Human Rights Act of 2007," was reported favorably out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. This bill focuses on Vietnam's suppression of religious freedom and the democratic movement, and tight control over media. Having recently met with Vietnamese President Nguyen Triet to press him on human rights, Royce, an original cosponsor of the bill, said: "Since early this year, human rights abuses in Vietnam have intensified. Human Rights Watch characterized the ongoing situation in Vietnam as 'one of the worst crackdowns on peaceful dissidents in 20 years.' In the past three months, Vietnamese officials brought their harassment of religious leaders, political dissidents, and student activists to new, draconian levels. I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of HR 3096. This bills focus on Vietnam's suppression of religious freedom and the democratic movement, and its tight control over media will be an important component to bringing change. It is important to note that Hanoi has ratcheted up its efforts to block radio broadcasts from Radio Free Asia. This tells me that not only are these broadcasts having a positive effect in combating state propaganda, but Hanoi is feeling increased political pressure. This bill provides the means to overcome radio jamming and the funds for continued broadcasts."
07.30.2007	Today, the House of Representatives passed by unanimous consent, H.Res.121. The "Comfort Women" Resolution, which has enjoyed widespread support throughout Congress, was praised by Congressman Royce, an original cosponsor of the resolution, who offered the following statement: "Beginning in the 1930s, the Imperial Government of Japan orchestrated the enslavement of up to 200,000 young Korean women. Many were abducted from their homes and sent to Japanese military brothels. Others were lured from their homes under the false pretense of employment. In what was one of the worst cases of human trafficking of the 20th century, the trauma that these women suffered drove many to conceal their past, either too embarrassed or scared to speak of it. The surviving victims deserve the recognition that they so desire. To this day, Japan maintains that this issue is closed and the sufferings of individuals inflicted in the war have already been dealt by treaties normalizing its ties with other Asian countries. Some have pointed to Prime Minister Abe's April 27th statement as a formal apology, yet both the Prime Minister himself and Japan's Foreign Ministry went on record to disavow any alleged apology. It is important that the Japanese government confronts this dark part of Japanese history. This resolution is as much about today as it is about yesterday. The world's strength to oppose killing today is made greater by accountability, for actions present, but also past. It's weakened by denial of accountability and obfuscation of past acts. History is a continuum that affects today and tomorrow. It's much harder to get tomorrow right if we get yesterday wrong." ***
07.25.2007	First bipartisan House version of National Insurance Act would offer insurance consumers and providers with much-needed regulatory alternativeUnited States Representatives Melissa Bean (D-IL) and Ed Royce (R-CA) have introduced the first bipartisan House version of the National Insurance Act. The bill is companion legislation to S.40, which was authored by Senators John Sununu (R-NH) and Tim Johnson (D-SD). The National Insurance Act of 2007 would create an optional federal charter (OFC) for life and property/casualty insurance providers. The OFC would serve to reduce regulatory obstacles to improving the cost of the delivery of insurance products to American consumers and businesses. “Regulatory obstacles currently discourage insurance innovation and nimble product development to capitalize on emerging growth markets. Eliminating the need to coordinate with 51 state regulators and accelerating the time to market potential will foster greater industry innovation and agility,” said Rep. Bean. “It’s time to allow the insurance industry to move into the 21st century so that consumers can benefit from reduced costs and innovative products,” Bean said. “The National Insurance Act will promote a more robust and competitive insurance industry domestically and internationally, so their consumers will realize those benefits.” “There is little argument that the current state-based regulatory system which oversees the insurance industry is outdated, burdensome, complicated, duplicative and costly, said Rep. Royce “Designed to mirror the regulatory structure found in the dual banking system, the NIA would provide the industry with a more effective regulatory alternative. Insurance providers could choose to be regulated at the state level or by the new federal regulator. Those insurers opting for federal regulation would be better able to serve insurance consumers across the United States – eliminating the need to engage in the tangled web of bureaucracy and duplicative regulation in each and every state, Royce said “As the Bloomberg-Schumer Report suggested earlier this year, the creation of an optional federal charter for insurers must be a top priority if the United States is to remain a global leader in the financial services industry. “Consumers will benefit most from an optional federal charter. The increased competition among insurance providers will result in the availability of more products – better products – with lower premiums. This is the ultimate win for consumers. The following groups have expressed support for the National Insurance Act: the Agents for Change, the American Bankers Association, the American Bankers Insurance Association, the American Council of Life Insurers, the American Insurance Association, the Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers, the Financial Services Forum, the Financial Services Roundtable, the Life Insurers Council, the National Association of Independent Life Brokerage Agencies, and the Reinsurance Association of America.
07.11.2007	Today, Rep. Ed Royce met with Korean National Assembly members to discuss the Korea-US (KORUS) Free Trade Agreement. The KORUS FTA, signed by U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab and South Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong on June 30th, will enhance the economic and political partnership between the U.S. and Korea. Royce endorsed the deal, stating the following: "Starting in 2000, and every year since, I have co-chaired the U.S.-Republic of Korea Inter-parliamentary Exchange. The Exchange has always included a panel on trade. I’ve sat through many sessions in which members of Congress and the National Assembly pressed each other to open up markets. This FTA has achieved that. It should be supported. This agreement has been signed by the two governments. It is unfortunate that the Democratic leadership of the House of Representatives has decided that it can't back it. As the world moves ahead with trade deals, the Democratic leadership seems determined to derail all trade progress. But I haven't given up. On economic terms, but also for the sake of better relations between us and our Korean allies, we need to pass this trade agreement."
06.26.2007	Recently, there has been considerable attention focused on the flight of capital from our markets to competing markets overseas – including London, Dubai and Hong Kong. The fact that only two of the top 20 global Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) went public in the United States last year, compared with nine in 2000 and 12 in 2001, reflects an aversion of our public markets by corporations around the world. If companies are not marching off to London, they are attempting to avoid the scrutiny faced by public companies through delisting -- or transferring ownership to the ever-popular private equity industry. According to a recent study, approximately 200 companies petitioned to delist their stock from the U.S. exchanges in 2003 and in 2004 – compared to just 67 companies in 2002. The three major studies on U.S. competitiveness released in the past year –focus considerable attention on two major hindrances afflicting our public companies. The first being the regulatory environment within the United States – most notably Sarbanes-Oxley – and the burdensome requirements it places on such companies. Former Chairman of the Federal Reserve – Alan Greenspan – noted that most of Sarbanes-Oxley is, "a cost-creator with no benefit, I'm aware of. Regulatory and statutory changes need to be made as well, if we're going to move forward. I hope it happens before the whole financial system walks off to London." The recent studies reference the current problems found in our legal system, as well. Specifically they note the costs, inefficiencies, and uncertainties associated with securities class action lawsuits. The bipartisan Bloomberg-Schumer Report states: “the prevalence of meritless securities lawsuits and settlements in the U.S. has driven up the apparent and actual cost of business—and driven away potential investors.” Similarly, the Independent Committee on Capital Markets Regulation (the “Hubbard/Thorton” Committee) recognizes that: “[w]hile much is in dispute about securities class action litigation, the prevalence of the lawsuits, the enormous size of their settlement values, and the large burden they impose on companies and their shareholders are not.” Furthermore, the Commission on the Regulation of the U.S. Capital Markets in the 21st Century (independent bipartisan Commission established by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce) finds that: “International observers increasingly cite the U.S. legal and regulatory environment as a critical factor discouraging companies and other market participants from accessing the U.S markets.” These studies portray an environment full of mandates and expectations difficult to attain by any corporation. When companies are allocating millions of dollars funding overly-burdensome reporting requirements and protecting against frivolous lawsuits – they respond by becoming more risk averse – or by looking for alternative markets at home or abroad. If we are to remain the market of choice for the world’s public companies -- we must implement legislative and regulatory changes to properly address the problems facing these companies.
05.11.2007	According to newspaper reports, the United States will soon allow the transfer through a U.S. bank of $25 million in North Korean funds that had previously been frozen at Macau-based Banco Delta Asia. The funds were frozen in 2005 due to their links to criminal activities, including counterfeiting of U.S. currency and drug trafficking. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) commented on the proposed action: Two months ago, the Treasury Department took the right step, barring Banco Delta Asia from accessing the U.S. financial system. Now the Administration seems poised to allow Kim Jong-Il's dirty money to go through a U.S. bank. If this action goes forward, the United States will undermine the very tools that it has used to effectively go after proliferators and state sponsors of terrorism. Let's be clear: much of this is money was produced through counterfeiting U.S. currency, drug-running and other illicit activity. We are seeing a bad idea become an absurdity. If we are going down this road, let Kim Jong-Il go to Macau and fill out a withdrawal slip. Rep Ed Royce (R-CA) is a senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs and Financial Services Committees. Royce's study, Gangster Regime: How North Korea Counterfeits United States Currency, provides a comprehensive look at the scope of North Korean counterfeiting and its implications for the economic and national security of the United States and provides recommendations to Congress.
04.24.2007	A resolution cosponsored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), supporting the mission and goals of National Crime Victims` Rights Week (H.Res. 119) has passed unanimously in Congress. "The purpose of this bill is to increase public awareness of the rights, needs, and concerns of victims and survivors of crime," Royce said. Royce the author of the first state anti-stalking law in the country has been fighting to help crime victims for a long time. As a State Senator, he worked to establish rights for crime victims in California's state constitution. Royce was author and campaign co-chair of Proposition 115, the Crime Victims/Speedy Trial Initiative. The initiative gives victims the right to a speedy trial, reduces the number of times crime victims must testify, increases sentences and requires reciprocal discovery of evidence. When Royce arrived in Congress, he made it a priority to address stalking at the federal level. In 1996, he introduced the Interstate Stalking Punishment and Prevention Act, which was signed into law, making it a felony to cross state lines to stalk someone. Royce also introduced a Victims' Rights Amendment and testified before a House Committee. He was a cosponsor of the victims' rights bill that became law, codifying crime victim's rights at the federal level. ###
04.02.2007	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, expressed relief at the successful conclusion of a free trade agreement between the United States and the Republic of Korea but sought clarification on a key provision. "This trade agreement represents the most commercially significant FTA in over a decade, with the potential to generate $20 billion in new trade between our two countries. Now the hard work of convincing lawmakers in the U.S. Congress and the Korean National Assembly of its benefits begins," said Royce, who has led annual discussions on trade and security between Members of Congress and the National Assembly. Rep. Royce expressed concerns about reports that the United States will in the future consider giving preference to products produced in the Kaesong industrial park inside North Korea and announced that he is seeking clarification from the United States Trade Representative on the issue. "Kaesong produced products are made with North Korean slave labor and generate millions in hard currency for the North Korean regime. This trade agreement should benefit American workers and consumers, not Pyongyang. I look forward to learning the precise terms in this area," said Royce. Reuters news quoted South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun as saying, "Not only Kaesong but all parts of North Korea will benefit from this," in a nationally televised address. Ambassador Susan Schwab, United States Trade Representative, wrote Rep. Royce in January 2007, "...we have made clear to the Korean government since the outset of the FTA negotiations that this FTA is between the United States and the Republic of Korea and would only cover goods from those two countries." ###
03.30.2007	Rep. Edward Royce (R-CA), former co-chairman of the India Caucus in the House of Representatives, announced today that he will be traveling to India during the upcoming congressional recess. Royce is traveling on a congressional delegation organized by Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY), the head of the foreign operations subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee. Royce is the top Republican on the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee. Last July, Royce managed landmark legislation allowing for civilian nuclear energy cooperation between the U.S. and India, opening the door for India's nuclear trade with the world. That legislation was signed into law in December. On the floor of the House of Representatives, Royce said, "Young Indian scientists and engineers in the nuclear field want to collaborate with their American counterparts but they are currently isolated." Royce was the lead legislator in defeating a motion, offered by Rep. Edward Markey (D-MA), to revise the legislation and effectively sink the U.S.-India nuclear cooperation agreement. The delegation will meet with top Indian nuclear officials and assess the state of negotiations of a civilian nuclear energy cooperation agreement between the two countries. That agreement would require congressional approval. Royce will also focus on promoting closer cooperation between the two countries in fighting Islamist terrorism. "Unfortunately India has a long history of confronting Islamist terrorism. The U.S. has a lot to learn from India's years of counterterrorism efforts." The delegation plans to meet with key Indian trade and business officials. It will also examine the U.S. Agency for International Development's projects to better Indian health care. The delegation will visit New Delhi, Mumbai and Rajasthan. It will meet with Prime Minister Singh, Congress Party chief Sonia Gandhi, BJP leaders and top government officials. Royce chaired the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans in 2001 and 2002. He has been a leading congressional champion of better ties between the U.S. and India, traveling with President Clinton to India, and leading a congressional delegation to earthquake devastated Gujarat in 2001. Royce noted, "India is an emerging political, economic and military power. While we have improved ties, the sky is the limit. That's why I'm going to India."
03.19.2007	The United States announced, in Beijing, that roughly $25 million frozen at Banco Delta Asia in Macau -- due in part to connections to North Korea's trade in counterfeit U.S. currency, counterfeit cigarettes, and narcotics -- will be transferred to North Korea on the understanding they "will be used solely for the betterment of the North Korean people, including for humanitarian and educational purposes." Reports leading up to the decision by Macau authorities indicated that about one-third of the funds were deemed to be "legitimate." Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), who recently released a study on North Korean counterfeiting of U.S. currency and its implications for the six-party talks, sharply criticized the announcement: Pyongyang shouldn't be handed back $25 million - much of it criminally gained, including counterfeiting U.S. currency - in return for a North Korean pledge that it will be used for humanitarian purposes. This is a regime that has shown zero respect for the plight of North Koreans. I'm wondering what mechanisms are in place to ensure that $25 million isn't just going back in Kim Jong-Il's pocket? In recent testimony before the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Assistant Secretary Hill testified that, "we have not, and will not, trade progress on denuclearization by turning a blind eye to some of these [illicit] activities." With this announcement I have little confidence that North Korea's illicit activities will be addressed in the U.S.-North Korean working group in any meaningful way. Last week we got it right, cutting-off Banco Delta Asia from the U.S. financial system. This week we seem to be moving backwards. It's not the dollar figure that matters, but the larger question of how we will respond to North Korea's global and robust illicit activity. Confronting North Korea on its illicit activities bolsters our diplomatic efforts, and makes denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula more likely, not less. Ending its counterfeiting and other criminal activity would sever a key subsidy for North Korea’s weapons of mass destruction program and force North Korea into international norms. Rep Ed Royce (R-CA) is a senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs and Financial Services Committees. The study, Gangster Regime: How North Korea Counterfeits United States Currency, provides a comprehensive look at the scope of North Korean counterfeiting and its implications for the economic and national security of the United States and provides recommendations for Congress. ###
03.15.2007	Today, the White House announced that its annual spring garden tours will be held on Saturday, April 21 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Eastern time and Sunday, April 22 from 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. Eastern time. The tours have been an annual tradition since 1972 when Pat Nixon first opened the gardens to the public. Visitors are invited to view the Jacqueline Kennedy Garden, Rose Garden, Children's Garden and South Lawn of the White House while military bands perform from a White House balcony. The event is open to the public; however, a ticket is required for all attendees, including small children. The National Park Service will distribute free, timed tickets at the Ellipse Visitor Pavilion located at 15th and E Streets on both tour days beginning at 8:00 a.m. Tickets will be distributed - one ticket per person - on a first-come, first-served basis. Entry for the Garden Tours will begin on the Ellipse. Guests will be escorted to the South Lawn per their designated ticket time. In order to facilitate entry into the grounds, carry-in items will be limited. Strollers, wheelchairs and cameras are permitted. In case of inclement weather, the Garden Tours will be cancelled. Please note that this garden tour does not include a tour of the inside of the Executive Residence of the White House. For more information on the garden tours, please call the White House Visitor Center at (202) 208-1631. There will be no Congressional tickets available for this tour, however visitors from the 40th district who will be in Washington, D.C. are encouraged to call Congressman Royce's office at either (714) 992-8081 or (202) 225-4111 for help with arranging other tours around our nation's capital.
03.15.2007	Congressmen Paul E. Kanjorski (D-PA) and Ed Royce (R-CA), two of the most senior Members of the House Financial Services Committee, today unveiled a revised bill that will enhance the quality of service that our nation’s credit unions provide. Often referred to by its acronym of CURIA, the new Credit Union Regulatory Improvements Act of 2007 [H.R. 1537] combines a series of regulatory enhancements that will allow credit unions to operate more effectively and efficiently. Specifically, CURIA modernizes credit union net worth standards; advances credit union efforts to promote economic growth; and modifies credit union regulatory standards by eliminating unnecessary, burdensome and outdated regulations, as well as making other needed reforms to credit union oversight and governance. "We developed the new CURIA to address concerns raised by leaders in the credit union community and others," noted Congressman Kanjorski. "Previously, only some credit unions could expand into underserved areas. The new bill would allow all credit unions to operate in such places enabling them to assist in community revitalization and economic renewal efforts."The new version of CURIA updates current law to allow all types of credit unions to expand their fields of membership in order to better serve underserved areas. The bill also unifies and strengthens the definition of an "underserved area" within the Federal Credit Union Act. "The new CURIA is a comprehensive bill that will help credit unions to provide better services to their 89 million members," added Congressman Royce. "CURIA’s improved safety-and-soundness provisions are of the utmost importance to me. Based on the recent recommendations of the federal credit union regulator, these enhanced risk-based and prompt corrective action standards will ensure the efficient allocation of capital, while protecting taxpayers." CURIA improves upon similar bipartisan legislation introduced in the 109th Congress in the area of credit union capital standards. In order to make these standards comparable to those now in place for FDIC-insured financial institutions, the new CURIA implements a risk-based capital system for credit unions. The bill’s provisions establish risk-based capital requirements and revise the minimum capital standards for credit unions. These changes are based on recent recommendations by the National Credit Union Administration. Like the prior legislation, the new CURIA slightly raises the arbitrary cap on member business lending by credit unions imposed by Congress during consideration of the Credit Union Membership Access Act of 1998. The new CURIA would also reform credit union conversion standards in several ways. First, it would increase the minimum member participation requirement in a vote to approve a conversion to 30% of the membership. It would also require a credit union considering a conversion to hold a general membership meeting at least 30 days prior to sending out any ballots. It would additionally bar an insured credit union proposing to convert from using or providing any incentive in any form of prize raffles, contests, giveaways, or other voting incentives in connection with the member vote on conversion. "Credit union members should have more of a say in whether the institution converts to a mutual savings bank. The new CURIA will work to allow for more notice of and help ensure that a conversion vote reflects the real interests of credit union members," added Congressman Kanjorski. "As a long time credit union executive, I know first-hand that credit unions exist exclusively to serve their members." said Mike Connery, President/CEO of United Nations Federal Credit Union in Long Island City, NY. "CURIA is a vital piece of proposed legislation that will help allow my credit union to continue to serve the needs of our members in this increasingly complex and ever-changing world of financial services. This will, in turn, enable us to offer useful, sound, and responsible financial products to future generations of credit union members. The entire credit union community is once again grateful for the leadership of Representatives Kanjorski and Royce on behalf of 89 million credit union members like myself." A bipartisan group of ten Members joined Congressmen Kanjorski and Royce to introduce the improved bill, signaling that momentum for the new CURIA is already building. Congressman Royce concluded, "In the last Congress, similar legislation garnered the support of 126 Members of Congress. The new CURIA is greatly improved and builds upon recommendations made by many experts, including credit union regulators and executives. We therefore hope to get even greater support in the 110th Congress for the new CURIA and enact this important bipartisan legislation into law."
03.14.2007	The Republican Page Program is accepting applications for the SUMMER 2007 Page Session. The first summer session will last from June 10 to June 29 and the second summer session will begin July 9 and conclude August 3, 2007. All applicants must complete an application form and provide the following; social security number, signed parental consent form, official transcript of all high-school grades to date, a 250-300 word essay on why they want to be a Congressional Page, resume of extracurricular activities and three letters of recommendation (one from a current teacher). Completed applications are to be returned to the Fullerton District Office of Congressman Ed Royce by Monday, April 10, 2007. No exceptions! Page Applications are NOT available online. To be qualified to serve as a Page, all applicants must be at least 16 years of age at the time their appointment begins and have a cumulative grade point average of a "B" or better ("B" is a 3.0 or 80/100) in the five major subjects. Those summer applicants who do not meet the minimum GPA requirement will NOT be considered. Additionally, summer page program applicants may only serve as a Page during the summer before or the summer after their junior year of high school. A Republican Member of the House must sponsor all applicants in writing. Applicants will be notified of their selection through the sponsoring Member's office. If you have any further questions, please do not hesitate to contact Patty Shay at 714/992-8081.
03.14.2007	Today, the Treasury Department finalized its rule against Macau-based Banco Delta Asia, effectively prohibiting U.S. financial institutions from opening or maintaining correspondent accounts for or on behalf the bank and barring it from accessing the U.S. financial system, either directly or indirectly. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), who recently released a study on North Korean counterfeiting of U.S. currency and its implications for the six-party talks, commented on the Treasury Department's action: Treasury's action today should put meaning behind the words of U.S. diplomats who have said that they take North Korea's illicit activity, including the counterfeiting of U.S. currency, seriously. We must continue to aggressively track North Korea's global and robust illicit activity -- taking action against other complicit financial institutions as necessary. The danger is that post the February 13th nuclear agreement, and post Banco Delta Asia, North Korea's illicit activities are downplayed. Confronting North Korea on its illicit activities bolsters our diplomatic efforts, and makes denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula more likely, not less. Ending its counterfeiting and other criminal activity would sever a key subsidy for North Korea’s weapons of mass destruction program and force North Korea into international norms. Rep Ed Royce (R-CA) is a senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs and Financial Services Committees. The study, Gangster Regime: How North Korea Counterfeits United States Currency </uploadedfiles/report.3.12.07.FINAL.GansterRegime.pdf>, provides a comprehensive look at the scope of North Korean counterfeiting and its implications for the economic and national security of the United States and provides recommendations for Congress. ###
03.12.2007	Calling it an act of economic warfare, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) released today a study on North Korean counterfeiting of United States currency. The study, Gangster Regime: How North Korea Counterfeits United States Currency, provides a comprehensive look at the scope of North Korean counterfeiting and its implications for the economic and national security of the United States and provides recommendations for Congress. "Counterfeiting of U.S. currency by North Korea is a direct attack on a protected asset of the United States - an act of economic warfare - and a violation of U.S. law that could potentially deeply impact U.S. interests throughout the world," said Royce upon its release. "In national security terms, proceeds from counterfeiting and other illicit activities help Kim Jong-Il maintain his grip on power and further his nuclear weapons and missile programs, which contribute to instability in Northeast Asia." The release is timely, as the Bush Administration is committed to "resolving" issues surrounding Macau-based Banco Delta Asia within 30 days of the February 13th agreement. In September 2005, Banco Delta Asia was found to be complicit in North Korean money laundering and counterfeiting of U.S. currency. An announcement from the Administration is expected this week. "Regardless of the outcome surrounding Banco Delta Asia, this report shows that continued vigilance against North Korea's illicit activities is necessary," said Royce. "My worry is that we are forgetting how we got this far, through concerted pressure, or the criminal nature of the North Korean government. Confronting Pyongyang on its illicit activities makes the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula more likely, not less. As doing so would sever a key subsidy for North Korea's weapons of mass destruction program." An op-ed authored by Rep. Royce appeared in Saturday's Wall Street Journal previewing the reports release. Royce is a senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs and Financial Services Committees. ###
03.12.2007	The 2007 White House Easter Egg Roll will take place on Monday, April 9 from 8:00 a.m. until 2:00 p.m. on the South Lawn. The National Park Service will distribute free tickets on two dates for entry to the South Lawn. The majority of tickets will be available beginning at 7:30 a.m. on Saturday, April 7, and a small allotment of tickets will be available beginning at 7:30 a.m. on Monday, April 9. The tickets, which are timed for entrance, will be distributed on a first-come, first-served basis at the Ellipse Visitor Pavilion (southwest corner of 15th and E Streets). A maximum of five tickets will be issued per person. Children of all ages are welcome to attend, as long as there is at least one child seven years old or under and no more than two adults per group. Tickets are required for every attendee, including small children, to enter the White House South Lawn. No tickets are necessary for access to the events on the Ellipse. In case of inclement weather, please call the Visitors Office 24-hour information line at 202-456-7041 for event status.
02.15.2007	Beginning in the 1930's, the Imperial Government of Japan orchestrated the enslavement of up to 200,000 young women- who would be euphemistically referred to as "comfort women." Many of these women were abducted from their homes and sent to Japanese Military brothels. The trauma and shame that these women suffered drove many to conceal their past, either too embarrassed or scared to speak of it. Many died without ever mentioning their ordeal, suffering in silence and psychological angst. To this day, though Prime Ministers of Japan have issued apologies, Japan maintains that all potential claims by individuals for sufferings inflicted in the war were closed, by treaties normalizing its ties with other Asian countries. Clearly, many feel differently. Since 1992, groups of former comfort women hold demonstrations outside of the Japanese Embassy in Seoul every week, rain or shine. Still, the Japanese government continues to deny these women full recognition. What's more, they are actively seeking to downplay the past, stepping away from and diluting former statements of recognition. Some Japanese textbooks significantly downplay the abuses and war crimes suffered upon comfort women, other Japanese textbooks are straight forward and truthful. It is important that the Japanese government confronts this dark part of the history of Imperial Japan.
02.14.2007	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA/40) has announced his annual U.S. Service Academy Information Night will be held Monday evening, March 12, 2007 at the Buena Park City Hall. The event is scheduled to begin at 7:00 P.M. in the Buena Park City Council Chambers. The City Hall is located at 6650 Beach Blvd., Buena Park, CA 90622-5009. The purpose of the information night is to make all students, parents and counselors aware of the educational and leadership opportunities through the four U.S. Service Academies. The meeting will also answer questions as to the application and nomination process to the academies. A representative from each U.S. Service Academy will be present to answer questions. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy will also make a presentation. “This meeting is vital for those interested in attending any one of the service academies,” Royce said. “It is an excellent opportunity for students and their families to plan for their educational and professional futures.” The Information Night will feature Cadets from the United States Military Academy at West Point. For more information, please contact Patty Shay in Royce’s Fullerton office at 714/992-8081. ###
02.06.2007	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) was angered when prison officials confirmed that former Border Patrol agent Ignacio Ramos was assaulted by inmates at Yazoo Federal Prison in Mississippi on Saturday. Agents Ramos and Jose Compean are serving 12 and 11-year sentences as a result of an encounter with a drug smuggler on the U.S.-Mexico border. However, their case is on appeal due to its many troubling aspects. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) had joined with other Members of Congress in asking President Bush for pardons for the two agents. Royce also urged the Administration to keep them out of prison while their case is on appeal due to the complexities surrounding the case and the almost certain danger they would face while in prison. "It was not a good idea to put Ramos in with general population, and then keep him there after his story was aired on America's Most Wanted." Royce said. According to press reports, inmates recognized Ramos after his story appeared on the show. America's Most Wanted stated that their case was a "miscarriage of justice." Royce said, "I am pleased AMW has taken on this issue and it's unfortunate that this attack occurred."
02.05.2007	Royce Applauds President's Budget Increase to Combat the Proliferation of Shoulder-Fired Missiles share: f t Today, with the release of the President's 2008 Budget, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) commended the Administration for its proposal to increase funding that is dedicated to either securing or destroying shoulder-fired missiles that may otherwise fall into the hands of terrorists. "Shoulder-fired missiles have proliferated throughout the world and are a grave threat to our troops and civilian aviation. The threat is here and real that terrorists will put these weapons into play. The proposal for increased resources from the Administration to combat this terrorist threat is most welcome. My appropriations colleagues should honor this request," said Royce, who held hearings and introduced legislation on the issue last year. Specifically, funding dedicated to this effort increases from approximately $8.7 million to $44.7 million in the President's budget. Earlier this year, President Bush signed into law comprehensive legislation (H.R. 6060) which included key provisions authored by Rep. Royce to target the proliferation of shoulder-fired missiles. The provisions: authorize the State Department to provide assistance to secure or eliminate shoulder-fired missiles; and sanction countries that knowingly transfer these dangerous weapons to state sponsors of terrorism or to terrorist groups. Royce chaired the Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Nonproliferation in the 109th Congress. ###
01.12.2007	Today, President George W. Bush signed into law comprehensive legislation which included key provisions authored by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) to target the proliferation of shoulder-fired missiles. Through briefings, hearings, and legislation, the terrorist threat from shoulder-fired missiles was a focus of the Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Nonproliferation throughout 2006, chaired by Royce. "Were international terrorists to obtain shoulder-fired missiles, the consequences could be deadly. An attack against a civilian airliner could have a grave impact on the American psyche, airline industry, and economy, while America's enemies would gain a big psychological boost. Today's action is a step towards lessening this threat to civilian aviation worldwide," said Royce after the President's signature. Specifically, the provisions authorize the State Department to provide assistance to secure or eliminate shoulder-fired missiles. The bill also sanctions countries that knowingly transfer these dangerous weapons to state sponsors of terrorism or to terrorist groups. "The goal is to lock-down or destroy shoulder-fired missiles around the world so that they are kept out of the hands of terrorists. The best defense is a good offense, so this proactive effort makes sense. It is also important that we put producing and proliferating countries on notice that we consider this a significant threat - and that they will be held accountable for knowingly transferring shoulder-fired missiles to terrorists or their state sponsors," said Royce. Shoulder-fired missiles are also known by the acronym MANPADS, which stands for man-portable air defense systems. The provisions of Royce's "Shoulder-fired Missile Threat Reduction Act of 2006" were included in H.R. 6060, the Department of State Authorities Act of 2006, which was one of the last pieces of legislation to clear the 109th Congress before it adjourned.
01.11.2007	Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement calling on the Attorney General to allow Border Agents to remain free on bond pending appeal share: f t Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA) issued the following statement calling on the Attorney General to allow Border Agents to remain free on bond pending appeal “The government and the US Attorney have elected to support a criminal - in this country illegally - over the men and women who protect our society from drugs." Two family members of drug smuggler, Aldrete-Davila, interviewed by the Daily Bulletin in El Paso, said Aldrete-Davila has been smuggling drugs since he was 14 and "wouldn't move drugs unless he had a gun on him." The family member, who insisted on anonymity, added that Aldrete-Davila has "been bragging about the money he's going to get in a lawsuit every time we talk to him - but now he's nervous." "Aldrete-Davila is suing the U.S. Border Patrol for $5 million for violating his civil rights. Meanwhile, the families of both agents are struggling under the financial and emotional strain of impending lengthy prison terms." "The drug smuggler, who was granted immunity to testify against the two agents, has subsequently been apprehended again, with an even larger cache of drugs. I find this simply astonishing." "Several glaring discrepancies in the government’s case and the handling of the jury, raise serious questions whether justice has been served. Permitting these men to be incarcerated in the interim will put their lives at risk." ”This is yet another example of how some in government are more concerned about the welfare and rights of illegals and drug dealers than they are about America and the brave Americans that protect this country.” BACKGROUND: Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean are currently scheduled to serve 11 and 12 year prison terms, respectively, this month. The case has garnered national attention because of the harsh prosecution and seemingly unjust conviction of the agents for shooting a fleeing illegal drug smuggler during an altercation. Over 740 pounds (over $1 million street value) of marijuana was discovered in his van near the border.
11.17.2006	On Thursday, November 30, 2006 from 5:00 to 8:00 p.m. Representative Royce will hold his annual open house. share: f t On Thursday, November 30, 2006 from 5:00 to 8:00 p.m. Representative Royce will hold his annual open house. This event will be held at his Fullerton office, which is located at 305 N. Harbor Blvd, Suite 300. Everyone is invited to come and talk with Royce. Please mark the date and time on your calendar. "This will be an opportunity for us to meet and discuss important issues facing our nation. I look forward to this event each year, because it is a chance for me to hear directly from you," said Royce. Please call the Fullerton office at (714) 992-8081 or (562) 220-2411 with any questions or for directions. Click here for a printable map.
10.31.2006	Ed Royce, Chairman of the Terrorism and Nonproliferation s/c of the International Relations Committee comments on Nancy Pelosi's plans for blanket amnesty and the building of the border fence Recently, France, Spain, Australia, China and Great Britain have gotten tough on immigration. In fact Spain and China have built fences and Australia employs the military to secure its maritime borders. Now Canada has gotten tough also. Senate Democrats haven't. They did however change the name from Amnesty to "Comprehensive Reform" - if you look at their Reid Kennedy bill it changes the status of someone from illegal to legal - that is amnesty, period. Reid, Kennedy and Pelosi hoped you wouldn't notice. Democratic Leader, Nancy Pelosi's record on Amnesty is clear - she supports it. For her career record she has received an F minus. She has even visited Mexico to tout her support for amnesty. Just like the Senate she won't call it amnesty but she can't deny her support for it. In today's post- 9/11 world, amnesty makes even less sense. I am Chairman of the House International Terrorism Subcommittee. Terrorists have used every conceivable means of entering our country. Mahmud Abouhalima, a leader of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, was legalized as part of the 1986 amnesty. He claimed he was a seasonal agricultural worker -- thanks to the 1986 amnesty -- he was able to travel to the Afghanistan/Pakistan border and received the terrorist training he used in the bombing. The 1986 Amnesty taught us a lesson - a blanket amnesty threatens national security no terrorists employ every imaginable strategy to illegally enter our country. Instead of another amnesty, we should make sure that our immigration laws are enforced. Strict enforcement of immigration laws at consulates, at ports of entry, at our border, and in the interior of the United States is one of the most effective means we have of reducing the threat from terrorists. Chairman Royce comments on the Secure Fence Act I am a cosponsor of the fence bill and I was an original cosponsor of a border fence amendment that was added to the House passed Border Security bill recently signed into law at the White House. The Secure Fence Act authorizes a 700-mile fence along the southwest border and a "virtual fence" of sensors, cameras, unmanned aerial vehicles and other surveillance technology. It is funded and it will be built if the Republicans control Congress. It will be scrapped if Democrats take control. The bill provides a total of $21.3 billion for border protection and immigration enforcement, a $2.1 billion increase over last year. $2.27 billion for the border patrol. That funding will help add an additional 1,500 new Border Patrol agents, for a total of 14,800 agents. $1.2 billion for additional border fencing, vehicle barriers, technology and infrastructure. $5.2 billion for the Secure Border Initiative, a DHS priority that will help provide the tools and personnel needed to prevent terrorists from crossing our border. $4.2 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). ###
10.26.2006	The Chairman of the International Relations Committee on Terrorism and Nonproliferation Ed Royce (Ca) today issued the following statement after President George W. Bush signed the Secure Fence Act of 2006 into law. "As an original co sponsor of the House passed bill and the border fence amendment, I am delighted that the President has signed this bill into law. It is a victory for common sense and a safer America." "The fence will be a tremendous force multiplier for our Border Patrol. It will expand our enforcement capacity and allow us to redeploy agents to areas at risk. This law puts a fence where it is so badly needed, on our vulnerable South West border. It will help us stop smuggling, human trafficking, gang activity and of course illegal immigration. It will allow the Border Patrol to focus its resources and better protect our border against those who would do us harm." “Border security is national security. Border policing constitutes the first line of defense in protecting the American people from terrorists and the threat of Weapons of Mass Destruction. I held field hearings in San Diego and Laredo, Texas in July. I received disturbing testimony from local sheriffs, border patrol officers and USCIS officials. It was alarmingly clear that we needed to take urgent action." "The Republican Congress has responded to the American people's demand for a secure border by increasing the physical barriers and infrastructure along the border and by providing state of the art monitoring technology." "The American people have demanded border security and the Republican Congress have delivered. Conversely, the Democratic Leader, Nancy Pelosi wants to throw open our borders and provide a massive blanket amnesty. The Democratic leader, who has never visited the border, wants to provide the full raft of Social Security and other benefits such as education and health care to illegal immigrants." "I fervently hope that Democrats will stop playing politics with national security and offer some solutions to the border security crisis in America." ### INTERESTING FACTS * 164 House Democrats voted against H.R. 4437, the Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act, which was passed by the House last December. * 131 House Democrats voted against H.R. 6061, the Secure Fence Act of 2006, an emergency measure that would mandate operational control of all borders and ports through enhanced Border Patrol operations, physical barriers, and state-of-the-art technology along the southwest border, including reinforced fencing. * 134 House Democrats voted against H.R. 6095, the Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006, a bill that would reaffirm the authority of State and local law enforcement to enforce immigration laws, authorize an increase in methods to prosecute alien smugglers, and end the policy of “catch and release” in the United States. * 91 House Democrats voted against H.R. 6094, the Community Protection Act, which would authorize the expedited removal of alien criminals, the detention of these dangerous criminals who for various reasons might not be able to be immediately deported, and tougher laws against illegal immigrants found to be members of street gangs. ###
10.17.2006	President Bush has signed into law the North Korea Nonproliferation Act, legislation carried in the House by Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Nonproliferation. “It is critical that we work to deny North Korea additional materials and technology that could advance its weapons and missile programs. This legislation – which adds North Korea to the list of countries currently covered by the Iran and Syria Nonproliferation Act – does just that,” commented Royce after the President signed the bill into law. Under the legislation, the President would be authorized to impose sanctions on any foreign person – mostly foreign companies - believed to have transferred to North Korea goods, services, or technologies that could contribute to North Korea’s ability to produce missiles, nuclear weapons, and other weapons of mass destruction. These sanctions include: • A procurement ban, under which the United States government would cease to procure or enter into any contract with that foreign entity; • An arms export prohibition, which would prohibit the selling to that foreign person any item on the United States Munitions List, and any defense articles or defenses services under the Arms Export Control Act; and; • A dual-use export prohibition, under which that foreign entity would be denied licenses or have existing licenses suspended for the transfer of items the export of which is controlled under the Export Administration Act of 1979 or the Export Administration Regulations. “North Korea’s nuclear test dramatically showed that its continued pursuit of nuclear weapons and long range ballistic missiles presents a direct threat to the United States and our allies in Northeast Asia. All elements of our national power must be brought to bear against this despicable regime,” said Royce. The legislation was introduced shortly after North Korea’s July 4th missile tests. Since 2000, Rep. Royce has served as the Chairman of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange.
10.10.2006	The Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Nonproliferation, Congressman Ed Royce (R CA) issued the following statement in reaction to reports of a nuclear test by North Korea: “It is not a surprise that North Korea had this technology -- only a surprise that they had the nerve to conduct the test. At the very least, this should clarify the regime’s intentions and force neighboring states to face up to the situation. Policies like “sunshine” have failed. It has baffled me that even as the North has showed nothing but interest in arming itself and starving its people, that South Korea was able to keep its blinders on for this long. It is time to truly ratchet up the pressure on the regime of Kim Jong Il. This shows the perils of proliferation. We’re seeing the fruits of A.Q. Khan, I’m afraid.” Note - since 2000, Congressman Ed Royce has served as the Chair of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Interparliamentary Exchange.
09.28.2006	Representative Ed Royce, Chairman of the International Terrorism and Nonproliferation Subcommittee issued the following statement during the hearing: "Hezbollah's Global Reach." share: f t Representative Ed Royce, Chairman of the International Terrorism and Nonproliferation Subcommittee issued the following statement during the hearing: "Hezbollah's Global Reach."The Hezbollah threat is grave, indeed. A former Deputy Secretary of State declared in 2002 that “Hezbollah may be the A-team of terrorists and maybe al-Qaeda is actually the B-team.” Hezbollah’s lethality is magnified by the support it receives from state sponsors of terrorism, primarily Iran. Before September 11th, Hezbollah --which means “Party of God”-- was responsible for more American deaths than any other terrorist group. This included the 1983 suicide attack on the U.S. Marine barracks in Lebanon, which killed 241 Americans --and ushered in the modern age of suicide attacks-- as well as the 1985 hijacking of TWA flight 847, and 1996 attack on Khobar Towers. Hezbollah has again seized the world’s attention. I was in Haifa this summer as it rained rockets on much of northern Israel. These were terrorist attacks: rockets fired indiscriminately, intended to kill and intimidate civilians. Today the Administration will testify that Iran and Syria have not stopped arming Hezbollah, despite U.N. Security Council Resolution 1701. Hezbollah isn't just a menace to Israel, Lebanon and the region. According to the State Department terrorism report, Hezbollah has “established cells in Europe, Africa, South America, North America, and Asia.” One witness will tell us that Hezbollah’s organizational and logistic network exists in over 40 countries; this includes a significant presence in our own hemisphere, in the tri-border region of Paraguay, Argentina and Brazil. The network operates in West Africa, where Hezbollah has been active trading “blood diamonds,” an issue the Africa Subcommittee explored when I chaired it. Many Americans may be surprised to learn that Hezbollah's global reach includes significant activities on U.S. soil. A recent news report asserted that the FBI had more than 200 active cases involving suspected Hezbollah members at one point last year. The vast majority of this activity has been linked to fundraising or other criminal enterprises. Yet we must be concerned that this existing network could be used should Hezbollah, perhaps prodded by Iran, decide to strike inside our country. A particular focus of the ITNP Subcommittee has been Hezbollah’s ability to enter the United States. Mahmoud Kourani, who was indicted in 2004 for being a “member, fighter, recruiter and fundraiser for Hezbollah,” having trained in Iran, was smuggled across our southern border. His brother is a top Hezbollah militia leader. Further, Salim Boughader Mucharrafille, a Lebanese-Mexican operating out of Tijuana, smuggled at least 200 individuals, including Hezbollah sympathizers, into the U.S. Even after the 9/11 Commission report on terrorist travel highlighted this link between human smugglers and terrorists, border security efforts remain woefully neglected. Border security must be a pressing concern because the Islamist terrorist threat facing us is so deadly. Hezbollah is sophisticated and well-armed. It possesses unmanned aerial vehicles, over 10,000 Katyusha rockets, radar-guided anti-ship cruise missiles, medium-range Zelzal missiles and its own television station. Many of Hezbollah's weapons are courtesy of Iran, along with training. There are reports that Iran will soon transfer sophisticated shoulder-fired missiles to Hezbollah. These can knock a plane out of the sky. A nuclear-armed Iran, should that day come, would be even more bold in supporting Hezbollah’s activity in the Middle East, and beyond. Hezbollah may be the "A-team." Maybe it's only the "B-team." In today's era of proliferating WMD though, even the "C-team" is a worry. Hezbollah certainly makes that grade. ###
09.28.2006	Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA), a senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, today introduced legislation that would create an optional federal charter regulatory regime for life and property/casualty insurance providers. The National Insurance Act of 2006, is companion legislation to S.2509, which was authored by Senators John Sununu (R-NH) and Tim Johnson (D-SD). "I applaud the efforts and leadership of Senators Sununu and Johnson. I believe the time has come for both Houses of Congress to address the inefficiencies in the insurance marketplace. The National Insurance Act would create a federal regulatory agency within the Treasury Department; however, it would leave the current state regulatory system in place. An insurance provider could choose to be regulated by the 50 states or by the Office of National Insurance. This concept is not new -- the banking system has lived under such a framework for much of our nation's history." The U.S. Treasury, academic experts, and market participants recently testified that the state-based system of regulation needs modernization. Uniformity of regulation, which is lacking at state level, would be achieved with federal oversight. One set of rules would enable insurance providers to reduce compliance costs and reduce barriers to market entry. "The significant costs of complying with the over 50 jurisdictions has led to higher costs and less participation in the insurance sector. This legislation would lead to more transparency and competition. Consumers would be the direct beneficiary of the increased competition through lower premiums and more innovative products. Competition has been a mainstay of the American tradition. Congress should ensure that insurance consumers receive this benefit." National Insurance Act as introduced in the House is nearly identical to S.2509 (Sununu-Johnson); however, Royce's bill also includes a provision to create a Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) provision. Congress instituted PCA for the banking system in 1991 to enhance the safety and soundness of the banking industry. "In addition to the strong in the Senate bill, I believe that PCA could further strengthen the safety and soundness of the insurance sector," said Royce. "Today's introduction is the first step of a long-term effort to create a more efficient financial services sector. I am encouraged that other leaders in Congress, in particular Paul Kanjorski, have expressed interest in exploring the benefits of optional federal charter legislation," said Royce. "With the introduction of this bill, Congressman Royce has advanced the legislative debate about creating an optional federal charter,” said Congressman Paul E. Kanjorski (D-PA). The most senior Democrat on the House subcommittee overseeing the insurance industry added, “In the months ahead, I will continue to work with him to finalize a legislative proposal that takes into consideration the ideas proposed in this bill, the views of experts, and the thoughts of other interested parties in order to modernize the structure of insurance industry regulation in the United States in a way that protects consumers, reflects the realities of today’s international financial system, and strengthens competition among and supervision of insurers. In the meantime, I encourage everyone to offer constructive comments on how to improve this legislative product going forward."
09.21.2006	Congressman Ed Royce (R Ca) has welcomed the release of Cong Thanh Do, a US Citizen, from detention in Vietnam. The American pro-democracy activist was accused of plotting against the communist Vietnamese government. "The moment I heard the news I called Mrs. Do in California to tell her how delighted I was that her husband was on his was home. I asked her to pass on my very best wishes to Cong", an elated Mr. Royce said. Congressman Royce consoled Mrs. Do and discussed her husband's plight, when she testified before Congress in Washington DC recently. He assured her that he was doing everything possible to have her husband released. "This case has had a happy ending, however we must continue to send a strong message to the Vietnamese government that the U.S. will continue to condemn its practice of incarcerating individuals for exercising their freedom of speech", Congressman Royce said. "Our Ambassador to Vietnam, Michael Marine said earlier this month that he had seen no evidence that Mr. Do was plotting any sort of subversion, his release today is testimony to that". "The Vietnamese Government is effectively saying that free speech is an act of terrorism, which is absurd to those of us living in a democracy. For Mr. Do to be detained in Vietnam for views he expressed in the U.S, is a new and troubling development, which I hope does not set a precedent", Congressman Royce said.
09.19.2006	Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) this week voted for three major pieces of legislation that will help increase border security and crack down on illegal immigration. The three bills, which all passed the U.S. House of Representatives, were developed after House Republicans held more than 20 field hearings in the months of July and August to examine the issue of border security and identify ways to improve our nation’s current immigration system. The three bills passed by the House were the Illegal Immigrant Deterrence and Public Safety Act, the Border Security Enhancement Act, and the Effective Immigration Enforcement and Community Protection Act. “These three bills can make an immediate impact in securing our borders and securing our nation,” said Rep. Royce. “Through increased enforcement efforts along our borders, we have seen a sizeable decrease in the amount of illegal immigrants crossing our borders over the past several months, but there is more work to be done. Too many illegal immigrants are able to cross our borders and too many criminals are able to exploit our immigration laws. By passing these bills, Congress is taking the next important step in ensuring that our nation and its borders are secure.” Highlights of the three bills include: Illegal Immigrant Deterrence and Public Safety Act Detaining Dangerous Aliens Who Are Unable to be Deported. The Illegal Immigrant Deterrence and Public Safety Act ensures that dangerous illegal immigrants who cannot be deported, cannot likewise be released into society. Many illegal immigrants being detained by the Department of Homeland Security are unable to be deported for a variety of reasons. Yet under current law, DHS cannot detain these illegal immigrants for more than six months, even if the individual has committed a violent crime or represents a threat to national security. As a result, hundreds of criminals are released back onto our streets. This legislation allows such illegal immigrants to be detained for periods of six months at a time, and then allows for the period of detention to be renewed. It also provides for judicial review. Reaffirming the Authority of State and Local Law Enforcement to Enforce Immigration Laws. The Illegal Immigrant Deterrence and Public Safety Act reaffirms the inherent authority of state and local law enforcement to voluntarily investigate, identify, apprehend, arrest, detain and transfer to federal custody illegal immigrants. Many state and local law enforcement officers want to assist in the enforcement of immigration laws, and they can play a valuable role in assisting federal law immigration officers. The Border Security Enhancement Act Increasing Prosecutions of Alien Smugglers. United States Attorney offices do not have uniform guidelines for the prosecution of alien smuggling offenses, and many of these offices face a tremendous workload and are unable to prosecute a sufficient number of alien smuggling cases. As a result, our Border Patrol agents see many of the smugglers they apprehend go free. The Border Security Enhancement Act authorizes an increase in the number of attorneys to prosecute alien smuggling cases, and expresses Congress’ sense that the Attorney General should establish uniform guidelines for the prosecution of alien smugglers. Expediting the Removal of Alien Criminals. The Border Security Enhancement Act allows the Department of Homeland Security to use the same expedited procedures available for the removal of aggravated felons to remove other criminal aliens who are not permanent residents and are otherwise ineligible for relief. At the present time, these aliens are placed in lengthy removal proceedings even though they are not eligible for any relief. Criminalizing the Construction and Financing of Border Tunnels. The Border Security Enhancement Act enacts criminal penalties of up to 20 years’ imprisonment for individuals who knowingly construct or finance the construction of an unauthorized tunnel across a U.S. international border. In addition, individuals who recklessly permit the construction of such a tunnel on their own property are subject to imprisonment of up to 10 years. Individuals caught using such a tunnel to smuggle aliens, contraband, drugs, weapons or terrorists are subject to twice the penalty that would have otherwise been imposed. The Effective Immigration Enforcement and Community Protection Act Imposing “Catch & Return”, instead of “Catch & Release.” The Effective Immigration Enforcement and Community Protection Act helps close loopholes that have hurt the Department of Homeland Security’s ability to enforce immigration laws. For example, an injunction dating from the El Salvadoran civil war of the 1980s prevents DHS from placing Salvadorans in expedited removal proceedings, even though the civil war has long since ended. DHS uses expedited removal proceedings to quickly remove illegal immigrants who are apprehended along the Southern border, in order to end the policy of “catch and release,” where illegal immigrants have been released into the general population while they await deportation proceedings. Many criminal gangs have exploited these loopholes, which this bill would help close. Detaining and Deporting Alien Gang Members. The Effective Immigration Enforcement and Community Protection Act toughens laws against alien gang members. Under the bill, an illegal immigrant who is found to be part of a criminal street gang would be subject to detention, deportation, and would be ineligible for receiving asylum or temporary protected status. ###
08.29.2006	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Vice-Chair of the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Human Rights, and International Operations today called for the immediate release of an American journalist being held in Sudan on charges of espionage and other crimes. "Award-winning journalist Paul Salopek was arrested by pro-National Islamic Front government forces in Darfur, Sudan and has been charged with espionage and writing 'false news.'" Given the genocide being carried out in Darfur with Sudanese government backing, I am not surprised at the lengths that Khartoum will go to suppress information. The only false news coming out of Sudan is years of denial by the government of the genocide in Darfur," said Royce. "The U.S. government should demand Mr. Salopek's release. The State Department's top official for African affairs, Assistant Secretary Jendayi Frazer, is set to meet Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir after being denied a meeting yesterday. I hope that her message to Bashir on Paul Salopek, as well as acceptance of a U.N. peacekeeping force for Darfur is heard loud and clear," stated Royce. In January 2005, Rep. Ed Royce led a Congressional delegation to Darfur, Sudan, and met with victims of the Sudanese-backed genocidal campaign. ###
08.19.2006	All are invited to two upcoming events with Representative Royce on August 19, 2006. share: f t All are invited to two upcoming events with Representative Royce on August 19, 2006. Both are great opportunities for Rep. Royce to learn about issues affecting his constituents. It's also a chance for his constituents to talk face-to-face with him.All are invited to have coffee with Rep. Royce on Saturday, August 19th from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. This event will be held at Diedrich Coffee, which is located at 44 Plaza Square in Orange, CA. This will be a chance for Royce to talk with his constituents, answer any questions or listen to concerns.Following the coffee, Rep. Royce will host a Community Forum which will be held from 3:00 to 4:30 p.m. at the Los Alamitos Joint Forces Training Base at 4745 Yorktown Ave. Royce will use this opportunity to meet with his constituents, address questions and listen to their suggestions and concerns. Rep. Royce will also give an update on current legislative issues in Washington and those important to the 40th District.These events will be free of charge and open to the public. Rep. Royce looks forward to seeing everyone on the 19th. Please call Rep. Royce at (714) 992-8081 or (562) 220-2411 with any questions.
07.26.2006	The Unites States Congress has taken the first step toward internationalizing India's nuclear industry by agreeing to a nuclear cooperation pact with that strategically crucial nation. While nuclear energy is controversial in the U.S., it is not in India. As in several other countries, nuclear energy is widely viewed as a critical technology, one central to uplifting hundreds of millions of impoverished citizens. "With its growing economy, India is consuming more and more oil. They must compete on the world market against American consumers for that oil. Americans have a vested personal interest in helping India expand its nuclear power industry", Congressman Royce, a leading proponent of the legislation said. "Young Indian scientists and engineers in the nuclear field want to collaborate with their American counterparts but they are currently isolated. I'd rather know more rather than less about India's nuclear work", said Royce, Chairman of the Terrorism and Non Proliferation subcommittee. "This agreement forces a separation between India’s civilian and military nuclear programs. This is a good step that encourages India to move away from burning its abundance of highly-polluting coal", said Royce, who managed the bill on the floor. India must now take several more steps, including developing a credible plan to separate its civilian and military nuclear facilities. Congress must approve a nuclear cooperation agreement with the Indians before technology is actually transferred. That agreement is being negotiated by the Administration. "Either we continue to try to box-in India, and hope for the best, or we engage India, and encourage this increasingly important country to become a true partner as we enter what will be a long struggle against Islamist terrorism", Royce said. ###
07.18.2006	Washington, D.C. – The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) today honored Rep. Ed Royce (R-Calif.) as a Taxpayer Superhero for scoring a perfect 100 percent on its 2005 Congressional Ratings. Rep. Royce was the only member of the House to attain Superhero status, the average for the entire House was 45 percent. Since 1989, CCAGW has tracked roll call votes to separate the taxpayer advocates in Congress from those who favor wasteful programs and pork-barrel spending. Rep. Royce consistently voted to reign in deficit spending, reduce the tax burden, and make government more accountable to taxpayers. “Talk is cheap,” CCAGW President Tom Schatz said. “A member’s voting record is the best indicator of his or her commitment to fiscal discipline. Rep. Royce sets the gold standard for voting to ease the burden of a cumbersome, bloated federal government.” The 2005 Congressional Ratings cover the voting year 2005, the first session of the 109th Congress. CCAGW rated 34 key votes in the House. Rep. Royce helped Congress pass a tax cut extension and a budget reconciliation package that saves taxpayers $39.7 billion over five years. Other votes included: Across-the-board reductions on spending bills; implementing the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) recommendations; holding the United Nations accountable for operational reforms; consolidating duplicative job training programs; eliminating the Market Access Program; and eliminating federal subsidies for specific Amtrak routes. “Rep. Royce thinks beyond the next election. He recognizes the long-term consequences of excessive spending and works to reduce the enormous debt being left to future generations,” Schatz continued. “No matter how wasteful or ineffective it might be, every government program has a constituency that lobbies Congress for more funding. Rep. Royce puts the national interest ahead of special interests. Thanks to leaders like Rep. Royce, taxpayers have a fighting chance and will continue to score victories,” Schatz concluded. CCAGW’s website features the complete 2005 Congressional Ratings, including vote descriptions, scorecards for the House and Senate, personalized scorecards for each member of Congress, historical comparisons, and averages by chamber, party, and state delegation. Visit www.cagw.org. The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste is the lobbying arm of Citizens Against Government Waste, the nation’s largest nonpartisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in government. ###
05.09.2006	U.S. Representative Ed Royce will hold a series of informal “Academy Nights” Thursday, May 18th at 7:00 PM in Congressman Royce’s district office at 305 North Harbor Blvd., Suite 300, in Fullerton. The second meeting will be held Thursday, June 22nd at 7:00 PM. All meetings begin at 7:00 PM. share: f t U.S. Representative Ed Royce will hold a series of informal “Academy Nights” Thursday, May 18th at 7:00 PM in Congressman Royce’s district office at 305 North Harbor Blvd., Suite 300, in Fullerton. The second meeting will be held Thursday, June 22nd at 7:00 PM. All meetings begin at 7:00 PM. The Academy Nights are an opportunity for students to learn about the four U.S. Service Academies that require a congressional nomination; U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. “The U.S. Service Academies offer an excellent education and a great opportunity to qualified students” said Royce. “Because of the large number of students who are interested in seeking nominations each year I want to make sure that everyone has the information they need to compete for admission.” Rep. Royce’s office holds a total of four monthly informal Academy Nights between May and October 2006, with each meeting covering different aspects of the process. U.S. Service Academy nominations are based on a candidate’s high school rank, grade point average, SAT or ACT scores, athletic ability and leadership potential as demonstrated in extra-curricular activities, community affairs or part-time employment. All interested persons are invited to attend, however, only residents of the 40th Congressional District can be considered for nomination. The 40th District includes all or part of: Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, Garden Grove, La Palma, Los Alamitos, Orange, Placentia, Rossmoor, Stanton, Villa Park and Westminster. Interested students should contact Patty Shay at the Fullerton District office, 714/992-8081 for further information. ###
04.18.2006	USA Water Polo President Rich Foster announced that the United States has won the bid to host the 2007 FINA Men's World Junior Water Polo Championships. share: f t FULLERTON, CA--USA Water Polo President Rich Foster announced that the United States has won the bid to host the 2007 FINA Men's World Junior Water Polo Championships. The 2007 FINA World Junior Championships for Men will be a part of the larger 2007 Sea Festival taking place August 19-27, 2007. "I am honored to host this event in the 40th Congressional District and am looking forward to the increased attention this event will bring both to the Los Alamitos Joint Forces Training Base and to the World Junior National Water Polo Championships. The Joint Forces Training Base has been a tremendous asset to our community and has created several community partnerships, allowing youth baseball and water polo teams to use the facilities on the base. This is a terrific opportunity for local players and fans to witness a world-class sporting event so close to home. I am very excited for the players on the US team and very much look forward to their victory in August, 2007." The 2007 Junior World Championships will consist of 24 of the top Junior National Water Polo teams from around the world and is set to take place at California State University Long Beach and the USA Water Polo National Training Center on the Joint Forces Training Base in Los Alamitos, Calif., on August 19-27, 2007.
03.23.2006	Every year, Members of the U.S. House of Representatives recognize the creative spirit of American high school students in a nationwide art competition. Each spring, Rep. Royce holds an art contest in his Fullerton District Office for high school students in the 40th District. The winning entry will be displayed for one year in the Cannon House Office Building Tunnel, a high-traffic pedestrian walkway leading to the United States Capitol Building. Submissions are required to be two-dimensional, no larger than 32 inches by 32 inches framed, and within the following categories:- Paintings (oil, acrylic, etc.) - Drawings, watercolors, pastels; - Collages - Prints (lithographs, silkscreens, etc.)Your entry must be an original concept and may not violate U.S. Copyright Laws. More specific information on entering the Art Contest can be found here. If you are interested, or know a young talented student who would like to participate, please contact my District Office at (714) 992-8081.
03.20.2006	Representative Ed Royce (CA-40) today urged people in Orange County to attend two upcoming community meetings on Saturday, March 25. "Coffee meetings and community forums are a great opportunity for me to speak directly to people in Orange County about the issues that affect them personally," Royce said. "Everyone is welcome to attend." What: Coffee Meeting with Ed Royce Where: Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf4957 Katella Avenue, Suite F in Cypress When: Saturday, March 25 at 9:00 AM Who: Everyone What: Community Forum with Ed Royce Where: Orange City Hall, City Council Chambers 300 E. Chapman Ave. in Orange When: Saturday, March 25 in Orange at 1:00 PM Who: Everyone ###
03.03.2006	The soldiers of the 1st Battalion 140th Aviation based at Los Alamitos Army Airfield, CA will be having their welcome home ceremony on Saturday morning, March 4th, 2006 at the Long Beach Airport Marriott Hotel at 1000 AM. These soldiers returned from combat aviation missions in Iraq this past November and are assembling for the first time this weekend. The ceremony will recognize these soldiers and their outstanding achievements while they were deployed to in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom III. While in Iraq, the 1-140th General Support Aviation Battalion completed over 9,000 combat flight hours. The Battalion conducted over 88,000 hours of organic aircraft maintenance and 47,500 hours of ground maintenance all while providing mounted and un-mounted base security. In addition to accomplishing the their war time mission, battalion members also participated in humanitarian activities supporting local Iraqis. The 1-140th deployed for 14 months in support of the Global War on Terror into a Combat theater with zero combat fatalities and completing every mission assigned. The 1/140th is a Calif. Army National Guard Aviation Battalion flies the UH60 Blackhawk based out of Los Alamitos. Comprised of soldiers from units throughout the state such as the 126th Air Ambulance Company (Mather, CA), 640th Aviation Support Battalion (Long Beach), 1/18th Air Cavalry (Los Alamitos) and 40th Aviation Brigade (Fresno). The welcome home ceremony will commence at 1000 AM March 4th at the Long Beach Marriott Hotel located at 4700 Airport Plaza Drive, Long Beach, CA.
03.01.2006	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman Ed Royce offered the following statement to the House subcommittee on Global Human Rights in support of House Concurrent Resolution 320, calling on the government of North Vietnam to release jailed political dissident Pham Hong Son. "Dr. Pham Hong Son was arrested in March 2002 for his writings and translations on democracy. Without the benefit of a legitimate trial, Dr. Son was sentenced to 13 years of imprisonment and three years of house arrest. Although his sentence was later lessened, the circumstances surrounding his arrest remain reprehensible. Upon his unlawful arrest, Dr. Son spent a year in solitary confinement and was subjected to inhumane treatment." "Unfortunately, Dr. Son's case is far from unique- it is a microcosm of the Vietnamese government's approach to human rights. Sentences such as his are routinely used by the Vietnamese Communist Government to stymie political dissent. The Communist Party of Vietnam continues to commit serious abuses against its citizens and denies them the right to change government. This committee has followed those abuses and spoken out against them with great determination- which I know it will continue to do." "The Vietnamese government's policy of intolerance towards free speech is intolerable. I urge you all to support the unconditional release of Dr. Pham Hong Son." Monday night, the Subcommittee passed H.Con.Res. 320, which will now move to the full International Relations Committee. Congressman Royce has long been an advocate of freedom for Vietnamese dissidents, as well as oppressed populations around the world. He has been actively involved in promoting freedom for the people of Vietnam specifically through his work on the International Relations Committee for over ten years. ###
02.28.2006	The Republican Page Program is accepting applications for the summer 2006 Page session. The first summer session will last from June 12 to June 30 and the second summer session will begin July 10 and conclude July 28. Completed written applications must be submitted to the Speakers Office by April 5, 2006. All applicants must complete an application form and provide the following: social security number, signed parental consent form, official transcript of all high-school grades to date, a 50-100 word essay on why they want to be a Republican Page, resume of extra-curricular activities and three letters of recommendation. Completed applications are to be returned to the office of Congressman Ed Royce by Monday, April 3, 2006. To be qualified to serve as a Page, all applicants must be at least 16 years of age at the time their appointment begins and have a cumulative grade point average of a "B" or better ("B" is a 3.0 or 80/100) in the five major subjects. Additionally, summer program applicants may only serve as a Page during the summer before or the summer after their junior year of high school. A Republican Member of the House must sponsor all applicants in writing. Applicants will be notified of their selection through the office of Congressman Royce. If a student would like an application, please have them contact Patty Shay at 714/992-8081.
02.22.2006	As a proud supporter of Los Alamitos and the services it provides to the defense of this state and nation, I'm proud to relay the following information about an upcoming event on the base. Please feel free to join in! - Ed WHAT: 26th Annual Los Alamitos RACE ON THE BASE WHEN: SATURDAY, 25 FEBUARY 2006. Race day registration begins at 6:30 A.M. WHERE: Los Alamitos Army Airfield,Joint Forces Training BaseKatella at Lexington WHO: City of Los Alamitos Recreation & Community Services Department 10911 Oak St.Los Alamitos, CA. 90720562-430-1073 / fax 562-594-9657www.ci.los-alamitos.ca.us The annual“Run on the Runways”, sponsored by the City of Los Alamitos and the California.National.Guard, will take place on Los Alamitos Army Airfield, Joint Forces Training Base (JFTB) on Sat.25 Feb. Participants will be able to run on the flightline, runways, taxiways by aircraft and equipment, past golf courses and strawberry fields. The race features t-shirts, cash awards and a $5 dollar all you can eat pancake breakfast. Entry fees vary. Race Start Times: 7:45 A.M. 1K Kids Fun Run (ten years old and under)8:00 A.M. 5K Run( 3.1 miles)8:05 A.M. 5K Walk -in cooperation with the Cancer Support Foundation8:50 A.M 10K Wheel chair & In-Line Skate Race 8:55 A.M 10K Run( 6.2 miles)- after wheelchair/skate race Proceeds from this event will benefit the USA Water Polo National Aquatic Center, which is located on the Joint Forces Training Base, and Cancer Support Foundation. Race Registration is by mail or walk-in. Register by sending a complete entry form and check made payable to the City of Los Alamitos, 10911 Oak St, Los Alamitos, CA.90720. (562-430-1073). Internet: Register at www.active.com or www.ci.los-alamitos.ca.us
02.09.2006	Ed Royce Will Host his Service Academy Information Night March 29 in Buena Park at the Buena Park City Hall share: f t Congressman Ed Royce (CA-40) will host his annual U.S. Service Academy Information Night Wednesday evening, March 29, 2006 at the Buena Park City Hall. The event is scheduled to begin at 7:00 P.M. in the Buena Park City Council Chambers. The City Hall is located at 6650 Beach Blvd. in Buena Park. The purpose of the information night is to make all students, parents and counselors aware of the educational and leadership opportunities through the four U.S. Service Academies. The meeting will also answer questions as to the application and nomination process to the academies. A representative from each U.S. Service Academy will be present to answer questions. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy will also make a presentation. “This meeting is vital for those interested in attending any one of the service academies,” Royce said. “It is an excellent opportunity for students and their families to plan for their educational and professional future.” The Information Night will feature Cadets from the United States Air Force Academy
12.08.2005	Calling attention to critically important border protection and national security legislation, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) joined members of the Immigration Caucus to push for broader immigration reform as the Judiciary Committee passed Chairman Sensenbrenner's bill, H.R. 4437, the Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act. share: f t Calling attention to critically important border protection and national security legislation, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) joined members of the Immigration Caucus to push for broader immigration reform as the Judiciary Committee passed Chairman Sensenbrenner's bill, H.R. 4437, the Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act. Royce chairs the Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Nonproliferation in the House and strongly believes that border security must be considered a pillar of national security policy. "It is time to gain control of our borders and our interior. Our current immigration system is broken. We have insufficient enforcement and border security resources. And it is my view that we need to fix it before any talk about adding a guest worker program," said Royce. Royce will be working to strengthen the enforcement provisions in the Sensenbrenner bill and will adamantly oppose adding any amnesty proposals. Royce also cautioned that the extension of the security fence across the Southern border is a critical first step to securing our nation. According to the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP), it works as deterrence and Royce will be working with Chairman Duncan Hunter to get the security fence extended to key smuggling areas. "It is my hope that the Sensenbrenner bill will be used as the vehicle to steer the immigration debate in the right direction and that once and for all we can fix our immigration system," said Royce.
11.03.2005	Today, at a press conference with several other Members of Congress, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) announced his co-sponsorship and strong support for a new border enforcement and security bill. share: f t Today, at a press conference with several other Members of Congress, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) announced his co-sponsorship and strong support for a new border enforcement and security bill. Entitled the TRUE Border Enforcement and Border Security Act of 2005, the bill is being introduced in the House today. "Border security is national security, and it is time we got serious about protecting our country," said Royce, who chairs the House Subcommittee on International Terrorism. The bill combines pieces of existing border security and enforcement legislation, and includes new provisions to keep America safe. It increases the means for enforcement of our country's current immigration laws. Specifically, the bill incorporates security fencing, roads, and technology infrastructure along our international borders to secure from illegal crossings; adds new border patrol agents, immigration and worksite investigators, and adjudicators to help enhance and streamline efforts; and puts a stop to current "catch and release" policies by increasing federal detention space. "This is the most comprehensive border security legislation in Congress to date. It will allow Border Patrol agents to do their jobs more effectively and help to crack down on the known abuses of our immigration laws," said Royce.
10.28.2005	The following is Congressman Ed Royce's email update which is distributed each week when Congress is in session to those who have signed up. share: f t The following is Congressman Ed Royce's email update which is distributed each week when Congress is in session to those who have signed up. Click here to sign up. THIS WEEK IN WASHINGTON: The following is a list of legislation that the House voted on this week. Visit www.congress.gov to look-up complete legislative information and to learn more about the bills listed below. H. Res. 220 Blood Center Resolution This resolution recognizes America's Blood Centers and its member organizations for their commitment to providing safe and adequate volunteer donor blood supply. H.R. 3675 American Spirit Fraud Prevention Act This bills doubles the penalties for unfair or deceptive practices that exploit popular reaction to a national emergency or major disaster. H. Res. 485 Red Ribbon Resolution This resolution supports Red Ribbon Week, which encourages people to a live drug-free life. H.C.Res. 269 White House Fellows Resolution This resolution recognizes the 40th anniversary of the White House Fellows Program. H. Res. 484 Runaway Youth Resolution This resolution supports efforts to promote greater awareness of effective runaway youth prevention programs, and the need for safe and productive alternatives for homeless youth. H.R. 3945 Hurricane Katrina Financial Services Relief Act This bill provides flexibility and temporary waivers for certain requirements and fees on depository institutions and federal regulatory agencies during the aftermath of Katrina. H.R. 1461 Federal Housing Finance Reform Act This bill reforms the regulation of certain housing-related Government-sponsored enterprises. S. 172 Contact Lens Regulation Act This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to provide for the regulation of all contact lenses as medical devices. H.J. Res. 65 BRAC Resolution This resolution would have disapproved of the recommendations of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission. S. 37 Breast Cancer Stamp This bill extends the special postage stamp for breast cancer research for 2 years. H. Res. 523 Iran President Resolution This resolution condemns Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's threats against Israel. H.R. 2744 Agriculture Department Appropriations Act This bill makes appropriations for Agriculture Department and the Food and Drug Administration for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006. S.C.Res. 61 Rosa Parks Resolution This resolution authorizes the remains of Rosa Parks to lie in honor in the rotunda of the Capitol. IN THE WEEK AHEAD: Next week the House will consider the Private Property Rights Protection Act [H.R. 4128]. NEWS: Protect Yourself, Be On Guard Online October is National Cyber Security Month...Are you protecting yourself and your personal information when you are online? The Federal Trade Commission recently launched an educational campaign to help consumers and businesses learn more about safe computing practices. The FTC has launched a website at www.onguardonline.gov. This site compiles information and resources from cyber security experts, online marketers, consumer advocates and federal officials. It includes tips on guarding against Internet fraud, securing computers from viruses and hackers and protecting personal information. The site provides helpful information on identity theft, spyware, phishing, spam scams and online shopping...Read more...Read more. Royce Holds Update Hearing on U.S. Counter-terror Strategy Examining our national strategy...This week the international terrorism subcommittee that Congressman Royce chairs held the second of two hearings discussing our strategy to combat terrorism. At the hearing, Royce issued this opening statement: "Last month, the Subcommittee heard testimony on the evolving nature of the terrorist threat facing us, and how to update the National Security Strategy for Combating Terrorism. Some witnesses characterized al-Qaeda as a 'movement' or 'ideology,' rather than a formal organization. There was discussion of preventing terrorist access to WMD; the importance of more precisely defining the terrorist threat; the 'virtual caliphate' on the Internet; and the imperative of stepping-up the struggle for good will in the Muslim world."...Read more of Royce's opening statement. Breast Cancer Stamp Extended for 2 More Years This week Congress voted to extend the breast cancer fundraising stamp for an additional two years through December 31, 2007. Currently, there have been three fundraising stamps, known as semi-postals, which have raised more than $56 million for their respective causes. The first and most profitable is the breast cancer stamp. It started in 1998, and featured the phrases, "Fund the Fight" and "Find a Cure." Thus far, it has sold 606.8 million stamps and raised $44 million dollars. By law, 70 percent of the proceeds are given to the National Institutes of Health and 30 percent is given to the Medical Research Program at the Department of Defense. In 2001, Congress enacted the Heroes of 2001 semi-postal stamp to raise money for the victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. In 2004, the Stop Family Violence stamp was enacted to raise funds for domestic violence programs. Fund raising stamps are 45 cent, first-class stamps, and the amount over the cost of regular postage goes towards the cause depicted on the stamp. Rosa Parks to be Honored in Rotunda On Monday the mother of the civil rights movement, Rosa Parks, passed away at the age of 92. This week the Congress approved resolutions allowing Parks to lie in honor this coming Sunday and Monday in the Rotunda of the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. Parks will be the first woman and the second black American to be laid in the Rotunda. A Capitol police officer who was shot in 1998 was the first black American to lie in honor. Buses across the country - including Detroit, Michigan where Parks died, and Montgomery, Alabama where she ignited a year-long bus boycott - are reserving the first seats in honor of her courageous decision in 1955 to not give up her seat to a white man. ANNOUNCEMENTS: Participate in the Model U.S. House Applications are now being accepted for participation in the United States Model U.S. House of Representatives. This program, which is sponsored by the American Youth Scholarship Foundation, will bring one college student to Washington, D.C. for a 5-day simulation of the U.S. House of Representatives. The application submission deadline is November 18, 2005...Read more. ABOUT THIS E-UPDATE: This is a weekly e-mail update published when Congress is in session. It is intended to keep those who sign up informed of the issues going on in Congress and of impact to the 40th Congressional district. Helpful Links: Click here to SUBSCRIBE Click here to UNSUBSCRIBE To change your e-mail address use the links above to unsubscribe your old e-mail address and then subscribe with your new e-mail address. Contact Royce: Call: (714) 992-8081, (562) 220-2411, (202) 225-4111 Online: www.royce.house.gov Frequently Asked Questions
10.21.2005	The following is Congressman Ed Royce's email update which is distributed each week when Congress is in session to those who have signed up. share: f t The following is Congressman Ed Royce's email update which is distributed each week when Congress is in session to those who have signed up. Click here to sign up. THIS WEEK IN WASHINGTON: The following is a list of legislation that the House voted on this week. Visit www.congress.gov to look-up complete legislative information and to learn more about the bills listed below. H. Res. 457 National Chemistry Week Resolution This resolution recognizes the importance and positive contributions of chemistry to our everyday lives and supports National Chemistry Week. H. Res. 491 National Cyber Security Awareness Resolution This resolution raises awareness about the need for computer security in the U.S., and supports National Cyber Security Awareness Month (October). H.R. 1409 Assistance for Orphans and Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act This bill amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to provide assistance for orphans and other vulnerable children in developing countries. H. Res. 492 Pakistan/India Earthquake Resolution This resolution mourns the loss of life caused by the October 8th earthquake in Pakistan and India. It expresses the condolences of the American people to the families of the victims, and urges assistance to those affected. H.R. 177 Santa Ana River Water Supply Enhancement Act This bill authorizes the Interior Secretary to participate in the Prado Basin Natural Treatment System Project, and to carry out an assistance program for projects to construct regional brine lines in California. H.R. 554 Personal Responsibility in Food Consumption Act This bill prohibits civil liability actions and claims of injury relating to a person's weight gain from being brought against the food industry. H.R. 3971 Social Services Emergency Relief and Recovery Act This bill provides assistance through Medicare and welfare to individuals and states affected by Hurricane Katrina. S. 397 Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act This bill prohibits civil liability actions from being brought against gun manufacturers for damages resulting from the misuse of their products by others. IN THE WEEK AHEAD: Next week the House will consider the Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act of 2005 [H.R. 420]. NEWS: Royce in the News: "Critics say immigrants calling bluff" Detention centers are overflowing and deportation is often an empty threat...This week the Orange County Register reported on illegal immigration and the threat it poses to national security. The article reads as follows: "Illegal immigration is increasing rapidly from countries other than Mexico, federal officials are telling Congress. And the ease with which these foreign nationals can stay in the United States is fueling terrorism concerns. Testimony at a recent congressional hearing and a report to House members said the lack of detention space to hold this growing category of illegal immigrants means 70 percent of them remain free until deportation. Most disappear into the United States. Last week, Congress passed a homeland security bill that included funding for 2,300 more detention beds. This brings the total to 20,300, which is 3,750 fewer than the 9/11 commission wanted. Long an issue between the United States and Mexico, the international flavor of illegal immigration has grown substantially since 1997. But the diversity of people coming through the southern border has ignited a debate over their motives for coming. 'Terrorists can use South America as a launching pad to slip into Mexico and from there into the United States,' says Rep. Ed Royce, R-Fullerton...Read more. House Passes Bill to Stop Frivolous Obesity-Related Lawsuits This week the House approved bipartisan legislation aimed at curbing frivolous lawsuits against the food industry because of the obesity problems of its patrons. The Personal Responsibility in Food Consumption Act [H.R. 554] now goes to the Senate for consideration. The food industry has been targeted with lawsuits alleging that it should compensate those patrons who choose consume their food in excess. Lawsuits like this threaten jobs of those who work in the food industry, like waiters and waitresses. It also raises the cost of doing business for restaurant owners and food distributors, many who are small business owners. "People should take more personal responsibility, instead of blaming others. The unfortunate outcome is that the hidden costs of frivolous lawsuits is passed on to every consumer in the form of higher prices for food," said Congressman Royce. This bill would generally prohibit frivolous obesity or weight gain-related claims against the food industry. The bill applies only to claims based on weight gain or obesity; therefore lawsuits could still proceed if, for example, someone gets sick from consuming tainted food. New Site Encourages Business to Hire Veterans This week former Senator Bob Dole joined up with Labor Secretary Elaine Chao to encourage American companies to hire veterans. They have launched a site, www.hirevetsfirst.gov, to help connect employers with veterans who are looking for jobs. The site also provides help for veterans as they transition from military to civilian careers. "HireVetsFirst promotes the reality that veterans make great employees. They possess valuable skills including a sense of discipline, maturity, leadership and a results-oriented work ethic,” said Secretary Chao. “They were there for us, now it's our turn to be there for them. We will protect their rights and help them successfully transition to civilian life."...Check out www.hirevetsfirst.gov. ANNOUNCEMENTS: Cypress Community College Awarded Dept. of Labor Grant This week the Department of Labor announced that Cypress Community College has been awarded a grant to help recruit and train nurses. The grant is a part of the President’s Community Based Job Training Initiative, which provides grants and job training for workers in the health care field. There were almost 400 grant applicants, with 35 in California alone, making this a highly competitive grant process. Cypress Community College was awarded just over $1.6 million for their program to recruit and train individuals to become certified nursing assistants, licensed vocational nurses and register nurses. ABOUT THIS E-UPDATE: This is a weekly e-mail update published when Congress is in session. It is intended to keep those who sign up informed of the issues going on in Congress and of impact to the 40th Congressional district. Helpful Links: Click here to SUBSCRIBE Click here to UNSUBSCRIBE To change your e-mail address use the links above to unsubscribe your old e-mail address and then subscribe with your new e-mail address. Contact Royce: Call: (714) 992-8081, (562) 220-2411, (202) 225-4111 Online: www.royce.house.gov Frequently Asked Questions
10.20.2005	Signaling strong and growing bipartisan interest, Congressmen Ed Royce (R-CA) and Paul E. Kanjorski (D-PA) announced today that Congressman Curt Weldon (R-PA) is the 100th cosponsor of their bill to help credit unions. share: f t Signaling strong and growing bipartisan interest, Congressmen Ed Royce (R-CA) and Paul E. Kanjorski (D-PA) announced today that Congressman Curt Weldon (R-PA) is the 100th cosponsor of their bill to help credit unions. Royce and Kanjorski are both senior Members of the House Financial Services Committee. Their bill, the Credit Union Regulatory Improvements Act of 2005 [H.R. 2317], was introduced in May to modernize and improve the quality of service provided by our nation's credit unions. "I am pleased that CURIA has attracted broad-based, bipartisan support in the House. In today's dynamic marketplace, credit unions must have a more modern and flexible regulatory structure. I look forward to joining with the many supporters of this legislation as we work towards that goal," said Congressman Royce. Congressman Kanjorski added, "H.R. 2317 is the first major piece of credit union legislation to be introduced since the passage of the historic Credit Union Membership Access Act of 1998. Looking back on that successful effort, it took us just under five months to get our first 100 cosponsors. With the Credit Union Regulatory Improvements Act, it has taken us just over five months to get our first 100 cosponsors. If history is any guide, we are on track, once again, to move a credit union bill through the legislative process and help the 86 million Americans belonging to credit unions." "Because this legislation will positively impact the role that credit unions play in contributing to our nation's economic growth, I decided to cosponsor CURIA," said Congressman Weldon. "The enactment of CURIA would also greatly help underserved communities." CURIA, the acronym that the bill is more commonly referred to, combines a series of regulatory enhancements, which will allow credit unions to operate more effectively and efficiently. Specifically, CURIA modernizes credit union net worth standards; advances credit union efforts to assist small businesses and promote economic growth; and modifies credit union regulatory standards by eliminating unnecessary, burdensome and outdated regulations. The bill will also make other much-needed reforms to credit union oversight and governance. Credit union organizations expressed great satisfaction in the initial efforts to move CURIA in the 109th Congress and build momentum for moving the bill forward. "Reaching 100 cosponsors is a significant milestone, indicative of CURIA's broad appeal and a recognition by legislators that, by passing CURIA, the 21st century consumer will get the 21st century credit union that they deserve. Since its re-introduction earlier this year, CURIA has been steadily gathering support and has easily surpassed last year's benchmark of 69 co-sponsors. CUNA commends Rep. Weldon for becoming CURIA's 100th cosponsor, and for taking this forward-looking step on behalf of America's consumers," said Dan Mica, President and CEO of the Credit Union National Association. "We are pleased to see growing bipartisan support for CURIA. This much-needed legislation would reform the current capital system for credit unions, providing for a risk-based approach to capital and would give credit unions the opportunity to help more small business owners by raising the arbitrary member business lending cap. The addition of the 100th co-sponsor has brought us closer to enactment," said Fred Becker, President and CEO of the National Association of Federal Credit Unions.
10.20.2005	Applications are now being accepted for participation in the United States Model U.S. House of Representatives. share: f t Applications are now being accepted for participation in the United States Model U.S. House of Representatives. This program, which is sponsored by the American Youth Scholarship Foundation, will bring one college student to Washington, D.C. for a 5-day simulation of the U.S. House of Representatives. The application submission deadline is November 18, 2005. For more information on the program or to complete the application, please visit the American Youth Scholarship Foundation's website at www.aysf.org/modelhouseofrepresentatives. One college student will be chosen from each Congressional district. Students will be responsible for all registration and travel costs. Please contact Royce's office at (714) 992-8081 with any questions.
10.15.2005	Illegal immigration is increasing rapidly from countries other than Mexico, federal officials are telling Congress. share: f t By Chris Blank for the Orange County Register - -Illegal immigration is increasing rapidly from countries other than Mexico, federal officials are telling Congress. And the ease with which these foreign nationals can stay in the United States is fueling terrorism concerns. Testimony at a recent congressional hearing and a report to House members said the lack of detention space to hold this growing category of illegal immigrants means 70 percent of them remain free until deportation. Most disappear into the United States. Last week, Congress passed a homeland security bill that included funding for 2,300 more detention beds. This brings the total to 20,300, which is 3,750 fewer than the 9/11 commission wanted. Long an issue between the United States and Mexico, the international flavor of illegal immigration has grown substantially since 1997. But the diversity of people coming through the southern border has ignited a debate over their motives for coming. "Terrorists can use South America as a launching pad to slip into Mexico and from there into the United States," says Rep. Ed Royce, R-Fullerton. Others say such talk is overblown. Non-Mexican illegal immigrants strain the system because it takes longer to deport them. Mexicans can be sent back in hours, but others must be flown back to their original country. Immigration court backlogs mean a three-month process to deport someone to a country other than Mexico. And there isn't enough detention space to hold these new arrivals and those thought to have links with terrorism. Rep. Dan Lungren, R-Folsom, who heads a House Homeland Security subcommittee, says these shortages encourage illegal immigration. He said the lack of space has prompted non-Mexican illegal immigrants to seek out the Border Patrol, knowing they are likely to be moved further into the country for processing. "Our policy essentially results in Brazilians coming to the United States with increasing numbers and seeking out law enforcement officers so they can be caught and released instead of even trying to run away," Lungren said. U.S. Border Patrol officers arrested 120 percent more illegal immigrants from countries other than Mexico this year than last. This is four times the number arrested in 2002. Total arrests increased by 2 percent from last year. To handle the crowding, the Department of Homeland Security has turned to expedited removals. This procedure allows non-Mexican and non-Canadian illegal immigrants to be deported without a judicial hearing. In 2004, expedited removals were expanded from ports, airports and other official points of entry to anywhere on U.S. soil within 100 miles of the border. U.S. Border Patrol Chief David Aguilar testified before a recent House subcommittee hearing that expedited removals have cut deportation time by about 30 percent and "will become a significant tool to deter future illegal migration." As proof that this is working, Aguilar pointed to a Texas border sector that has seen the number of non-Mexican illegal immigrants arrested decrease by about 140 a day. But critics say it amounts to little more than summary deportations and gives too much power to relatively low-ranking Border Patrol officers. David Leopold, a member of the American Immigration Lawyers Association executive board, said it does little to make anyone safer. "To simply remove someone from the United States without any right to see a judge, to present evidence to argue their case, exposes the people who are here legally and U.S. citizens to some real abuses," he said. But Royce said non-Mexican illegal immigration threatens national security as much as foreign terrorism. "By allowing that smuggling network to function, we've created an opportunity for al-Qaida to infiltrate our border," he said. "Terrorists are smart, and they are looking to capitalize on our weaknesses. And the lack of attention and enforcement of immigration laws have given al-Qaida an opportunity." David Spener, an associate professor at Trinity University in San Antonio, said the statistics themselves might be distorted because of fake documents. Previously, Latin Americans would claim to be Mexican to be deported closer to the United States. As word spreads that non-Mexicans were being released into the United States until a hearing, more illegal immigrants could be claiming to be from other Latin American countries. Spener said the terrorism fears have been overblown, as most illegal immigrants come only for economic reasons. "Emigration from Central America is increasing because of further economic collapse, especially in the coffee markets," he said. "To link the issue to terrorism is a grievous overstatement." The response: If a Mexican national admits to being in the United States illegally, the immigrant can be returned to Mexico less than an hour after fingerprints and photographs are taken. If the illegal entrant has committed a felony, has been previously removed from the United States or is wanted by another law enforcement agency, he or she is arrested. If detention space is lacking, the immigrant is paroled or released on bond with a notice to appear before an immigration judge. If the illegal immigrant is not from Canada or Mexico, he or she is supposed to be held in the United States until a deportation hearing. However: If there is bed space, the immigrant can be deported using an expedited procedure. Under that procedure, U.S. officials are allowed to deport immigrants caught without proper documents without giving them a judicial hearing. It applies only to people caught within 100 miles of the U.S. border and who have been in the country for less than 14 days. Immigrants who claim asylum or indicate they fear persecution or torture if they are returned home, are still entitled to a hearing. But if there is no room in detention facilities, the Border Patrol cannot use the expedited procedure and releases these immigrants on their own recognizance.
10.01.2005	To help encourage people to protect themselves when they are online, the month of October has been designated National Cyber Security Month share: f t To help encourage people to protect themselves when they are online, the month of October has been designated National Cyber Security Month. The Federal Trade Commission recently launched an educational campaign to help consumers and businesses learn more about safe computing practices and online protection. The FTC has launched a website at www.onguardonline.gov. This site compiles information and resources from cyber security experts, online marketers, consumer advocates and federal officials. It includes tips on guarding against Internet fraud, securing computers from viruses and hackers, and protecting personal information. The site has designated seven practices for safer computing. They are as follows: 7 Practices for Safer Computing: Protect your personal information. Know who you're dealing with. Use anti-virus software and a firewall, and update both regularly. Be sure to set up your operating system and Web browser software properly, and update them regularly. Protect your passwords. Back up important files. Learn who to contact if something goes wrong online. Visit the FTC's website at www.onguardonline.gov to learn more about these seven tips. The site also allows consumers to file a complaint online with the FTC and has information on identity theft, spyware, phishing, spam scams and how to safely shop online.
09.30.2005	The following is Congressman Ed Royce's email update which is distributed each week when Congress is in session to those who have signed up. share: f t The following is Congressman Ed Royce's email update which is distributed each week when Congress is in session to those who have signed up. Click here to sign up. MESSAGE FROM ROYCE: "A note to all of our students who wish to apply for a Congressional nomination to one of the U.S. Military Service Academies: applications are due to my Fullerton office by this Monday, October 3rd." THIS WEEK IN WASHINGTON: The following is a list of legislation that the House voted on this week. Visit www.congress.gov to look-up complete legislative information and to learn more about the bills listed below. H.C.Res. 209 Domestic Violence Awareness Month Resolution This resolution supports Domestic Violence Awareness Month and expresses the sense of Congress that it should help to raise the awareness of domestic violence in the United States and its devastating effects on families. H.R. 2360 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act This bill makes appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006. H.R. 3864 Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities Act This bill provides vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities affected by Hurricane Katrina or Hurricane Rita. H.R. 3200 Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance Act This bill enhances the Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance program by increasing the maximum amount of coverage under the program to $400,000. H.C.Res. 245 Pledge of Allegiance Resolution This resolution expresses the sense of Congress that the U.S. Supreme Court should speedily find the use of the Pledge of Allegiance in schools to be consistent with the Constitution of the U.S. H.R. 3402 Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act This bill authorizes appropriations for the Department of Justice for fiscal years 2006 through 2009. H.R. 3824 Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act This bill amends and reauthorizes the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to provide greater results in conserving and recovering listed species. IN THE WEEK AHEAD: Next week the House will consider the Gasoline for America's Security Act [H.R. 3893]. NEWS: Roberts Becomes 17th Chief Justice This week John G. Roberts, 50, was sworn in as the new Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, making him the youngest chief justice in two centuries. The Senate confirmed Roberts by a 78-22 bipartisan vote. "The Senate confirmed a man with an astute mind and a kind heart," said President Bush. After being sworn in by acting Chief Justice John Paul Stevens, Roberts said he would try to "pass on to my children's generation a charter of self-government as strong and as vibrant as the one that Chief Justice Rehnquist passed on to us." In the 1980s Roberts clerked for the former Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist who led the court until his death on September 3, 2005. Before Roberts was nominated to serve on the Supreme Court, he argued 39 cases before the Supreme Court, winning 25 of them. Royce's Hearing Discusses Future of Counter-terrorism Strategy This week Congressman Royce's Subcommittee on International Terrorism held an important hearing to discuss our country's strategy to combat terror. The transnational terrorist threat facing the United States is evolving. Some analysts believe that al-Qaeda is no longer an organization with firm command and control, but that terrorist networks have become dispersed and loosely connected due to the post-9/11 actions of the U.S. and others. Many now characterize al-Qaeda as a "movement" or "ideology," rather than a formal organization. Some have suggested that U.S. counterterrorism strategy does not match this threat. The hearing focused on the broad strategic questions the United States faces in forging a counterterrorism strategy...Read Royce's statement at the hearing. USDA Launches New Food Pyramid for Kids This week the Agriculture Department unveiled its new child-friendly version of the MyPyramid Food Guidance System, which was released in April. MyPyramid for Kids, touting a message of "Eat Right. Exercise. Have Fun", features an interactive game and information for parents and teachers to help kids learn about making good, healthy food choices. "This is a fun approach to addressing the very serious problem of childhood obesity," said Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns. "As teachers take advantage of the lesson plans and children learn what it takes to win the game, messages about the importance of healthy eating and physical activity will take hold. We know that MyPyramid captured America's attention and our hope is that MyPyramid for Kids will inspire the same level of interest and help to improve the health of America's kids." MyPyramid for Kids provides age-appropriate information about the recommended dietary guidelines and physical activity. Through an interactive game, lesson plans, colorful posters and flyers, worksheets, and valuable tips for families, the new pyramid for kids encourages everyone to work together to make healthier food choices and be active every day...Click here to visit the USDA website to learn more and play the game. House Moves to Improve Endangered Species Act The House passed legislation this week to update and modernize the Endangered Species Act of 1973. After more than three decades of implementation, the current law that governs threatened and endangered species has failed to achieve its purpose of recovering endangered species to healthy and sustainable populations. In addition, unintended consequences of conflict and litigation have plagued local communities and private property owners. This week's bill fixes the long-outstanding problems of the Endangered Species Act by (1) focusing on species recovery (2) providing incentives (3) increasing openness and accountability (4) strengthening scientific standards (5) creating bigger roles for state and local governments (6) protecting private property owners and (7) eliminating dysfunctional critical habitat designations. House Renews the Violence Against Women Act This week the House approved the bipartisan Justice Department authorization legislation, which included in it a renewal of the Violence Against Women Act. Also included are much-needed reforms to the grant programs at the Department of Justice, including establishing an office to ensure that grant money is being used appropriately to reduce waste, fraud, and abuse. This legislation supports programs to combat domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking by renewing some important core programs such as "STOP" grants, and grants to reduce campus violence. These programs have been successful in combating domestic and family violence. Additionally, the bill supports several new programs, including grants to improve training for court officials and law enforcement, and prevention programs to help children who have been exposed to violence and young families at risk for violence. ANNOUNCEMENTS: Oct 3rd: Service Academy Application Deadline All students who want to apply for a Congressional nomination to one of the four U.S. Military Service Academies should submit their application no later than Monday, October 3, 2005. The four academies are the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Assistance is also provided for the U.S. Coast Guard Academy...Read more. Oct 22nd & 23rd: White House Garden Tours The Annual White House Fall Garden Tour will be held on two dates: Saturday, October 22 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Sunday, October 23 from 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. The tours have been an annual tradition since 1972 when Pat Nixon first opened the gardens to the public. Visitors are invited to view the Jacqueline Kennedy Garden, Rose Garden, Children’s Garden and South Lawn of the White House while military bands perform from a White House balcony...Read more. ABOUT THIS E-UPDATE: This is a weekly e-mail update published when Congress is in session. It is intended to keep those who sign up informed of the issues going on in Congress and of impact to the 40th Congressional district. Helpful Links: Click here to SUBSCRIBE Click here to UNSUBSCRIBE To change your e-mail address use the links above to unsubscribe your old e-mail address and then subscribe with your new e-mail address. Contact Royce: Call: (714) 992-8081, (562) 220-2411, (202) 225-4111 Online: www.royce.house.gov Frequently Asked Questions
09.27.2005	The Annual White House Fall Garden Tour will be held on two dates: Saturday, October 22 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Sunday, October 23 from 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. share: f t The Annual White House Fall Garden Tour will be held on two dates: Saturday, October 22 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Sunday, October 23 from 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. The tours have been an annual tradition since 1972 when Pat Nixon first opened the gardens to the public. Visitors are invited to view the Jacqueline Kennedy Garden, Rose Garden, Children’s Garden and South Lawn of the White House while military bands perform from a White House balcony. The event is open to the public; however, a ticket is required for all attendees, including small children. The National Park Service will distribute free, timed tickets at the Ellipse Visitor Pavilion located at 15th and E Streets on both tour days beginning at 7:30 a.m. Tickets will be distributed, one ticket per person, on a first-come, first-served basis. In case of inclement weather, the Garden Tours will be cancelled. Entry for the Garden Tours will begin on the Ellipse at Sherman Park, just south of the US Treasury Building. Guests will be escorted to the South Lawn per their designated ticket time. In order to facilitate entry into the grounds, carry-in items will be limited. Strollers, wheelchairs and cameras are permitted. For more information on the Garden Tours and other tours in Washington, D.C., please call Congressman Royce's office at (714) 992-8081 or (202) 225-4111.
09.23.2005	Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-40-CA) announced that all students who want to apply for a nomination to one of the U.S. Military Service Academies should submit their application no later than Monday, October 3, 2005. share: f t Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-40-CA) announced that all students who want to apply for a nomination to one of the U.S. Military Service Academies should submit their application no later than Monday, October 3, 2005. Applications should be submitted to Royce's Fullerton office (305 N. Harbor Blvd., Fullerton, CA, 92832) to the attention of Patty Shay. The four academies are the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Assistance is also provided for the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. Additionally, Royce's office will host the last in the current series of service academy information meetings at 7:00 pm, Wednesday, October 12, 2005 in Royce's Fullerton office. This series of meetings profiles and provides information on each of the four service academies that require a Congressional nomination. Please call the Fullerton office (714) 992-8081 for more information.
09.14.2005	Today, the House overwhelmingly passed the Children’s Safety Act of 2005 [H.R. 3132] to help keep children safe from sex offenders and other predators. share: f t Today, the House overwhelmingly passed the Children’s Safety Act of 2005 [H.R. 3132] to help keep children safe from sex offenders and other predators. As a co-sponsor of this important child protection legislation, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) hailed its passage, saying that this bill will update current laws so that parents and the public will have the most accurate information on who is living and working in their communities. “This child safety bill outlines common sense reforms and strong initiatives that will do more to protect our children than any federal law since the establishment of the Amber Alert plan. This bill gives parents peace of mind and a sense of security," said Royce. Over 550,000 registered sex offenders are living in our country today - nearly 103,000 of which live in California. Of the total, approximately 150,000 are "lost" in the system, meaning that non-registered sex offenders are on the streets and in our communities without anyone watching over them. Children are the most likely to be targeted, assaulted or abused by sexual predators. According to the Department of Justice, 67 percent of all victims of sexual assault were under the age of 18, and 34 percent were under the age of 12. One out of seven victims of sexual assault was under the age of six. It was not until 1994 that the law required convicted sex offenders to register their addresses with local law enforcement. Two years later states were required to notify the local communities when sex offenders move into their areas. This requirement is known as "Megan's Law," after 7-year-old Megan Kanka who was murdered by a released sex offender who was living on her street. In light of the high profile, horrific attacks and murders of Jessica Lunsford, Sarah Lunde, Jetseta Gage and others who have recently been killed by sex offenders, it is clear that current laws are not enough. This bill outlines new registration and notification requirements for sexual offenders. "Current laws have been helpful, but it is time for an update. There are gaps in our system that need to be closed before more children are put at risk," said Royce. Sex offenders typically serve only limited sentences and have a very high rate of re-offending. According to the Department of Justice, released sex offenders are four times more likely to be rearrested than other parolees, while child molesters only serve about 43 percent of their sentence. In addition to facing stiffer penalties, with this bill sex offenders will be required to register prior to their release from prison and update their registry information - including Social Security number, fingerprint and photograph - in person at least twice a year. States will be required to keep this information in comprehensive, searchable databases, and share it between agencies when convicted sex offenders move around from state to state. "Sex offenders are not petty criminals. They commit very serious crimes that require a serious response. Parents have a right to the most accurate information. Data collection is key and the new bill will streamline efforts and help states and local communities work together," said Royce. In order to strengthen the security of our children across the country, the legislation: Expands coverage of sex offenders to include any felony sex offense and misdemeanor sex offenses; Expands covered offenses against children to include possession of child pornography as a triggering offense for registration and notification requirements; Requires sex offenders to register prior to release from prison; Increases the duration of required periodic registration; Authorizes the creation of up to ten demonstration programs for electronic monitoring of sex offenders; Ensures mandatory-minimum punishment for violent and sexual crimes against children. Ensures mandatory-minimum punishment for violent and sexual crimes against children.
09.12.2005	The following is a press release issued by Citizens Against Government Waste share: f t The following is a press release issued by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste - - The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) today honored Rep. Edward Royce (R-Calif.) as a Taxpayer Hero for scoring 98 percent on its 2004 Congressional Ratings. The average for the entire House was a record low 39 percent. Since 1989, CCAGW has tracked roll call votes to separate the good stewards of taxpayer dollars from the politicians who support wasteful programs and pork-stuffed spending bills. As one of 61 representatives with a score of 80 percent or higher, Rep. Royce consistently voted to reign in deficit spending, reduce the tax burden, and make government more accountable to taxpayers. “Anyone can talk about cutting waste and taxes. Rep. Royce is of the rare breed who ‘walks the walk’ by voting to ease the burden of a cumbersome, bloated federal government,” CCAGW President Tom Schatz said. For the 108th Congress, second session, CCAGW rated 40 key votes in the House. Rep. Royce helped the House pass marriage penalty relief and an amendment to create a federal sunset commission. Other votes included across-the-board reductions on several appropriations bills and budget reform bills designed to tighten up and instill discipline to government spending. “The budget process is in shambles, devoid of accountability, transparency, and enforcement measures,” Schatz continued. “While most representatives shrugged their shoulders at this dire situation, Rep. Royce voted for all eight budget reform amendments and bills rated by CCAGW.” CCAGW rated votes that altered funding for specific programs, including the Millennium Challenge Account, the Market Access Program, and the United National Education, Science, and Cultural Organization. “Cutting waste is a politically difficult task because almost every program has an active constituency that profits from the status quo,” Schatz continued. “But Rep. Royce recognizes that the federal government must set priorities. He has taken a long-term view of the nation’s fiscal problems and makes a serious effort to tackle the enormous debt being left to future generations.” “With all the special interests in Washington clamoring for handouts from a spendthrift Congress, the fight against big government is an uphill battle. Thanks to people like Rep. Royce, taxpayers have a fighting chance and will continue to score victories,” Schatz concluded. Visit www.ccagw.org for the complete 2004 Congressional Ratings.
09.08.2005	To meet the immediate relief and recovery needs of victims of Hurricane Katrina, a second emergency supplemental appropriations bill [H.R. 3673] of $51.8 billion passed the House today. share: f t To meet the immediate relief and recovery needs of victims of Hurricane Katrina, a second emergency supplemental appropriations bill [H.R. 3673] of $51.8 billion passed the House today. This supplemental is in addition to a relief package that passed last week. The Senate is expected to consider the legislation later today, after which it will be signed into law. "It is important that Congress comes together and supports the victims of Katrina, the worst natural disaster ever to hit our country. The hundreds of thousands of victims need to know that Congress will do whatever is necessary to help them recover and rebuild," said U.S. Rep. Ed Royce. The bill provides an immediate $50 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Disaster Relief Fund. This fund includes individual and housing assistance, such as temporary housing, home repairs medical and funeral costs, replacement of clothing and household items, and moving and storage. This assistance is capped at $26,200 per household. The fund also includes public assistance for such things as debris removal, emergency protective measures, rehabbing transportation systems and controlling water facilities. Additionally, the bill includes $1.4 billion for the Department of Defense, and $400 million for the Army Corps of Engineers to repair damaged infrastructure. Reporting and accountability provisions are included in the bill to protect taxpayer dollars from being misspent or misused. Regular and timely reports on how the disaster funds are being spent are required.
09.02.2005	Today, the House approved a $10.5 billion emergency aid package [H.R. 3645] to assist the victims of Hurricane Katrina, which hit the Gulf Coast and New Orleans. share: f t Today, the House approved a $10.5 billion emergency aid package [H.R. 3645] to assist the victims of Hurricane Katrina, which hit the Gulf Coast and New Orleans. The bill provides an immediate $10 billion to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and $500 million to the Department of Defense for use in the relief efforts. The legislation cleared the Senate on Thursday night and is expected to be signed into law sometime today. Upon passage of the relief bill, U.S. Rep Ed Royce (R-CA-40) issued the following statement: "Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this devastating natural disaster. This bill will provide much needed relief as the rescue and clean-up efforts continue. It is a stop-gap in support; more will likely be forthcoming to assist recovery efforts. "This is a time for Americans to come together as the lives of thousands were torn apart by this destructive hurricane. Victims will need a tremendous amount of support to put back the pieces of their lives. "Congress stands in support of the victims and will do whatever is necessary to assist recovery and relief efforts. Americans who want to help are encouraged to contact their local charities."
09.01.2005	The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the American Red Cross are coming together to co-host September as National Preparedness Month. share: f t The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the American Red Cross are coming together to co-host September as National Preparedness Month. This is a nationwide effort held each year to encourage Americans to take simple steps to prepare themselves for emergencies in their homes, businesses and schools. Events will be held throughout the month to highlight the importance of emergency preparedness and promote individual involvement. "It is important that all Americans take the time now - before emergencies occur - to prepare themselves and their families. The horrific aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in the Gulf Coast and New Orleans is a stark reminder that disasters can happen at anytime and that we can never be too prepared," said Congressman Royce, who pointed out that preparation is not just for terrorism attacks, this also applies to natural disasters like floods and earthquakes. All Americans are encouraged to take some simple steps to prepare for emergencies including getting an emergency supply kit, making a family emergency plan, becoming informed about different threats and getting involved in preparing their communities. "This effort is not designed to scare people, rather it is designed to inform people. No one ever plans or predicts for disasters to happen, but being prepared can help to save you and your family in an emergency situation. Little things like discussing evacuation plans and crafting a family emergency plan can go a long way," said Royce. For more information on how to get yourself and your family prepared, visit the DHS site at www.ready.gov.
08.22.2005	In August, Congressman Royce held two public forums for his 40th District constituents. share: f t In August, Congressman Royce held two public forums for his 40th District constituents. These events were a chance for constituents to talk directly to Royce about the issues that are important to them. Royce was able to listen to concerns and answer questions that attendees had. It was also an opportunity for Royce to give a legislative update on the upcoming fall Congressional agenda. The first was an informal "coffee" at The Coffee Bean on the border of Los Alamitos and Cypress. More than 150 constituents attended to discuss issues or vent concerns with Royce or obtain assistance with problems. Representatives from Royce's Fullerton office was on hand as well to handle any pressing matters constituents may have with various government agencies, from the Social Security Administration to the State Department. The second public event was a "town hall" style meeting held at Orange City Council Chambers. It was a very well attended event, with as many as 100 constituents filling the city council chambers. The event lasted for nearly two hours with topics of discussion ranging from border security, immigration, housing and the global war on terror. Royce holds open-forum type events throughout the year. If you were unable to attend, and have a question or need help with an issue, please contact Royce at either (714) 992-8081 or (202) 225-411.
08.04.2005	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will hold two community forums for constituents on Saturday, August 20, 2005. share: f t U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) will hold two community forums for constituents on Saturday, August 20, 2005. Both events will be a chance for Congressman Royce to give an update on Congressional action and for people to talk directly with Congressman Royce about any issues or concerns they may have. Please call Congressman Royce's Fullerton office at (714) 992-8081 with any questions or for directions. The events will be held: COFFEE WITH THE CONGRESSMAN Saturday, August 20, 2005 9:00-10:30 a.m. The Coffee Bean 4957 Katella Avenue, Suite F Cypress, CA TOWN MEETING Saturday, August 20, 2005 1:00-2:30 p.m. Orange Council Chambers 300 East Chapman Avenue Orange, CA ** PLEASE NOTE UPDATED LOCATIONS **
08.03.2005	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced his appointments from the 40th Congressional District to the United States Service Academies. share: f t U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced his appointments from the 40th Congressional District to the United States Service Academies. Appointments require a Congressional nomination and are based on a candidate's academic achievement, athletic ability, extra-curricular activities and community service. The four academies are the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. "The service academies offer an excellent education and a great opportunity for qualified students. The appointment process is highly selective and I am very proud of all of our students," Royce said. The following is a list of this year's appointments: WEST POINT: Edward Kim (Fullerton, Sunny Hills High School) NAVY: Joseph Choi (Fullerton, Sunny Hills High School) Patrice Sarlese (Fullerton, Rosary High School) AIR FORCE: Ozzie Ortiz (Anaheim, Servite High School) Jonathan McDaniel (Cpyress, Los Alamitos High School) Natasha Marakowski (Fullerton, Sunny Hills High School) Jacob Bailey (La Mirada, Army/Navy Academy) Claire Carlos (Orange, Rosary High School) Siddharth Maru (Placentia, Valencia High School) Joshua Mason (Placentia, El Dorado High School) MERCHANT MARINE: Brandon Brooks (Los Alamitos, Los Alamitos High School)
08.02.2005	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced that Long Nguyen's composite photo of the landmark fountain in The Circle at The Plaza in Orange is the winner of his second annual Congressional High School Art Contest. share: f t U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) announced that Long Nguyen's composite photo of the landmark fountain in The Circle at The Plaza in Orange is the winner of his second annual Congressional High School Art Contest. Nguyen, 16, is from Garden Grove and is a junior at Orange High School. His photo is entitled, "Fountain: Orange Plaza." Nguyen's photo joins other winning works of art by high school students from across the nation. The art will be on display for one year in the Cannon House Office Building tunnel in Washington, D.C., which is the heavily used passageway linking the Cannon building to the U.S. Capitol Building. "This art competition is a great opportunity to showcase the artistic talents of the many creative high school students from all over the United States. Long should be proud of his photograph," said Royce. "With photography, I have gained a different perception of the world around me; everyday objects possess a uniqueness to them that is usually overlooked. Because of this, I am able to recognize art in disregarded objects such as the tall shape and extended arm of a streetlamp, or the interplay of silhouettes of the objects in a dumpster," Nguyen said of his love of photography. Royce's competition was held earlier in the year and was open to all high school students in the 40th Congressional District. Nguyen's photograph was selected out of the 26 pieces that were entered. The competition was a part of a nationwide Congressional High School Art Competition sponsored by the House Congressional Arts Caucus.
06.17.2005	Today, the Bureau of Labor and Statistics released its monthly employment and unemployment statistics. share: f t Today, the Bureau of Labor and Statistics released its monthly employment and unemployment statistics. Signaling good news for Californians, the numbers indicated that the largest employment gains occurred in the Golden State. California added nearly 18,000 jobs during the month of May, while the statewide unemployment rates remained below the national average at five percent. "These numbers are certainly great news for Californians. Our national economy is on a roll and California is leading the way," said Congressman Royce. Nationally over the last two years, 3.5 million jobs have been created across almost all sectors of America's growing economy. The nation's unemployment rate is the lowest it has been since September 2001. The numbers released today are further indication that the American economy has rebounded from the attacks of September 11th, corporate scandals, and the bursting of the tech bubble. With continued job growth, record homeownership rates, and shrinking budget deficits, our economy is strong and getting stronger.
06.17.2005	Today, the House passed legislation that seeks to reform the United Nations, which has been plagued with corruption and mismanagement. share: f t Today, the House passed legislation that seeks to reform the United Nations, which has been plagued with corruption and mismanagement. As a senior member of the House International Relations Committee, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce voiced his strong support for this bill, which calls for the United States to withhold 50 percent of its assessed dues to the U.N. (about $250 million) unless certain reforms are implemented. "The reforms that the Hyde bill calls for are comprehensive, and well-over due," said Royce. The legislation specifically outlines over 40 different reforms that attempt to streamline and prioritize U.N. programs; conduct oversight of the U.N. budget; and instill accountability in U.N. peacekeeping, democracy and human rights operations and activities. The U.S. is responsible for 22 percent of the U.N. budget and therefore has by far the greatest financial interest and investment in the international body. "The United States foots a large part of the U.N. budget. American taxpayers have a financial stake and the current state of affairs at the U.N. doesn't demonstrate a suitable return on our investment," said Royce. Clearly demonstrating the need for reform, the U.N. Oil-for-Food program has been one of the most high profile U.N. scandals. Created in 1996 to help feed the Iraqi people, the Oil-for-Food program has been mired in controversy. Saddam Hussein was able to orchestrate a series of kickbacks and surcharges that through the program to the tune of nearly $10 billion in illicit revenue for the former dictator and his cronies. "If the U.N. is to maintain worldwide credibility and continue protecting those that need protection, then it is in need of some serious reform. This bill sends a strong message to the international community," said Royce. Of particular concern to Congressman Royce is the current state of the U.N. Commission on Human Rights, which allows some of the world's premier human right's abusers, such as Cuba and Sudan, to be members. "The promotion and protection of human rights has been a core task of the U.N. Yet, over the years the Commission on Human Rights has gone from protector of human rights to an accomplice of dictators throughout the world," said Royce. "The U.N. has egregiously failed in this appalling Commission. If the issue were not so serious, it would be laughable." The legislation [H.R. 2745] is named after House International Relations Committee Chairman Henry J. Hyde. It passed the House 221 to 184 and now heads to the Senate for its consideration.
06.16.2005	Today, the federal government kicked off a national effort to raise the public's awareness about the new Medicare prescription drug coverage that will begin enrollment this coming November. share: f t Today, the federal government kicked off a national effort to raise the public's awareness about the new Medicare prescription drug coverage that will begin enrollment this coming November. The benefit is the cornerstone of the Medicare overhaul legislation that passed Congress in 2003, which provides more choices and better benefits to people with Medicare. Over the next few months, this awareness drive will bring together people from all different spectrums together to help educate people with Medicare about the new changes to Medicare. Representatives from the medical fields and local communities will team up with federal and state government officials and agencies to help make sure that seniors and those with disabilities will have all the information they need about the new Medicare plans, including the new Medicare prescription drug coverage. "With this outreach effort, seniors will know where and how to get help. Empowering people with information will allow them to make informed choices. This fall, seniors and people with disabilities will be able to choose to join the plans with the benefits that best meet their needs," said Congressman Royce. To help with their decisions and serve as a point of reference, all people with Medicare will receive a new handbook in October, entitled Medicare & You 2006. This book will detail all the information that seniors and people with disabilities covered under Medicare will need to know about the new plans and programs available to them. The key component of the new Medicare law is the new Medicare prescription drug coverage that will offer seniors, who wish to take part, dependable coverage for prescription drugs beginning on January 1, 2006. Everyone with Medicare is eligible for the new prescription drug coverage, regardless of income level and resources, pre-existing conditions, or current prescription expenses. Medicare prescription drug coverage can help by covering both brand name and generic drugs at nearby participating pharmacies. Of course, seniors who like the plan that they currently have are free to stay where they are; the new Medicare plans are completely optional. Many seniors already have good coverage, such as retiree coverage provided through a former employer, and will choose to keep the coverage they have today, perhaps using Medicare to help with its cost. Under the new plans, help is available to all seniors. Everyone on Medicare will be able get assistance, no matter how they pay for their prescription drugs. On average, Medicare will provide over $1,300 in federal help to each beneficiary. Medicare will also provide extra help to seniors and people with disabilities who have limited incomes and resources. People with Medicare can apply for this extra help right now by calling the Social Security Administration at 1-800-772-1213 or by visiting www.socialsecurity.gov. Later this year, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services will announce the specific details of plans available in different regions of the country, opening the path for seniors to make informed decisions and begin the sign-up process. Seniors will be able to begin the enrollment process for plans and benefits from November 15, 2005 to May 15, 2006. The Medicare prescription drug coverage is slated to begin in January 2006 for those who choose to join before then. People who join by May 15, 2006 will pay a lower monthly premium than if they wait and join later. In addition to the new Medicare prescription drug coverage, Medicare now offers a variety of new programs. Those programs include coverage for preventive care like the "Welcome to Medicare" physical and cardiovascular and diabetes screenings. Congress added these new benefits to an array of preventive services including coverage for vaccinations, bone mass measurement, glaucoma screenings, medical nutrition therapy and screenings for cancers of the colon, breast, cervix and prostate. Medicare covers all of these services right now, so people with Medicare should contact their health care professional to find out how these services can help detect potential problems early, when treatment works best. For any questions or for more information on the new Medicare plans or the new coverage for preventive care, seniors and people with disabilities are encouraged to call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227) or visit www.medicare.gov. Assistance is also available for seniors through Congressman Royce's office at (714) 992-8081.
05.13.2005	In an effort to enhance and transform our military to meet changing global threats, the Defense Department today announced its recommendations to close or realign military facilities in the United States. share: f t In an effort to enhance and transform our military to meet changing global threats, the Defense Department today announced its recommendations to close or realign military facilities across the United States. This announcement was a part of the scheduled Base Realignment and Closure process, which is more commonly referred to by its acronym BRAC. BRAC is the procedure by which our military reorganizes itself to be more efficient and effective in supporting our forces, increasing operational readiness and facilitating new ways of operating. On the whole, California faired the 2005 BRAC process well. The 40th Congressional District is home to the Los Alamitos Joint Forces Training Base, which was recommended for realignment only, not closure. This means that the 63rd Regional Readiness Command will move to Moffett, California. "While the realignment will certainly have an impact, when faced with a complete closure, this announcement is certainly welcome news. Hopefully, the realignment will open up new opportunities for increased operations to be housed at the base, including more homeland security functions," said Congressman Royce, who spoke with Base Commander Colonel Gregory Peck about the changes. The Joint Forces Training Base provides military readiness and disaster support in the largest metropolitan area in California. The base sustains the operations of many federal, state and local agencies. It currently houses numerous federal, state, and other agencies, including the 9th Civil Support Team and 38 other military units. More than 5,000 military Reserves train at the Base. The airfield at the base is the sole remaining military airfield in the Los Angeles and Orange County areas. The base is designated as the State Disaster Support Area for Southern California, one of only two in the entire state. The base, with its airfield, military tenants, and federal and state operations, is critically important to the federal and state contingency operations and is a part of all of Southern California's disaster support plans. During last year's devastating brush and forest fires, it served as the regional command center for staging aerial firefighting operations. The base also played a similar role during the recent rainstorms by serving as a regional platform for monitoring and responding to floods and mudslides in fire-ravaged areas. In 2004, Congressman Royce helped to secure $21 million for infrastructure upgrades at the base. Repairs, which are now underway, include replacing undependable, unsafe, and dilapidated electrical, gas, water and communication hardware. "The Los Alamitos Base is an important asset to our country, to Southern California and to our local community. This utility delivery system upgrade will ensure that the Base can maintain all of its vital operations," Royce A BRAC Commission has been established to review today's recommendations by the Defense Department and take comment from the local communities that will be affected by closure and realignment. Once the review is completed (September 2005), the Commission will present its findings to the President who must approve, sending it to Congress for their approval. Congress must approve and appropriate the actions. The entire process will mostly be finished by the end of 2005. According to the Department of Defense, this recommendation, if fully implemented, will generate an estimated net savings of nearly $50 billion over the next two decades. Visit the BRAC website for more information: www.defenselink.mil/brac
05.12.2005	Congressmen Ed Royce (R-CA) and Paul E. Kanjorski (D-PA), two senior Members of the House Financial Services Committee, today unveiled a revised bill that will modernize and improve the quality of service that our nation’s credit unions provide. share: f t Congressmen Ed Royce (R-CA) and Paul E. Kanjorski (D-PA), two senior Members of the House Financial Services Committee, today unveiled a revised bill that will modernize and improve the quality of service that our nation’s credit unions provide. Often referred to by its acronym of CURIA, the new Credit Union Regulatory Improvements Act of 2005 [H.R. 2317] combines a series of regulatory enhancements that will allow credit unions to operate more effectively and efficiently. Specifically, CURIA modernizes credit union net worth standards; advances credit union efforts to assist small businesses and promote economic growth; and modifies credit union regulatory standards by eliminating unnecessary, burdensome and outdated regulations, as well as making other reforms to credit union oversight and governance. “The new CURIA is a comprehensive bill that will help credit unions to provide better services to their 86 million members,” said Congressman Royce. “CURIA’s improved safety-and-soundness provisions are of the utmost importance to me. Based on the recent recommendations of the federal credit union regulator, these enhanced risk-based standards will ensure the efficient allocation of capital, while protecting taxpayers.” CURIA improves upon similar bipartisan legislation introduced in the 108th Congress, primarily in the area of credit union capital standards. In order to make these standards comparable to those now in place for FDIC-insured financial institutions, the new CURIA implements a risk-based capital system for credit unions. The bill’s provisions establish risk-based capital requirements and revise the minimum capital standards for credit unions. These changes are based on recent recommendations by the National Credit Union Administration. “We developed the new CURIA to address concerns raised by leaders in the credit union community and others,” noted Congressman Kanjorski. “For example, small businesses are the backbone of our economy and they need loans to survive and grow. However, loans to small businesses have materially decreased, according to new studies by the Small Business Administration and the Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank. In order to allow small businesses to continue to create more jobs and spur economic growth, the new CURIA will help credit unions to fill this void.” Like the prior legislation, the new CURIA raises the arbitrary cap on member business lending by credit unions imposed by Congress during consideration of the Credit Union Membership Access Act of 1998. The bill will also help credit unions to promote economic growth in underserved communities. “Credit unions today are among the most highly regulated and restricted of all depository institutions. The new CURIA will ease these regulatory burdens responsibly and help credit unions to succeed in the 21st Century,” added Congressman Kanjorski. A bipartisan group of more than a dozen Members joined Congressmen Royce and Kanjorski to introduce the improved bill, signaling that momentum for the new CURIA is already building. The Financial Services Committee is expected to begin consideration of the issues raised in the new CURIA during the hearings on regulatory relief scheduled for later in May. Saying that CURIA will allow credit unions to better serve their members, Sharon Custer, an executive with BMI Federal Credit Union in Columbus, Ohio, commented, “As a not-for-profit cooperative, our credit union exists to serve our members. We must be able to offer the quality services our members want, or they will go elsewhere for them. I am very supportive of CURIA because it will give my credit union the flexibility it needs to grow, keep pace with our members’ needs, and attract the next generation of our membership.” Congressman Royce concluded, “In the last Congress, similar legislation garnered the support of nearly 70 Members of Congress. The new CURIA is greatly improved and builds upon recommendations made by many experts, including credit union regulators and executives. We therefore hope to get even greater support in the 109th Congress for the new CURIA and enact this important bipartisan legislation into law.”
05.11.2005	While national crime rates continue to decline, gang related violence has risen. To confront the growing national problem of gang violence, the House passed the Gang Deterrence and Community Protection Act of 2005 [H.R. 1279]. share: f t While national crime rates continue to decline, gang related violence has risen. To confront the growing national problem of gang violence, the House passed the Gang Deterrence and Community Protection Act of 2005 [H.R. 1279]. As a strong supporter, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) voted for this legislation, which now heads to the Senate for approval. This bill is a comprehensive plan that will increase gang related prosecutions, and prevent gang related crime. It seeks to break apart criminal gang networks by increasing tools and resources for local, state, and federal police. It also provides tough sentences for violent criminal gang acts. "The goal of this bill is simple: to remove gang members from the streets. Its arms our law enforcement officers and prosecutors with the tools they need to go after the gangs that arr threatening our communities," Royce said. This bill will define a criminal street gang as a formal or informal group of three or more individuals that commits two or more gang crimes, one of which is a crime of violence, in two or more separate episodes. Also, it will: Allow joint federal, state, and local gang investigation and prosecution; Create a statute to prosecute criminal gang enterprises similar to the existing RICO statute used to prosecute federal racketeering; Create mandatory minimum sentences for gang crimes and violent crimes; and Provide for gang investigation technology, joint databases, and law enforcement and prosecution training. "The problem of illegal immigration has many far-reaching, negative effects, including a strong impact on gang violence. Recently, we have witnessed the crimes of the violent street gang Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13, a Central America-rooted gang - this country's largest and most violent criminal organization," said Royce. MS-13 was organized in Los Angeles in the late 1980s. It since has spread nationwide, and is active in 30 states, according to U.S. intelligence and law-enforcement authorities. Gang members include suspected criminals from Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico. MS-13 members in the United States have been tied to immigration violations, murders, robberies, burglaries, carjackings, extortion, rapes and aggravated assaults. In September, The Washington Times reported that a top al Qaeda lieutenant had met with MS-13 to seek help infiltrating the U.S.-Mexico border. Authorities said at the time that Adnan G. El Shukrijumah, a key al Qaeda cell leader, was spotted in July in Honduras with MS-13 leaders. MS-13 is also thought to have established a major smuggling center in Mexico, where it has arranged to bring illegal aliens from countries other than Mexico into the United States. Because of the threat posed by gangs like MS-13, Royce strongly supported the amendments that were eventually adopted in the House-passed bill. The first amendment adds five years to any sentence for violent crime for drug trafficking when the offender is an illegal alien, and adds 15 years to a sentence if the alien has previously been deported for a criminal offense and subsequently committed a crime of violence or drug trafficking. It also requires the Homeland Security Department to give the National Crime Information Center the names of all individuals subject to deportation orders or who have signed voluntary deportation papers. The second amendment requires the Justice and Homeland Security Departments to conduct a joint study and to report to Congress within one year on the connection between illegal aliens and gang membership. "Gangs are no longer a problem just for big cities, they are expanding nationwide and impacting our local towns and neighborhoods. What was once an urban problem is now quickly becoming a suburban and rural reality. This bill is a common-sense approach to reducing gang violence," said Royce.
04.21.2005	Congressman Royce will be hosting two coffee events in April. share: f t Congressman Royce will be hosting two coffee events in April. All are invited to come and have a cup of coffee with Congressman Royce. These events will be opportunities for his constituents to talk with him about any issues or problems they may have, or just to relax and chat over a cup of coffee. The first coffee will be Saturday, April 16th from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. at Diedrich Coffee, which is located at 44 Plaza Square in Orange, CA. The second coffee will be on Saturday, April 30th from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. at the Los Alamitos City Council Chambers, which is located at 3191 Katella Avenue in Los Alamitos, CA. Please call Royce's Fullerton office at (714) 992-8081 for more information or with any questions.
04.21.2005	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) welcomes all interested students to a series of four informational meetings about the U.S. Military Service Academies. share: f t U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) welcomes all interested students to a series of four informational meetings about the U.S. Military Service Academies. The meetings will be held at 7:00 p.m. between May and October 2005 in Royce's office located at 305 N. Harbor Blvd, Suite 300 in Fullerton. The first meeting will be held on Wednesday, May 11, 2005. Subsequent meetings will be held on June 22nd, September 21st and October 12th. Each meeting will cover a different aspect of the highly competitive process. "Our U.S. Military Service Academies offer an excellent education and a great opportunity for qualified students to serve their country. I want to make sure all those who are interested in being nominated have all the information they need to compete for admission," said Royce. The four academies include the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point and the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Information about the U.S. Coast Guard Academy will also be included in the program. Nominations to these academies are based on a candidate's high school ranking, grade point average, SAT or ACT scores, athletic ability and leadership potential as demonstrated in extra-curricular activities, community affairs or part-time employment. "Although the process is competitive, we are lucky here in Orange County to have many of the nation's best and brightest students. I encourage all those who are interested to attend. These are important first-step meetings," said Royce, who has successfully placed more than 200 students since 1993. All interested persons are invited to attend, however, only residents of the 40th Congressional District can be considered for nomination. The 40th District includes all or part of the following cities: Anaheim, Buena Park, Cypress, Fullerton, Garden Grove, La Palma, Los Alamitos, Orange, Placentia, Rossmoor, Stanton, Villa Park and Westminster. Interested students should contact Royce's Senior Staff Assistant Patty Shay at (714) 992-8081 for information about these meetings or to learn more about the academies.
04.15.2005	Today, the House Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Nonproliferation (ITNP) held a hearing on the challenges of averting nuclear terrorism. share: f t Today, the House Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Nonproliferation (ITNP) held a hearing on the challenges of averting nuclear terrorism. ITNP Chairman U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) issued the following opening statement: "A terrorist nuclear attack on U.S. soil would likely take a devastating toll in lives and property, with unimaginable consequences for the American economy and way of life. Terrorists groups, primarily al Qaeda, but maybe others, are pursuing nuclear capabilities. The 9/11 Commission report stated that al Qaeda efforts to acquire nuclear weapons reach back at least ten years. A spokesman of Osama bin Laden has said that al Qaeda aspires to kill four million Americans. Bin Laden has sought and received from a radical Saudi cleric a fatwa sanctioning a nuclear strike against U.S. civilians. "It is hard to gauge the likelihood of terrorists accessing a nuclear weapon and delivering it against the United States. Some believe that building a crude nuclear weapon would be well within the technological reach of terrorists once they secured the necessary amount of fissile material. We do not have the luxury of assuming a high hurdle. Last year, a Pentagon group reported, 'Nuclear knowledge, materials, and weapons are oozing out of control. Nuclear weapons technology and knowledge continue to spread. Nuclear explosives themselves, and nuclear materials, are spreading into hands hostile or potentially hostile to the United States.' Russia, with vast nuclear stockpiles and growing terrorist activity, has been a country of considerable concern. So are Iran and North Korea, two sponsors of terrorism with advanced nuclear capabilities. "The A.Q. Khan network is another wake-up call. Before this sophisticated network was exposed, key nuclear technology was transferred from Pakistan to Libya, Iran and elsewhere. Anyone with money, it appears, could have acquired nuclear technology. Once secured, terrorists may try to smuggle a nuclear weapon into the U.S., using the routes by which large quantities of contraband is routinely smuggled into our country. I am particularly concerned about our porous borders, where we need to improve security quickly. Passage of the REAL ID Act by the Senate is critical. "Throughout the Cold War, containing the Soviet Union was the central principle of U.S. foreign policy. Fending off Russian expansionism guided our alliance, military, and economic policies. Those who believe that the world is at a turning point today, with terrorist groups seeking to acquire nuclear weapons material, posing a mortal threat, ask whether nuclear terrorism is near the focus that the Soviet threat was. I know that answer. "Today we will hear about research efforts aimed at better identifying an exploded nuclear weapon's origin through forensic examination. This information would be critical in directing our reaction to a nuclear attack. More hopefully, it could help prevent an attack from ever happening. Potential state sponsors of nuclear terrorism might pause before sharing nuclear material and technology with terrorists if they knew this aid would be traced back to their capital. Not all would-be nuclear terrorists hold religious or apocalyptical beliefs that welcome death. Some might be less inclined to attack U.S. targets if they knew that they would be held accountable, as were the Taliban, many who were killed in response to the 9/11 attacks. "This hearing will focus on the challenges of averting nuclear terrorism. Future planned hearings will look in detail at specific U.S. policies and programs designed to avoid the ultimate terrorist attack, such as the Proliferation Security Initiative, which has helped reduce this threat."
04.12.2005	Saying that Charles Taylor is undermining peace and security in Liberia and throughout West Africa, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) introduced a Congressional resolution share: f t Saying that Charles Taylor is undermining peace and security in Liberia and throughout West Africa, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) introduced a Congressional resolution [H.Con.Res 127] today calling on Nigeria to turn over the former Liberian President to the Special Court for Sierra Leone (SCSL). The SCSL has indicted Taylor for his role in committing war crimes, human rights violations and other atrocities during the war in Sierra Leone in the late 1990's. "Taylor was responsible for mass carnage in Sierra Leone. There have been numerous reports of his violations of the terms of his asylum; he should be turned over and have to face the Court," said Royce. The SCSL has indicted Taylor on 17 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity based on his role in directly supporting the actions of the rebel Revolutionary United Front, which include widespread and systematic attacks upon the civilian population of Sierra Leone. The charges against Taylor include terrorizing civilians, mass murder, rape, abduction, forced labor, and cutting off of limbs. "The international community cannot allow Taylor to evade responsibility for his unconscionable actions. The Court was established to bring those who bear the greatest responsibility to justice; Charles Taylor undoubtedly bears the greatest responsibility," said Royce. In 2003, Taylor was granted an internal asylum by Nigeria if he agreed to end his involvement in Liberian politics. "The U.S. has invested too much in Liberia to allow Taylor a soft exile. Taylor is a serious and continuing threat to West African peace and security. We know he remains in contact with his cronies. This is counter to U.S. interests as well," said Royce. Royce is the Vice-Chairman of the House Subcommittee that deals with African issues and has been focused on bringing Taylor to justice since 1997. The resolution is cosponsored by Rep. Tom Lantos, the senior Committee on International Relations Democrat, Rep. Frank Wolf, Rep. Vic Snyder, and Rep. Sue Kelly.
04.06.2005	A bill authored by U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) clarifying current law governing the mortgage servicing industry cleared the House today. share: f t A bill authored by U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) clarifying current law governing the mortgage servicing industry cleared the House today. The bipartisan Mortgage Servicing Clarification Act [H.R. 1025] now heads to the Senate for consideration. "When someone takes out a loan to buy a house, it is common for their mortgage to change mortgage service providers several times over the life of their loan. This bill will allow for a more productive relationship between a homeowner and their service provider," said Royce, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee. Currently, when a mortgage servicing company acquires the rights to service a portfolio of home loans a small percentage of the loans will inevitably be delinquent or technically "in default" at the time of transfer. Under the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act (FDCPA), mortgage servicers are required to provide a so-called "Miranda notice" to their new customers. This notice is required when the servicer makes initial contact with the customer, often included in a new client's "welcome" letter. "Millions of Americans who own a home can relate to this process. Maybe you were out of town and were late with your mortgage payment, and the first contact from a new mortgage company, perhaps a company you have never heard of before, is a letter telling you your mortgage payment is in default and you are a delinquent. Understandably, this current process does not contribute to a good relationship between you and your new mortgage service provider," said Royce. Royce said that these notices often mislead borrowers, confusing them about the nature of the relationship with their new servicer. The harshly worded notices scare consumers, and often have an unintended consequence of discouraging borrowers from contacting their new service providers. Today's legislation would create a narrow exemption from Miranda notices for the servicers of federally-related first lien mortgages, and leave all other substantive borrower protections required by the FDCPA in place. "The goal is to get borrowers who are late on payments back on track, not to discourage them from working with their new service providers. The Miranda warnings are counterproductive, and this legislation clarifies current law to ensure a more productive relationship between a borrower and a service provider from the start," said Royce.
03.29.2005	Calling attention to critically important border protection and national security legislation, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) share: f t Calling attention to critically important border protection and national security legislation, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) joined House Armed Services Committee Chairman Duncan Hunter, House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner, and Rep. Duke Cunningham for a press conference at "Smugglers' Gulch" on the U.S.-Mexico border. The event urged the Senate to pass the REAL ID Act [H.R. 418.] The REAL ID Act, which is cosponsored by Royce, passed the House in February, and will be considered by the Senate in April. It will enhance security at our borders, prevent terrorist travel within our country, and require the completion of the San Diego 14-mile security fence on the U.S.-Mexico border. "Border security must be a pillar of our national security policy. This bill closes the well-known and often exploited loopholes in our system. The provisions are simple and common-sense, and will help to protect us in the future," said Royce. The REAL ID Act will reform drivers' license standards, limit the abuse of our asylum laws, defend our borders, strengthen our deportation laws and complete the security fence in San Diego. It will protect our homeland by: ü Requiring ID applicants to provide proof that they are in the country legally; ü Requiring identity documents to expire at the same time as the expiration of lawful entry status, preventing those who have illegally entered or are unlawfully present in the U.S. from having valid identification documents; ü Strengthening judges' ability to determine whether the asylum seeker is truthful by codifying the factors immigration judges use to assess credibility; ü Requiring the completion of the San Diego 14-mile security fence on the US-Mexican border; and ü Providing that any alien contributing funds to a terrorist organization would be deportable. The following is Royce's statement at the event, as prepared: "I am Congressman Ed Royce from Orange County, California. I chair the Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Nonproliferation in the House. "Border security must be considered a pillar in our national security policy. Even after the devastating attacks on our country, it is not seen as a top priority - that frustrates us. In recent weeks, senior government officials have told Congress that intelligence 'strongly suggests' that al Qaeda operatives have considered using the Mexican border as an entry point. For my colleagues and I - who have been watching this issues for sometime - this stark statement came as no surprise. "We know from the 9/11 Commission that Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, who masterminded the September 11th attacks, had a keen interest in smuggling al Qaeda operatives across this border. The number of individuals coming across the border that originate from countries other than Mexico is alarming. This includes individuals from countries such as Saudi Arabia, Yemen, and Algeria - the top three countries that al Qaeda operatives are recruited from. Our FBI Director recently testified that there have been indications of individuals from counties with known al Qaeda connections changing their Islamic surnames to Hispanic, using false identities, and attempting to enter the country. Add to this mix violent, international gangs, like MS-13 which has a proven track record in human smuggling, and the threat becomes ever more heightened. "That is why we are here today - to see that the Senate will take up legislation that will complete this border fence. We are in a war with terrorists seeking to exploit our vulnerabilities. Knowing this threat, we have to ask ourselves, who should be setting our nation's counterterrorism policy? The California Costal Commission, or the Department of Homeland Security? The answer is clear. "Al Qaeda and its offshoots are smart. They are patient. They study and learn. There is no reason to believe that al Qaeda operatives would not view our porous border as a window of opportunity. It is often said that we will need to use every tool at our disposal to defeat terrorism. Border security is a tool that needs to be taken out of the toolbox and put to work."
03.28.2005	On Tuesday, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) will join House Armed Services Committee Chairman Duncan Hunter share: f t On Tuesday, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) will join House Armed Services Committee Chairman Duncan Hunter, House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner, and Rep. Duke Cunningham for a press conference to urge the passage of the REAL ID Act [H.R. 418.] The REAL ID Act passed the House in February, and will be considered by Senate in April. It will enhance security at our borders, prevent terrorist travel within our country, and require the completion of the San Diego 14-mile security fence on the U.S.-Mexico border. Details of the press conference are as follows: What: Press Conference Urging Passage of REAL ID Act Who: Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40); House Armed Services Committee Chairman Duncan Hunter (R-CA-52); House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-WI-5); and Rep. Duke Cunningham (R-CA-50) When: Tuesday, March 29th, 2:30 p.m. Where: "Smugglers' Gulch" section of U.S.-Mexico border
03.18.2005	This month on the "Royce Report," Congressman Royce hosts two members of his Fullerton office staff: Patty Shay and Monica Rea. share: f t This month on the "Royce Report," Congressman Royce hosts two members of his Fullerton office staff: Patty Shay and Monica Rea. The show discusses the many constituent services provided by Royce's Congressional District office. Helping constituents cut through the red tape of a federal agency or office is one of the most important ways their Congressional District office can help them. If constituents are having a problem with a department of the federal government, sometimes just knowing where to start can be frustrating or confusing. Problems can arise with Social Security, getting passports or visas, obtaining veteran benefits, or not receiving mail on time from the Post Office. Royce's Fullerton office is staffed by constituent services representatives, including Patty and Monica, who are trained and specialize in dealing with specific federal agencies. Tune into the "Royce Report" to listen Patty and Monica talk about the many different problems that constituents can get help with. They discuss how constituents can go about getting help and they give tips on navigating the often-confusing federal system. The "Royce Report" is a half-hour, pubic policy show hosted by Congressman Royce, which focuses on issues of importance to Southern California residents. For a listing of show times and channels, visit the "Royce Report" webpage. For more information on getting help with a federal agency, visit Congressman Royce's federal agency help webpage. Here are just some ways the Fullerton Congressional District office can help: Federal employees: Workers Compensation claims, federal unemployment benefits Home Buyers: FMHA, FHA, HUD and VA home loan application problems Local Needs: Disaster assistance, regulation compliance and federal grant application assistance, U.S. mail delivery problems Passports: Passport application process, application location, emergency help with expired passports Senior Citizens: Social Security, disability, SSI, and Medicare benefit problems Small Businesses: SBA loan applications, technical assistance and interpretation of federal regulations Students: Federal financial aid, U.S. Military Academy nominations, U.S. House of Representatives Page Program, internships Taxpayers: IRS tax problems USCIS: USCIS problems, assistance with applications or petitions, help with delayed or lost applications Veterans: VA claims and military service problems, help with obtaining military records or service medals
03.15.2005	Today, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) declared parts of California as major disasters areas because of the effects of the recent series of severe storms. share: f t Today, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) declared parts of California as major disasters areas because of the effects of the recent series of severe storms. This declaration opens the way for the use of federal funds to cover damage to private and public property from the storms, flooding, debris flows and mudslides that occurred over the period of December 27, 2004 through January 11, 2005. At the request of California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, seven Southern California counties (San Bernardino, Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, Santa Barbara, San Diego and Ventura) became eligible for public assistance funding under President Bush's federal disaster declaration on February 4, 2005. In Orange County, federal funds will be provided to pay for eligible costs for repairing or replacing damaged facilities. Additionally, further funds will be available in Orange County for approved hazard mitigation projects. Residents and business owners who were affected by the storms which occurred between December 27, 2004 through January 11, 2005 should begin their disaster claim application process as soon as possible. They may register their claim online at FEMA's website or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY). If you or someone you know needs help with the application process or has any questions, please call Congressman Royce's Fullerton office at (714) 992-8081. If you have already have filed a claim with FEMA, refilling is not necessary, however you may call 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) for a status update. For more information and a full list of counties and areas that are eligible for assistance, please visit FEMA's website or California's Office of Emergency Services.
03.14.2005	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) is holding his second annual "Congressional High School Art Competition." share: f t U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) is holding his second annual "Congressional High School Art Competition." All interested high school artists in the 40th Congressional District may participate by submitting their entries by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, May 6, 2005, to Royce's office in Fullerton, located at 305 North Harbor Blvd., Suite 300. The winner will be announced no later than May 20th. "This is a great opportunity to showcase the artistic talents of the many creative high school students in our area. I encourage all of our local students to submit their favorite piece of artwork for the competition," said Royce. The winning piece of art will be displayed in the Cannon House Office Building Tunnel, a high-traffic, pedestrian walkway leading to the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. It will be a part of a national exhibition of winners from other Congressional Districts around the country. In addition, the winning artist will be invited to the unveiling ceremony in Washington, D.C. "We have some very talented young students in our area and I look forward to viewing all the submissions. It will be an honor to take the winning piece of art to Washington, D.C. to hang in the Capitol Building," said Royce, who recently sent a letter to many public high schools in the area explaining the program and encouraging participation. The Savannah College of Art and Design will be participating in this year's Congressional High School Art Competition by offering a $3,000 Artistic Merit Scholarship to the winner from each Congressional District. All artwork must be original, appropriate to hang in the Capitol Building, two-dimensional, and no larger than 32 inches by 32 inches. For a complete set of guidelines and to obtain the necessary submission forms, please contact Lou Penrose in Royce's office at (714) 992-8081, or visit www.royce.house.gov/ConstituentServices/artcompetition.htm. The competition is open to high school students in the 40th Congressional District, which includes all or parts of the cities of Fullerton, Placentia, Anaheim, Villa Park, Orange, Garden Grove, Westminster, Stanton, Los Alamitos, Rossmoor, Cypress, La Palma and Buena Park.
02.25.2005	Each year, a select group of young men and women are appointed by their Member of Congress to work as Pages in the U.S. House of Representatives. share: f t Each year, a select group of young men and women are appointed by their Member of Congress to work as Pages in the U.S. House of Representatives. U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Fullerton) is currently collecting applications for the Summer 2005 Page session from all interested students who live in the 40th Congressional district. The deadline for submission of completed applications is Tuesday, March 29th at 5:00 p.m. to Royce's Fullerton office, located at 305 N. Harbor Blvd, Suite 300. Pages are hired by the U.S. House of Representatives to live, work and study in Washington, D.C. They serve as support staff for the U.S. House of Representatives, either for a full school year or for one of two summer sessions. To be qualified to serve as a Page, all applicants must be at least 16 years of age at the time their appointment begins and have a cumulative grade point average of a "B" or better in the five major subjects. Additionally, summer program applicants may only serve as a Page during the summer before or the summer after their junior year of high school. School year Page Program applicants may only serve for their junior year of high school. The first summer session of 2005 will last from June 13th to July 1st and the second summer session will begin July 11th and conclude July 29th. Among application requirements, applicants must have parental consent, complete an application form, submit an official high school transcript, and write a 50 to 100-word essay on why they want to be a Page. All interested students should call Patty Shay in Royce's Fullerton office at (714) 992-8081 for complete application information.
02.25.2005	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) will hold the annual U.S. Military Service Academy Information Night on Tuesday, March 15, 2005, at Orange High School, located at 525 North Shaffer Street. share: f t U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) will hold the annual U.S. Military Service Academy Information Night on Tuesday, March 15, 2005, at Orange High School, located at 525 North Shaffer Street. The meeting will begin at 7:00 pm in the Little Theater, which is located next to the parking lot. "This meeting is vital for those interested in attending West Point, Annapolis, the Air Force Academy, the Coast Guard Academy, or the Merchant Marine Academy. It's an excellent opportunity for students and their families to plan for the future," said Royce. The meeting will profile each of the four service academies that require a Congressional nomination: Military Academy at West Point; Naval Academy at Annapolis; Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point; and Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. A representative from each service academy will be on hand to answer questions. In addition, Midshipmen from Annapolis will be there to field questions about their experiences going through the U.S. Naval Academy. For more information, contact Patty Shay in Royce's Fullerton office at (714) 992-8081.
02.10.2005	Today, the House passed legislation cosponsored by U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) that would enhance security at our borders and prevent terrorist travel within our country. share: f t Today, the House passed legislation cosponsored by U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) that would enhance security at our borders and prevent terrorist travel within our country. The Real ID Act [H.R. 418] completes the counterterrorism measures recommended by the 9/11 Commission. It passed by a vote of 261-161 and now heads to the Senate for approval. "Border security must be a pillar of our national security policy. This bill closes the well-known and often exploited loopholes in our system. The provisions are simple and common-sense and will help to protect us in the future," said Royce. The Real ID Act would reform drivers license standards, limit the abuse of our asylum laws, defend our borders, and strengthen our deportation laws. It will protect our homeland by: Requiring ID applicants to provide proof that they are in the country legally; Requiring identity documents to expire at the same time as the expiration of lawful entry status, preventing those who have illegally entered or are unlawfully present in the U.S. from having valid identification documents; Strengthening judges' ability to determine whether the asylum seeker is truthful by codifying the factors immigration judges use to assess credibility; Requiring the completion of the San Diego 14-mile security fence on the US-Mexican border; and Providing that any alien contributing funds to a terrorist organization would be deportable. "The independent 9/11 Commission's mission was to find out what happened in the years and months leading up to the attack on our country in which nearly 3,000 people were killed. They discovered that by taking advantage of the cracks in our system 19 hijackers were able to move in and out of our country and travel around virtually undetected," said Royce. "We know how these terrorists were able to attack us, it is time that we closed the loopholes that allowed them to do it, so that we can protect ourselves in the future."
02.09.2005	Today, the House of Representatives began debate on the Real ID Act [H.R. 418], border security and anti-terrorist travel legislation. share: f t Today, the House of Representatives began debate on the Real ID Act [H.R. 418], border security and anti-terrorist travel legislation. U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) is a co-sponsor of this important bill, which completes the homeland security recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission. Royce is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism and Nonproliferation. The Real ID Act would reform drivers license standards, close loopholes in our asylum laws, defend our borders, and strengthen our deportation laws. During debate, Royce issued the following statement: "I rise in strong support of this counterterrorism bill, which I cosponsored. H.R. 418, the Real ID Act, closes the three-mile hole in the fortified U.S./Mexico Border fence near San Diego. Border Security must be a pillar of our national security policy. Recent press accounts have reported that Al Qaeda operatives have joined forces with alien smuggling rings in order to enter the United States, particularly through our porous southern border. "This bill establishes strong security standards for the issuance of drivers licenses that all states must comply with to eliminate weak links in identity security. The nineteen 9/11 hijackers had 63 validly-issued U.S. drivers licenses and other forms of identification between them. They were using these IDs to move around the country undetected - plotting and planning. In fact, as many as eight of them were even registered to vote. They then used those bogus licenses to board U.S. planes. "H.R. 418 cracks down on asylum fraud, by ensuring all terrorism-related grounds of inadmissibility are grounds for deportation. The 'Blind Sheik,' Omar Abdel Rahman, who led a plot to bomb New York City landmarks used an asylum application to avoid deportation. It is a fact that terrorists have and continue to abuse our asylum laws to stay in this country. As the 9/11 Commission found abusing our asylum laws is 'the primary method' used by terrorist aliens, like 1993 World Trade Center bombers Ramzi Yousef and Ahmad Ajaj, to remain in the United States. Both 'concocted bogus political asylum stories when they arrived in the United States.' This counterterrorism bill would make it harder for terrorists like Yousef and Ajaj to abuse our asylum system. "These provisions are simple, commonsense things we can do to protect ourselves from another terrorist attack."
02.02.2005	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) was again tapped to be a member of the International Relations Committee's Africa panel for the 109th Congress. share: f t U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) was again tapped to be a member of the International Relations Committee's Africa panel for the 109th Congress. For the past eight years, Royce has served as the Africa Subcommittee Chairman, but now turns over the gavel in order to chair the Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Nonproliferation. "The stakes for the United States in Africa are high and are only getting higher. American interests in the continent are destined to grow. It has been a privilege to chair the Subcommittee on Africa. As a member of this important Subcommittee, I will remain closely involved in Africa policy," said Royce. Over the past eight years, Royce has chaired some 70 hearings examining a wide range of issues of importance to Africa and the United States. He has shepherded through Congress several legislative initiatives and numerous resolutions affecting U.S.-Africa relations. He has been one of the key backers of the bipartisan African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) of 2000, which has been amended and improved in 2002 and 2004. "Of all our work, I am most proud of the AGOA. AGOA has unquestionably improved the lives of millions on Africans, encouraged reform throughout Africa, and generated good will for the United States," said Royce, who has led several delegations to Africa, and participated in President Clinton’s historic 1998 trip to Africa. Royce intends to continue working on increasing trade between the U.S. and Africa. He will also focus on conflict resolution efforts in Africa, including Sudan and Liberia. In addition, Royce plans on using his new Chairmanship of the International Terrorism and Nonproliferation Subcommittee to focus on several African issues, including the spread of radical Islam in Africa and U.S. security cooperation with African governments. "Africa faces plenty of terrorism challenges. The continent deserves to be a big part of the U.S. counter-terrorist agenda. My Subcommittee will keep Africa a top focus," said Royce, who has just returned from a trip to Chad and Algeria to examine their efforts to combat terrorism. Royce also expressed his appreciation for Africa Subcommittee ranking member Don Payne (D-NJ). The two have worked together on several initiatives and in 2004, the Africa Society presented the "Visionary Award" to both Royce and Payne. "I have long admired Don Payne’s work on Africa. He is second to none in the Congress when it comes to being committed to Africa," said Royce. U.S. Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ) will be the new Chairman of what is now the Committee on Africa, Global Human Rights and International Operations.
02.02.2005	U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) was named Chairman of the International Relations Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Nonproliferation for the 109th Congress. share: f t U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) was named Chairman of the International Relations Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Nonproliferation for the 109th Congress. Royce issued the following statement: "I am honored that Chairman Henry Hyde has entrusted me with this important post. As our nation wages the battle against terrorism, we need to use every tool at our disposal. Congress is central to this fight. "One of my main focuses will be the catastrophic, global threat posed by Islamist terrorism, especially the al-Qaeda network. These threats were well documented by the 9/11 Commission. I plan to tackle these very important issues head-on. "Just as important as our strategy to attack and kill terrorist cells, is our strategy to counter the ideology that is spreading hatred of the United States. In addition, we must combat the conditions that enable terrorists to operate with impunity. "Often overlooked is the terror threat emerging within our own hemisphere. Experts often point to our porous borders as a vulnerability in our defense against terrorism. I believe that border security must be a pillar in our defense against terrorism. I plan to explore the terror threat in our own backyard. "Importantly, this Subcommittee includes oversight over nonproliferation issues. Nonproliferation has a natural link to terrorism given the severity of the threat of weapons of mass destruction falling into terrorist hands. "Stopping the spread of weapons of mass destruction has become increasingly difficult as technology advances. Yet, we continue to rely on Cold War-era nonproliferation regimes to stop their spread. We must ensure that our nonproliferation regimes can meet the environment of the 21st Century, while thinking of new and creative ways of stopping nuclear weapons proliferation. "In addition to a focus on the evolving threat of al-Qaeda, my Subcommittee will examine issues such as terrorist financing, terrorist sanctuaries and failed states, and capacity building of foreign forces to fight terrorism. I also plan to center attention on the proliferation threat posed by both North Korea and Iran."
02.01.2005	Today, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Africa U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) challenged the key finding of a United Nations commission investigating the atrocities in the Darfur region of Sudan. share: f t Today, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Africa U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) challenged the key finding of a United Nations commission investigating the atrocities in the Darfur region of Sudan. The U.N. report released yesterday said that genocide was not occurring in Darfur. This is contrary to the House resolution passed in July, which took the unprecedented step of declaring the killing in Darfur to be genocide. "While there are several motives to the complex conflict in Darfur, these cannot obscure the racial and religious extremism that is driving the killing. Darfur is genocide," said Royce, who led a congressional delegation trip to Darfur last week to observe the situation on the ground. The U.N. Commission on Inquiry report noted that while, "the crucial element of genocidal intent appears to be missing," an international court could still find that government officials or militia leaders did commit acts, "with genocidal intent." Royce responded to this finding by saying, "The Commission cannot have it both ways. Tens of thousands of people are dying. The killing is undoubtedly racially and religiously motivated. We do not have time to avoid these unpleasant facts." "It is time for the U.S. to aggressively push Sudan sanctions at the U.N. It is widely agreed that the Sudanese government is committing mass atrocities. Let the other Security Council members veto sanctions. It is time we know where nations stand," added Royce. While in Darfur, Royce visited the ghost town of Tine, whose population has dropped from 40,000 to 200 over the last few years as it has come under attack and been brutalized by Sudanese government forces and militias. He also visited Tine refugees in neighboring Chad and held discussions with refugees, rebel leaders, African Union forces and humanitarian groups. This trip reaffirmed Royce's view that Darfur is a genocidal conflict. Recognizing that many areas of Darfur are inaccessible and that hundreds of civilians were killed in the short time he was in the region, Royce expressed concern that the commonly used figure of 70,000 persons killed in Darfur may be under estimated. "If people are waiting for a bigger death number before calling this 'genocide,' it is coming quicker than they think," said Royce.
01.04.2005	Today, the House passed a resolution, [H. Res. 12] which expresses condolences and support for assistance to the victims of the earthquake and tsunamis that occurred on December 26, 2004, in South and Southeast Asia. share: f t Today, the House passed a resolution, [H. Res. 12] which expresses condolences and support for assistance to the victims of the earthquake and tsunamis that occurred on December 26, 2004, in South and Southeast Asia. As a co-sponsor of the resolution, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA-40) gave the following statement during debate: "We all have watched in shock at the devastation caused by the December 26th earthquake and subsequent tsunami. I led a congressional delegation to Gujarat, India in 2001 to assess the damage after the quake that shook that region. The devastation was beyond description. The international community pulled together, as did all the people of India - including Indian Americans - to address that humanitarian disaster. But, this quake was 9.0 - even greater in its magnitude and effect. "The death toll today is over 150,000. Millions are homeless. Indeed, the images of death and destruction we have seen on television are sobering. It is difficult to comprehend the extent of the damage. The devastation stretches across 5,000 miles and 12 countries - across geographical, cultural, and religious lines. "As is often the case in extreme disaster, we also see the best in the human spirit. There has been an outpouring of support across our country from both individuals and businesses. Members from the Los Angeles County Fire Department's disaster response team have been dispatched to Sri Lanka. Niagara Water Company of Irvine, California has donated 55,000 gallons of water. "The actions taken by the United States government speak louder than any statement can. Not surprisingly, first on the scene was the United States military. An aircraft carrier task force was immediately diverted form Hong Kong to the Gulf of Thailand, and a Marine Expeditionary Force in Guam was dispatched to the Bay of Bengal. No other organization in the world can tackle the logistical challenge of getting these types of assets on location to assist the people in need. The local governor in Aceh said that U.S. Navy helicopters "appeared like angels" as they arrived to deliver supplies. "Through this challenge, we see opportunities for the United States to make a lasting impression in South and Southeast Asia. Cooperation between the U.S. and India is expanding like never before. The U.S. regional command center for this unprecedented relief operation has been established in Thailand. And, U.S. and Indonesian military forces are working together for the first time in years. "The United States stands by the people of South and Southeast Asia during this catastrophe."
12.01.2004	Congressman Ed Royce met and talked individually with hundreds of 40th district constituents during his annual Open House, held November 30th in his Fullerton office. share: f t Congressman Ed Royce met and talked individually with hundreds of 40th district constituents during his annual Open House, held November 30th in his Fullerton office. "This was a relaxed, informal opportunity to hear directly from my constituents about their concerns. It's a very popular event, as evidenced by the large turnout," said Royce. Constituents formed a long line outside Royce's office door. The Open House, originally scheduled for three hours, ran much longer to make sure each constituent had a chance to meet with the Congressman. Royce's staff was also on hand to help constituents with any issues they had - from dealing with government agencies to arranging tours in Washington, D.C. For those who were unable to attend this year's Open House, there will be other opportunities to meet with the Congressman in the district this coming new year. As always, please feel free to call (714) 992-8081 or (562) 220-2411 with any concerns or questions.
11.04.2004	Every year at this time, Congressman Royce opens his Orange County office and invites the people of the 40th Congressional District to an Open House. share: f t Every year at this time, Congressman Royce opens his Orange County office and invites the people of the 40th Congressional District to an Open House. It is a chance for his constituents to talk with him about the issues that are important to them. This year's event will be especially important because we are winding down our 108th session of Congress. Over the past two years, Congress has enacted meaningful legislation that has provided tax relief for working families and reduced the tax burden on small businesses. In order to protect America from the threat of terrorism, our intelligence community has also seen some major changes. Royce has co-authored legislation which cracks down on the financing of terrorism, and has also voted to increase our border patrols. In addition, Royce has worked to protect consumers with the Do-Not-Call Registry and anti-identity theft provisions, and helped to enact much-needed rights within our judicial system for victims of crime. Please mark your calendar and make it a point to stop by the Open House set for Tuesday, November 30th, from 5:00 to 8:00 p.m. in the Orange County office, 305 North Harbor Blvd., Suite 300, Fullerton. Please call (714) 992-8081 or (562) 220-2411 with any questions.
10.07.2004	Today, the House voted to pass the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act [H.R. 5061.] Upon passage, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce, chairman of the House Subcommittee on Africa, issued the following statement: share: f t Today, the House voted to pass the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act [H.R. 5061.] Upon passage, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce, chairman of the House Subcommittee on Africa, issued the following statement: "The situation in Darfur, in western Sudan, is horrific. In July, Congress declared the killing there to be genocide. In September Secretary Powell made the same statement. Many have talked about the human disaster in this region, with an estimated 50,000 dead, over one million refugees, and every manner of human rights abuses being committed, including the systematic rape of thousands of women and girls. The government-backed marauders making war in Darfur burn schools and poison wells. "This legislation contains a sense of the Congress that the Sudan Peace Act, which became law in 2002, remains relevant and should be extended to include the Darfur region of Sudan. It is clear to me that peace in Sudan is indivisible. The north-south talks can't work with genocidal conflict raging in Darfur. This provision makes that explicit. "It authorizes funding for the implementation of a comprehensive peace agreement, should that occur, which unfortunately looks increasingly doubtful. In Darfur, I am afraid, the Khartoum government is showing its true colors. Funding is also authorized to assist an anticipated African Union mission in Darfur. African countries are committed to sending several thousand troops to Darfur. They need and deserve our logistical help. "This legislation also endorses aggressive action at the U.N. Security Council, including an asset freeze of senior Sudanese government officials, a ban on the trade of Sudanese oil, and an arms ban against the Government of Sudan. The Sudanese government must disarm the militias and apprehend and bring to justice their leaders. "The fact is that much of the world has little interest in pressuring Khartoum. Some governments are indifferent; some choose not to criticize others' human rights records. Some governments - including U.N. Security Council member China - have commercial interests in Sudan they are seeking to protect. Meanwhile, the killing grinds on, which should make all of us understand the limits of the U.N., and understand the limits of multilateralism."
